[{"Title":"What a difference a few seconds can make?","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"67 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The romantic comedy, 'Sliding Doors', is a great look at how quickly a person's life can change in a matter of moments. By taking one path instead of another, forming a tantalizing 'what if?' In fact this movie gives the impression that some things are meant to be known, while some things are not.London publicists Helen, is effortlessly sliding between parallel storylines that show what happens if she does or does not catch a morning train back to her apartment. Love. Romantic entanglements. Deception. Trust. Friendship. Comedy. All come into focus back and forth, overlap, then surprisingly converge in one of the great romantic comedy films in years.Sliding doors is one of the best films that Gwyneth Paltrow has done. It has it all, humour, anger, sadness, love, compassion and a lot of lying. This movie is most special for the way the two storylines overlap, making this a very original movie. Paltrow's performance is grand as the 'hurt Helen' or the very 'naïve Helen', depending on which parts of the film you are watching. Some of her lines are priceless. Paltrow has had a very celebrated career in acting and of late singing and deserves all the accolades she gets. It was also refreshing to watch her in the murder thriller 'The perfect murder', along with screen legend Michael Douglas.Yet there are some other great performances in this film. John Hannah was exceptional as the sensitive and understanding 'James', who is helping the 'hurt Helen' back to being her 'old self'. Then you have the cheating boy 'Jerry' played by John Lynch, who was using the 'naïve Helen' to live out a very adulterous and selfish lifestyle. It was very funny to see the way he handled the situation with Helen actually. Then to top it all off, we get a great performance from Jeanne Tripplehorn, who was Jerry's girlfriend on the side, who gives Jerry a very difficult time in both parts of the story.This film also has an impressive soundtrack. With acts like Blair, the Brand New Heavies, Dodgy, Jamiroquai and the Space Monkeys. Yet there are two very famous parts to this soundtrack. One is Elton John, who is given a bad mention in the movie, when Jerry is caught in a most precarious of positions while playing the Elton John song, 'Honky Cat'. However the best song on the whole soundtrack comes from the band Aqua, with the tune 'Turn Back Time', which suited the film perfectly. The film clip to this song is also very good.Sliding doors is one of those feel good movies, which can also make you feel sad as well. It shows how difficult life can be in a relationship and how important relationships can be as well. It also proves that relationships are extremely hard work and you need to find someone who you trust and love and that you get the same feelings back in return. If you want to see the good and bad sides of love take a look at this romantic classic.CMRS gives 'Sliding Doors' 4.5 (Very Good- Brilliant Film)  "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly one of my favourite films","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Gwyneth Paltrow plays Helen Quilley, she works in Public Relations and is dating an idiot who is cheating on her (come on guys, would you?) After losing her job she heads home early, and the film then follows two Parallel realities, that cross over and intertwine in a very clever manner, that adds a great deal to the movies quality.One way, she gets home and finds him cheating, and the other way she is mugged and her boyfriend gets away with it, at least for now.In this wonderfully charming romantic comedy, great performances from, Paltrow, Lynch, Hannah and Tripplehorn plus a good script and some good laughs all add up to a movie i simply don't tire of. I can't quite put my finger on what it is, i just love it.9/10 and a must for Paltrow Fans "},{"Title":"Unique and Natural","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a lightweight comedy/drama with a unique story. Although Gwyneth Paltrow plays the same character in both aspects of the story, both Helens seem completely different. The flow of the story seems quite natural and the cast does a wonderful job going through the twists and turns of their characters lives. It's a chick flick with none of the sap. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Romance, With a Wonderful Screenplay","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In London, the public relation Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) is fired from her position in a PR company. While returning home, she does not catch the train in the subway. But in another possibility of her life, she catches the train in the subway. The story shows two parallel lives of Helen in one life, she stays with her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch), and in the other life, she finds that Gerry cheats her with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and falls in love with James Hammerton (John Hannah). Sliding Doors is a delightful romance, with a wonderful screenplay. There are excellent lines, and the chemistry between Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah is marvelous. John Lynch is a good actor, but is completely miscast in the role of a man disputed by two gorgeous women. I have just watched this movie for the third time, and I still love it. It is very interesting that in 1998, two movies presented similar concepts of different situations depending on a minor event Sliding Doors and Lola Rennt. This theme is fascinating, but there are many unfair reviews of this film in IMDb, which is one of my favorite movie. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) De Caso com o Acaso (Having an Affair With Fortune) "},{"Title":"If I Had Just Waited","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"34 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am so enamored with this kind of film.  How many people have asked the question after having an accident or chanced upon something, If I had only left a minute later, none of this would have happened.  Now we get into the who time continuum thing and parallel universes.  I know this isn't a science fiction film, although a Twilight Zone episode may have fun with this plot.  When we are dealing with the characters colliding through the fourth dimension, a whole different set of circumstances are put in motion.  The reason we can never travel back in time (while forward is possible) is that time would then become mutable and what we are may no longer be and then we wouldn't travel back in time.  Two roads diverge in a woods paraphrasing Robert Frost, but what if we could take each of those roads and see what happens.  This movie is quite magical and does the best it can to get Gwyneth Paltrow through her parallel universes and see the things that one would see.  I think the problem is that unless we get into quantum physics, it's hard for the average person to really reconcile these sorts of events.  I thought the acting was very good and believe things as they unfurled.  I would recommend this film if you like to think about the possibilities it envisions.  Try it on yourself sometime and extrapolate your own existence from some fork in the road and imagine what may have been. "},{"Title":"Where was I when this film first appeared","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't remember reading a thing about this movie when it originally appeared, and that's odd because I enjoy Gwyneth Paltrow's work. I caught up with it on DVD, and I thought it was a superior movie with an extremely interesting premise and splendid performances by Paltrow's co-stars. Without giving too much away, the film deals with two separate scenarios that evolve from Paltow's (a) catching or (b) missing a subway train. The director manages skillfully to lay the two stories down alongside one another without confusing either one. Although the two Paltrows are distinguished by different hair styles, even that isn't really necessary. She (becomes) happy in one story, desperately unhappy in the other. She succeeds (eventually) in one story, fails in the other. She is the same character but entirely different. As she proved in Shakespeare in Love, this girl can act. There aren't many films where chance causes alternate fates that are followed through to a rather surprising end. Worth seeing for that reason alone. Plus Gwyneth Paltrow, of course. "},{"Title":"This movie will make you think a lot","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie will make you think for years on end, Just that one little thing could change your life for good.This movie is running to stories of Helen Quilley who has just been fired of her work place for drinking the night before has she rushes to the train station, while go down the stairs a little girl get in the way and she goes around girl and train door shut in face.Then we see the movie rewind and she back on top the stairs this time mum pulls the girl way from wall so she can get past, just about got on to the train, in this scene we can she her on train also on outside train.From here we see both side of stories, we see how life would have been if she did catch the train and we can also see what would have happened if she missed the Train. The movie was well written and Gwyneth Paltrow is was outstanding in this movie.8/10 ending was disappointed but it better then ending i was thinking of. "},{"Title":"Though life is like a sliding door, it closes one end but opens the other. the result is much alike.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sliding doors is a film about fate in a woman's love life. Fate is Yuan Fen in Chinese.Arriving at work one morning, Helen found herself unjustifiably sacked from her PR job. When she headed back down to the tube, life was spit into two realities.Helen was about to live both of them. In one reality, she caught the tube train. On her way home, she came across a guy named James who was impressed by her casual elegance at the first sight. She got home earlier than usual, only to find her Lothario boyfriend Gerry in bed with his ex-girlfriend, Lydia. So she went to the bar to drink down her sorrows of being sacked and cheated. There she met James again. Though at first, she demurred. But soon she recognized James began to be endeared to her by his sense of humor and being very concerted. They fell in love with each other. her boyfriend wanted to win Helen back. She was in a dilemma. But soon she found that Lydia and Gerry still dated each other on the sly and was over him totally. What a disaster it was when she detected that James was a married man. Everything got clear by the end of the film. They hugged each other again. Helen wanted to make a call to her best friend Anna to relieve her worry about her. Just at the moment, a trunk ran into her. She was sent to hospital and miscarried the baby she had with James. James was quite regretful. He whispered at Helen that he would give happiness to her all his life. The ending is quite soothing. In the other reality, she missed the tube and got mugged. When arrived home, finding his bf in a shower. And continued the relationship. She got two part-time jobs as a food deliverer and a bar maid Things got doubtful. Gerry seemed nervous and worried in fear of being detected his torrid relationship with Lydia. He found Lydia was quite demanding. And Helen began to be skeptical. He couldn't balance between them. One day, Helen got a new offer and went there to have the interview, only to find her boyfriend was there too with her would-be boss Lydia. She rushed down stairs, in the struggling with her bf, she fell down and was sent to the same hospital at the same time as the Helen did in the first scenario. She miscarried and was over her bf completely. She went out the ward, went into the lift. A guy named James happened to see his mother in hospital and on the same lift. She dropped the earring. James picked it up for her. They stared each other as if they met some time ago when Helen said Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition which was James's favorite quote on the above situation. It seems fate has been predetermined, especially in love matters. No matter u miss the tube or not, u will meet James, the man who will fall in love with u. No matter u meet James or not, U will find your bf's affairs with Lydia.. Though life is like a sliding door, it closes one end but opens the other. the result is much alike. "},{"Title":"Not Rocket Science","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is definitely not rocket science, but it has a charm all it's own.  It is thoughtful about what might happen in a different reality if we make different choices or fate aligns just right for whatever reason.There were some very funny moments, especially when Hannah let loose with his version of Pythons Meaning of Life.  Gwenyth Paltrow brings her character across as mousy.  I just wanted her to jet angry and throw her boyfriend out.  You know, the stereotypical, clothing on the front steps, changing the locks etc.  But it was good she had a pal to take her in. I do like this movie and consider it a keeper.  I recommend it for some light and fluffy entertainment on a night after a long day.And for the record scene in boat by the bridge.  I liked Donny Osmond, David Cassidy and Mick Jagger.  ) "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After being fired, Helen (Gwynneth Paltrow) runs to catch a train that, unknown to her, her future hinges on. If she catches it, she'll get home in time to catch her boyfriend Gerry with another woman. If she doesn't, she'll go on not knowing about his infidelity.This has to be one of the most intriuging plots I've ever seen. Most films would take just one or other of these plots and churn out a typical rom-com, but Sliding Doors turns them into one excellent film. The acting is great (even if Paltrow's accent is at times a little too British and forced) and the plot twists every few seconds. It could have become very confusing, but the direction is good enough that you can easily follow the two stories at once.There are two things that stop this film being a 10. The first is that the two Helens sometimes seem a little too different from each other to be the same person. Even if they have gone through to different experiences, they don't act the same at all. The second is that the message of the film seems that we don't control our own future-after all, it isnt Helen who decides if she makes it to the train, it all depends on if a little girl is pulled out of the way by her mother in time. Still, this is a very entertaining film, and definately worth watching. 8/10. "}{"Title":"Open Doors","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love it when filmmakers experiment. Christopher Nolan's been known to do that, and even though his biggest films have been the two recent Batman films &#x96; both are experiments of their own, his greatest achievements involve the wildly original Memento. Sliding Doors delved into uncharted territory for 1998 and beyond; not since then has a movie tackled such an interesting concept. Kudos to the writer/director Peter Howitt for creating such a refreshing and unique take on the romantic comedy.You have to ask yourself...what would've happen if&#x85;or what could've become of&#x85;with a concept like this.Helen (Paltrow) leaves her aimless, writer boyfriend in the A.M. and heads to her P.R. job only to get shacked. When she tries to enter the subway back home, one of two significant things happen that a little girl prevents She gets on and finds both a new male, James (Hannah) and her old beau in bed with Basic Instinct's Jeanne Tripplehorn who plays the mistress, Lydia&#x85;OR&#x85;she misses the train and after a nasty spell, carries on with her life with her mischievous and user boyfriend.Brilliantly the movie takes us in two overlapping directions with two Helens both of whom, thanks to the wonderful acting of Paltrow, you root for.Here's one aspect I actually didn't like, but didn't hinder my overall view of the film the Helen that knows of the affair, cuts her hair short and blonde &#x96; a la another 1990s icon Jane Mancini (Josie Bissett of Melrose Place), so that it's dumbed down enough for the audience to determine between that Helen and the original brown and long-haired Helen's story. It's as if they didn't have enough confidence in the audience that they would know where one story's going and the other's headed. I got it already. One Helen's melancholy, though pushing forward with the new James and the other's working multiple jobs due to losing her P.R. employment.Nevertheless and again, you'll watch each storyline unfold with overlapping scenes that were filmed exquisitely with ease, tension, suspense, romance and harboring a fantastic and absolute 1990s soundtrack. Wow, I used to love Aqua! Back to the story&#x85; You'll follow Helen 1 and 2 on their parallel quests to meet up with fate. Will Helen 2 learn of her dead-beat boyfriend's infidelity? Will Helen 1 learn James is her soul mate? Will any of this make sense and what will we gain from it? I loved this movie. I loved the originality of it. I loved the acting &#x96; both Hannah and Paltrow were excellent. I loved the cinematography and the overlapping scenes.The movie's not 100% perfect &#x96; it starts to run out of steam with its own ideas, but the director was well enough aware to know when to cut his losses and finish off the movie. But, I challenge anyone to come up with another 5 movies that are as original as this or another favorite of mine, Memento. But a movie can't survive on a premise or gimmick alone; the movie must have the right writing and talent in front of the screen to pull it off. And this enormously romantic comedy hits all the angles. "},{"Title":"A lovely movie","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have probably watched this movie about 10 times since its release and still enjoy its twists and turns. John Hannah is simply adorable as James and his Glaswegian sense of humour still makes me laugh out loud even though I know the jokes in advance. Every performance is great but Gwynyth Paltrow deserves a special mention for her faultless role as two different versions of the same woman at once. Without giving anything away, I did not see the ending coming at all the first time through but it was entirely satisfying without being cloyingly Hollywood. Don't expect a cultural masterpiece. Just 'the Spanish inquisition' and some fine entertainment. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This genuinely lovely film was such a pleasure to watch.The charters were well written and so different from each other which blended well in the film,and the chemistry between the main actors John and Gwyneth was evident which helps a great deal when playing out a love story.The acting was very well done and Gwyneth's accent superb-let's face it so many actors have tried and gotten it terribly wrong.I thought John Hannah Was brilliant in this movie and any warm blooded woman like myself fell in love with him immediately,and subsequently yelled kiss him Helen at the screen-or was that just me?And as for Russell-he has without a doubt the funniest laugh in a movie ever-a pee my self laughing at all of his scenes.The only qualms I had with this movie was that i found the Helen misses the train parts of the film quite dull-I would've happily watched a film with just the progressive and eventual relationship with James and Helen.John Hannah definitely stole the show though and I'm sure amassed a league of female fans.If you do fancy the pants off him as i do then you must see him in the film 'circus'.phwoaah he is soooo sexy in it and its a great film with loads of twists to its plot. "},{"Title":"Great intriguing love story.  I loved it!!!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great.  I loved the way it was split into two.  I kept thinking to myself, 'How are they going to end this?!?'  I loved the ending and the whole movie.  I'd recommend it to anyone.The humor is great and the actors are wonderful. "},{"Title":"Everything happens for the best. You'll never know if you don't try.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sliding Doors is written and directed by Peter Howitt. It stars Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah, and features John Lynch, Jeanne Tripplehorn and Virginia McKenna. The music was composed by David Hirschfelder and Remi Adefarasin photographs it on location in Londion. The film follows Helen Quilley (Paltrow), who has just been fired from her public relations job. The plot then splits into two parallel universes based on if she either did or did not get onto the London tube train to get home.Peter Howitt is more known to the British for his portrayal of Joey in the hugely popular sit-com, Bread. Here for his first full length directing assignment he tackles the romantic comedy genre and gives it an intelligent and witty kick up the backside. Howitt apparently had the idea for the film when he was almost run over by a car, the whole what if? situation worked around his mind and ended up being Sliding Doors. The premise is tricky but executed with skill, two dovetailing stories featuring the same people. To expand on each story would to my mind be unfair on any prospective newcomers to the film, it's just safe to say that infidelity features prominently and that as funny as it is at times, it's also an often sombre and cautionary piece as well.The cast are a mixed bunch. Hannah and Paltrow are superb, he is funny, charming and utterly beguiling, yet a world away from the normal pretty boy types so favoured by film makers. She is, on both fronts, engaging, infuriating and commanding the utmost attention from the viewers. You will find yourself shouting at her sometimes, yet at others you may find your heart sinking such is the conflicted emotional depth that Paltrow gives Helen. And this is done not by bursting into tears or any sort of the world is against me histrionics, it's played very straight because her Helen is no lame dame. Credit too must go to Howitt who chooses not to go down the safe route of playing the tears to get tears rom-com card. Sadly the two other main players are a big let down, Lynch just never convinces as boyfriend Gerry, while Tripplehorn as the ex stirring up a hornets nest is whiny and Persona Non Grata. The big winner here tho is Howitt's writing, his directing is raw and often too in your face, but the script breaks away from formula and constantly nudges the audience into asking pertinent what if? questions. There's nothing complex about it, just slices of destiny and fate that can alter within seconds. For better or worse.No smugness here, and this is better than the average rom-coms that seem to be put out by cash hungry studios on a monthly basis. Is it just a rom-com with a gimmick? Yes it is, but what a gimmick! And come the end as the two stories bang together you hopefully should feel all the better for it. Hope springs eternal my friends. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"They pulled it off!","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A very interesting cinematic experiment (has this even been done before?). I had my doubts as to whether or not they could pull it off, and watched just to see if they could. Bingo! Give Peter Howitt and Gwyneth Paltrow and all the rest of the cast and crew a cigar. Not only did they do it, but they did it well. A very interesting and poignant film. Loved the recurring theme (the sliding doors) so judiciously placed. Gwyneth Paltrow has that rare quality that actors like James Stewart, Grace Kelly, and a few others had, namely; you just like who she is no matter what she's doing on screen, and you really care about her character, no matter what character she's playing. I sort of knew how it was going to end, but no one expects a Spanish Inquisition? -) "},{"Title":"Just a Matter of a Few Seconds","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 'Sliding Doors' tells two stories of the same character/s. It uses the concept of time by showing what a significant difference a few seconds can make in ones life. In a nutshell, it's about Helen, a young publicist' who's just been sacked. The story divides into two as an upset Helen rushes to catch the metro on her way home. The first story starts with Helen missing the metro and the second story starts with her catching the metro. Both stories overlap at times but in spite of following a novel concept, the screenplay disappoints to an extent. Some of the 'turn of events' look very forced. For example, the scene where Helen gets mugged in residential area during broad daylight, and James's wife suddenly appearing are unbelievable. The soundtrack is quite pleasing to the ears. Gwyneth Paltrow does a commendable job acting-wise. However, her diction is poor. The accent would have sounded more convincing if she had the right intonation and speed. John Hannah and John Lynch lend adequate support (even though there characters are a little clichéd). Jeanne Tripplehorn is brilliant as the bad American girl. 'Sliding Doors' would have made for a better film if the loose ends were pulled a little tighter but it qualifies for a decent one time watch. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but only half the film it could be.","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember when 'Sliding Doors' first came out, back in 1998. It was one of the movies that I desperately wanted to see but, for some unknown reason, never got round to watching. It must've been on terrestrial TV at least three times before I was finally able to catch it. I'd heard good things, knew the premise pretty well, and had even seen a few brief clips of the movie in between. In my mind, I'd formed some pretty high expectations over the years - and the only thing you can inevitably get for that is disappointment. It was almost like looking at a dot-to-dot puzzle and being intrigued by the position of the dots but then discovering, once I had joined them together, that they make up one pretty darn mundane picture.This movie's biggest problem comes in just assuming that its 'alternate reality' story-telling device, intriguing though it may be, will do everything else for it. And true, it does help to 'shake up' what would otherwise be a brace of very dull and clichéd panoramas - we keep watching out of pure curiosity, simply to see how things end up. And once I'd discovered that, personally I ceased to care. One of the reasons why 'Sliding Doors' isn't a movie I would ever particularly want to own is because its novelty value has already gone down the drain by the second viewing. Not a great deal really happens drama-wise, and there isn't much comedy to help it along either.I still prefer this non-linear film to the more recent '21 Grams', perhaps because, by comparison, this is refreshingly unpretentious as an experimental movie. It's perfectly contented with its simplicity, which to some extent is quite pleasant, but, unfortunately, equally as happy to be shallow, and that it never attempts to dig especially deep proves a real downer in the end. It never claims to be a film about life, with anything particularly meaningful to say - it's a film about *a* life, or at least two possible versions of it, just not a very interesting one at that. I'm pretty certain that both scenarios presented here have already been used several times over as soap opera subplots - and they really are much too thin to be described as anything other than two subplots played against each other in the hope that they will make a substantial story in union. In truth, each scenario is just a quarter - and together all they make is a half.Gwyenth Paltrow earns points for trying, but no amount of effort can redeem the fact that Helen is as 2D as both her stories. She never emerges as a particularly strong or well-defined character, and I was never inclined to root for her in either case (to see Patlrow in a leagues more engaging role, check 'Shakespeare in Love'). The only thing I'm really left with to recommend is John Hannah. His cheery mannerisms and the charismatic feel he gives to James do help make him the sweet breath of fresh air he is clearly meant to be, and if they had to go with this whole Mr Perfect routine, I'm glad they enlisted him - he adds a warm lustre to what otherwise would be an empty and superficial film.Meanwhile, John Lynch is simultaneously one of the movie's biggest assets *and* biggest errors. Under different circumstances, I would be praising *exactly the same performance* right up there with Hannah's. Unfortunately, that heartfelt and amiable portrayal is kinda wasted in context with everything else, and only serves as a glaring reminder of what the movie could've been - a straightforward but insightful character study with a 'twists and turns of life' backdrop. Essentially, Gerry is portrayed as a dishonest, cheating but ultimately good-natured and well-intentioned character - we the viewers are treated to glimpses of his side of the story (which, frankly, is a lot more interesting than Helen's) and actually begin to feel for him. It is his moral dilemma in both scenarios, not Helen's knowledge/lack of knowledge, that, coupled with his flawed personality, form the real interest of this movie - there are times when I even wondered if the whole Helen thing was just meant to be a smokescreen to the *real* story about Gerry (I mean, look at the lyrics of the soundtrack's key number, 'Turn Back Time' by Aqua - surely they pertain better to Gerry than to Helen).Unfortunately, BOTH lifelines end with Gerry being rather quickly and cruelly cast aside. It's only then that it kinda dawns on you - it may have an unconventional format, but this is still very much a traditional fairytale outlook, and it was probably never the creative team's intention that we would feel pity for Gerry. It settles for viewing him as the villainous antagonist (if you ask me, Lydia is the only personage who could possibly fit that bill) and is happy to treat him as one, no matter how much sympathetic life Lynch has since injected into the character. It leaves you feeling kinda cold and unsatisfied, so much so that it effectively nullifies those last few feel-good moments. True, James is a lovely bloke, the sort that every heterosexual girl on the planet wishes she could end up with - but it was Gerry who struck me as being the most human (and NOT because he's unfaithful - but because of how he deals with the realisation that he was unfaithful). Lynch appears to have picked up on this. The writers clearly didn't, and they got their priorities way wrong.And the moral of this movie - erm, missing your initial mode of transport isn't necessarily as bad as at first it might seem?Go figure. Like I said, it's about a life, not life. "},{"Title":"Love's Sliding Doors Open then Shut then Open Again","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I must confess that romantic comedies are not my type of film, but I make an exception for Sliding Doors. I have watched this film many times now and it still brings tears to my eyes. I don't know why because I know the story inside out by now.The story is about Helen, a young PR girl, who is having no luck with her job or with her boyfriend. She shares a home with her wayward boyfriend Gerry, a man who is trying to write his first novel and having a secret affair. At the start of the film she gets sacked from her job and then the film gets very interesting because two story lines develop as she makes her way home. As she gets on the tube, the train's sliding doors close and one story begins, but then the sliding doors open and the alternate story begins. The two stories revolve around Helen and her boyfriend Gerry, and two other people James, and Lydia. One story shows one twist of fate as she misses the train, the other story shows another set of circumstances as she gets on the train. Both stories play out scene by scene in a delightful romantic comedy. It is the great performances by all the cast, a brilliant idea, and a witty script that make this film a classic in its genre in my opinion.As with the best comedy, there is also tragedy that befalls the players in this drama, and you end up realising how complicated life is and how fate plays a big part in our lives.As someone who hates rom coms, I have to say that Sliding Doors is still one of my favourite films, and I watch it whenever it comes on the TV. There is so much to watch in this film the growing love between Helen and James, or the comical attempts by Gerry to hide his affair with Lydia, or there is the twists and turns as the rocky relationships reach a climax by the end of the film. British films don't get much better than this. A great movie. "},{"Title":"The Floors of Fate","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In Sliding Doors, we enter a world, where life weaves a web of intricate lines. Deja vu tingles our nerves, and the drama of love pulls at our hearts. And the what if we made different choices, what if life were different is answered, and we follow a young woman along two roads, defining who she is to become.The definition of life and its mysteries echoes deep within this masterpiece of a motion picture. A brilliantly written storyline takes us on a whirlwind of one woman's experience, making us reflect back on the life that we have lived. The discovery of true love brings hope to our hearts, and the belief that things do happen for a reason makes us question the experiences that have led us to the now. And you never know what elevator of fate will take us to the next road of our life or lead us to the one that we are meant to love. "}{"Title":"What-if and what-not","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What-if stories are a fascinating prospect to me because of the possibilities they open up. It's A Wonderful Life is probably the best example of the genre. How George Bailey discovered what the world would be like if he were never born. And with Sliding Doors, this inverts the premise, and takes us on a journey of how one woman's life takes two completely different paths.Gwyneth Paltrow plays Helen, a brassy PR executive in London. But on one fateful day, she loses her job. On her way home, she catches a subway train. Or does she? We also see an event where Helen doesn't catch the train.Through this one event, Helen's destinies diverge, something that the film explores in fascinating directions. Helen 1 who caught the train meets James (played winningly by John Hannah). James is a successful businessman and a Monty Python fan who takes an instant liking to Helen. He chats to her about their lives in general, but she is already involved with Jerry, a loser secretly having an affair with uberbitch Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn).It's not a secret for long though. Helen walks in on them, or as she puts it, 'I find you up to your nuts in Lady Shagging Godiva.' Helen walks out. But then we switch to Helen 2, who didn't catch the train. She gets mugged on her way home, and as a result, is too late to catch Jerry in the act. She is none the wiser.Meanwhile Helen 1 runs into James again, and the two strike up a romance. She gets a new PR job, a new hairstyle (which helpfully tells the two Helens apart) and a new lease on life. This is a Helen that blossoms into a fully rounded, confident woman. While sadly, Helen 2 languishes in an unhappy marriage to Jerry, forced to take a job as a waitress to support them both. While Jerry still continues his affair, bullied into ending his marriage by an increasingly frustrated Lydia.Both versions of the events are kept moving at a brisk pace by director Peter Howitt. Although it has to be said Helen 1's story is more interesting because of her scenes with John Hannah. Gwyneth Paltrow is truly excellent in this film. This still remains her finest performance to date, and the one that made me realise what a talented actress she really is. She sports a British accent that is almost eerie in it's precision. And she conveys an amazing range of emotions since she is essentially playing two people. Two women who have made different choices.She is capably supported by John Hannah who is a very likable love interest, and played with considerable warmth and affection. The two are a very engaging couple, and you get a great deal of well-being from watching them being so happy together.Helen 2's story is not as entertaining but is a lot more depressing because she has to put up with Jerry's affair. Jerry is a very annoying character really, and the same applies to Lydia. My attention tended to wander in these moments, except for the scenes with Jerry's friend Russell, who listens with amusement to Jerry's dilemma. Helen still remains sympathetic in her drab life. But as the film draws to a close, the two stories unexpectedly converge.Both Helens end up pregnant, and Helen 1 discovers James might be having an affair, while Helen 2 finds out Jerry really is. The film takes on a tragic leaning for Helen 1, which concludes with a heart-rending scene between her and James.Helen 2 leaves Jerry after losing her baby in a fall, and unexpectedly runs into James in a lift. The film finishes on an open-ended note, and hopefully there may be a future for these two after all.Sliding Doors might sound overly complicated but it isn't really. Both stories are told at the same time but there are subtle details that keep them both afloat and recognisable. It's almost impossible not to like the film, even though one story is more interesting than the other. Still, it's a honourable attempt to play around with the romantic-comedy genre, and proved to be an excellent vehicle for the talents of the radiant Ms Paltrow. "},{"Title":"what if?","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" simply in word word,a must see movie for real movie lovers.as far as i am concerned,i liked this for many reasons.firstly,the basic story is different for regular movies.everybody at some points of life feel what if i did that instead of this?and this movie shows the answer.i can say its enjoyable and funny even though its a drama.and secondly,it shows whatever is destined to happen,it will happen.the same thing is proved here.as we see the ending.this is the movie which cant be made again as this is never before and i can say never after kind.this is best after pulpfiction for me as both has same motive-experimentation and different "},{"Title":"Dont watch this casually, and only from beginning!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This caveat should be posted every month or so... you will be confused if you dont give it all your attention.If you havent got the idea by now, the movie intercuts between two plot flows.It's an excellent Paltrow exhibition, and not overly smarmy.... and I suppose the Comedy referred to in the classification is meant to be Human ComedyThe cast is excellent, the editing is very good - considering the scenario.I dont care for the ending but sometimes life takes those turns.Guys.. you had better have your life in order, and be beyond suspicion, to be watching this with your wife or GF. "},{"Title":"One life, two possibilities","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One morning, on arrival at her PR company, Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) finds out that she has just been sacked. She's on her way home and then she misses the tube train.But what if she made it? She meets James (John Hannah) on the train, who's sitting right next to her and who's a friendly and witty man. When Helen gets home, she sees her boyfriend, Gerry (John Lynch) in bed with his ex-girlfriend, Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and Helen quickly ends her relationship with Gerry and forms a new, loving one with James.The other possibility is that, Helen misses the train, gets robbed and a nasty cut, goes to hospital and by the time she arrives at home Gerry is already in the shower. Helen then gets a sandwich job and a waitressing job in order to support her loser boyfriend who is supposed to be writing his first novel but in fact has been cheating on her.As the ending approaches, the story becomes unpredictable and it leaves you wonder why it has to go this way. The ending is likewise enigmatic. Heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"open and shut case","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Good little low budget film with the beautiful Gwynneth Paltrow as good and alluring as ever.Bizarre, double/dual narrative motif which isn't really necessary even though it fits in with one of the themes of the film which is how things could go one way or the other in life.  Hence the sliding doors on the tube train - will she just make the train or miss it; which side of the sliding doors and fortunes of life will she land up on?By the way, the tube train is really the Waterloo and City Line which is not even London Underground anyway. "},{"Title":"A Well crafted and cleverly executed from the two viewpoints.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A well crafted film - cleverly executed from the two viewpoints.  I really enjoyed the switching between the parallel stories (for example at the start of the film as the train(s) leaves the station).  I thought the plot is a little thin in places to make it work but as you have to suspend belief anyway it doesn't present a problem.  Highly entertaining.  "},{"Title":"I loved it and understand why people don't","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my fav. chick flicks. I can watch this movie over and over again and still ruin my makeup crying over the same scenes. The overall plot is original, even if they didn't take it as far as they could have. I just love it for the emotional value, and I don't try to analyze it too much just because its a chick flick. I don't like too many of these, but this is REALLY my favorite one of all times. I can't wait until a special edition comes out on dvd, if ever. But this is really funny movie, especially with the quotes from the Monty Python Boys. I love MP, and I love this movie. (I am watching the movie for the second time in a day just because I like how light-hearted it is without being disgusting. "},{"Title":"Gwyneth!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's all about GWYNETH here. After this movie I'll have to watch her other movies once again, 'cause I haven't been really impressed by her before. But in this one she's simply IRRESISTIBLE.Others in the movie were OK too, so that makes movie OK too. I gave it a good 9, but it would have been a 7 if Gwyneth weren't in it.  "},{"Title":"An idea that stays with you","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was not given the mass-circulation treatment, and is therefore less well-known than it deserves to be.  The 'split realities' idea is not just a novel format to use in a film; it also makes it possible to pose covert questions about various aspects of life.  Particularly whether we have real control over choices that happen 'live' and irrecoverably.  If you haven't seen the film, please do, and pass the word on.  Perhaps it will slowly climb the IMDB charts through 'word of mouth' (or word of internet...).  Gwyneth Paltrow conveys a first-rate involvement in her role - and her English accent is impeccable! "},{"Title":"wonderful a*10*","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie till I started working at a video store..I watched it because well it was free at work... I brought it home to share because it is such a wonderfully funny movie...I now recommend it the costumers looking for a romantic comedy....you won't be disappointed... "}{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sure this film has flaws in fact I'm sure this film has many flaws but I always feel that a film that makes you smile is worth the couple of pounds spent on it. This film made me smile. I don't want to spoil anything but this film is definitely worth watching. The two paralell storylines are very entertaining and I especially enjoyed the ending. I'm a romantic at heart!!! "},{"Title":"Sweet romantic comedy and great script","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors seems to be that type of movie that was over-hyped at first so people kind of made an effort to hate it. I was shocked that the 1999 Blockbuster Guide to Movies and Videos gave it one star out of five! Really, it wasn't _that_ bad. In fact I didn't think it was bad at all, I really enjoyed it. I myself have many times thought What if... and How would have things been different..., I think we all have thought these thoughts at least once in our lives, especially when we're depressed. The script was very well written and the idea is brilliant and original. Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah give great performances, although I didn't think that highly of John Lynch. Jeanne Tripplehorn- it's hard to decide what I thought of her. Her character was a real b*tch. Then again, she does a good job portraying a b*tch. John Lynch on second thought maybe did a good job portraying some one I wish I could strangle. Why those two stunningly beautiful women were fighting over him though, is beyond me. All in all the acting is quite good, the script and idea are brilliant- shame America finds out about these gems so late. I saw it two times (once on video rental and once two years later on TV). I can actually say that I enjoyed it nearly as much the second time as I did the first. Some people said they didn't find it funny, but that might be because it's quite British Humor, very very different from American 'Naked Gun' type of humor. It made me laugh, it made me shed a tear or two for Helen- and trust me it takes A LOT for a movie to get me eyes watery. Enjoyable film, which I definitely recommend. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm French and I'm not very good in English, that's the reason why I will not be able to make a long comment,even if I'd love! I just want to say that after having seeing the film, I feel only a strange love, I wanted to talk to every one on the metro to, why not, find my own James!I wanted to talk about those two hours of pleasure with everybody, I wanted to see it again and again just to keep my happiness still a long time... John Hannah is such excellent, and his part so sweet and kind makes me feel totally...in adoration for the big John!! And Gwyneth Palthrow, who doesn't change, keep her talent and her beauty then shine during all the film...how can she be so perfect?!!!?! Well, it was only what I wanted to do talk about a movie excellent, original, surprising and both funny and sad......and excuse me for the mistakes!!P.SI find a English teacher for lessons by Internet in order to write comments better then that one...Please contact me....!!!!!;0);0) "},{"Title":"A wonderfully romantic film.....forget Hanks and Ryan!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Most romantic movies are just so much schlock.....this is a happy and sad movie you can sink your teeth into.  It appeals to one's best nature...rooting for the underdog, for the one who has been done wrong and knows it (and, in this case, also for the one who doesn't know she's been done wrong).  A wonderful chick flick, as they say...but I'm a guy, and I love it.  A perfect first date movie!   "},{"Title":"Light enough for a Wednesday","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a relaxing movie.  It doesn't take much thought to enjoy the overlapping plot technique, or the cute English scenery, or Gwyneth looking more than a little boyish in that blonde Twiggy rip-off.  When I first saw it, it really made me think about how one little thing in a life can change the entire outcome of one's existence.  Or how all means arrive at the same end.  Maybe this is just a cute film about fate's complexities.  But at least there was witty dialogue, Monty Python references, and that adorable Scottish accent to take the mind off the actually heavy subject matter.  "},{"Title":"The art of telling a story of an ordinary life!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent cast! Marvelous movie direction! Supreme movie script! What can we say more? It tells us how a simple second in our life can change everything, and how important is every breath we take. It leads us to questions like Is our destiny already written? Do we have freedom of choice?Only one word to conclude MASTERPIECE! "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful! The concept is intriguing, the dialogue is great, and the conclusion is reached in an exciting way. Good job! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie!!!!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Is everything fate or destiny?  And will you end up in the same place if you take a different road?This is what this movie makes you think about.It is an excellent concept, followed through with great direction and acting.It has incredible acting and it was nice to see someone who could actually pull off a credible English accent and do it as well as Gwyneth Paltrow did.Definitely worth watching at least once and just as charming when you watch it the second time. "},{"Title":"A great look at life","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great look at life, choices, destiny, and the changes in direction that can occur, both by our own hands and by events that happen around us.  This film has it all  skillful acting, sharp writing, clear direction and amazing film editing.  It's also a great ride. "},{"Title":"A must see - definitely one of the year's best!!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie so much that I saw it SEVEN times in the theatre. Gwyneth Paltrow is, as always, brilliant as Helen, the principal role. She proves yet again that she is one of Hollywood's brightest stars. The storyline is fresh and innovative and works exceedlingly well. The acting, the script, everything is incredibly well done. I don't have a single criticism. My vote 10/10! "}{"Title":"Went straight to my heart","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wish that I´d have more time and money to see more movies. I read about this movie in the paper when I was far from any theatre and I instantly felt that I had to see it. My first reaction to the description of the movie was that I felt relieved but then I started to think about which of the versions were the best. After seeing the movie I  know which one is the best but my heart broke.  I´m old enough to have passed a teenagers admiration of a male actor but John Hannah.......I simply love him. I just hope he is as nice person as he seems.  In the beginning of the movie I felt a bit sorry for Helens ex-boyfriend but in the end I despited him and almost hated him-excellent acting! Well-I´ve seen it twice and someday I´ll buy it!  "},{"Title":"GREAT movie if you know what is going on.....","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie and saw it THREE times in the theatre. However, at every single show, a great number of people didn't have a clue as to what was going on. They didn't comprehend that it was a what would happen if she had actually caught the train and kept saying I don't get this, etc. It would have been better if perhaps in a voice over or a typed message on the screen it said what could have happened was.....That aside, the acting is excellent! John Hannah is a walking dream and Gwyneth Paltrow once again proves herself to be The Goddess of Acting. Her characterizations of the two Helens was wonderful as they were truly two different people in the long run. I was shocked by what happened to the 'blonde Helen' but glad that she (the 'brunette Helen') met up in the end with James. (Gimme a Happy Ending proves once again a way to win my heart!)Jeanne Tripplehorn plays her normal annoying character to the hilt...you LOVED to hate her as always! John Lynch is a typically slimy male and Zara Turner is a star-in-the-making as Helen's wonderfully acerbic friend Anna.This movie had some of the most memorable quotes in years...excellent writing is what makes this movie work in the end. The soundtrack is also wonderful and full of lots of memorable songs that'll stick in your head for days!See it...you'll love it just make sure you know and understand the plot so you won't be lost!  "},{"Title":"Creative, thought-provoking & well done.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A good movie for relaxing after work when you want to be absorbed and amused.  If you don't over-analyze the plot and just enjoy it like a good Star Trek episode, accepting the premise, it's excellent and can hold one's attention until the very end...and beyond.Truly excellent best friend supporting roles are played by Turner and McFerran.  (McFerran was particularly funny and I found myself waiting for scenes in which he appeared because he was so much fun to watch).  I was impressed with the casting, Paltrow was excellent as were the two leading males, and it appeared that a great deal of thought went into all aspects of the film, unlike so many over-billed blockbusters.  Even the soundtrack is good, with some obscure bands (particularly check out Thank You by Dido, plays during the credits - similar to Sarah MacLachlan). "},{"Title":"Great film - Brilliant ending!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.   It really gives pause for thought about 'the road not taken'. I really appreciated the unpredicted ending - far better than, for example the disastrous ending to Good Will Hunting'. Go, see, enjoy. "},{"Title":"A funny and inspired view of fate and how little we control it.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was excellent.  The script was funny, the storyline was amazing. How many times must you wonder what if....?  I especially liked Gwenneth Palthrow and John Hannah and Gerry's friend who gave him his view point so tactlessly.  Also the way the scene's were chosen from the different view points gave the film a realistic feel to it.  You really have to concentrate on what's going on on the screen as you are following two different stories.  This becomes slightly easier when Helen cuts her hair. "},{"Title":"One of the best British films I've seen this year","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have seen French films Smoking and No Smoking you will probably like this one also. Screenplay is good, and therefore movie is good too. I liked it very much because the film has great potential in both ways - entertainment and art. And it fails in none. You can say this is well done romantic comedy abouta woman named Helen fighting through her life, but you can also say that this film is about destiny - You can not change it. One way or another your destiny will take over. The only question is how and when. This is what life is about. Therefore film was interesting for me. Main characters were realistic, deep and understandable. Every one in the cinema could identify him or herself with main characters, because they were like us. And I am glad British cinema still has the main strength - very human, deep and understandable stoies about ordinary people, with a good British hummor which I like the best. "},{"Title":"Movie fades after promising start","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) gets fired from her PR job for taking home all the booze. As she tries to go home, she misses the subway train... then in another storyline, she catches the subway train. The difference leads to two different stories. In one, she goes to the hospital after a purse snatching. She doesn't catch her boyfriend cheating, and her miserable life continues. In the other, she meets talkative James (John Hannah) on the train and finds her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch) cheating with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn).Written and directed by Peter Howitt, this movie is one gimmick but I'm not sure there is much more than that. His style is competent if somewhat uninspired. Gwyneth is talking with a British accent. John Lynch has no screen presence and his character has the personality of a slug. The stories lack any excitement. John Hannah is quite charming, but the happy storyline doesn't really have enough drama. In the end, I don't care about either road traveled. It's a missed opportunity to write something amazing. It needs somebody with that sensibility like a Charlie Kaufman. "},{"Title":"A good story with some stupid English jokes","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It was a good story with some stupid English jokes.But the story shows the influence of the coincidence.It was an original story and a movie you let your thinking about the life.Maybe 2 or 3 times is enough to see this movie because there are not interesting details.Its all about the whole movie and about the whole story.You cant miss 1 minute because you need every minute in order to understand the story and the movie.In fact its a producer with a beautiful mind who made this movie.He must have a great fantasy and a great view on the life.I cant compare this movie with others movies.Its the only movie I have seen about the coincidence.Its all about coincidence, but coincidence cares.Coincidence makes every situation of your life and every success or bad luck. "},{"Title":"Clever idea, nicely implemented","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This had always been one of my ideas for a film- a slight change in something creates two parallell lives led by the same character, and as the film progresses you see how those lives split further apart and differ just because of that small change.  It's a fantastic idea and it was nicely taken on my the producers, although in general a film like this is always limited. It was fun to watch, but not funny, despite it being marked as a comedy. I found it more of an interest than a laugh, which is fine, but not what it aimed to be primarily.Nevertheless, it was flaweless in the sense that there was nothing boring throughougt, although there was nothing that particulalry stood out apart perhaps from the interesting ending, but other than that it is reasonably easy to forget.  Good for a rental, hats off for attempting to tackle a difficult storyline, but the doors are sliding for this to be forgotten in 5 years time. (omg my cheesy endings get worse every time P) "},{"Title":"excellent trans atlantic flight movie!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie while returning from my honeymoon in Europe almost five years ago.  Of course, no trans atlantic flight is complete without numerous gin and tonics, but this in no way altered my view of this flick.  It was and is light faire, but Gwyneth Paltrow, of whom I have always been a critic, gives a haltingly strong performance and her accent is right on the money.  At times, she's just a bit too British, if you know what I mean. I strongly recommend buying the soundtrack.  It is an excellent mix (minus the Elton John.. gimme a break).  I have seen this movie since (minus the gin and tonics) and it's a great escape.  Could be billed as a chick flick, but I suggest that any man give it a go.   "}{"Title":" I love this movie!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, I love this movie and I think actress Gwyneth Paltrow and actor John Hannah were made for each other. It is a very interesting plot and despite the bad critic I believe it is performed in a brilliant way. If you haven't seen it, don't hesitate - you're in for a great treat. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good movie, with an ingenious plot, that is surprisingly easy to follow (that the two Gwyneth has different hair styles help a lot in this regard). Paltrow and Hannah are very charming, and without them the movie would not have been nearly as good. Tripplehorn, on the other hand, is far less effective. The ending is somewhat unsatisfactory, but this movie is very much well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Something different but sadly, nothing great - 68%","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It seems difficult, for me anyway, to imagine Gwyneth Paltrow as anything other than the wife of Coldplay front-man Chris Martin. She seems as famous for giving her children strange names as she is for her acting career, which seems to have stalled in recent years. But go back to 1998 and she seemed to be everywhere, normally playing an English character. This, arguably, is her finest hour as this is a romantic movie with a rare intelligence and a daring approach to telling its story.Paltrow plays Helen, a twenty-something PR executive living with her writer-boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch) in London. One day, she goes into work to find out that she's been fired. Distressed, she goes to catch a Tube train back home and it's at this point that the film takes an unusual twist. First, we see Helen board the train and then a second Helen misses it. The film then continues telling Helen's story from both angles which run simultaneously, showing how much can change after such a simple difference.Sliding Doors is to be commended for daring to do something different, basically providing two films for the price of one. Unfortunately, neither film is a runaway success. It's only when they intersect and cross each other's paths that you appreciate the film for what it is. Paltrow works hard in the dual lead roles but the only real difference between the two Helens are their haircuts. Keeping pace with both stories at the same time is tricky, at first, but all the more rewarding when you get your head around it. Her co-stars, Lynch and John Hannah, are less impressive. Lynch is suitably slimy as Helen's boyfriend while Hannah comes across exactly like a Scottish Hugh Grant, stammering in all the right places and getting suitably tongue-tied at the right moments. The other problem I have with Sliding Doors is that it isn't a side-splitting romantic comedy. It has its moments, though I can't think any at the moment. It's more of a serious study into relationships than a hilarious dual-layered comedy - it's not exactly There's Something About Mary, still my favourite rom-com.There aren't many films like Sliding Doors out there. Rom-coms aren't known for being intelligent and different but this film deserves attention for trying to break free from the usual conventions. Unfortunately, it's not a great film - it feels far longer than its 100 minute duration and it isn't as entertaining as it should be. I also felt it had a strong anti-men feel to it as the few male characters in the film are either spineless worms, lying cheaters or leering lager louts. Even the bitchy ex (Jeanne Tripplehorn), despite being a thoroughly nasty piece of work, gets a smoother ride than the men. It's definitely a chick-flick (like most of my Better Half's DVD collection) but I would still just about recommend Sliding Doors, purely because it's a refreshing change from the norm. I just think that it could have been so much better - there is so much potential here, writer/director Peter Howitt doesn't quite know what to do with it. Persevere and maybe watch it twice, in case you don't get it the first time. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I liked this movie. I don't know why people are so critical of this movie. I've seen far worse. Gwyneth Paltrow is the main character so you know it can't be that bad. It's a story about fate and how things can change with a turn of fate. The acting and camera work were all good. I enjoyed the story and felt it made good time. Nothing was drawn out to long. All the scenes made sense. All in all it was a good story. It is a romantic, comedy , drama and that is exactly what it delivers. If you don't like that genre then you won't like this film. I didn't find it clich'e. Yes, it was somewhat predictable but If you've lived a little not to much can or will surprise you. It's a good film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is right up there with The Princess Bride, except it has a time dimensional twist. I just watched it for the 5th time, in a few years. It never disappoints. The first time I saw it I couldn't believe what I'd just seen! I just sat back and said, Wow! , and I've literally been thinking about the movie ever since, in one way or another. it's the kind of movie you expect to hear Rod Serlings voice at the end.It is a very clever story, with 2 paths of Helen's life being depicted throughout the movie, same characters, similar events, but different life decisions and subsequent fallout. Both paths are very interesting, and the movie does a great job of seamlessly letting you know which path you are watching at any point in time. Although a simple story, the developing plot had me hooked the entire movie. I loved it, beginning to end. I don't think it is really a comedy, I would call it more a drama. It is a very serious look at life, paths taken and not taken, and destiny. Paltrow is her charming, adorable self, her character very engaging, and a masterful actress. "},{"Title":"Very interesting and entertaining.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" SLIDING DOORSThis was better than I expected.The film is about a girl who gets fired from her job&#x85; and on the way home as she is walking down to the tube to catch her train a little girl makes her late and she misses her train&#x85; but we also see what would happen if she caught the train. It splits her life up and we see both outcomes.The movie is split into 2 story lines&#x85; and we alternate between them both throughout the movie. Normally this would be confusing, but the lead character changes her hair in one of the story lines so it is easy to follow. I like the idea of this film. It was really well thought out and really well made. It is an interesting concept&#x85; there are always moments in life where we say what if&#x85;, well in this film we don't need to ask. We see both outcomes.This was described to me as a romantic comedy, but the comedy was very little. I laughed out loud once&#x85; maybe twice. It is a very entertaining movie, but not that funny. Yes it is romantic which normally makes me think it will be cheesy as hell, but this manages to avoid too much cheese. There are the odd cheesy moment, but nowhere near as much as most romantic movies have.Sliding Doors stars a young Gwyneth Paltrow. She was very good in this film. She seemed to play the role very emotionally. She was very real. John Hannah & John Lynch also star. They both do decent jobs too. My favourite character was John Lynch's best friend&#x85; he was always in the pub and laughing at his friends misfortune. He was the funniest character for me. Douglas McFerran was the actor.The story was really good, the acting was good but the comedy was slow. There are some emotions for the characters&#x85; anger, sadness, happiness&#x85; you really see them all going through the motions and it is fun to see. It is funny to think that the guy from the classic TV show Bread, Peter Howitt, wrote and directed this.I will give this film 7 out of 10.I could never love a Baywatch fanFor more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Clever, well acted","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film could have been told along two different plot lines. Instead, they cleverly told the story along both plot lines...a sort of what if approach. I always give films extra points when they do something different...and this is a different kind of film. As we move back and forth between the two possible plot lines, sometimes it gets just a little confusing...at least briefly...which plot line are we in now? But that never lasts long.This is also very much a film dependent on strong performances. And there are some. I've long thought that Gwyneth Paltrow is one of those actresses who will be around for a long time; this film only bolsters that opinion. I'm not very familiar with John Hannah, but I enjoyed him a lot in this film. John Lynch (who shares my last name) stutters around too much in this film, but I suspect that was the way he was directed to act; I did laugh when Paltrow accuses him of acting like Woody Allen. Jeanne Tripplehorn comes across as a total (fill in the blank) here; nasty roles can be juicy, but I tire of an actor when he or she often plays the villain. The rest of the cast here are truly just supporting actors...important to film, but none stand out. You'll focus on the 3 primary characters...and they each have a lot of screen time since they are part of 2 different story lines.This is one film where the two endings allow you to be satisfied one way or the other. "},{"Title":"One of The Top Movies in This Genre","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite movies. It's a bit too soppy and cringe-worthy at times (particularly when Helen gets involved with James), but I can live with that.It's an excellent concept, though. Something everyone can relate to. Makes you think...Speaking of James... unlike most people, I did not find his character in the least endearing. If anything, he was annoying as hell most of the time.I don't suppose Gwyneth Paltrow is a very good actress in general, but I'd say she did an O.K. job for this particular role - kind of. She always appears emotionless and unnatural - in most of her roles - and this was no exception. This was the main downside for me, though... the lead character is characterless (one-dimensional, no depth, unlikeable). Then again... maybe it was meant that way.But the rest of the cast were excellent - especially Jerry and Lydia. Jeanne Tripplehorn is gorgeous and very talented! Jerry was very funny, I'll give him that. Supreme acting. He could be the next Woody Allen.But the whole Jerry-Helen-Lydia thing was less than convincing. I mean, Helen does not appear to be ugly/stupid/desperate, nor does she seem to be head-over-heals in love with Jerry to begin with, so why the hell a woman like her would sign up for this whole thing and keep busting her a*** to support him financially? And Lydia... a successful, beautiful businesswoman chasing (madly!) after that kind of loser, and going to such trouble to win him back? Not very realistic at all.But anyway... I think it's a very good movie. I have seen it countless times and never really get tired of it. It's actually quite deep and thought-provoking, but some might need to watch it several times before they get it. A must-see for those, who enjoy this genre. "},{"Title":"Interesting... But ultimately 'Frothy'...","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Very well made with a nice witty script and a decent pace so it doesn't get bogged down too much. It does look slightly dated though, but that's mostly to do with things like fashion and technology.I must admit I did find the premise of this film quite interesting; how just a couple of seconds at a crucial moment can make drastic changes to a life did intrigue me. I did enjoy the way it was done but ultimately it is about feelings and relationships which is fine as far as it goes. It did leave me with a few questions by the end and I see that as a good thing; there were certain things open to interpretation and any film that does that is always going to be worth a look, in my view. I will admit I did enjoy it up to a point; I found the characters quite engaging, there is some great dialogue and I even recognised one or two of the tunes! Over all, worth a look but I feel its one of those I'll only watch once (although I've been wrong about that before).SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.2/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"For want of  a nail","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For want of a nail the shoe was lost. For want of a shoe the horse was lost. For want of a horse the rider was lost. For want of a rider the message was lost. For want of a message the battle was lost. For want of a battle the kingdom was lost. And all for the want of a horseshoe nail.This is a famous rhyme that resonates deeply within so many of us as it spells out to what extent a single simple incident can affect the whole course of a person's life or even the course of history. This movie examines this very idea by putting Helen(Paltrow), the protagonist, in a situation where her entire life is influenced by whether or not she catches a train. In the original scenario, she misses the train. But there is an alternate scenario outlining what could've happened had she caught it.Many people, particularly those who are facing a rough patch in their lives, spend a lot of time brooding on the question how would my life have turned out if I had done this or that differently? But rarely do we ever wonder is it destined to be so? The Kingdom might've fallen for want of a horseshoe nail, but was its time passed? This is what, by alternating between the two different scenarios, the movie tries to say. In the end, the Helen who caught the train ended up more successful but also ended up dead while the Helen who missed the train survived and could put her life together in future. Thus, instead of brooding over what could've been and what's lost, it's better to count your blessings, if any and make what is better for yourself. It might not be easy but if it's meant to happen, it will. All in all, while the movie is not exactly Oscar material, it's got depth and should be seen despite any and all flawsMy rating-8/10 "}{"Title":"Disappointed of Brussels","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After seeing this movie, I had to go and look up how tall Gwyneth Paltrow is, because it's the first time I've watched a film and thought my God, this girl is bigger than *both* her boyfriends. Not that there's anything particularly terrible about that; the trouble is, the problems don't end there.Which is a pity, since it had a good idea and a hell of a cast; just not the right one, unfortunately.Take Gwyneth Paltrow's accent For an American, she does a damn good job of English; the thing is, an English actress would have done so much better. We're also better at dowdy, and this film needed someone who could scrub up well. Ms. P is just too glamorous. Honeysuckle Weeks would have been my choice, but I'm biased.Next, there is the device Used waay too soon (about 3 minutes in, as I recall), so we get no chance to see what GP's life was like before the fateful split and introduce some of the other characters. It also seemed to me they could have used more techniques (split-screen, double exposure or simply quick cuts) to keep the two narratives in sync. There is really only one point where the two halves are brought together before the conclusion.Third The blokes. The script is definitely to blame here, because both Johns are very good actors. Unfortunately, Lynch seemed awfully wimpy for a chap juggling two gorgeous gals; and Hannah comes across as a bit forced. The exception is Douglas McFerran, who was spot on as Russell, and gave me my few genuine laughs of the movie.Fourth Oh dear, Hollywood does like its packages done up with nice pink ribbon doesn't it? Guess I should've been a scriptwriter, because I can think of at least 3 endings that would have been better than the one they chose.All that said, it's not a terrible movie; just not as good as I'd hoped. Look up the definition of a curate's egg and you'll probably find it mentioned -- and if you want to see a better film on a similar theme, check out The Man with Rain in his Shoes (on this side of the pond, it's called If only).6/10. "},{"Title":"I expected much more from this film than we got","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ***** There are spoilers ***** The premise for the movie I thought was excellent - what would have happened if only.... versus what actually happens and then showing both options running concurrently. I very much like time slip and alternate universe stories. However, this movie ducked opportunity after opportunity to fully exploit the premise and I eventually realised it had no intention of allowing the two universes to intersect, with the exception of just one brief moment which was wasted anyway as it was never followed up in any way Agreed that too many intersections would have made it farcical - more The Comedy of Errors than a serious movie. But something more was needed than just two concurrent stories with the same characters and same actors and good writing could have avoided farce, and we could have had a great deal more tension as we wondered if the two universes would intersect rather than it being established pretty quickly that this was just two different options proceeding relentlessly without letup. Characters from one universe pass by each other or even sit in the same restaurant, but don't have any flashes of recognition, which was very disappointing. A hint of confused surprise occasionally, because it would have been natural (?) now and again to recognise the alter ego would have given the movie a lift. Well, they did manage it once - and I waited the whole of the rest of the movie for this to happen again in some meaningful way, even if only once, but no such luck.I watched to the end because it was just interesting enough to want to find out how the two versions of Paltrow's character would resolve her issues with the old lover and the new. It was quite effective to have version 1 discovering her man in the act with the other woman whilst the other one only finds out very near the end, but it was pretty sickening to watch version 2 heroine being tricked over and over again by the creep she was living with as he selfishly played her and his ex along because he wanted them both. At least in version 1 the heroine shows a bit of backbone, chucks him, and gets into an interesting new relationship with a decent guy.I did like the finale to story 2 - really the only (brief) part of that strand I thought really worth watching - suggesting that in a way the two strands will almost converge again although of course not quite or the characters' memories when fused from 4 characters to 2 would be intolerably muddled.To sum it up too long, too repetitive, not enough tension, lost opportunities, but is still worth watching if you've time to while away. I certainly wouldn't watch it a second time. It isn't interesting enough and the actors aren't interesting enough and there's nothing to explore in a second time around as it's all too simplistic. "},{"Title":"The Alternative History of Helen Quilley","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favourite types of imaginative fiction is alternative history- the genre which asks questions like What would have happened if Napoleon had won the battle of Waterloo? This genre does not, however, always transfer well to the cinema screen; films such as Fatherland and The Philadelphia Experiment 2, both set in a world where the Nazis won World War II, are often disappointing. Perhaps the best film of this type is the British Quest for Love from 1973, which is set in two parallel universes, ours and an alternate one in which the war never took place. That film, however, concentrates far more upon the personal lives of its characters than it does on the political and historical background. (It is never, for example, explained exactly how war was avoided in 1939 or whether the Nazis are still in power in the seventies).Sliding Doors is a film which takes the concept of parallel universes and applies it not to great political events but to a seemingly trivial detail in the life of its central character Helen Quilley. Helen is a London public relations executive who is fired from her job and goes to the Underground station to catch a train home. It is at this point that the plot splits into two parallel universes. One plot line shows what happens to Helen if she catches the train; the other what happens to her if she misses it. The film's title refers to the doors of the train which slide shut before Helen can enter (or, alternately, remain open for her).In one timeline, Helen catches the train and returns home in time to catch her boyfriend Gerry in bed with another woman, Lydia. She dumps Gerry, moves in with her best friend Anna, and begins a romance with another man named James. In the second timeline Helen misses the train and is delayed getting home, which means that she does not catch Gerry and Lydia together. She continues her relationship with Gerry, unaware that he is cheating on her.The two plot lines run in tandem, with frequent switches from the James timeline to the Gerry one, and the story could easily have become very confusing. Fortunately, director Peter Howitt handles his material well, and the two parallel stories remain easy to follow, especially as Gwyneth Paltrow has a different hairstyle in each timeline. Howitt was previously best known to me as the star of the late eighties sitcom Bread; Sliding Doors was his first film as director. (He also wrote the script).The film is essentially a romantic comedy with a metaphysical twist. The James timeline, in particular, contains many traditional rom-com features, such as the misunderstanding which threatens the happiness of the lovers but is later overcome. Indeed, I would rate it as one of the two best British romantic comedies of the nineties, the other being Four Weddings and a Funeral. Both films pair a British leading man with an American leading lady, as did another successful British rom-com from the period, Notting Hill. Another link between them is that John Hannah, who stars as James here, also appeared in the earlier film. Sliding Doors was a rare opportunity for Hannah to take a leading role; I have normally thought of him as a supporting actor, as in Four Weddings or the various Mummy films.Paltrow is one of the few American actors who can play a British character convincingly, and she gets another chance to use the accent she had perfected for Emma and was to use later in the same year in Shakespeare in Love. Helen not only sounds convincingly British, she also sounds like a middle-class Londoner. Paltrow resists the temptation either to make her character too upper-class like Natalie Portman in V for Vendetta or to retreat into a faux-Cockney like Patricia Arquette in The Secret Agent. More important than the accent is the fact that she makes Helen a warm, sympathetic and lovable heroine. Although she was to win an Oscar for Shakespeare in Love, I felt that her performance in Sliding Doors was easily the better of the two. Not that the Academy, of course, hand out Oscars for anything done in small-scale independent British films.The dialogue is often very witty, unlike some rom-coms which tend to concentrate on the romance at the expense of the comedy. (Gerry, I'm a woman! We don't say what we want! But we reserve the right to get p*ssed off if we don't get it). Howitt is evidently a Monty Python fan (and a Beatles fan as well), which tends to prejudice me in his favour. Nevertheless, there is also often a darkness about the film, which many comedies lack; one of the two timelines ends in tragedy, while the other ends on a hopeful note, but not necessarily the traditional happy ending. The result is a highly original romantic comedy, by turns amusing and unsettling. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Through the door; sliding destinies","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a little cozy and intelligent piece of film making. It plays with the tools and pieces i enjoy the most creating a mood, inventing a world or given a personal angle of a world close to mind, and inventing in narrative, novel ways of telling a story. It does it competently, it's an even film in practically every aspect.Here, there is a clear plot line considered The life of an unhappy woman, who looses her job and has an unfaithful partner. This line has a beginning and two possible ends. Somewhere over that curved line, the writers place an alternative, a second line which deviates from the first one only to intersect it further ahead. So, a line with a perfectly defined beginning and end. The plot is fully centered on Gwyneth's character. The distinct plot lines are followed in parallel and this gives alternate versions, which we follow, alternating between them. The moment where both lines cross again is relatively banal - death of one of the alternative Gwyneths which reestablishes the normal curse of things. But the moment in which time breaks is a beautiful piece of film. The cinematography is beautiful, how the subway doors are shot, how the editing of Gwyneth living both versions in that moment is made. Beautiful. Curiosity the little girl who in one version causes Gwyneth to loose the train, and on the other is step aside to allow her to pass carries a doll, blonde, with which she plays. Like a puppet. Fate drives the life of the characters here. Delicious.Gwyneth Paltrow is a very good actress, who can perform that same distinctive character in both versions bearing in mind that some strange will of some superior manipulator is playing dice with her fate. I felt that. It was good. So we have a number of players in this board, and all of them have their lives dramatically and profoundly changed by the single event that divided Gwyneth's character time.The cinematography, and the tone of the story sets the mood. The thing that impressed me the most was the clear sensation that the film created a little place i can visit and hide for a little, like if i was visiting the possible reality the sliding doors created for Gwyneth. This is top notch, and it is a nearly perfect cinematic creation of intimacy. On-screen and outside it. How great to be in this film.My opinion 4/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Ever wondered about Fate and what if?- then this film is for you!","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Admittedly, Peter Howitt's debut film in 'Sliding Doors' would have showed a lot of promise of cosmic proportions- however, 'Johnny English'? Regardless, his debut film is a low-key dual story about fate and parallel dimensions is vastly charming with one strong female lead in Gwenyth Paltow (sporting two different haircuts so the viewer can spot the difference), as well as two strong supporting performances from the likable and funny John Hannah, as the surprising likable John Lynch as the philandering, indecisive guilt-ridden novelist. Some of the most hilarious scenes are between Lynch's character in Gerry telling his boozy pal about the turn of events, whilst his pal laughs his butt off at him.Howitt's manages to give each story an equal amount of time, and I believe the viewer is invested in both outcomes. We all wonder about the what ifs, and it usually relates to relationships. There is a universal theme of fate in this film that I quite liked, even if I don't quite believe in it. The main problem with the dual stories; is that, one of them gets a hopeful ending, while the other closes on sadder note- as if to suggest that the two characters weren't meant to meet prior to the ending. There are nice little touches throughout the movie's dual realities to show that similar things do happen in sequence. For instance, Helen is walking by the lake with her friend, obsessed by a brandy glass whilst James in canoeing in the background in one story, while in the other, Helen is cheering for James' as he canoes. The film clever plants that pathways can cross more than once!I think 'Sliding Doors' is an underrated little film, and while it certainly lacks in ending one of the stories, it has great performances from Paltrow, Hannah and Lynch and a very good script- underlining the merits of relationships and chance plays a part in changing the circumstances of it. I liked the fact Gerry was given sufficient depth in both versions of his tale, and he was quite comedic in hiding his affairs. All in all, 'Sliding Doors' handles it's themes of fate admirably for one it's twins, and handles it better than 'The Lake House'. Definitely worth seeing! Even twice! A solidly high ***½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"Living by the grace of God!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A young woman's (played by Gwyneth Paltrow in her best British character role to date) life is impacted by the few seconds that occur between her missing her routine morning train and her making it. The film shows us the two sides of her life as they alternately exist, the woman who misses the train and the woman who makes it. One goes back home to find that her live-in boyfriend is having an affair and this changes her life, while the one who makes the train goes to work as usual and does not find out about the affair. Note to first time watchers don't get too attached to either woman too much because as you may know about cases of Doppelgangers, they don't end well. "},{"Title":"great for those who love British films","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Actually, in the recent years I've been trying to distance myself from what I call my-cheeky-poo movies, i.e., melodramas with no beginning to end with no sense of purpose. Only some successful few come to mind. One is of course When Harry met Sally, another more recently, High fidelity. Ultimatelly, they are both great comedy/romantic films. Then came Sliding doors. It's catching enough to actually watch and care about Gwyneth Paltrow's life as Helen. I personally do not like her as an actress, but a woman CAN fake a great British accent, what can I say. John Hannah is superb, I totally believed him as a guy one can be comfortable with. The premise is also pretty good, gives you enough imagination to not recognize a somewhat familiar plot. Hey, I am not saying it's Oscar material, but I always liked movies that were not. "},{"Title":"Cute romantic dramedy - with a twist","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors, against all my worst expectations, actually turned out to be one of the more innovative and fun romantic comedies I've seen in a while. Call it gimmicky, sure, but hey - it worked for me, anyway, seeing the two separate ways in which Gwyneth Paltrow's lead character could go based on a singular action (or lack thereof)...in this case, the boarding of a subway train. The result of her either catching the train or being left in the dust determines, among other things, her current relationship with her adulterous mate; her hair colour; the fate of her pleasant hookup with an interesting new man, etc. It sounds like all the makings of a corny screwball comedy - but with a weird overlapping parallel timelines trick tossed in to make it seem fresh. The truly weird thing, though? It actually works! Yes...I was most certainly drawn in. This is a nice, sweet little concept film that you don't hear many people talk about. I liked it, though. The characters (for the most part) were charming and endearing, what with that dry British wit, and the overall fate message of the film is one that can definitely resonate with me. "},{"Title":"I really liked it!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers ***** Spoilers *****  SpoilersThis was just the kind of movie I wanted to see tonight.  Romance, comedy, and some drama as well, and enough predictability to feel good, and enough surprises not to feel ripped off.As much as I despised Lydia, I could see the cleverness in the way her role was written, and frankly I could understand her frustration with the utter loser Gerry.  And as much as I liked Gwyneth Paltrow in this, her accent grated on me a bit.  I liked the Scottish actor who played James, and I was mad as hell while I thought his character was two-timing Gwyneth (both at his character and at the screenwriters!).I did not find the movie nearly as confusing as I expected I might; in fact I really enjoyed the switching back and forth as a device.  I did *almost* feel really ripped off at the end, until I saw the alternate ending, which was utterly satisfying to me.  As soon as I saw her open her eyes I hoped that would happen, and I literally cheered when she told off the wanker Gerry.Other good points were the day with the boats (but WHY do characters in movies always go directly from first kiss to bed together? OK, so in this case it was so there could be the whole pregnancy bit, but still...) and the excellent job done by the actress who played Helen's best friend Anna. I'll have to look and see what else she's done.This is a great girls'-night-in or date movie.  Plenty to talk about afterward. ) "},{"Title":"Intriguing although not fully successful nor fully original","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A competent treatment of a dual worlds or dual time lines plot - not as common as you might suspect in the movies although well explored in literature at varying levels of seriousness. Particularly enjoyable for those who lived through London in the Nineties as it rings true for most of those aspects of the setting.  However, not entirely successful since, for a mainstream film, it is pretty obscure on the topic of what is really happening.  I wonder how many of the audience have noticed that Sliding Doors is very strongly derived from The Double Life Of Veronique?  Yet, given that Veronique is an art house film, and that, just like Sliding Doors, it technically leaves open the fundamental questions about the logic of the parallel worlds, Veronique curiously seems much clearer in its treatment of the time slip logic.  Paltrow looks terrific and Hannah's lines are genuinely smart and funny. "}{"Title":"Sliding doors. One opens. One shuts.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Peter Howitt explores the concept of parallel lives with amazing dexterity and simplicity. He uses wit and movement and most importantly silence to convey two stories. Which at first appear to be diametrically opposed to each other, and then take quite another turn.What with crystal balls and tarot cards, we've always longed to know what the future will be like. What would have happened if we hadn't made the decisions we made. An author once said that we choose the life we want to lead. So even though we might suffer innumerable 'why me's', it's just possible that this life we are leading was in fact the best of the lot.Like Gwyneth's is in Sliding Doors. The device of 'what if' has been used often. But Peter makes it look seamless and very believable. She goes through two lives in the span of this movie. And just when you begin to empathise with one aspect of her life, with the one story that seems to be going well for her, suddenly the other takes a different turn. And you think that maybe it was all for the best after all.John Hannah (Four weddings and a Funeral, The Mummy) and Gwyneth Paltrow have put in splendid performance. Paltrow in particular has explored a myriad set of moods and has carried off every one of them. Though her English accent does fail at times. Then there's this character Russell played by Douglas McFerran who is just too funny. Jeanne Tripplehorn and John Lynch have also put in good performances.The soundtrack also includes Dido's 'Thank You'. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie.  I am not sure why, exactly, but it fascinated me the first time I saw it in the theater, and I eventually bought the DVD.  The DVD, by the way, is a disappointment...virtually no extras (boo, hiss!!)  I hope that someday they'll release one with at least a commentary.SPOILERS BELOW But I digress. The strongest point in the movie, in my opinion, is the acting of 3 of the 4 leads.  Gwyneth shines as she portrays the Helen who misses the tube as staying the same, mousy shy person (who eventually sees the light), while the Helen who catches the tube gradually changes for the better.  John Hannah should be in more movies.  He is not a traditional movie star, but puts a lot of charm into this character.  Also, the man who plays Gerry (John Lynch??) was quite good in both roles...the Gerry who loses Helen quickly verses the one who loses her eventually )I highly recommend this.  It's probably more liked by women than men, however. "},{"Title":"A girls movie for a cold, rainy evening alone or with the girls!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A movie that girls will enjoy if they like romantic and hopeful type of films about love and the big question of what if... An interesting premise, good acting and nice story. Gwyneth Paltrow is intriguing and lovely. Personally I love it!  I recommend this movie for a cold, rainy night when you're looking for a love story and there's nothing better to do.  Don't cancel a trip to France to watch this film but it's a good flick for a Friday alone or just hanging with the girls. "},{"Title":"Watch it","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       Sliding Doors is one of those films that has a very clever concept you don't come across very often - so watch it. It really is very good. I recorded it on TV the other day, and after watching it, wondered why I'd never rented it out before.    The acting is definitely above average, Gwyneth Paltrow gives a great performance, making the audience feel sorry for her didn't-catch-the-train character, and then thinking, go girl! for her character that DID catch the train. Her English accent is also excellent - none of that over the top pronunciation . John Lynch also gave an outstanding performance, he particularly shines in his first few scenes when he is caught in bed with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn), his stuttering and panic is very believable. John Hannah was loveable as James, always chasing after Helen, and Jeanne Tripplehorn was entertaining as 'the other woman'.   London life is caught beautifully in this movie, the soundtrack is great and it has a very clever, satisfying end. A real feel good movie! "},{"Title":"Light but satisfying","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I know a lot of people hated this film because it doesn't require a lot of thought, or contain much that is original, but I still thought it was a very good film, mostly for the character James, who was performed wonderfully and seems very realistic and believable. I think this kind of film has to be appreciated just for its feel-good factor, and not for being technically stunning or having an incredibly imaginitive plot, and feel-good factor is its one true strength. "},{"Title":"Fate really does exist","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Good movie. I enjoyed the underlying theme that everything happens for a reason--and that when you are meant to be with someone it will work out. The theme is better than the acting--but it is definitely watchable more than once. Go with it! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gwyneth Paltrow was wonderful as Helen, the London Public Relations worker. I loved this movie, the way it depicts how one small second, one tiny thing that you do in your life can effect it in the biggest way. I've seen it four times and I'm going to watch it many more. I like seeing the Nasty Gerry getting caught with Lydia, and watching Helen fall in love with James. Anyone who is a true romantic at heart will enjoy this film. I recommend it highly! "},{"Title":"Gwynneth Paltrow's English accent","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this film and thought that it was a quite unique plot but I haven't seen the previous one which is supposed to be similar.  I must confess, though, that I wondered how it would end and thought that the ending was quite good.  It's always nice to see boy and girl embracing in a happy ending so perhaps, in this case, the finish was a bit of an anti-climax. All the leads were good and I would like to say how impressed I am with Gwynneth Paltrow's English accent.  I have heard it before - both in 'Shakespeare in love' and in 'Emma'. It is a good upper class accent but it does seem strange that she dropped her 't's, at the end of words, unnecessarily in this film.  However, this does happen, even in 'upper class' accents, occasionally, so I will forgive her. "},{"Title":"Marvelously enjoyable","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The cast is first rate and the London locations and cueing music are used well in this inventive and offbeat romantic comedy.  Gwynneth Paltrow is in top form in the lead as an advertising executive who has just been terminated, little suspecting that the most important part of her day lies just ahead.  Her entire future will be determined in the half-second difference between making and missing the next underground train.  But we have no way of knowing which scenario is meant to be, or for that matter, which scenario will lead to a better life for her.  And, a movie whose entire raison-d'etre hinges on a gimmick manages to keep us caring about the characters and unwinding the stories in interesting fashion without ever seeming gimmicky.  I really enjoyed this film, and have now seen it three times. "},{"Title":"Excellent thinking movie","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I categorize movies.  Thinking movies and non-thinking movies.  Sliding Doors is definitely a thinking movie, so don't rent it if you're only in the mood for a movie that requires you to sit back, relax, and watch the story-less action.  This movie can be very confusing at first if you're not prepared for the storyline, but don't worry, it gets easier once one of the Helen's cuts her hair.  This movie was very refreshing.  The acting is good, the script is well written, the editing fits the storyline.... you just have to pay attention! "}{"Title":"Turning back time to the real world of romantic comedy","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ms Paltrow and Mr Hannah are surprisingly well suited in this late 90s rom-com. This was a film that was funny, realistic, tender and warming.Helen (Paltrow)and James (Hannah) are portrayed as very real people living in modern London. And Paltrows accent is excellent even when she sware using typically english slang. The parallel universe idea works so well lifting it above the Four Weddings and Notting Hills and allows for some very swish scene changes as it switches between times. The film was directed by Peter Joey Boswell Howitt and was the last thing i would have expected from him. Making bread out of nothing but air.Fun and fluffy. "},{"Title":"Interesting film","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I personally thought Sliding Doors was an extremely good film. Unfortunately, an original movie is hard to find these days, but this is definitely one of them.  Gwyneth Paltrow is great as an ingenue, John Hannah was cool, and Jeanne Tripplehorne was hilarious (sort of a bitch too). All in all, I would have to recommend this movie to anyone looking for something new and well directed. You'll laugh and also think about your own life in the process. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Boring, pretentious, stars Gwyneth Paltrow, who I am liking less and less after each movie.  Somehow she looks like one of those preppy girls in high school who would cruelly swat you in a second (Very pretty, very icy) if you weren't wearing the right underwear or something.  And the stories, if you just filmed it without the gimmick, falls apart with cliches.  John Lynch was OK, and so was John Hannah but Jeanne Tripplehorn?  Hey, here's an idea. A commercial parody of the movie What if she were squashed by the train? What if she weren't squashed? "},{"Title":"Miss the train, miss the point?","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In Kieslowski's 'Short Film About Love', two characters see their bus on the other side of the square.  The woman turns to the boy.  If we catch it, you come back to mine.  If not, not.  Kieslowski shows how chance determines the pattern of our lives through the simple expedient of having his characters embrace it.Sliding Doors, a moderately diverting rom-com, start from a similar premise. Gwynneth Paltrow either catches or misses a train; and, in parallel tracks we switch between thereafter, her life forks down two separate paths.  In one, she is stuck with her terminally useless boyfriend; in the other, she meets Mr. Wonderful, and starts to look forward to happy ever after. The idea is fresh, but slightly self-defeating we never know what if, in life, there are no second chances, and so Paltrow's character is hard to truly care for; like Lara Croft, she is rendered invulnerable (and hence slightly inhuman) through the curse of having too many lives.  The resemblance, however, does not extend to matters anatomical stick-thin Platrow does the least impressive impersonation of a pregnant woman ever seen.Her English accent is also bizarre; passable in Emma, here she tries for lower-class, sounding like a well-spoken Australian with a weird affectation for glottal stops and a slightly over-liberal use of very English swear words.  One would ask why they cast her, if it wasn't depressingly obvious (the presence of a second American in the cast points clearly at an English film cynically engineered to be an international hit).But it's always lively viewing, and worth an extra point for a nicely arranged ending, which makes the most of the slightly thin material that has preceded it. "},{"Title":"Do you like your Paltrow with light hair or dark?","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Two things are essential if you want to watch this movie. One, you have to like Gwyneth Paltrow, because you're going to see a lot of her; and Two, it helps to be a girl. Since I only half qualify I am not the best audience for this corny, but clever, three-quarters cute, romantic comedy. Most of it is standard faire London girl Helen (Paltrow) has to choose between puppy-eyed loser Gerry (John Lynch) and Good Guy James (John Hannah). Circumstances make the Good Guy look bad while the puppy-eyed loser pouts real well and looks emotionally helpless, so it's tough on our good girl, who's kind of like a Brit Mary Tyler Moore for the nineties. But she's gonna find true love. Count on it. It's just that we have to sit through an hour and a half of misdirection before she does.Paltrow gets to display something close to her full range here, so it amounts to a vehicle for her. The clever plot idea is to show her life under one set of circumstances (she misses the train and doesn't meet James) and a road not taken (she catches the train and does meet James) in alternating cuts. Surprisingly it works fairly well. To keep us from getting confused, her hair goes short and blonde in one set and long and dark in the other. I like her better with dark hair. She looks more glamorous.Most fun in the movie is the dirty deeds done by Lydia, (Jeanne Tripplehorn) Helen's rival for Gerry. To humiliate working girl Helen she has her deliver sandwiches and then claims she got food poisoning. To really trash her, she sends her on a job interview at her apartment in time to catch her with weasel-willed Gerry while announcing that she's pregnant by same. Our girl's knees buckle, but she stands tall through all the heart-break.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"What a dissapointment","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  WHat an absolute dissapointment this movie is. It's story line ( or a plot setup ) taken from Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blind Chance - does not even come close to the original which must be said was not a romance at all. It;s kind of strange really, how can a central idea be taken from another movie and yet the credit is not given to the original writer. The less said about this movie the better, and I would urge anyone intrested in the clever idea of the plot to watch Blind Chance.  "},{"Title":"Highly overrated romance.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you don't like Gwynneth Paltrow, you shouldn't watch this movie anyway. If you like Gwynneth Paltrow, you probably will like the film. You will forgive her the annoying 110 per cent wannbe real British accent. You will forgive the film that it doesn't know what to do with the set-up, which - to be fair - is rather clever. It's another what if premise, only this time you see two different realities unfold at the same time and the audience watches two possible chain of events parallel. But the trouble is, the filmmakers don't know how to tie both stories together again, and eventually come up with a feeble solution. Another flaw of the film is, that it is inhabited by unlikable characters. Only John Hannah stands out as Paltrows new love interest - in one of the storylines. So do yourself a favour and watch him in FOUR WEDDINGS, and her in MR RIPLEY. You'll have a better time. "},{"Title":"Is the Universe Brain Dead ?","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Here we have a movie about the alternative lives caused by a chance change in circumstance, a missed train. You would think that given the emotionally devastating results caused by that fluke would lead to something quite, well, different. But, no, our heroine is brain dead in both incarnations. What a ghastly take on the possibilities fate hands us. Sigh. Moan. Groan. I must admit, I found it impossible to keep my attention on this movie after it became clear that this movie was actually, really going to Disneyfy our main characters. No one suffers anything really. No one thinks much about anything, ever. Everyone sort of bubbles along bouncing from hard surfaced reality to gut wrenching twist. Where's the real people in these alternative lives ? Everyone seems as light as a flea and as deep as a snowflake. Serious situations produce only halting, dim witted faces. No hard questions. No insights. In a phrase it's Clueless London, 90210. These people have the personal and interpersonal insights/skills of a room full of 13 yr old former crack babies. No one seems the slightest bit aware of their actions or the consequences of their choices. Blah, barf, phooey. These people deserve each other and the paper thin, cardboard flavored lives they unwittingly create. Pass me the remote and a No Dose. Yawwn. "},{"Title":"Parallel lives","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Gwyneth Paltrow stars in this 2008 film, Sliding Doors, also starring John Hannah, John Lynch, and Jeanne Tripplehorn.Set in Britain, Paltrow plays Helen, a woman in advertising who lives with her writer boyfriend Jerry (Lynch). She's supporting him while he writes his novel. In the morning, she says goodbye to him while he's still sleeping, then leaves for work. He's awake immediately as he has plans.Helen races for her train, only to reach the door as it shuts in her face.Then we see her racing for her train, reaching it in time to catch it as the doors are closing.Thus begins Sliding Doors, which asks the question which has been asked in many films, what if one split second in your life was different? Would it change your fate? Or would you just go about reaching your fate in a different way?I really loved this film, as we see Helen first with the missed train scenario, then with the made train scenario as the film continues.Paltrow is terrific as the British Helen, who is in love with a man who may not deserve her. John Hannah is wonderful as her pursuer, James, and Jeanne Tripplehorn as her competition for Jerry's affections. Lynch is a perfect narcissist, unable to let go of what he has and wanting what he gave up.Don't miss this. It's funny, fascinating, thought-provoking, and poignant. A real gem with a great soundtrack and excellent direction by the writer, Peter Howitt. "},{"Title":"Sliding Door, portal to another dimension","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was referred to this movie from a video by spiritualist Teal Swan titled What are The Akashic Records? It turns out that the main subject of this movie, that is of a multi-dimensional life and its possibilities, are contain in the Akashic records. Helen, a single public relations professional with a live-in boyfriend named Gerry, gets fired. On her way back home, she is delayed for about a second by a child who steps in front of her as she hurriedly descends down the subway stairway. This causes her to miss the train. In another parallel scenario, the child is moved out of the way and Helen is able to board the train. From this juncture, two parallel and diverse lives of Helen emerge concurrently. In the path where she misses the train, she never finds out that Gerry is cheating on her. In the second path she meets a suitor named James on board, discovers that Gerry is cheating, and dumps him for James. We see both paths weave through Helen's time line with an ongoing suspicious relationship with Gerry on one hand, and a developing relationship with James on the other. Both paths reach a climax at the same physical location, a hospital, with two completely different outcomes. I like this movie because it is an easy to digest dramatization of what in the spiritual world is referred to as controlling one's reality based on how one reacts. Helen could have not gotten fired in which case the two scenarios in the movie would be insignificant. I applaud this movie for tackling a much discussed and pondered subject of multi-dimensional and possible life outcomes that could play out depending on how we react to circumstances. "}{"Title":"Slide the Doors on Paltrow.","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sliding Doors (1998) Dir Peter Howitt / Cast Gwyneth Paltrow, John Hannah, John Lynch, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Zara Turner Interesting technique deteriorates into two boring stories upheld only by the presence of Gwyneth Paltrow. The title represents choice or fate. Gwyneth Paltrow is positioned in two parallel stories. In story A she catches a subway train and arrives home to catch her boyfriend cheating. In story B she misses the train and arrives home only to suspect foul play. Great setup faulted with sitcom situations but director Peter Howitt has fun with interesting locations. Paltrow is fantastic playing someone at the mercy of either deceit or luck but either way weighs her options after losing her job. John Hannah as her friend is standard and unsympathetic. John Lynch plays her ex-boyfriend who is a jerk whether caught cheating or plainly being deceptive. Jeanne Tripplehorn plays his mistress who predictably makes things worse becoming nothing more than a parody fatal attraction gimmick. Zara Turner has a useless role as the female whom Paltrow moves in with and that is about the extent of her role. It addresses fate and the choices we make, which is fine in itself but perhaps one choice viewers can make is to avoid this contraption. As for Paltrow, hopefully she can apply her talent to films where the doors don't slide on the screenwriters. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Interesting concept","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Romantic Comedies are not my thing. But this is an interesting take on it. Instead of the one main storyline to follow, we get two. What would occur if this event happened vs. how it would be different if a different event happened -- two visions of a woman's path. Gwyneth Paltrow is the lead and I found her to be very unappealing. Her character is not very interesting in the least. The male lead is John Hannah who was quite refreshing. Jeanne Tripplehorn is fun to watch, adds a little flavor to it all. Overall, this will be remembered because of the way the film presented itself but it's rather just mediocre otherwise. Love story yada yada yada. Barf. What some would call a chick flick. 6.1 / 10 --Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Two Lives, One Woman","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie in the Crown Casino cinema in Melbourne. I thought I might put in a shameless plug for it because it was a very nice place (no, I am not being paid to say this). The chairs were huge but the cinema was small. Even though it was small the screen was still pretty big, but Sliding Doors is not really a big screen movie as something like Starship Troopers or Armageddon is. The only gripe that I have about the cinema is that in the foyer there are only two places to sit down meaning I had to stand around holding a huge tub of popcorn and a huge cup of coke.Now for the movie. Sliding Doors is unique in the way that it is constructed. A woman is fired from her job because they basically don't like her and have been looking for an excuse to get rid of her. It starts off as a normal movie until she goes to catch the train. In one instance she runs into a little girl and misses the train, and then the movie rewinds and she does not run into the girl and she just catches the train. This one little incident leads off into two completely different strands in her life. The first one she gets home early and discovers her boyfriend sleeping with another woman and she storms out. The second strand, her day goes from bad to worse as she is mugged, goes to hospital and gets back home long after the woman has gone, thus remaining blissfully ignorant.I guess the major theme in this movie is that our personality is developed by the events that happen to us. The women in the two strands have different things happen to them and thus turn out very different. One becomes a successful, self employed business woman who is more capable of standing on her own after she leaves her boyfriend. The second, who remains ignorant to the fact that her boyfriend is having an affair, gives up the life of big business and becomes a waiter and sandwich delivery girl.Another difference is the people that influence the woman's life. The first is stuck with a two timing boyfriend who is more interested in exciting sex than actually encouraging his girlfriend on. As such her life becomes even more dull and drudgery as she works to support a guy that claims to be writing a great novel but is not. In reality she is looking after a guy that is bludging off of her. The second on the other hand, walks out on him and the guy that she meets encourages her constantly to move further. He does not move in with her but visits her for a while and helps her not only to get back onto her feet but to strike out on her own.Sliding Doors is really two movies in one, but they are linked together well enough so that we can see how the strands differ. It may have been missing the train, but what we see is the woman develop in two vastly different ways through the events they go through and the people that they associate with. This is something that is not seen in most movies, but is far more obvious here because we see the same woman living two different lives.Sliding Doors is an alternative movie that is aimed at the mainstream audience. This works well and I enjoyed the movie. I was impressed with the different style of the movie in that it followed the same woman along two different life paths. This, though not being original as a friend of mine has also thought of this plot, makes Sliding Doors stand apart from normal movies. "},{"Title":"Well Executed Gimmick, But Sadly Not Much Else","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first heard about this movie, I was really intrigued by the gimmick that there were two parallel plots One where Gwyneth Paltrow catches a train, and one where she misses it, with both stories told together in real time. I really wondered how they could pull that off.The good news is The two parallel plots are very easy to sort out and keep clear. And some of the sub-gimmicks are interesting. For example, in the first plot line Paltrow slowly develops a close relationship with another character, while in the second parallel plot she barely pays attention to that same character. So kudos to the filmmakers for pulling this off.However, as a whole It wasn't funny enough to be a comedy, not tense enough to be a drama, and there wasn't enough spark between the characters to be an effective romance. None of the lines were particularly memorable, and as proof, I direct you to the Quotes section of the Sliding Doors IMDb site. Go ahead, read through them. Not that great, right? Perhaps in some parallel universe there is a version of this film that I really love. But the version I saw can best be described as a noble experiment. "},{"Title":"British romantic drama/comedy with a metaphysical twist","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Unlike most romcoms Sliding Doors has a touch more intelligence, wit and depth. It uses as its pivotal moment how one woman's life splits at the missing or catching of a train and the different consequences of each event. We've all said what would have happened if... and this film opens with that premise.The film is average, although there are great performances. I love John Hannah and he's always convincing and steady whatever he plays. Gwyneth Paltrow playing the two parallel life Helens is good, not brilliant, and a little bit flat, but it was perhaps perfect for this role where she goes through quite a bit. John Lynch and Jeanne Tripplehorn (both rather wooden) and a great Zara Turner adding a few laughs as the feisty supportive best friend are the supporting cast. Whilst quite a dark film, there's a fair bit of comedy. Set in a rather sterile looking London (I've never seen the Tube look so perfect), it's an intriguing concept and is executed well, the split easily and not-improbably identified via Helen's change of hair length and colour, and so you follow the two Helen's to the conclusion implying that - like all love stories - true love (probably) triumphs no matter how bumpy the road. Like time travel films (this is a similar though a different phenomenon) there are possible loopholes that you can talk yourself around to ponder. Sliding Doors is interesting and different, and whilst it's not Shakespeare in Love (my fav Paltrow film) or anything high brow it's good entertainment and greatly thought provoking. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, with some saving grace","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The central plot device notwithstanding, Sliding Doors is a formulaic romantic comedy, with Paltrow a seemingly reluctant constant in the middle of the formula. (Peter Howitt, writer and director, does deserve credit for not trying to explain how the two wormholes through the romantic cosmos diverge--rather just presenting the intertwined versions of Helen's life). Jeanne Tripplehorn and John Lynch are each a lot of fun to watch. Lynch maintains a wonderfully dazed and confused demeanor in the face of womankind on the warpath, and Tripplehorn trods said warpath with great brio. Their lines aren't original, but they get into the spirit. The climax of the movie (no spoilers here) seems way contrived, and it disturbs whatever flow has been developed writer-running-out-of-ideas material. Douglas McFerran, as Gerry's de rigueur funny mate, does a workmanlike job in magnifying Gerry's angst. "},{"Title":"Please don't do these sexist movies.","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" That is what I want to tell the writers and producers of this movie!What this movie is trying to say isGuys are normally cheaters and juggling multiple women, while the woman is working her ass off to support him. Then there is the helpful BFF who is the only person that is trustworthy and dependable. And the guy also has that buddy who helps him in his indiscretions and lies.All she wants is a helpful, rich guy, a guy who takes care of his mother, funny and can make her laugh.And then there are those movies which show just the opposite, cheating girls who have bitchy poisonous girlfriends, etc, etc.Just clichéd, clichéd, clichéd and clichéd...................Hope you have read the official story line. You might feel that there is some sort of fantasy/sci-fi/special thing going on here. That premise that they talk of is just too thin.And I am now more and more a believable of the rating here at IMDb - see a rating less than 7 - then whatever good review someone might have posted about - or how intriguing the plot seems to be - not to see that movie.I have just seen this movie and I am sad to say, I feel it wasted my time.The print (dvd) is also too outdated for this day and age (2012), and this movie seemed too blurry. So even if you decide to see, if its a DVD, then avoid it. I don't thing a blue ray is even available. So I can't recommend this movie even for its visuals or something of that sort.Recommended - sorry, no.I recently saw some very good movies like the Help, Kungfu Panda 2, Drive, Ides of March, etc. There are too many good movies out there for us to choose from. Maybe even re-watching an old exemplary classic like Its a Wonderful Life........Cheers! "},{"Title":"What if","Date":"16 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What if you had just made that stoplight, if you had just been a second sooner. What if you had just turned the corner a moment faster and avoided the splash from the car driving by that just soaked your pants. What if a child blocked your path and made you miss a train. What if is the basic premise of the film Sliding Doors. What path does fate take your life down if you just happen to miss or make a train.For Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) we get to witness the parallel lives take place and get a glimpse of what may or may not happen as one's future plays out down two separate but similar paths.The films director (Peter Howitt) does a decent job of story telling by swapping back and forth between the two parallel lives, even jumping from one world to the other with out a cut.What has potential to be a delve into concepts of fate and decisions boils down to a toil of annoyance for the audience as Helen's character has to go through one existence with a total loser boyfriend Gerry (John lynch) who treats her horribly. It's one thing for a relationship to stay together if the person cheating shows some likable aspects but the film is absent of any of these about Gerry. As the story unfolds the two twists of fate that are being braided the audience has a harder and harder time to find any likable quality about Gerry in either story.Although the movie is lacking in places it's still an enjoyable and at least in some fashion unique. At least someone's attempted to answer what if in some way. "},{"Title":"Great idea poorly executed","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Writer-director Peter Howitt's film Sliding Doors is the perfect example of an idea being far better that its execution. Howitt has here a brilliant concept, but what to do with it? How to end it? Where to take it? Certainly the first time director has given himself a huge challenge with this movie of endless possibilities.Plot (or plots) concerns a young woman's two lives, each affected by a twist of fate that hinges on a split second. Helen is fired, and despondently heads for home, however she just misses her train, thus setting off a chain of events which see her almost mugged, hospitalised and home much later than she would have liked. Parallel story sees her making the train, getting home early and catching her boyfriend in bed with another woman. From here, Howitt is faced with his What to do? dilemma, much as the two Helens are in the film.Rather that carrying one story to its conclusion and then going back to give us the other, Howitt decides it would be better to allow his audience to compare Helen's two lives by running them simultaneously side by side. Problem is, our director keeps the two stories too similar, which makes comparison easy, but stretches the bounds of reality. Surely even the smallest event would change a person's life a whole lot more than this. Then comes the finale. How to close this thought provoking flick. Howitt again errs in ending both stories almost identically, and it was here that he lost me completely. He even manages to sneak in a happy ending, perhaps trying to suggest that this was the reality, and the other only the what if scenario.In short, Peter Howitt fails to do two things. He does not allow his movie to go off into two completely different tangents, giving us a much more believable script; he delivers a crowd pleasing closure, rather than endings that reflected the true nature of his stories. No real finale was required for either, just an indication of where our heroine was headed in each would have been fine. Howitt has sadly lacked the courage to be truly bold in this first event. Sure the general movie-going audience may not have been pleased, but the film would have been more true to its theme.Well, having thoroughly dissected Sliding Doors, you can see it certainly had me thinking. Of course the cast are the other side to this pic. Gwyneth Paltrow is suitable as Helen, the woman whose life takes two different paths thanks to the hand of fate. Most impressive is her English accent. Paltrow had me thoroughly convinced she was a Brit. Enjoyable in support are John Hannah as James the shoulder Helen finds to cry on in scenario two, and John Lynch as the philandering Gerry who is too weak to take control of his own life. Jeanne Tripplehorn also appears as the vindictive Lydia, though her turn is nothing special, and really we see too much of her.Friday, July 31, 1998 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Train Of Events","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is, by definition, a one-trick pony and writer-director Peter Howitt tips his glove in the first couple of minutes thus more or less daring us to be carried by the acting. The premise itself is, of course, as old as time, Irwin Shaw, a far better writer than Howitt, explored the role played by chance, fate, luck etc in human life in some of the finest short stories and novels of the 20th century; David Lean, likewise a better director than Howitt, turned out the classic Brief Encounter which has nowhere to go if, when Celia Johnson gets some grit in her eye, Trevor Howard isn't just conveniently passing by to extract it, though Lean has to cede credit to Noel Coward, who wrote it first as a one-act play and then adapted it for Lean to direct on screen. Howitt has added a tad of spin and then relied on his cast to carry the ball. By and large they don't do too badly; John Hannah has a nice line in left-handed charm, Gwyneth Paltrow wheels out her English accent but once it has passed muster she has little to do but look winsome which she does to a fare-thee-well but as we all know when you winsome you are just as likely to lose some and this is where John Lynch comes in as the resident bastard in Paltrow's life. Lynch is so far OTT that he turns in not so much a performance as a caricature. On the other hand for a newspaper freebie it's fairly painless. "}{"Title":"Do you believe in destiny?","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Not philosophically boggling, Sliding Doors is a good introduction to the concept of alternate timelines/reality or Many Worlds Interpretation, if you haven't been exposed to these already.In Sliding Doors, the timelines intersect in space the same person is often in the same place in the two alternate timelines. While this may be cinematically delicious, it reeks of fate/destiny and goes against the predictions of chaos theory. For this reason, I recommend watching The Butterfly Effect instead, and some romantic flick other than Serendipity, which also promotes the ideas of fate and life as a deliberate puzzle. "},{"Title":"good for a boring afternoon","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am never a big fan of romantic comedies. This one is acceptable, better than Sleepless in Seattle at least. John Hannah is great in it. He is not a girls'-dream-guy type of man. However, he has his charm. He is cuter than Paltrow in this movie. As we know, Paltrow is the same in EVERY movie that she is in. The script is well written. Perhaps we don't think about the question  What if... very often. But the truth is everything we do in out daily life has a what if, doesn't it?Frankly, this movie is not a must-see. Nevertheless, if you are having a boring afternoon and have nothing else to do, go rent this movie. Then sit back and relax. You will enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Migraine City","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching this movie did give me a headache. I realize it was a What if she did, or didn't catch the train situation that was going on, but it was a bit mind boggling keeping track of her what if lives ... plus would any female in today's world be so stupid as Gwyneth in this movie ...to believe the repeated lies from her live-in creep of a boyfriend. I doubt any woman would put up with this situation. This what if life irritated the hell out of me. The other what if life with John Hannah was more bearable, but I wish I had chosen Three Coins in a Fountain instead. This was an old 1954movie, but it was a much better movie than Sliding Doors. Now it's time to take the Migraine medication. -(   "},{"Title":"a widely misunderstood film","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  from the comments listed about this movie, readers may think there is nothing more to this movie than the simple what if..? idea (many think there is nothing to that idea to start with). i am of the opinion that this movie is much more than a simple romantic comedy (it's not _that_ funny) and much more than a gimmicky plot. in fact, the movie seems to be about not just how chance events shape our lives, but also the roles fate and destiny play in muddling those coincidences. gerry's conversations with his friend make this point explicitly. the romantic events that occur are not the main point of the movie, it simply had to be a romance for box office success. the real point is the conflict between events that take place in both stories vs. the events that take place in only one and the effect each has on helen's life. if you watch the movie while listening carefully to the dialogue and paying attention to the events, you will come away with an enjoyable, romantic film that also has very interesting ideas about the forces that govern everyone's lives. to say more would be to risk spoilers, but i very highly recommend the film as an intelligent romance and an intelligent film.other notes the director does an excellent job of managing the stories, shifting gracefully between helen's parallel lives. as a result the movie is never confusing.jeanne tripplehorn is - as in all her movies - unbearably annoying.many take issue with the film's ending but i consider it a necessary ending and one that adds nicely to the fatalism/destiny/chance mix. think about it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful romantic comedy, even for those who don't like romantic comedies.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Sliding Doors expecting nothing spectacular.  I'm not a huge fan of the quintessential romantic comedy.  But this was something else.  The characters had a realism that most other romantic comedies do not.  Helen is your average (albeit beautiful) girl, and her boyfriend is the average scum. John Hannah steals the show with his adorable performance.  He's just your average Joe, he's not a Brad Pitt or a Hugh Grant--he's not overly attractive. But he's exactly what Helen needs.  I think that's all I want. Someone adorably perfect for ME.  And, by the way, its so cute, you may feel an urge to weep hysterically.  Beware...have some tissues on hand. "},{"Title":"Quite clever romance","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"     This film is based around the idea that the course of one's life can be made quite different following a small perterbation such as missing a train.  The divergence that ensues is captured well, though the covergence at the end seems very strained and unnecessary.  The dialogue is cleverly written.  Elements of the plot seem to fail, however.  The Lynch character is so pathetic as to be non-credible, as is his secondary affair.  Hannah is good, and I particularly enjoyed his Scottish accent.  Paltrow's female friend is good but one-dimensional.  I would have given her a life!  And, since this is a Paltrow vehicle, she is competent and her face pleasant to view as usual.  Overall, a pleasant diversion. "},{"Title":"Did you ever wonder what if?","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For those of us who have always wondered, What if I missed that bus? or What if I'd gone in that store?, this is that movie. It is the story of Helen (Paltrow), a working woman who gets to live her life two ways. Although awfully confusing at times, Paltrow's look changes in one life to make it easier to tell them apart. She is delightful to watch as she is allowed to play out each life at once. The way her decisions effect her is the most interesting thing to see. It makes you question all your past decisions and wonder What if?. The most enjoyable scenes are when Paltrow interacts with John Hannah's character. Their chemistry is just so good, it's almost addictive. Hannah's character however, seems to get the best lines, such asJamesYou know what the Monty Python Boys say?HelenAlways look on the bright sides of life?JamesNo, no one expects the Spanish Inquisition.A must see for those who love romance, also, a great date movie. *wink* "},{"Title":"IN THE SPIRIT OF 4 WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL...","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Light, fresh and hearty romantic comedy about a British girl Helen living two parallel lives before the eyes of the viewer (from this point of view of course there must be countless different lives she is leading - only director has chosen to follow these particular two...).Even if the idea is not original, the script is suddenly well written and easy to follow. Dialogue is harmless and funny, providing some heartwarming as well as poignant moments, although the lives and crisis of the characters are somewhat blended down and looking far too simple.John Hannah makes a very likable character playing the new man in Helen's life, but someone else should have played Helen. Maybe it's in the eyes of how one looks at the two leads, but to me it seemed there was no chemistry from Paltrow's side while Hannah was trying to make the best of what he was left with. She was looking at him like one looks at a puppy rather than an object of romance and passion.Gwyneth Paltrow's trademarks and mannerisms - homecoming queen smile, heartbreaking sorrow reinforced with extremely nasal voice, I have actually THIS big eyes-look and the general I'm so humble but wonderful all over-appearance make her somewhat overrated for being one of the most successful actresses in both sides of the atlantic.Much better than most American blockbuster romantic comedies though!  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of the 90's","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I must be in the minority of the people commenting on this film, but I LOVED this film!  I really regret that I didn't haul my fanny to the theatre to see this on the big screen.  (I wound up seeing it on video.)Anyway, IMHO this is Gwyneth Paltrow's best performance so far (Yes, including Shakespeare in Love!)  She is more subtle and real here than in any other film.I must confess that a reason I like this film so much is that I've always been into the what if types of films and have never seen a film delve into the possibilities as much as this film did.  And (without giving any spoilers) I really appreciated the reality in which both Helen's lives went; which are not always happy or predictable.But perhaps this movie is the ultimate 'chick flick'.  I can see how men may not 'get' this movie!  But for we girls, I can highly recommend this film!  (And on a lower note girls, John Hannah is so darling and cute, you'll want to take him home with you!) "},{"Title":"Nice idea but ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SLIDING DOORS must have started out with a big party in some big film office somewhere, as the idea behind the film is genius, never done before, and very topical in its thinking. The film starts very well as we are introduced to our heroine, our villain, our mistress, our knight in shining armour and the neat twist that runs this plot. However from that moment on the film starts to fall rapidly downhill. Paltrow proves bland and unappealing in both scenarios, and Hannah (strange choice..?) does his best to inject some chemistry into a formula that was never going to react!The problem is that SLIDING DOORS relies completely on it's idea, and for a 90-minute film the viewer needs more. The ending is deeply unsatisfying and gives no point to the differing scenarios, almost dismissing its own theory as pointless after all. Enjoyable for Gwyneth fans only I'm afraid. "}{"Title":"Funny and excellent!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A great romantic comedy this is. Gwyneth Paltrow is Helen, who's life is about to change. When she misses the train to go home, the director decides to show you what would happen if she makes the train, and if she doesn't. And what stories they become. If she makes the train, she catches her boyfriend cheating, and if she doesn't, she doesn't.A great writer/director and cast has made this British film a good one. Maybe because I'm American I didn't understand some of the British terms or humour, but I loved it. It might just be one of Gwyneth Paltrow's greatest roles. Sliding Doors is worth seeing, or buying. I like the soundtrack as well. Go see it - 9/10 "},{"Title":"A very fine film","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING THERE MAY BE SOME LIGHT SPOILERS AHEADImagine that you have a terrible morning you lose your job because of a foolish and you miss the train to home, just because you bumped a girl by chance. Then you are robbed and... But WHAT IF you could have caught that train? This is the main point of Sliding Doors, a film which talks about fate with a light-hearted, amusing, delightful treatment.The person who lost that train was Helen, a 20-some woman played by Gwyneth Paltrow, in another effort to play an English lady after Emma and the Oscar for Shakespeare in Love. Helen 1, let's say like that, lost the train, was robbed, had a small cut on the forehead and arrived home just after her husband's lover had left. Helen 2 caught the train, met a nice man and arrived home in time to see her husband and his lover having sex on her bed. Helen 1 noticed something strange, while Helen 2 left her husband and went to live with a friend. Helen 1 started to work as a sandwich deliverer, while Helen 2 changed her haircut, met that man from the train again, fell in love and opened a new company, which took off some time after. Well, let's stop right here, because instead of you may think, this film is rather unpredictable. You don't know how the two Helens will turn into one, but the conclusion was pretty satisfying and the best way to give an end to the story. It shows that we have to face some bad things in our lives and we'll end up having some luck. Messages like this one make this film a simple delight.But, of course, there are some problems. If you think a little, the two halves alone would make a pretty bad picture, but why should we think that if the film depends on the two halves to exist? It's easy to enjoy this film, despite some limitations Gwyneth Paltrow's so-so performance and some plot contrivances. About Ms. Paltrow, she is not a great actress and didn't deserve the Oscar she won for a very good, but not terrific performance in Shakespeare in Love. In Sliding Doors she is okay, but still has to create more face expressions to be more believable. And I think she just does fine when she plays an English woman. Remember her robotic performance in Great Expectations, for example. Even in The Talented Mr. Ripley she was a little bland. Now, about the plot contrivances... They are here and there, and didn't bother me that much, but sometimes the sentimentality kind of irritated me.In resume Sliding Doors is a very fine film with some originality and joillness all over it. I recommend it to everyone.7.5 out of 10 = PRETTY FINE "},{"Title":"A treat to watch","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the fact that I watched this movie twice in the space of two days says a lot about the way I feel about it. Life is a chaotic system points that start infinitesimally close diverge at an exponential rate until there is no correlation between them. The movie explores the consequences  seemingly minute events can have on life if they take place at the right moments. Gwyneth Paltrow does a fine job as Helen Quilley, alternating between a smart go-getter taking charge of her life, and someone completely dependent on her boyfriend for emotional support and content to let the stream of life carry her along in whatever direction it may.  Her British accent did seem a little strained at times, though.  The real treat in this movie is John Hannah's performance as James Hammerton, totally smitten with Helen, and an infectious sense of humor. I cannot think of when I've liked a character  more in a movie. His performance elevates this movie from average to very good. The only fault I found was that the ending seemed a trifle contrived.  That however, is a small price to pay for the pleasure of watching the rest of this movie.  I give it an 8/10 and enthusiastically recommend it to anyone with  a couple of hours to spare. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this was an excellent film!  A tiny bit hard to understand the first few minutes of the split of the storylines, but I settled in comfortably. I truly enjoyed Gwyneth as Helen in this movie, although Jeanne Tripplehorn was excellent as Lydia.  Her acting made me really hate her with a passion. This is one movie I definitely continue to watch very often (I almost have the dialogue memorized! sad, but true) and I recommend it to anyone who has ever thought what if... "},{"Title":"A parallel universe but ultimately, the same fate","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film sets everything up as if it's a what if or if only scenario. But by the conclusion it's quite clear that all the what ifs and if onlys really didn't matter, fate catches up to you and you will meet and be whomever you are meant to meet and be.  I don't quite agree with that calvinistic (predestination) premise.  I believe more in a serendipitous universe where everything happens because of talent, hard work, determination, chance, and/or nepotism.  -)  Despite not quite agreeing with my own philosophies, this movie was entertaining.  I especially liked the dialog between Jerry and his beer drinking pal who saw and analyzed everything with laser vision and a lot of humour.  "},{"Title":"It makes you laugh, cry...and wonder","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this sweet and unique film from Britain.It is a charming and thoughtful portrayal of a young woman named Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow)who is fired from her job, and finds parallel destiny in the doors of a subway train. It is a story of destiny, and how we can never truly escape what we are meant to do, even if we are going in completely opposite directions.In one version, Helen misses the train, is mugged, goes home to her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch) who has just finished an afternoon delight with his ex-girlfriend Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn). She then begins a series of menial jobs, unaware that her boyfriend is cheating on her. In the version where she makes the train, she meets the charming James (John Hannah) and returns home to find her boyfriend in the throes of passion with Lydia. She leaves him, moves in with her best friend, starts her own business, and begins a loving relationship with James. We see these two versions, and think we know which direction they are going...but it's destiny, after all, and nothing is quite that simple.Gwyneth Paltrow is wonderful as usual, doing her British accent in between 'Emma' and Viola. Her eyes become big as saucers when she is hurt, and she can express more emotion in a twitch of her face than many actresses can with their whole bodies. John Hannah is wonderful as James, the charming, kind, sweet man of most women's dreams, but still with his faults. I wish John Hannah, and this film for that matter, were more successful. I had never watched the film before, I had neglected to rent it many times, because I wasn't completely aware of the film. I regret not seeing it sooner. I cried my eyes out at the end, although I am a bit emotional. It is life seen from a different eye, and I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Gwyneth Paltrow Shines..Again.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Another fantastic performance from the extremely talented Gwyneth Paltrow. She even managed to pull of a British accent keeping a straight face all along and God knows how difficult that is) The ending is a bit disappointing - I feel the writers could have done more to make the ending a little more interesting and fulfilling for the audience. All in all - a good movie - made better by another fantastic performance fromGwyneth Paltrow.  "},{"Title":"Fun, interesting and entertaining from start to finish!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie asks the What If? question that is so interesting to me. What would happen if you had missed the bus or the train or walked around something instead of jumping over it.  Anyway, this film shows the two lives of Helen.  One in which she misses the train and one where she gets on just in time.  I found it a lot of fun and the characters were great. I thought that they were believable while still being interesting enough to watch. Check it out, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Original and well-oiled","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a different movie. It's not a popcorn-chugging bomb-fest like a typical Arnold Schwarzenegger outing. This film requires you to pay attention.The plot is split two ways, when Helen runs for a subway. In one version, she just makes the train, and in the other, she doesn't. We follow the consequences of this through two parallel plots.This sounds like a difficult movie to make, and to understand. But it is surprisingly easy to follow, due to clever camera-work and script (and a few obvious visual cues like hairstyles and plasters). The acting is excellent. Gwyneth Paltrow as Helen has a lot more convincing English accent than Dick van Dyke had, even though it does slip occasionally. Gerry is a wonderfully spineless, lying character, who is dominated by Lydia, a perfectly bitchy woman, with whom he is having an affair.  In one strand of the story, Helen meets James (John Hannah), a charming scottish gentleman. Soon, the web of lies unfold, and Helen's two lives take completely different directions. But the film is not trying to say that life is random and uncontrollable. In fact, it makes a strong hint at fate.It's a strong, original script, only marred by the fact that many lines, spoken by different male actors, sound identical. Messes up an otherwise beautiful characterization. With a script that good, with good, solid actors, and with good direction, this film can't lose.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked this film. How many people can say they never wonder What if I had done this.....?. Not many. The plot is great. It's sophisticated and clever. It shows just how much someone's life can change in a split second. Gwyneth Paltrow is brilliant in this film. This was the first film I had seen her in and certainly the best so far, with her English accent made it hard for me to believe that she wasn't British. Inevitably, it ends with tragedy, but picks itself up and leaves you smiling.  "}{"Title":"A pleasant surprise!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must admit something. When this movie first hit the theaters a few years ago, I resisted the urge to see it. I thought that this was going to be another chick flick. So, I passed. Well, last night it came on TMC and I decided to sit down and watch it with my wife and I found it to be very pleasant,if not,wonderful experience! Gwyneth Paltrow continues to surprise me with her flexiblity as an actress. She is truly a marvel to behold. A fine cast in all.Jeanne Tripplehorne really mad me...well, hate her. This movie was very clever! I like the idea of seeing an alternative universe created by the mere miss of a train. Alas,how different each of our lives would be if we turned a different corner,eh? Well, this film has good dialouge and gives you such a warm feeling inside. I highly recommend it! Believe me, there are far worst things out there!(Nobody expects a spanish inquisition.)  "},{"Title":"Life is what you make it!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  'What ifs' and 'if onlys' are played out really well in this tale of two stories.  Helen's (Paltrow - with a faultless understated London accent) life takes a route down both forks of the road and we get to see them both played out simultaneously (excellently done, no confusion over which story we are seeing at any given time).  A potentially interesting plot, and I wasn't disappointed.  I sympathised with and routed for Helen, fell in love with James (John Hannah), loved Anna, hated Jerry - I was taken for the whole ride and came out with a reflection on life Whatever course our life takes, we can be sure that it will have ups and downs, and each path is not that different from the other, because life is what we make it.Good stuff - more British Film talent, please! "},{"Title":"not a classic but lots of fun","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  O.K, lets be honest, this is never going to be one of the great classics is it?  Its not one that you'd put on your top ten list or one that will be held up as an example to future film makers.Then again how many films really are like that?  When it comes down to it, this is one of the most charming, funny and enjoyable films I've ever seen. I didn't actually realise this until I watched it for the second time and was reintroduced to all the great bits - fantastic chemistry between the leads, good screenplay with a clever plot and some of the most amusing one-liners ever, and terrific acting all round.So then again maybe this should go on people's top ten lists.  I know I will watch it over and over again and it will probably be enjoyable for at least the first hundred.  What a shame films like this never turn into classics. "},{"Title":"Two Excellent Romantic Comedies","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is actually two very funny movies unfolding simultaneously in parallel universes. Both stories contain many memorable lines, the lifeblood of romantic comedies. Furthermore, the characters are three-dimensional. For instance, the viewer actually comes to empathize a bit with the cheating boyfriend -- not a very PC attitude, but probably a realistic one in that it answers the question, What did a sharp woman like her ever see in him?  Finally, comparing the events unfolding in the parallel tales adds a whole other level of interest. There is much to enjoy here, and multiple screenings are necessary to catch it all. "},{"Title":"Double Paltrow","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is half soap opera, half light-hearted comedy.Paltrow carries the whole movie, and the film is more watchable than Shakespeare in Love.Plot is pretty silly, though.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I'm no fan of romantic films - but this one is an exception.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Typically my taste in movies is limited to action and science fiction until my husband prompts me out of my comfort zone.  This time I was alone recovering from surgery forced to whatever fare was available on Showtime for the day.  What luck!  I caught this gem of a movie by accident and am completely thrilled that I did.  Realize if you are expecting Shakespeare in Love you are not going to get it.  It is a film unto itself.  Unfortunately when someone like Ms. Paltrow wins acclaims for one film (in this case SIL) everything that comes after is unfairly compared to work that is unrelated. This film is not SIL.  It is, however, a very delightful romantic comedy with a plot that is easy to follow (albeit somewhat contrived) and acting that is equally delightful.  Hannah was a clever bloke and seemed to enjoy getting to play a character easily written with great personality and fun dialogue.  This movie is not heavy fair.  It is light and easy and good for a couple of hours of escapist entertainment.Even someone who doesn't gravitate to romantic comedies generally will enjoy this film if you don't set your expectations too high.  This is not Oscar caliber work, but if all films were we'd all be exhausted every time we see one.  Have some fun! "},{"Title":"And now for something completely different...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...to borrow another one from the Python Boys (like James does), in describing this movie. Very well acted, particularly by Paltrow and Hannah, and holds one's interest throughout, for the most part. Clever dialogue chock full of memorable lines. Fatboy's Diner and other locations brought back pleasant memories of my own couple of years in London. Hip soundtrack, too.A very unique what if... story, although sometimes tricky to follow the two paths the dual Gwyneths pursue. My only complaint is the ending...seems contrived, and certain plot elements seem to be conveniently eradicated for the sake of wrapping up the film.  "},{"Title":"This is a well-written, well-cast film that I have enjoyed many times videotape.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think Roger Ebert is all wet.  I found this to be an unheralded little gem of a movie.  First, it was beautifully cast (with one exception) from top to bottom -- not just Paltrow and Hannah, but the roles of Gerry, Anna, Russell, Clive, James' mother, Claudia -- were believable and well-played. (I think that only Tripplehorn as Lydia was less than topnotch -- she overplayed a part that was over-written to start with.) It would be difficult to find two more appealing leads than Paltrow and John Hannah --(Why hasn't he been catapulted to the foreground like Ioan Gruffudd?)-- and their chemistry was wonderful to behold.  But perhaps what really sets this film apart is its script.  The dialogue was both sparkling and original.  Examples Paltrow I just kissed you.  John Yeah, I spotted that. OR, Paltrow You only find me moderately attractive? John Well, lose the sad eyes, the droopy mouth, I could get you an upgrade. // Ebert complains that the sum of the movie can be no more than the sum of its two scenarios.  I beg to differ.  If each of the two plots had been developed fully, we would be looking at a 4-hour movie.// I think this well-written, well-cast film is a delight. I have seen it several times videotape and it has lost none of its appeal. "},{"Title":"thoroughly entertaining; lively script; well-acted, witty","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed the performances of the entire cast, especially Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah.  The dialogue is exuberant.  Gwyneth does a great job of assuming an English accent again.  Good date movie!  This is a keeper--one to be watched again and again on video/dvd.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A fun Film","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding doors is a pleasant little film. Gwyneth Paltrow is charming as always, so is Hannah. It is about a woman that transfered into two separate lives as she entered the train station. HelenA caught the train and HelenB missed it and a chronicle of events happens as the two characters gets into situations, that was fairly similar. Both Helens get to work in the same place, get pregnant and get into accidents, coincidence? S.D is a pretty little film that was set in England. There is nothing special about the movie and nothing wrong with the movie, it is relaxing to watch and it is interesting enough that I would recommend it to anyone. Do not expect this movie to be great, do not expect it to be awful, do expect this movie to be fun.  "}{"Title":"Let's choose the door we like more !","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  All is well done, but not new (do you remember Kieslowski?). The atmosphere works well enough. Everyone of us has thought (once) If only I  had chosen that way.....?  "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie! 'Who we really are' transcends 'What happens around us'","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was reading one critic who said that this was a gimmick movie-- and that showing the alternate realities existing side-by-side was not enough of a gimmick to carry the thing off. He then concluded that the true test of the this gimmick was to separate the two realities, and imagine that they were presented alone. The question, then, according to this otherwise insightful critic, is Do these strands constitute full stories and interesting movies all by themselves? He thought not, but he missed the point, I think-- and perhaps some audience members did too.Wrong question, wrong everything! That is a solipsism that falls apart. This is a movie about one's realities, and potentials, and all of that. Certainly. But it's not science fiction, it's not fantasy-- it's not a question of, Gee, what if you had magic, or a genie grant you a wish? Such supernatural devices can make fine movies-- such as Big, or Splash, or It's a Wonderful Life. With Sliding Doors, however, it's totally different. Rather, it's an exploration of what it is to be yourself.Spoiler warning!!! Maybe the point of the movie is showing how simply little things-- glancing down at a child and thus missing a train, and thus changing your life-- are really unplannable. And then, note that at the end of the movie-- both versions of what she became were essentially the same. Maybe the movie makers were commenting on the fact that who we really are is not so much the little details of events and such that swirl around us, out of our control. rather, perhaps they were saying, who we are -- albeit a growing thing always in flux -- is bigger than circumstances??? That who we are transcends the mundane, and will emerge, naturally, inexorably, via whatever circumstances we happen to be in?Great flick! I gave it a 10.  "},{"Title":"cute, light, innocuous, forgettable...","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What if...?  Interesting idea explored here, but not in a very deep or memorable way.  Depending on whether Gwyneth Paltrow catches a train, she has two different lives.1.  She stays with her loser boyfriend, who can't end a relationship with his old girlfriend.  Meanwhile she toils as a waitress and sandwich delivery person.  2.  She leaves her boyfriend and starts seeing a guy whose dialogue consists mainly of Monty Python quotes.  Meanwhile she toils as a public relations person.Both storylines involve an ordinary life.  Neither particularly exciting, neither particularly awful.  Neither boyfriend is any great shakes.  There's nothing to make you root for one possible life over the other, really.  So it's a pleasant little series of sketches of how young professionals live in London, and not much more.I did get the feeling the script was trying to say that the life with the Monty Python boyfriend was the good life, while the one with the old boyfriend was the bad one.  But let's get real for a minute...we all know guys who quote entire Monty Python routines at great lengths, right?  They have a tendency to live in their mothers' basements and spend all of their spare cash on consumer electronics and computer components.  Do you see women like Gwyneth Paltrow falling for men who are obsessed with Monty Python?  John Hannah, who played the Monty Python boyfriend, has a thankless role.  He has some secret, which isn't particularly awful, as it turns out...but for the convenience of the script that requires a lovers' conflict, he's forced to keep his mouth shut and watch the conflict develop, rather than say the one short sentence that will cure everything.  It becomes evident early in the film that he has some secret or another.  I found myself talking back to his character, just say it, already!But there wasn't much of an emotional connection with him or anyone else in the film.  Cute, silly, occasionally funny (particularly the best friend of the cheating boyfriend, who gets the funniest lines in the film)...but ultimately forgettable.  A fine way to spend a couple hours, if you don't demand much from your movies. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie reminded me of myself, in the sense that I have often engaged in the pointless what-if game.  Even liking where my life has ended up, I still would like to see how my life would be different had I made different choices along the way.However, I have to admit in this story, I am not entirely certain whether both Helens are actually supposed to exist, in a Star Trek-ish split timeline thing, or if the Helen who catches the train is supposed to be all in the mind of the Helen who missed it.  If it is the first case, then this movie provokes thoughts about fate- how the two Helens' lives were very different yet in important ways kind of the same.  It also raises some interesting thoughts about the ending of this film, which I was both glad and unhappy was not what I would have predicted (as predictability can be boring and uninspired, but the more original ending was much more of a downer).  I suppose one could ask which path a person would actually want to take; in order to answer that question, as someone else mentioned, this movie could use a sequel.Anyway, overall I recommend this movie.  I thought all the actors were good (I can't speak for Gwyneth's accent, not having had that much exposure to British accents, but I can definitely say it is better than Kevin Costner's in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves).  I thought the cheating boyfriend was well written.  Instead of making him just a complete scumbag who cared about nothing but his sexual urges, he was instead written as a man who honestly did care for Helen but was just too immature, weak, and spineless to get rid of Tripplehorn's character, and consequently was unintentionally a scumbag.  He is the guy he tries to understand but just can't get it no matter what he does.  I also really enjoyed his best buddy there; everyone needs a friend who laughs at you when you're whining about the unfairness of a despicable situation that you caused. Hannah was also great; I'd say as usual, but the only other movie I have ever seen him in is Four Weddings and a Funeral.Anyway, watch this film with a group, if you want to have some good discussion material for the rest of the night. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An intelligent film, much like the Truman show... I know some of you find it unrealistic and especially the male audience, but believe me, true love DOES exist! John Hannah is marvelous, marvelous, marvelous... as is Gwynnie. Charming is a good word for this film. "},{"Title":"a simple but well told story","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This summer SD was released, 2 years after the British Release. The story is light, it takes about 45 minutes to tell. But the brilliant idea is to tell it twice. With a little chanche in the beginning, so we see Gwyneth in different lifes. I really enjoyed it. Remember this one was made before Lola Rent. It has humour, drama and romance and a simple but well told story. What do we want more if we want to enjoy ourself with a movie? Nothing, I guess. "},{"Title":"Gwyneth at her doubly best!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Forget Gwyneth Paltrow's Academy Award-winning performance as Viola in Shakespeare in Love - THIS is the other movie she made in 1998 which SHOULD have won her the Best Actress Oscar! She is sublime in this brilliant romantic comedy, which marks the writing/directorial debut of Peter Howitt, who is best known in England for playing Joey Greetings! Boswell in the hit TV sitcom Bread. Thank God Minnie Driver turned the role of Helen down! Nobody, except possibly Kate Winslet, could have played it quite so well as Paltrow did. Although his character James is almost disgustingly perfect, John Hannah also gets a chance to shine, while both John Lynch (Gerry) and Jeanne Tripplehorn (Lydia) manage to be both instantly hissable, but strangely likeable characters! The storyline of this film is so simple I don't know why no-one ever made it years ago. Anyone still fixated on that all important What if...? question should see Sliding Doors immediately. "},{"Title":"Funny, Delightful, and Thought Provoking","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What if you missed the train? What if you didn't? That is the concept behind Sliding Doors a simply fascinating and thought provoking film.After I saw this film I was full of what if's. Sliding doors is one of the best British films I have seen in sometime. It just has one major flaw GWYNETH PALTROW. This would have been a really wonderful film if the producers hadn't felt the need to cast a Hollywood actress. Why on earth they cast her in this film is beyond me they would have done much better casting a British actress. Paltrow's accent despite popular belief is extremely forced, although it is mildly better than many other actors attempts.The rest of the cast is excellent particularly John Hannah. But then again he's good in everything he does. All in all Sliding Doors is a film worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Try not to fall for Gwyenth!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot believe I've overlooked this film for so long. As much as I try to dislike Gwyenth Paltrow for having been born with Hollywood's silver spoon, her humanity, grace, and vunerability in Sliding Doors makes me take a major opinion turn. Sliding Doors has an original script that doesn't turn into cheeseball sentimentality like so many American Romantic Comedies. The performances were wonderful. Who could have guessed Jeanne Tripplehorn could be so amusingly wicked! I've long been a fan of John Lynch, who played his cowardly, selfish, but still sweet character to perfection. A lovely movie, not too heavy, but still provocative. Try not to fall in love with Gwyneth! (Then again, didn't we fall in love with her already in that Shakespeare movie..................)  "},{"Title":"Lovely movie, disappointing ending","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I LOVED this movie, until the end that is.  Although I know it was a perfectly good ending etc, I still feel as if I was jiped in some way, and left the theatre feeling a bit empty and sad.  I loved the guy who played James, he was extrodinary, a rival to Hugh Grant for the romantic, cute, funny Brit in a movie.  I would love to see a sequel to this movie..  "}{"Title":"Great One...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I personally think that it was a good movie. The idea was something, you know. I do believe we can choose our destiny. Even if we will come to the same ending but there are so many roads to reach there. The ending was nice. Gwyneth did talk like a British. ) "},{"Title":"Makes you think","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A woman living two lives. When I first saw the movie I was a little confused, the same person one catched the train and one didn't, but as the story process, I said to myself, Oh! Gwyneth Paltrow was brilliant as always in this film with her british accent, charms and grace brightened up the screen. This is must see movie, or a must see twice movie. I was a little disappointed at the end, but I guess the director wanted you to think how the movie should end...   "},{"Title":"What if....?","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A good picture than answers the question... What if?Anybody in his life has asked that too much times, and this picture is already answering it. But, don't you think that any decision, whatever the way you choose will take you to the same destiny?Think about it! "},{"Title":"I don't like romances... but this one's good...","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I usually don't care for romances. But Sliding Doors presents a very reassuring view of how love works. It's hard to say why this movie is special without giving away the wonderful ending. It's confusing at first, but hang in there, because it gets clearer. It's a happy film that will lift your spirits. "},{"Title":"A good","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise of Sliding Doors appeals to me. The concept that seemingly insignificant events in one's life steer them in directions that cannot be mapped out by the human brain, drawing them to their destiny. This film will appeal to the fatalist, who may often wonder, what if I'd mundane, routine act of no consequence goes here instead of usually equally mundane act? Your whole life could be different if you'd just take a different route to work one day.But isn't that the great part of the mysteries of coincidences? Like bumping into someone you haven't seen in years after thinking of them the night before because you decided to have lunch at a different food vendor than usual.The film is well written and acted, and has all the makings of a perfect date movie, unless of course your relationship might be on the rocks. This film is better for the couple who's just starting out, doing fine, or looking for a romantic prelude.However, I can almost hear the plea of the women, the inevitable cry that all men are infidels and untrustworthy and the nice guy character is a figment of someone's imagination. Aren't we all, though? All men are not who they are but rather potential for who they could be.  "},{"Title":"I prefer ha-ha funny to isn't-that-clever funny","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is what they call high-concept.  But it's British, so I guess it's high class high concept.  Oh yeah, and we know it's British because it has number one Brit' wannabe Gwynneth Paltrow  front and center.  And we also know it's British because terms such as W***er, Bo***cks, Daft and Tosser are strewn about more than words like It and The.I didn't hate this movie.  I just like a little comedy in my romantic comedy.  What redeems it is its irresistible premise.  What kills it is lack of anything memorable comedically.  The appealing John Hannah puts out a lot of comic energy in his solid performance but has nothing funny to say.  So I guess I blame the script.  And it is kind of funny watching how pitiful Mr. Adulterer is (the boyfriend on whose act of infidelity the plot turns). Jean Tripplehorn provides some zip as the crazed mistress, but alas the Ha Ha joke wasn't there-- those little moments, those truly funny lines that elevate romantic comedies, from a Sandra Bollocks romantic comedy to a Tom Hanks (or Billy Crystal) romantic comedy.Again I blame the script.I suppose after the unnecessarily serious final act, maybe this thing wasn't even pretending to be a comedy.  Actual the final act really bugged me. The whole movie is basically the director playing God.  So why get so dark at the end.  Was it a rebellion against American films of this type which are often bizarrely light and airy.  Methinks so.  Me also thinks the first-time director wanted to get a little serious, you know, to take risks that separate the men from the boys, as it were.  Well, this risk feels a little out of place for my tastes.I done- thanks for your time. "},{"Title":"good movie, but not as original as everyone says","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  well, anything with gwyneth paltrow is worth watching.  but a lot of people are toting the originality of this film, which isn't all that true.  it seems to have roots in kieslowski's 'blind chance' which also deals with a character catching a train, and three different possible routes his life takes based on what happens.  also check out 'red' by kieslowki, if you are into thought provoking movies about chance and the grand scheme of things. for that matter check out blue and white, which really don't have much to do with sliding doors, but it is a REALLY great trilogy. anyway, i am getting off track, what was i saying?... oh yeah stay outta my food! "},{"Title":"What a pleasant surprise","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd never heard of this movie, and would never have viewed it, except my daughter rented it and left it in the VCR. The first 10 minutes are enjoyable enough, but THEN the sliding doors come into play, and things really get interesting.This is not a grand film with lofty aspirations, but it succeeds wonderfully as a personal story that is served up with wit and originality. That is saying a lot in this age of predictable copy-cat movies. Gwyneth Paltrow is a pleasure to watch, as are some of the scenes around London.  "},{"Title":"I was surprised by this film, it was much better than I had anticipated it would be.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was surprised by this film, it was much better than I had anticipated it would be. It is an original, clever plot, how can your life change by missing a train? It's an interesting concept. Paltrow did a great English accent, (which is great after listening to really bad attempts from the likes of Keanu Reeves and Demi Moore!) and John Hannah was as brilliant as always. Although this film had a well used plot, and was predictable in places the ending surprised me. All in all a great Saturday night movie!  "},{"Title":"Two average movies rolled into one fine","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie isn't like anything I've ever seen. If any of the possibilities had been screened as a separate movie, it would be average at best. However, this combination really works! At moments you do get confused, thinking which altercation has just been showed. But, all in all, this is a very good movie about destiny. And it really makes you think, what if you did something in your past differently? Would it change your life from scraps? Or would it turn out to be insignificant in the long run? Think about it... "}{"Title":"Flawed realization of an interesting Concept","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked the subject matter.  The 'morality play' quality was very correct and done without being over done.  However, I did come away feeling less than satisfied.The idea of jump cutting between different resolutions of the same dramatic story line is not new.  An author, I believe Barth, does it very well in a dual column for, where you are required to read across both columns at the same time, thus following both resolutions at the same time.  Steinbeck does the reverse of this in _Burning Bright_, where a three act play (one of his plays within a novel, along with _Of Mice and Men_ and (I think) _Cup Of Gold_) is set in different circumstances (a farm, a circus and a ship) but the story is the same.These are experimental, but one may not let the bravery of the experiment distract from the obligation for the piece to work, dramatically.  One of the biggest problems is keeping the story simple enough to remember, yet interesting enough to be worth remembering.  In this case, I found myself worrying about what was happening in one alternative while watching the other.  Perhaps shorter segments would have helped.  "},{"Title":"Absorbing tale; wonderfully crafted.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was an absolutely exceptional tale of life, fate, choices and circumstances and how what we call destiny is actually a mix of all that. Gwyneth Paltrow was (once again!) flawless. John Hannah was impeccable on his comedic timing (Hugh Grant hasn't being born yet when you look at Hannah performance on this movie).Why this movie is missed on some of the Oscar nominated categories is an enigma (Supporting actor for Hannah, Screenplay?...)I was in London the first week of May 98 when the movie came out. I am so glad I missed the ride on the Thames. "},{"Title":"a romantic comedy with a dry wit and a quantum edge.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a man looking for a film that your lady friend will love and you will tolerate, look no further. Though there are no car chases or exploding buildings, I assure you that men will find this film as memorable and fun as will women. Anyone who has ever looked out the window at the clouds in the sky muttering what if to themselves should see this film.Gwyneth Paltrow plays Helen Quilley, a self-made woman in love with a deadbeat boyfriend named Gerry (played by John Lynch). She has just lost her job and is on her way to see Gerry and tell him the bad news. Unbeknownst to Helen, Gerry is shagging an old flame back at the apartment Helen shares with him. Not knowing she lost her job, Gerry's expecting Helen to be out all day.Early in the film we see a unique twist that writer/director Peter Howitt pulls off like Penn and Teller's sleight of hand.Running late for the subway train, Helen rushes down the stairs. In one reality, a child stands in her way and she must spend a fraction of a second deftly avoiding the child. In an alternate reality, the child is taken aside by that child's mother, allowing Helen to rush down the stairs unimpaired.The race across the platform has one Helen less than a second ahead of the other, and as we witness these simultaneous realities separate like two strands of hair, one Helen makes it to the sliding door in time to catch the train. The other is left alone on the platform, only to learn another train will not arrive for quite some time.This event early in the film is critical to understand, because director Howitt skillfully continues the storytelling with very little fanfare. The Helen who we see inside the train has a brief but amusing conversation with a stranger named James (played by John Hannah). In the alternate reality, Helen leaves the subway terminal and attempts to find alternate transport, only to become victim to an attempted mugging on the streets of London.The mugging is a bit too necessary for the purpose of storytelling, but forgivable. This way we can tell the two Helens apart. The one who fails to make the train receives a blow to her head during the mugging, and wears a bandage on her head. The other Helen does not. This makes it easy to keep track of the two slightly different tangents as the film goes along.It was a daring but proper choice on the part of Howitt, not to pepper this significantly insignificant event of one Helen missing the train and the other not. The fact the film is named after the sliding doors of the subway train is enough the audience knows its visual cue.Howitt could have tried to hold the hand of the viewer. However, had he attempted to include voice-overs or some other external designation to separate the two storylines for us, it would have detracted from the story, and been a distraction to the film.Consider it akin to when television sitcoms use canned laughter to tell you when to laugh. This film makes the assumption you are intelligent enough to keep up. It is a film worth seeing more than once, and your first time through you may find yourself with one finger on the rewind button.The Helen who made the bus gets home in time to catch her boyfriend Gerry in bed with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn). The Helen who missed the bus gets home several hours later, and barely misses that opportunity.Later, the Helen who made the train has a dramatic change in hairstyle, as some women are prone to do after breaking up with a boyfriend. Again, this is done to help us keep track of the separate storylines, and also to show how the two Helens slowly become different people.This tale adroitly dances between these separate threads of reality, only to build to a slightly melodramatic but sufficient ending.For the record, this is writer director Peter Howitt's debut wearing both hats. To approach and succeed in a project of this magnitude his first turn at bat is a credit to him.Unfortunately, the film is focused on its premise. Because it is telling two stories simultaneously, we lose a bit of dimension in the characters themselves. Most characterizations come across as shallow and incomplete. Some of the plot twists are predictable and a few are inevitable. The characters are sincere and endearing, yet their dialogue and actions come across as flat and unreal. Helen and James in particular, come across as too good to be true.The theme of the film attempts to show the grand scope of reality as unpredictable and filled with possibilities. However, one leaves the film with the impression that life is fixed and predestined. It almost hits the mark, but not quite.This is not the fault of the splendid performances of the cast. Their use of the script brings a refreshing and animated wealth of humor and emotion. Considering what they had to work with, they deserved Oscars. For example, the rare but excessive use of Monty Pythonisms seemed trite, but John Hannah pulls off the camp with impeccable charm and delight.The script itself seemed to have lost the characters and the drive of the film, by focusing too much on following through with its creative and inspiring premise.Neither of these two tales alone would have made a good movie. Together, the alternate realities of Helen Quilley are certain to tickle your funny bone and raise your spirits, also leaving you with a warm feeling and not a few philosophical questions.It's the perfect video to rent for an evening shared with someone you love, provided of course you have both been faithful. After all, like the Monty Python boys used to say, nobody expects the spanish inquisition. "},{"Title":" First class piece of intelligent, feel-good film-making","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors was an excellent and enjoyable film precisely because it didn't lose itself in Hollywood style pre-millenial ramblings but instead used the cliched idea of romantic destiny as just a clever premise to character driven plot. It was thoughtful without being heavy, and coyly romantic without getting soppy. The directing was very good considering that it was Peter Howitt's first film and the continuos theme of doors, sliding or otherwise was suggested subtley without becoming annoying. He kept the plot moving and so avoided the death by agonisingly slow pace that befalls so many American romances. The dialogue was quick and witty and none of the characters are allowed to degenerate into good gal vs evil bitch stereotypes. All of this keeps the film fresh and funny and prevents it from taking itself too seriously. Did anyone notice his brief cameo as the cheeky bloke in the restaurant? Who would of thought that Joey from Bread had such hidden talents! I suppose you could quibble with parts of the script and both Paltrow and Hannah are a bit too good to be true but in general it was a first class piece of intelligent, feel-good film-making and I urge everyone to see it.  "},{"Title":"The importance of the random event writ large...","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Many films dwell on characters confronted with life-altering decisions or circumstances. To face illness or death, to decide whether to marry or not. But few films make their mark by examining the impact that miniscule decisions and events can have on our lives.Sliding Doors presents two lives, side by side. Fired from her job, Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) heads home. The film divides as she tries to catch a subway. In the first she makes the train and heads home. Once there, she catches her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch) in bed with his mistress, Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn). In the second, she misses the train, and is mugged and taken to hospital. She arrives home, shortly after Lydia has left. From this point, the two stories are run side by side. (It can be a bit confusing at first. Follow the bandages and the hair styles to keep track). In the one, she has met James on the train, and their love story develops, as Gerry hovers in the background. In the other, the affair continues, with Gerry too weak to break with either woman.Each of the two plots has similar plot twists, and there are some very clever sequences in which the two lives are presented in quickly cut scenes. In addition, the locations tend to overlap, so that we switch stories without switching sets. All in all, this is an ingenious film.But more than a clever technique, this film can be a little unsettling. Love, death, success, are all presented as contingent on the chance occurrence of tiny events. It is an idea that has always been dear to me the importance of tiny events whose importance is only seen with hindsight. But this points out the importance of events whose importance we cannot evaluate. We can think of a hundred small events in our lives where, had they been ever so slightly different, things would have been shockingly different. But since we can only live life once, we can't see both and compare (a theme brought out over and over in The Unbearable Lightness of Being).This is a fabulous film because it is able to work with some weighty material, and give your brain and heart a workout. But it is able to do so in an engaging and emotional manner. It requires you to feel your way with your heart as well as your head. It wrestles with this heavily existential theme, without feeling heavy. On the contrary, the film is warm, human, and very funny. All of the performances are very strong. "},{"Title":"Nobody expects such a lovely film!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I saw this movie. However, I was quite delighted with the wonderful way Peter Howitt showed 2 different views of Helen's life without confusing the audience. I especially loved the characters of James and Russell.  "},{"Title":"The ultimate What if-Film...simply great!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was more than I bargained for - far more. I rented it along with Lethal Weapon 4 as a freebie from Blockbuster. Lethal Weapon was O.K. but the highlight of that day was Sliding Doors. In fact, it was the highlight of the last year. The script was extraordinary and quite demanding. The central question of who is in charge of everyone's life and how it can be altered by a simple matter (i.e. sliding doors) is always present, and the parallel telling of both stories is perfectly done. A truly great film that showed that the genre of the so-called Romantic Comedy had lots of room for improvement. "},{"Title":"Can't make your own destiny","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors takes a neat concept of film making that could have been botched, but wasn't, because of some good writing mainly.  Gwyneth Paltrow continues to impress as the main character (s), which is no small feat, because though parallel, they are not exactly the same.  The thing that makes this film go, though, seems to be the audience's intense hatred (or at least strong distaste) for Gerry, Paltrow's original love interest.  Also good were Gerry and Sarah's respective best friends, who portrayed realism as modern love sages.  Overall, I was impressed, and glad that I saw this supposed chick flick with a surprise twist.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, makes you think what if?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Interesting film, I found myself leaning towards one Helen and feeling sympathy for the other.  Made me think about what may have happened at critical points of my own life if I had done what the short haired Helen did.  Strangely I didn't anticipate the ending although I knew the two Helen's would have to be resolved somehow.  "},{"Title":"Opening the door to a good movie...","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't believe in fate, but this movie altered my views.  I'm a very opinionated person, so that's a big step for me.  SD put the concept of fate under a new light that wasn't over-exaggerated, excessively dramatic, or cheesy; it just was fate.Gwyneth Paltrow is great, as always. She's one of my personal favs and sticks to her roots with good scripts (Emma) and good movies (Shakespeare in Love) or at least good performances (Great Expectations).  The movie asks the what if's and is very entertaining.  The supporting cast delivers good performances and the imagery is excellent, especially for a directorial debut.  Overall, a good flick, an 8. "}{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was exciting and breathtaking at the same time.  It was very amazing to me how the characters themselves developed and had their own personalities.  After a while it became quite clear what was really going on and which was only the possibility.  It was interesting to watch them both occurring on their own simultaneously.  It really did become two different stories wrapped together in one movie.  WOW!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very clever","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very clever and well done movie. The director did a great job of mixing the two stories together. It's hard to believe this is the first movie he's directed. The acting was also very well done. A great ending as well. This is a great movie that really makes you think and I'd highly recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"It just goes to show you, destiny is destiny.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found it so interesting that the movie left you with a sense, of .... Hey, whatever will be will be, and you may try to alter the course of your life, but destiny is in control. "},{"Title":"a beautiful lapse of real life","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A beautiful romantic comedy, with a touch of fantasy. Great acting, a sweet as ever Gwyneth Paltrow, John Hannah with one of the most charming smiles, and drop-dead gorgeously Cruella DeVille Jeanne Tripplehorn. Based upon an ingenious slip of time trick, Sliding Doors tries to define life as a web of coincidences and tiny personal manipulations, and more or less succeeds. Though it is sad not being able to avoid the cruel and silly solution scriptwriters could helplessly come up with, every rose has its thorn, and one can ignore that. Funny, warm and light. A perfect sunday night movie. "},{"Title":"Flawed but Watchable","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was intrigued by the main concept of this movie and I always find Gwyneth Paltrow watchable, however I don't think it quite comes off. I found director Peter Howitt's inexperience shows in the sometimes uneven pacing. Gwyneth Paltrow is excellent as Helen. Her English accent is both believable (without a hint of caricature) and becoming. She looks and sounds typical of those attractive English 'birds' that abound in the trendy parts of London. Although some scenes come across as being rather too arch and precious the expertise of the three principals manage to carry them off. The London settings are pleasant. All in all the movie is worth seeing, but I feel this kind of plot is generally handled better by continental Europeans.  "},{"Title":"Inventive and Fresh","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. It was very original and made me think about life's little events and choices and how they can make a big, big difference in where we end up. I recommend it wholeheartedly. Much better than so many of the blockbusters we are being force fed these days. "},{"Title":"Strongly recommended...","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably one of the most thought-out and creative movies I have seen all year.  It shows us how much of our lives are controlled by fate and nothing more.  I strongly recommend this movie for a man or a woman.  It would even be a pretty good rental for anyone on a first-date, third-date, or an old married couple.  If you go in with an open mind, you'll walk out with a warmth in your heart ).   "},{"Title":"Yay!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was everything I've been looking for.  It is thought- provoking in, admittedly, a very junior high way (What if someone gave me a million dollars?) but really explodes the very amusing 'what-if' idea and shows just how much things might change.The segues were beautiful and the clarity with which the film moved between its two main characters (who were the same person) was wonderfully lucid. The storytelling was always terse but obscure at all the right points.Terrible acting couldn't have ruined this movie.  It was a great blend of non-commercial plotless-ness and mainstream ideology.  Very nicely done.  I say see it now! "},{"Title":"This is a film for children","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fairy tale. The idea that the life can depend on a sliding door is truly original, but how many sliding doors could the protagonist find during a day? How many roads can be chosen ? This is a nice and pretty film, but it is black or white one there are two different directions, one completely positive and one absolutely negative this is a fairy tale.  "},{"Title":"Refreshingly different and very entertaining.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found Sliding Doors to be refreshingly different and very entertaining. I must confess that knowing a little about the unusual plot device, i.e. following Gwyneth Paltrow's character Helen down two different paths at the same time, made me wary of the film and because of this it took me some time to get around to seeing it.However, I would thoroughly recommend to those who are similarly reluctant that they put this aside and watch the film. It's not at all hard to follow and my fears that I would need to suspend ALL belief were unfounded.John Lynch is a delight to watch as James and threatens to steal the show from Ms. Paltrow, while the character of Jerry is so spineless and weak that you just can't wait to see him get his marching orders.Sliding Doors displays qualities that you find yourself wishing more of today's Hollywood features could emulate. "}{"Title":"Life is faith, you just cannot change it!","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors was one of the best movies I have seen this year. I loved the characters and especially John Hannah, who should be familiar to everybody as one of the gays in Four Weddings and a Funeral. Gwyneth Palthrow is just as genuine and very camaleon like. The plot is easy to say, but very complicated in its idea. Two stories, told at the same time,happening to one person, whose fate depends whether she manages to catch the subway or not.British humor, combined with emotions, that everyone of us knows makes this movie to a highlight this movie winter. At least we learn in the end, that faith itself is unstoppable, just the way how we get there can be quite contrary. For German viewers. Please do yourself a favor and only watch this movie in the original. It just does not work in German, or could you tell me how to articulate British humor in a different language?-) "},{"Title":"Two destinies, why not three ?","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you've seen this movie and you like it, try to see an old movie from Krzysztof Kieslowski, Przypadek 1982 (aka Blind Chance), a very good B&W movie from the first production of the Poland director; different atmosphere but similar base idea What if you lose a train ?. "},{"Title":"The movie to remember","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Jesus ! What a movie ! I am going to burst with emotions. Amazing script, terrific performances. Every single character is played geniusly. Even Russel with his only 4 minutes-time in the whole picture. No shot to cut or miss for the sake of whatever. Bull's-eye. Hi end cinematography which can be seen quite rarely in this kind of movies. What a tasteful soundtrack. How on Earth was it possible to get all those people together to make such a sweet, dazzling, fantastic movie. Good heavens, I loved it so much. That wasn't the money I paid to watch the film, it took a piece of my heart.And just look how unimaginably simple the idea of the picture is if something is destined to happen in your life it shall happen whatever way you choose, regardless of how many u-turns or shortcuts you'll go. And if that production team, including everyone, was destined to create 100 minutes of incredibly fascinating story they have done it !!! My hat is off, my knee is bended. Thanks.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies, ever.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie so much that after I finished watching it, I sat down and watched the whole thing through again - at 2 AM!  I especially liked John Hannah as James.  It's a great storyline and the whole thing just came together really well.  This and As Good As It Gets are definitely my two favorite movies of the year. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had heard about the movie, but had no real idea what it was a about.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I have only seen it once so far, but will definitely see it again.  Gwenyth Paltrow was  terrific as Helen. I find myself thinking about the movie every once and a while; wondering if the decisions I am making today are going to affect me tomorrow, and the rest of my life. A great movie! "},{"Title":"Year's best!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A clever, innovative story. Gweneyth Paltrow was fantastic. For  three months this was my candidate for the best of the year. Can't wait to see it on video! "},{"Title":"Makes you wonder, doesn't it.....?","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies, because it had both class and style. This movie makes you really wonder, what if? I had no idea what this movie was about so I took a chance, and I ended up seeing it twice. I love Gwenyth Paltrow, she was super in this, I was convinced with her accent. She made us wonder what happened if I caught the train, and she ended up getting a better life for herself, untill the end, but then in her other life she was probably going to end up how she did in her other one. This story was different, I have never seen anything quite like it. This movie I would recommend to anyone. I loved it, but it still makes me think twice.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an example of a movie with a great idea (the two different ways life could go depending on one moment) but not that great of a story. It is good enough to keep you interested throughout, however. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I *loved* this movie. Very surprised. Original and clever. One of the year's best! "},{"Title":"What if...???","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In a way, this is a pretty scary movie. It is supposed to be a brainteaser , but I would say it's more than that. The acting is good, the script  excellent and you will probably enjoy every part of the movie. But if you  manage to leave the cinema without thinking about how little - in fact - we  are in control of our own lives, you would be one among only a few doing  so.The movie succeeds in combining realism, theology, philosophy, humor and  tragedy in a way that makes me really recommend it to everyone who are bored  to death with the last year's Blockbuster movies such as Gozilla and  Armageddon. It is a movie you easily can go and see twice. And next time  you find yourself in a split-second destiny situation like Helen in the  movie - think about what your life would be like if the thing that happened  hadn't happened... "}{"Title":"Worth a look if you like romantic films with a comparatively harder but otherwise it is probably too uneven to win over the casual viewer","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Helen Quilly goes to work at a London PR firm and is running late as usual. Back at home her writer boyfriend is preparing himself to take advantage of Helen's long hours by having an affair with his ex, Lydia. Helen gets to work but finds that the colleagues who never really liked her have found an excuse for sacking her and thus she finds herself out on the street less than thirty minutes after she clocked in. She heads back to the subway to go home again but a little girl on the stairs in the tube is coming up the stairs towards her, sparking a pivotal moment in the direction her life takes.Built on an interesting concept, this film uses the two paths gimmick to help cover up the fact that it is really only a reasonable romantic comedy/drama. The plot being split into two means that the narrative is padded out and has plenty to do but I'm afraid I didn't find it as consistent as it should have been &#150; it should have really struggled to fit it all into the short running time but it didn't. It didn't because there isn't that much going on, which is surprisingly really. The got train thread is played out very much as the secondary thread and feels distinctly underdone, consisting mainly of Gerry narrowly managing to keep his affair quiet for the whole film. The missed train thread is clearly the main thrust of the film and, as a romantic drama, Helen's relationship with James is obviously what it relies on for the audience. With a mix of ideas all together I must admit that the stories did feel a bit uneven although I found it interesting enough to do the job.The humour is not as good as the dramatic stuff though and I rarely found it amusing far less funny, although I know that it wasn't trying that hard to be. The cast are mostly pretty good. I normally dislike Paltrow but here she gives two pretty good performances. Her accent is good but more importantly she gave me two similar and convincing characters. Sadly she is not well supported by her two leading men. Lynch is too obvious and never convinces at all, he seems determined to mug along without ever making a character for himself. Hannah is annoyingly bad and he never convinced me that Helen would fall for him &#150; his character is annoyingly loud and hollow and it was only in the later moments where a real person started to come through; I know it is not all his fault but it was important that I liked him for the film to work and, unfortunately, I didn't. Tripplehorn has a simple character but does well with it and is a good presence.Overall this is an interesting but not totally successful drama. The split life gimmick provides plenty of material but it doesn't make the most of it, too often skimming along the surface actions rather than getting to grips with the characters. It is good enough to be of interest but never lives up to the potential of its central good idea. Paltrow is surprisingly good but she gets little help from either Lynch or Hannah, neither of whom were better than average over the whole film. Worth a look if you like romantic films with a bit of a harder edge (comparatively for the genre, I mean) but otherwise it is probably too uneven to win over the casual viewer. "},{"Title":"A British, Romance. Featuring Gwenith Paltrow and John Hannah.","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely LOVE this movie!!!Basically the movie revolves around Helen, who's life is portrayed in two parallel universe's, and if she caught or missed a train. Through the movie it is hard to determine which decision is the best but all becomes clear at the end. It is so beautiful, and the acting is superb, particularly John Hannah, who plays the funny, quirky James. All in all this is one of my favorite movies of all time, and I suggest it to anyone who loves a good old fashioned romance, full of plot twists (believe me there are quite a few shockers). "},{"Title":"Pay Attention","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. I have all of the lines memorized.For those of you that are into action in your films, this is not a movie that you will like. It requires attention at all times. If you miss just one scene sometimes the movie just does not make sense.This movie is full of some great one-liners and would recommend it for a girls night in kinda night or one where you are snuggling with your significant other. Just remember to pay attention and watch the show. It requires the same amount of attention as in the movie Memento. "},{"Title":"brilliant John Lynch","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Ever since 1988 when I happened to videotape John Lynch's performance asJames Joyce I have regarded him as the finest of actors... stuttering, nervous, attractive, a bit simple and chaotic Gerry is yet another example of his talent . The rather annoying chatty bloke from the tube deserves another mention aswell.... Whereas Paltrow is a bit of a block of wood, I find it disturbing she sort of smiles when she should be hurt/angry/furious/disappointed/sad....ie. she only has two expressions, a smile and this annoying half-smile. Nevertheless, a nice film, thanks to Lynch and Hannah. "},{"Title":"A poignant film, much underrated in the U.S.","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  How many times in life do we ask,What if? If only we had taken the left fork in the road, rather than the right. This film stays with the viewer for a long time. It is sad, it is happy.It is definitely not a comedy. It makes you think -- and wonder.I had never realized that Gwynneth Paltrow was such an accomplished actress.In this most challenging role, she is absolutely spellbinding.This is a major tour de force for her.Because Sliding Doors had very little fanfare in this country, I did not expect much. What a very pleasant surprise I had. A memorable experience, a great acting performance.An uneqivocal 10. Now on my list of all-time favorites.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely loved Sliding Doors! It is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time, and I wish more movies could be written this well. My favorite part is all the one-liners that pop up through out it. I also thought the entire concept of differences a small even can make was very original. Also, I think John Hannah and Gwyneth Paltrow do a great job in this movie. I was very impressed with how different they were able to make her look for the different halves of the plot. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys romantic comedies, and especially British humor. This is a movie I could watch a hundred times and never get tired of!  "},{"Title":"A brilliant, twisted film","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply, Helen (Paltrow) has the choice to board a train or not- the film follows both choices- you watch her two parallel lives which are the result of that choice. Both her lives are filled with romance, cheating and suspicion, and the plot takes so many twists it becomes fairly confusing but thoroughly enjoyable.You will have no choice but to become wholly involved in the plot and you'll be surprised at the emotions it will stir up. Gwyneth Paltrow is predictably fabulous, and you'll fall in love with John Hannah the moment he first smiles. John Lynch is rather weak as the adulterous boyfriend but Jeanne Tripplehorn makes up for that as the eccentric 'other woman'. It's, overall, a brilliant, yet underrated movie, and though Paltrow is stunning in her double role, the true star of the film is undoubtedly Hannah. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was surprised by this movie because I had no expectations of it being anything good. I really liked the premise. An interesting idea about what would happen if someone missed a train versus what would happen if they didn't. Two stories ocurring at the same time. Actually, in some ways the ending reminded me of Heaven Can Wait.It was clear from early on that the results would be somewhat similar whether she missed the train or not, but it was clever how they arrived at it. I would like to have seen the same movie with a little different twist. Although it would have been hard to craft, it seems like an ending to the movie whereby both stories ended up EXACTLY the same way only arriving there by different means would have been at least as rewarding.It was interesting throughout, but I didn't think the acting was all that great. Paltrow was good in the role, but her acting was weak. And, it was in NO WAY a comedy. It was a drama - period. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, but it ain't no comedy!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm really getting sick and tired of renting or buying films that are billed as comedies, only to find them about as funny as Kurosawa's RAN.Sliding Doors is a good film.BUT, Sliding Doors is not a comedy.What was the famous line from Douglas Adam's Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy?  The marketers would be the first up against the wall when the revolution came?  Hey, get me front row seats to that show because I'm getting really sick and tired of legal-theft by marketers trying to eek out every dollar they can from a film that probably didn't do all that well at the box office.Sliding Doors is a neat little premise, and the film itself isn't all that bad.  But despite the good acting and other high production values one gets the sense that this film isn't entirely there.  That is there seems to be some story here that's not entirely developed.It's an interesting premise, and certainly one worthy of a theatrical release, but it's more of an arthouse film than anything else.IF the marketing geniuses were HONEST about what this film was about (a pipe dream, I know), then I could give it a definiate thumbs up.  But they billed the thing as a comedy.  It is not a comedy.  It is not a comedy by virtue of the fact that it's not funny.  It is not funny because there are no jokes nor gags nor other funny material in this film.  Ergo; as far as comedies go, it is abysmally poor; ergo not a comedy.Therefore I say give a pass to this film.  If you want something funny, then go watch something you know to be funny.  Don't let the marketers have their last money grabbing laugh.  Avoid Sliding Doors.If it's remarketed as a drama with a twist, then go see it, because as a drama it's actually quite intrigueing.  Though, again, it could've been more. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors tells two stories. In the first story Gwyneth Paltrow makes it to the train on time and we see what happens. In the second story she misses that same train and we see what happens. The man she is living with is cheating on her and in the first story she discovers that, in the second she doesn't.Gwyneth Paltrow is a lovely actress which she can prove here again in two different roles. The story is okay. It has some stupid turns in it, but for this kind of movie it doesn't really matter. John Hannah is a nice actor as we could see in 'Four Weddings and a Funeral'. He has some funny lines. The film is nice to watch. Don't expect a great thing, but you don't waste your time seeing this one. "}{"Title":"Singular film, cleverly made, interesting plot; what if ... would life be different in a parallel universe?","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just finished watching this video, and loved it!  How would one's life be different if some small and seemingly innocuous difference had happened?Helen Quilley (Gwyneth Paltrow) is fired from her job, and just misses a subway train on the London tube to return home.  Consequently, she proceeds to takes a taxi, and becomes the victim of a random street crime.  But what if she didn't miss that train ... and instead were to come home unexpectedly early to find her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch), whom she has been supporting while he writes the Great British Novel, having an affair with his ex-girlfriend, Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn)?Writer/director Peter Howitt II cleverly explores these two parallel universes in this film reminiscent of, but yet original and quite different from, the 1998 Run Lola Run, where the impact of minor differences in the outcome of a frantic run are explored. Unlike Lola, Sliding Doors is not an intense thriller, and has a much deeper emotional development of the characters.The story (err ... stories!) itself is enjoyable and not without its surprises, especially the last section, where a bit of comedy mixed with a bit of sadness and an unusual explanation reminded me of the tears I shed in the 1989 film Steel Magnolias (tagline The funniest movie ever to make you cry) when I felt a unique emotion of happiness and sadness together.  Helen's friend Anna (last name not given; played by Zara Turner) is a great support to Helen, and the charming and chivalrous James Hammerton (John Hannah) provides a great anti-dote to Gerry's ungentlemanly conduct.I like the few clever scenes where both parallel universes co-exist, such as one with a boat race.  The director has occasional quick cuts to opening and closing windows and doors, done just enough to be interesting and subtle.If I were to find fault, it might be that the film seems to do a bit of stereotyping of men as unfaithful.  The angst and confusion that Gerry exhibits isn't entirely believable, and Lydia's character isn't convincing or well developed. I could have done with less expletives, as well.A singular film, cleverly made, with an interesting plot. I would rate Sliding Doors 9 out of 10. --Dilip 12/26/2002 "},{"Title":"Average movie","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The strengths of this movie are Ms. Paltrow and the actor who plays the likeable and funny James, although frankly she still seems to good for him. The weaknesses of this movie are the contrived screenplay (I won't reveal any plot points so as not to spoil the movie for the uniniated) and Ms. Tripplehorn's character. I know beauty is in the eye of the beholder but how Gerry (who is actually quite funny in a bumbling sort of way) could possibly consider her over Ms. Paltrow seems unbelievable. Not only is she more attractive but she supports Gerry as well! Interesting to sit through once but definitely not worth watching again, 6/10. "},{"Title":"Multi-faceted. . .","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  **ALERT SPOILERS HERE**Every time I watch this movie, I get another idea about what Howitt is trying to say.  At first, the ending depressed me.  I thought - what was the point of the two separate lives?  No matter if she catches the train, she will eventually catch Jerry up to his nose in Lady-Shagging-Godiva, meet James, get her hair cut, fall in love with him, and get hit by a van on the street.  James and Helen meet in the elevator again, he picks up her earring, the story repeats itself, she is doomed, etc.  It seems like the movie's theme is whatever is supposed to happen will happen eventually, individuals just choose the paths they take to get to their eventual destinations. If this is the case, it seems logical to think that Helen will meet James and die before they get to spend their lives together.However, the next time I saw this movie, I picked up on some things that are different the second time around.  Most obviously, when James picks up Helen's earring at the very end of the movie, he says, Cheer up. . .you know what the Monty Python boys say.  In the beginning, Helen thought of a different MP quote, but at the end, she says Nobody expects a Spanish Inquisition, which is the quote James always said.  Right away, that should signal that things will be different this time.  Maybe James and Helen can make things work without her getting killed.So is the whole second scenario - the events that take place IF she catches the train - just made up?  Is it completely false, a total what-if?  The audience gets so wrapped up in this story, with bold, assertive, independent-Helen, that we forget this isn't actually HAPPENING.  Reality exists in the first story - when Helen misses the train and lives in ignorance of her husband's affair.  However, even in this story, Helen becomes more independent and there is hope that she will live a future similar to the one we saw in the Helen who caught the train, but not exactly the same.At any rate, it's an excellent movie; I can watch it time and time again, always falling in love with James just as Helen does.  (I absolutely LOVE his character.)  I'd recommend it to anyone who just wants a love story or to anyone who wants a movie with some depth that leaves its audience thinking. "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Intriguing Films Ever","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  At times we've all watched movies and thought to ourselves, Hey, I wonder what would have happened if that character would have done this instead of that? Sliding Doors gives you the opportunity to see both sides of the coin as Gwyneth Paltrow plays Helen Quilley who is lucky/unlucky in love.After being fired at work, Helen catches the train/misses the train and then the film branches out into two halves, one half dealing with what would have happened if Helen would have caught the train and the other half dealing with what happened after she caught the train.Ultimately, the film is all about love and in a way it is telling us that finding true love can sometimes be put down to fate and nothing else. It's real interesting seeing the two sides to the coin. I don't wish to spoil the film but the ending is the most interesting part of the film (I won't say why).All in all, the film is great and very intriguing. Whilst I don't like copycat films I would not mind seeing another film similar to this one at sometime. "},{"Title":"What if John Hannah got offered more Leading Man roles?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read most of the reviews on this site, and have little more to add to the plot summaries provided thus far.  But I think that some of you have missed the point.  This movie, putatively, is a vehicle for Gwyneth Palthrow.  But in fact, it is a bid for John Hannah as a viable leading man.This particularly delighted me because of this odd fantasy I had while watching The Mummy. You want to hear about it?Well, gather 'round, boys and girls.What if John Hannah's character, instead of being the ne'er do well brother of the female lead, was the ne'er do well brother of the male lead? What if the female lead initially thought she was falling in love with Brendan Fraser, but after John Hannah's character undergoes a personal transformation because of the amazing events that transpire during the course of that glorified B-movie, she ends up falling in love with him? Wouldn't THAT have been a more interesting movie?  I mean, how often does the prettiest girl in the flick and the most macho and handsome male end up smooching by the closing credits, with the promise of happily-ever-after? Like, about 95% of the time?Well, are you tired of that?I am.What was so very cool about this movie was the way I got to see my little fantasy from The Mummy of John Hannah as a plausible romantic lead played out in exquisite and loving detail. It is no great stretch by anyone to see Brendan Fraser as a romantic lead. He has all the right parts and he is a big, manly-looking fellow. What I really LOVE to see, though, is someone who is a bit more unlikely presented in just the right way--the perfect way for them and their own look and body type--to make them sexy and lovable and attractive. The director, costumer, and cinematographer really got it right. I loved how they dressed him, how they did his hair, and watching the various camera angles and lighting based on how attractive we were supposed to find him at the time and how plausible and inevitable it was supposed to be for her to fall in love with him.I didn't mind Gwyneth at all in this movie. Her character was sympathetic whether she caught the train or not. But the camera just loves her face, and so they didn't have as much work to do with her. But John Hannah--my goodness. He did such a great job with his lines and making his character sweet and funny and true, and he really did finish up by being tremendously attractive in an interesting way. My biggest complaint was the way the movie treated Helen's friend, Anna.  She was there primarily to prop up Helen, but she was an attractive and appealing screen presence in her own right and I ended up feeling she got badly jobbed.  It would have been an interesting subplot for her to fall for either James' restauranteur friend, or having Jerry's friend be unmarried and fall for her.  That is the sort of touch that keeps a movie from just looking like a vanity project for Gwyneth.In summary, I wouldn't call this a great movie, but it was incredibly pleasurable to watch and the primary reason was the cleverness of the concept and the delightful presence of John Hannah, who I can truly say has caught my eye one way or the other (I either loved him or wanted to punch his lights out) in every single thing I have seen him in.  It is well worth a video or DVD-rental fee for a nice evening on the couch.John Hannah is NOT as good-looking as either Colin Firth or Hugh Grant, but I liked this movie a lot better than BJD as a romantic triangle set in London, and I bought JH absolutely as a guy who could make a striking woman like Gwyneth's character Helen fall in love with him. It made me smile, which is the true litmus test of a romantic comedy for this reviewer. "},{"Title":"Entertaining fuff, with a tinge of substance","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a cleverly made and enjoyable film based on th question,  what if?. This question has led to a genre of history writing - eg what if the USA hadn't entered WWII? But here the question is more mundane - what if Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) had missed a London Underground train, and therefore not caught her partner Gerry (John Lynch) in bed with Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn), and also not met James (John Hannah) on the train? We see both versions of events, which are edited together neatly, so we always know which parallel world we are in - helped by different hairdos for the two Helens.A downside is that the scenarios are not startlingly original in either of Helen's lives; and most of the locations and characterisations are taken from the London Yuppie Handbook also used for Four Weddings & a Funeral and Notting Hill, with lots of eating and drinking in restaurants and bars. And some of the dialogue is just too true to life - ie fairly dull - with James for some reason being obsessed with quoting from Monty Python's Spanish Inquisition sketch. But much of the dialogue and action is genuinely amusing, and most of the acting is convincing. (Incidentally, why don't those people who think Paltrow's English accent is faulty simply imagine to themselves that her character Helen had spent time in the US or had mixed parentage?)Most people, even if they like it, regard the film as insubstantial, and see little serious point in its exploration of parallel worlds. They are possibly overlooking the fact that one of the versions of Helen's life has an unexpected and unhappy ending. The film may simply be trying to tell us that in real life it isn't worth bothering with what if speculation, because even if we work out the alternatives for one fork in life's path, there are many other forks along the way, as well as a few dead-ends.       "},{"Title":"A classic middle class British film made for the British middle class and US market...rubbish","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Why is this movie bad?....where do I start.....1. The premise of the film is incredibly thin. It started off not knowing where to go, and quickly didn't get there.2. Gwyneth Paltrow's English accent is not bad for Chelsea Sloane....but why choose this nauseating accent to copy in the first place, is this what she understands English accent to be? Try something a bit more regional next time love.3. The script is pretty humourless and what is it with all the references to US culture. The most memorable being to Jeopardy which apart form one season in the very early 1980's has never been produced in the UK. Unless of course, Helen secretly watches The Quiz Channel on cable (audience < 5000).....now that really would make for an interesting plot line.4, 5, 6 etc etc etcThe worst crime of this film however is launching Dido into stardom. I understand that Eminem first heared Thank You (The closing song) when watching this film and the rest is history.2/10  "},{"Title":"A Boring, Dreadful Movie!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really expected to like this movie, but unfortunately I didn't. The movie doesn't have any interesting moments in it and instead of wanting to see what happens next, you just want the movie to end. A new script and director was really needed here. Gwyneth Paltrow plays the starring role in the movie and she's okay, nothing brilliant, but nothing terrible. Anyway, Sliding Doors is not recommended. "},{"Title":"Keeps you awake","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film certainly had me concentrating to keep track of which life it was in. Other IMDB critics accuse the actual separate stories of being banal, well I think that's the charm of this film, it's about ordinary lives, but how they are dominated by chance events. I had more sympathy for the two-timing boyfriend, than the White Knight romantic lead ( who didn't quite seem to be a real person). We really found the double film fun.  "},{"Title":"What if they made this movie with more depth?","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A very confusing movie to watch up until she gets her hair cut, the scenes flowed together rather nicely but it seemed as if the movie was all based on a one liner ultimately taken from a famous comedy troupe Monty Python.  The whole time I was watchin the movie I was thinking to myself why doesn't this woman just kick some ass!!! she's baited several times by his BF's 'mistress' andso many times I would have just loved to see her toss his stuff out onto the street and say get lost .  For the people who actually enjoy formulaic (is that a word?) movies then you might enjoy this one a lot. "}{"Title":"One girl two lives","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say the I was looking forward to seeing this film and even though it was quite good and the twist at the end was unexpected I was still disappointed. The film was done very well in the aspect that the two lives were shown parallel to each other as showing two different lives is very difficult to portray without confusing the audience. There must be at least one time in everyones life when they stop to think 'If only I had done that things would be different' or 'What would have happened to me if I had chosen the other one?' It must be a Directorthing to do in films by casting yourself in a very small part as Peter Howitt did by playing a 'Cheeky Bloke'. "},{"Title":"We are shown via simultaneously running plots how a young woman's life is dramatically changed by a split second happenstance.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors uses simultaneously running plots to show how a young woman's life is dramatically changed by a split second happenstance that causes her in one story line to catch her subway train by barely squeezing through the sliding doors and in the other story line to just miss her train.We, the audience, are brought into the film because virtually everyone of us can not resist the only what if questions that have occurred in our own lives.The fun of Sliding Doors for my wife and I, was watching the personality changes Gwyneth Paltro's character(s) goes through in each plot line knowing that what's happening to her and the changes that occur within her, like her self worth, are happening because of a chance occurrence that some might call fate.After viewing Sliding Doors, my wife and I then discussed the issue of whether or not one's own character, imprinted upon us by our genes and molded by parents, teachers, and experiences throughout our childhood, is such a determining factor that our character overcomes the chance mishaps that may misdirect us from fulfilling our destiny.We are challenged by the age old and unresolved question!  Do we each have our very own free will to determine our own fate, or is our fate sealed before we are born by the billions of predetermined factors that channel our lives through an incomprehensible maze, from birth to grave, as if we were mere data, manipulated by the master computer program created by the master programmer himself?A poem that presents us with an interesting argument from one side of this debateOne ship drives East and one drives West, With the self-same winds that blow. 'Tis the set of the sails and not the gales Which tells us the way to go.Like the winds of the sea are the ways of fate, As we voyage along through life. 'Tis the set of the soul that decides its goal, And not the calm or the strife.Ella Wheeler WilcoxMy interpretation The winds of the sea are used as a metaphor for fate. You and I, my friend, can determine our own direction by how we set the sails of our own souls.Of course, I know many intelligent people of good will disagree with my answer to the question.  And that's all right.Could the pure chance of reading my silly little unimportant review change your life's direction?The journey you must embark upon to answer that question is what makes Sliding Doors a movie worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"A great concept skillfully executed. Spoilers","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an excellent, thought-provoking film, so I was genuinely surprised to read all the critics and others knocking it. One of the things I kept reading was that neither of the stories on their own were that interesting. Even it this were true (which it is not), it is an unfair and illogical riticism.What makes each story so interesting is precisely because you are comparing it with the other. It is the differences, which are so well executed in the script and fine acting, that engage you.I really admired the message in this film, which is that it is the tiniest things, the smallest, most insignificant details, which can change your life, and ultimately, history.The film shows how every event, no matter how small, creates an infinite set of chain reactions, the sum of which form our lives. The film also seems to indicate, that ultimately no matter what choices we make, our fate (or destiny) is sealed, but even then, only to a certain extent. We still have free will, but so much of it is influenced by the thousands of accidents and chance circumstances, most of which we will never fully realize the effect they have had on our lives.One question I kept asking myself was why Helen or Lydia spent absolutely one second longer with Gerry once they knew he was interested in another woman. These were both beautiful, intelligent women, and they kept hanging on to a total loser, even though I'm sure they could have had any man. I know that one has to suspend disbelief a little bit when seeing a film, but that was a bit of stretch.Still, I thought this was a remarkable film, very entertaining and worthwhile.Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Very good but at times confusing","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much, but you have to keep your eyes on it at all times because the plot twists and turns can get very confusing. Gwyneth Paltrow did a wonderful job in which was, in all reality, a duel role. John Hannah was also splendid as James. This is a very good film.  "},{"Title":"a bit overrated","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is pleasant and charming to watch but, in my opinion, overrated. The concept of the missed subway train and the parallel lives of Helen is fairly original and well executed, but beyond that there was nothing much clever about the plot.  Once you've begun the two different lives of Helen, it's too easy to make any kind of plot twists where the two lives intercept. That is, I think it must have been easy for the writer to take Helen's life and fork it into two different paths and seem thought-provoking.  Only an incredibly unique ending would have done justice to the film, and I don't think they achieved that.  I would rather have seen more of a comparison of Helen's thoughts in her two different lives rather than have big cliched events happen to her, etc. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film! Excellent!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life! It's so orginal! I loved it sooooooo much! Gwyneth did a, no doubt, fabulous job in the movie. This was the first time I had ever seen one of Gwyneth's movies. And believe it or not, I really did think she was British!! Hah! Then I did bit of a research. Gwyneth was very smooth and charming in the movie. Which made the movie look even better!At first, I was a bit confused at the part where Helen misses the subway and when she didn't. Then as it went along, I realized it was talking about totally different destinies. This movie really made me think. It would make anyone think! It's a fabulous movie! One split second can mean a lot in life! But it all comes down to the same exact thing. It just depends on which road you take to get there. Life is so weird, yet so exciting. Like my mother always says, What's rightfully yours, will eventually be yours. What's not rightfully yours, will never be yours. One split second can make so much difference!This movie is a must-see! It is the best movie out there! Nice script. Nice actress. Nothing could be better! I love it! Excellent job!PEACE OUT! "},{"Title":"good, but not great","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Paltrow is very endearing as Helen, most of the cast is very good, especially Hannah as James. Tripplehorn is not quite right but manages a very venomous version of Lydia (Cruella DeVille's less nice sister). This movie was entertaining without being particularly demanding, just one to sit back and enjoy. I had thought it'd be a bit of a chick flick and it was, but not overly so. The big mystery still remains 'though, why were two gorgeous and sexy women fighting over a jerk like Jerry anyway? Fun movie and very watchable. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good idea, bad result","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I watched the movie Sliding Doors I was sure it was going to be a great movie. After all, who hadn't asked himself what if?. But after watching the movie I've realized the potential was much bigger than what was made of it. Foolish plot, bad jokes, superficial characters. The only things I really enjoyed were the views of London and James' accent... I hope one day someone will make a better use of the idea of two parallel plots! "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       ***	SLIGHT POSSIBLE SPOILERS********    I don't necessarily agree with the Calvinistic attitude the movie progresses in; it seems to have one attitude towards fate in the beginningNo fate but what we make , and then progresses to ultimitely contrast what it seemed to believe in all along. Allthesame, this is probably just a trick the writer used to keep us on our toes and interested=)    John Hannah was cute as the rebound guy, and Gwynnie is always a treat to watch. I do agree that the love they expressed toward each other seemed more 'puppy dog' than 'passionate'; but (1) The circumstances were nonetheless rebound. 'Helen' met 'James' under stressful circumstances, so it didn't cross her mind as much to look at James other than a shoulder for her to cry on; and (2) They were still utterly romantic together.=)    The only actor that could've been spared is that of Helen's ex-boyfriend, 'Jerry'(? Jeffrey?). He was so unbelievably scum compared to Helen, and so spastic in his performances, I wanted to throw a piece of furniture at his head, though it always seemed to look like someone had done just that to him a second before each of his scenes. But again, maybe this is the sole intention of the director, for the audience to hate him.    I've never seen 'Run , Lola, Run', so this kind of movie is still new to me. I found myself really engaged in the story,(though it was a fairly simple plot) particularly the scenes with long-haired Helen; I felt sorry for her, and felt like saying Wake, up, girl, and smell the rat!    The movie was great to watch, but unfortunately, we as the audience shouldn't expect movies to give us clues about our own lives, like Whether I go to this school or not, in the end, will I still achieve my optimum intellectual potential? If the message was intended to be Calvinistic, I think Director Howitt meant  only in finding your true love...and everything else you have to work for!    Could be wrong.=)-Sep "},{"Title":"disappointing, not very original, neither funny or convincing","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was told by different persons to see this film. In all my naivety I listened. It's a film of two stories; in one Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) gets fired, meets a man, goes home and finds her boyfriend shagging another. She gets a haircut, moves in with her best friend, starts up her company and meets man again. plot 2 Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) gets fired, misses the underground, comes home later, doesn't find boyfriend with another, so stays with him and continues boring life, until she finds out he's having this affair. It's an interesting idea; the question 'what if', life could be completely different, because of one decision, or simply because of sliding doors closing in front of you. The story is told by parallel editing, the scenes are alternating, which makes it hard to identify with any of the characters, the  scenes are too short. And besides that, the actors are not helping much, especially Gwyneth Paltrows' performance (and some dialogues) is very flat, with her perfect British accent.  The interesting part about the film is the ending; where the the two stories become one and we are again at one of the first scenes. Much better and original is 'Lola rennt' (in english probably 'run, lola, run', in Dutch 'Viola holt'), where the director plays five times with the idea 'what happens if'. Everytime the story goes wrong,it starts again. Lola rennt has the originality it needs and above all it's irony, something that is lacking in SD. ** out of *****  "}{"Title":"A very creative brilliantly made romantic film","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I'm not a huge fan of Gwyneth Paltrow or british movies so I thought this movie was going to be a double whammy BOMB. Boy, was I wrong! Gwyneth plays a young woman in London who's whole future depends on whether or not she catches a particular train. In one scenario she misses the train and doesn't catch her live-in boyfriend cheating on her. In the other scenario she catches the train she wants and catches her boyf cheating. The movie is then divided into 2 parts...how her life is affected by each scenario. So basically you see Gwyneth Helen playing 2 roles in this film. So anybody who does not see this movie from the very beginning and turns it on midway will be confused. I didnt like they guy who played her cheating boyfriend-he wasnt attractive and didnt seem right for the part but apart from that the new guy she meets and falls in love with was brilliant and charming, just like this whole film. And I loved the ending. I give this film **** out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"good theme wasted","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is flimsy, trite, and insignificant. Zero camera work of merit, zero perspective, zero script, zero plot, and so-so acting (possibly not the actors' faults since they had nothing to work with). A skilled director could have done much with this, but as it stands, a good theme is wasted in this do-nothing film. Anyone who wishes to see a well-done film with a similar theme should see Me Myself I instead. "},{"Title":"WoW!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Will your true love find you?  No matter what happens are you destined to find that single person with whom you were meant to be with, meant to have in your life?There are many movies that deal with this, but this is by far the best and most believable.  You will laugh and you will cry.As Helen, Gwyneth Paltrow is superb.So will you find your true love?  Just one word  I wouldn't have found if I hadn't logged on that one night (which I almost didn't and we are going on 10 months now). "},{"Title":"Decent 'what if' premise","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A much better 'what-if' movie is easy to find (see Run Lola Run), but this one is all right I guess.  I found it confusing at times and some plot points are stupid.  I dislike Gwyneth and found her not that annoying.  I love Jeanne Tripplehorn and she bothered the hell out of me.  Its that kind of movie.  John Hannah gets all the funny lines but he did not convince me he was a good romantic lead.  All in all, no big deal.  "},{"Title":"A yuppie-ish chick flick with pretensions of grandeur.","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The woman is trying to get to the train before the sliding doors close. If she manages to get on the train her fate will be somewhat different than if she had not gotten on.  Depicting both versions of her fate is the gimmick chosen for this drama.  Full stop.  You now know the interesting (and rather pretentious) bit.In reality it makes not a whit of difference whether Gwenyth Paltrow catches that train or not.  The characters are totally self-absorbed, 90s types that don't engender an ounce of sympathy.  They are so dull that it makes one yearn for a good, old-fashioned toffee-nosed snob just to bring some life to the affair.  This film also commits the unpardonable sin of making London look dull and uninspiring.  But then again, that is entirely in keeping with the tone of this deplorable soap opera.  "},{"Title":"Good Idea... Bad Movie...","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A movie like this really makes you think about things...What if this film was really as good as people keep saying?What if Gwyneth could fake an English accent without sounding like a member of the royal family?What if it was believable that a weasel like Jerry would have TWO women chasing after him?What if they had cast better actors?What if the ending didn't make me feel like ripping my hair out?What if I hadn't wasted my money on such a pathetic movie?  "},{"Title":"weak","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Semi-decent film made out of a third-grade script. Paltrow, who is either improbably delivering sandwiches, or equally improbably strikes immediate success in PR business, is choosing between two dorks, each dorky in his own way. There is another improbable triangle in the movie beautiful Paltrow, and intelligent, obviously high-economic-end Tripplehorn inexplicably chasing Gerry-dork. Artificial devices in a plot are all over the place miss the train AND get mugged - how else can we account for time (as if you can't get mugged on a train...)? The last-moment introduction of James' wife, who is immediately rendered of no importance with lame separation - couldn't they get something more profound than that for lover's conflict???? (I guess they figured that lovers conflict episode has no dramatic substance at all, and compensated by adding copious amount of rain to add drama and profundity to the scene...) Little mention of caring for my very sick mother - sick mother is the screenplay device of last resort, heavy tear-jerking artillery used here artlessly and for a lame reason just to explain why James and his two-seconds-on-screen-wife actually see each other? And of course, they couldn't think of any other way to bring love triangles to resolution but another screenplay device of last resort - pregnancies... Huh??? Thirty-something professional women, in the 90's - getting accidentally pregnant??? Characters are lame too. Male leads are both hapless stuttering jerks, bad Hugh Grant impersonations - only one is presented as a bad lying jerk (mainly because his secret- affair with Tripplehorn- at least has some dramatic weight), another is presented as a good jerk- nothing in his life has any dramatic weight - he is just a collection of one-liners. Movie tries to add some masculinity to his character- rowing, some horseplay with other boys - but why would anyone ever want to have sex with him is totally inexplicable. Other characters Paltrow's female friend - completely colorless presence, is there just because we need a flat to stay in... James also has a friend - another dorky oh-so-good-natured-fellow, who just (very conveniently) happens to be the owner of a high-end restaurant. He doesn't say anything, doesn't really do anything, just makes funny faces from, carries no dramatic weight - but quietly serves his ONLY purpose provides Paltrow's newly formed business with success and money. Film can be viewed as a technical exercise in alternate plots, similar to Kislowski or Lola - but as such it doesn't deliver either, because it fails to maintain same two-triangles configuration of characters in both versions - James drops out in one version. Film *could* get some edge by keeping him in a sharper, More menacing form - but they failed to exploit this opportunity... "},{"Title":"What a Dookie","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sadly the excellent cast can do nothing to save this Titanic of a movie. It's not the premise of the story, preposterous as it is, but the totally wooden writing and the director's habit of dropping clues complete with flashing signs saying look at me. Parallel fates I can accept, but don't ask to to believe that a woman who comes face to face with her boyfriend's mistress will not remember her the next time they meet. I hoped that beyond all the contrivances the story might move into some area of meaningful insight about the trials of men and women but no, everybody who is a woman (two doppelgangers, one mistress) gets pregnant. How could this have happened, we wonder, and why didn't it happen earlier since some of them (now I'm getting muddled) were in long-term, full-frontal relationships. Way over his head at this point, the director cleans up with a couple of miscarriages and a fatal traffic accident to leave us back where we started. Gwyneth, how could you? "},{"Title":"Fascinating !","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The film depicts quite well how are lives are shaped by the small small actions we take in our daily routine. The two parallel lives of the leading lady is very well shown. Gwyneth Paltrow is brilliant in this film one of those rare actresses who is not only beautiful but can act as well, equally at ease portraying sexy character or the pretty girl next door!! Her best friend is good too as for John Lych he really makes you pity his character and John Hannah though annoys you a bit with his very thick accent but was good overall though not perfect casting in his case.All in all this is indeed a Rom-Com with a difference, highly recommended to while away a slow night! "},{"Title":"No, it's not awful...exactly.","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every so often, I jump out of my usual genres to look at films that I normally wouldn't bother with. Rom-coms have never been of much interest to me (usually because so many are insipid and shallow) and Sliding doors is no exception. The one clever device in this film is the use of a single event (see the title) to permit the film to show alternate plot lines (or, stories, as they might aspire to be). Taken individually, the plot lines are vapid and uninteresting. (After all, who gives a flip about imaginary romances involving mostly basically unlikable and stupid people, especially when poorly acted?) Unfortunately, this movie does not make good use of the one clever device that might have saved it. It's not used to advance either story and the efforts to build tension with the parallel stories just falls flat. I spent the last 100 minutes just waiting for something interesting to happen.BTW, the editing in this film is just abysmal. I felt like I was getting whiplash from snapping back and forth between the characters during virtually every conversation. I'll be generous and assume that it was an attempt at visually representing some sort of dislocation.Three stars for the idea alone, minus one star for crummy execution. "}{"Title":"Good concept, good entertainment.","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We had seen this movie years ago, probably when it first came out, and didn't remember too much about it. Re-watching it tonight it was almost completely fresh.Gwyneth Paltrow is a Brit, Helen Quilley, who works in London in PR. As she goes to work on Monday she enters a very somber conference room, seems she had borrowed all 4 bottles of booze for the weekend and the men were upset, so she basically was fired.Helen goes home early, and will she catch her cheating live-in boyfriend bonking his other girlfriend in their bed? It depends on the sliding doors of the subway train.What this movie cleverly depicts are the two parallel universes, one in which Helen just makes the train and gets home to find her boyfriend in bed with another woman, the other where a child on the stairs delays her just enough so that the doors slide closed just before she is able to get on the train.So, big deal, trains come along every minute or so. Not this day, when they announce a derailment at Victoria Station so that commuters are advised to find a different transportation. That, combined with an attempted mugging while waiting for a cab, puts Helen much later back home, when the other woman had left.So, all that happens very quickly, to set up the main of the story. As it unfolds we alternately see one Helen and the other. On the one hand the Helen1 who seeks to re-direct her life after finding her man cheating, and the other hand the Helen2 that becomes suspicious but takes much longer to find out what is really going on. The movie examines the great differences in lives that can be caused by small differences in what happens at a given point.John Lynch is good as the cheating boyfriend, Gerry. John Hannah is good as James Hammerton, the new guy that Helen1 meets. The mistress is Jeanne Tripplehorn as Lydia.MAJOR SPOILERS As the movie is coming to its end both Helen1 and Helen2 realize they are pregnant, both of them have a confrontation that leads to different accidents which put them into hospitals. Helen1 doesn't make it, she dies as James is telling her how he will make her happy. But Helen2 gets better, and she gets rid of Gerry for good. Afterward Helen2, who had never met James, encounters him in an elevator, this time missing the sliding elevator doors worked to her advantage. We figure Helen and James were destined to get together, but Helen2, not Helen1. "},{"Title":"Slide open your own door, romance fans, and get this film pronto","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) is a young Londoner who lives with her writer-boyfriend, Gerry (John Lynch). Having a nifty job in public relations, she is virtually supporting her mate, giving him time to finish his book. However, unknown to lovely Helen is the fact that Gerry's previous girlfriend, Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn) has returned from the States and wants him back, to the point where the former lovers are having a clandestine affair. One day, Helen is fired unfairly, due to office jealousies, and on the ride back home, she misses her subway connection, too. Or does she? As the camera shows Helen backing up the stairs and then retracing her steps, she suddenly catches the train home. From that point on, the film shows two story lines. The first one follows the twist that Helen missed her ride and must find two jobs to support her boyfriend, all the while remaining unaware of her man's infidelity. The second plot pursues the possibility that Helen caught the train and came home to find her mate in a tryst with Lydia. This scenario subsequently displays Helen moving in with a close friend, cutting her hair in a short, snappy style and meeting the nicest, funniest man anywhere, James (John Hannah). Which is the real tale of our dear Helen? This is a lovely film with an intriguing story. How, indeed, would our lives change if we could do over just 5 minutes of our existence? What a great concept, although it has been tried in other films, such as Twice Upon a Yesterday. As the film's star, Paltrow could not be better, as she is utterly beautiful and talented in both halves of her role. Hannah, too, is wonderfully charming and funny, although his thick accent demands close attention to the actual words he is uttering. Tripplehorn is good, too, in her part as a nasty, conniving female and Lynch is quite convincing as a humorless cheater. The scenery in London is pretty, while the costumes, especially Paltrow's, are very well chosen. Add on the nice direction and the clever script and you have a true winner. If you are searching for a film to show your own mate, a crowd of mixed-company, or just a group of ladies on a girls night out, this movie has something for everyone. Undoubtedly, it is a surefire conversation and debate generator as well as a nicely done romantic flick. "},{"Title":"Very good story","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I tell you what. If all movies had such a creative story then we would be looking at an age of very good movies. This is a story about Helen. She has a cheating boyfriend (of which she is not aware) and goes and gets fired at work one day. On her way down to the tube the doors a sliding shut and a girl gets in her way and she misses it. It then rewinds the story and shows the same woman but another person pulls the child out of the way so Helen can get into the tube. The Helen that gets on the tube gets home in time to find her boyfriend cheating and ends the relationship. The person who misses the tube goes up and waits for a taxi and while she is waiting she gets mugged. Who comes up with this? I could sit in a room thinking for three days and not get anywhere near that. Brilliant story. Gwyneth Paltrow was decent in the role. She made a bad first impression but began to ease into the role as the movie 'slided' along. Over all worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Interesting enough","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Interesting movie. Gwyneth Paltrow stars as a young English woman employed at a PR firm. Within the first 5 minutes of the movie, she loses her job and as she is walking towards the subway to catch a tube home, she encounters a brief disruption in her path that causes her to just barely miss the train. The movie then reverses back to that chance encounter and repositions the obstacle as to allow her to proceed unimpeded. From that point on, the viewer is presented with two different but parallel realities. In one reality, she gets home in time to catch her boyfriend cheating on her, but meets a new acquaintance on the train home who later becomes a romantic interest. In the other reality, she does not learn about her boyfriend's affair until near the end of the movie. Despite a couple of interesting twists at the end, one of the realities ends in tragedy, while the other is quite predictable, yet satisfying. "},{"Title":"Different paths to the same place.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I thought that this movie was outstanding. It is very cool to think that whatever path we take may lead us to the same place, albeit with different circumstances.To think that Helen and James were kind of destined to be together when they meet at the end is very heartwarming. I think it helps to maybe look at some of the things that may have happened in our own lives, that we feel took us away from our true calling, and see that we just took a different path and will have the same destination. Sliding Doors is my Fav., if you haven't seen I highly suggest it! Gwynneth Paltrow is excellent in this movie, and the story is divine. "},{"Title":"This is exactly the same as all other romantic comedies and yet it isn't.","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I sometimes wonder how many more romantic comedies will be shot. I mean, so far I've already seen several and not all were that convincing or original. Of course I understand that this is a popular genre (what better movie can you choose for a first date? A horror movie perhaps?), but I'm afraid we are getting an overexposure. Still, I have to admit that this movie was very good and original. Original because they played with the idea What would have happened if..., not because of a new romantic concept. Of course it is still a movie with the concept boy meets girl, they have some problems, but solve it and find eternal happiness, but this time I have to admit that I was surprised by it.As I already said in the paragraph before, it plays with the idea of What would have happened if. It starts with Helen Quilley (Gwyneth Paltrow) who gets fired from her job at a PR company. She takes the subway to go home again, but misses it by a second, because a little girl was playing on the stairs. Because she didn't take the subway, she gets mugged, ends up in hospital and arrives home a bit later where she finds her boyfriend alone, taking a shower. But that's only one reality. The movie also shows what would have happened if she DID get her ride. She would have met a nice guy, would have come home a bit earlier and would have found her boyfriend cheating on her with his ex...During the entire movie they switch between these two realities and normally that would be extremely confusing, probably even irritating, but because of the fact that she's got a completely different haircut in both stories, it's easy to recognize which of the two you are watching right now. The entire concept of the movie is already quite surprising, but the end is that perhaps even more. I can't tell you too much about it of course, because that would only spoil the fun, but I must say that I really liked it. In fact, I must admit that, despite the fact that I've already seen too many romantic comedies lately, this one really gave me a nice feeling. I reward it with a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"A bit lightweight but intriguingly well done - and Gwyneth Paltrow's accent is spot on","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not what you'd call intellectually demanding, this, but a very pleasant way to spend an hour and a half. The basic story is 'what if' PR woman Helen, played by Gwyneth Paltrow, got on a Tube train instead of being stopped by the doors of the title? The film runs two parallel time streams, and it is never totally clear which is reality,and which is not - or if both are real. Confused? You won't be, as director Peter Howitt uses the non-too-subtle subterfuge of different hairstyles for the different Helens in the different time streams. Crude but it works. It has to be said this film might not work without the acting talents of the protagonists, particularly Gwyneth Paltrow. She acts up a storm as the Sloane Ranger, and has the most convincing Chelsea accent I have ever heard; you would swear she was British. And unlike her role in Seven, where she created a character where my sympathies almost lay with her killer, she is someone you really care about. Romantic support comes from John Hannah (plays McCullum in a UK TV series about a forensic pathologist), and Helen's best friend is ably created by Zara Turner (curiously also in McCullum). Helen's insufferably weak and lecherously inclined boyfriend Jerry is played - overplayed some might say - to odious effect by John Lynch (Help! Where do I know him from?), and the whole thing just is a rather fine romantic comedy/weepy. Niggle time. If you know London even vaguely you may be irritated by the portmanteau approach to the location shots, with a splendid disregard for geography being displayed. I for one would not get off a Tube at Embankment to go to work in a building I happen to know is in Bishopsgate some two miles away, but it explains in part why Helen is late for the vital meeting. Also having John Hannah as a competitive oarsman is a rather hamfisted way of justifying panoramas of the Fulham and Barnes stretches of the Thames, and simply does not work as a subplot. And you may wonder why Hannah has a boiler-plated Glasgow accent while his mum is cut-glass Home Counties, but that is being a bit picky. Despite the irritations, and they are minor, this film is well worth a watch, not least for the portrayal of Russell, Jerry's best mate, who is hilariously unsympathetic to Jerry's cause. Nice feel good film, intriguing idea well handled, well scripted, strong performances. But take a big box of tissues for the ending. PS Great mysteries of our time number 475635. Why Jerry would forsake Helen for Lydia, his shrieking harridan of a mistress, is totally beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent double-drama","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Totally implausible situation, but nicely handled here by Peter Howitt. Even though Gwyneth Paltrow is far from being among my favourites, here she puts in quite a sincere performance.What if? Based on a hypothetical situation, Helen's life goes two different ways. If she had caught that train......... if she had missed it.............. This film follows her misfortunes in both cases, intelligently switching back and forth between her two parallel lives. And it is precisely the clever way in which the films handles the hypothetical that it scores and keeps you following the outcome. Well supported by the rest of the cast; the film twists and double twists, requiring much attention from the viewer, otherwise you will just miss out on where the story is going. Interesting denouément.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is my favorite Gwyneth Paltrow movie of all time!!She is my favorite actress and this movie is magnificent!! I watch it over and over again!!! I make everyone who hasn't seen it sit down and watch it!!!I never get sick of it. Oh, and James in the movie....I just fall in love with him all over again every time I see the movie...It is such a wonderful love story, but have a box of Kleenex ready!!! "},{"Title":"Wrong ending","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!! My vote for this movies is 9. Each time i watch i enjoy it immensely. But i really think that the ending is wrong. If they would've cut the movie off from the point when one Helen dies and other Helen tells Gerry to get out, that would be wonderful. There was no need to make such Cinderella ending when lovers meet again and get a second chance. Movies about true love and happiness are also necessary, but I'm not sure that this particular movie gained much from the sugar-coated finish-line.But as i said - my vote is 9/10. A movie worth watching. "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a really nice one to sit at home and snuggle up to once in a while. John Hannah's character is so different..so cute in a sense as his humor is original and he fumbles on words so child like you can't help but find it adorable. The what if concept working side by side to show you how things play out at the same time and how people were still involved, but just not until certain points was cool. OH, this movie was a delight to me. Gwyneth's british accent could've had a lot more tunning, but John's sexy scotty accent will surely draw you in. Watch it sometime.. "},{"Title":"Cute & Clever","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film about life and love.  I thought the concept of it was clever and the ending was a surprise.  The acting is good, Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah in particular.  John Hannah's character provides some cute comedy.  This film is one that makes you wonder- what if?  'Sliding Doors' is an interesting title. "},{"Title":"An interesting film for anyone who ponders the what ifs","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film for anyone who has ever wondered, what if...  Is it fate, or is it the choices we make that determine what direction and outcome our lives will take?  Sliding Doors explores this concept in a thought-provoking way.  A must see for all those hopeless romantics out there. "},{"Title":"One of the best! Acting, dialouge & story!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In a world where every plot in Hollywood has been recycled 5 times and we've all seen it all before, Sliding Doors has such a unique premise that, by the way, has already been (badly) copied in movies like The Family Man and some other one, the name of which escapes me now.  Sliding Doors, however, was the first to take a person's life and send it down two different potential pathways.  The dialogue is wonderful and the acting is brilliant, I think I loved Russell the best, the levelheaded and utterly deadpan best friend of the confused Gerry. And of course it's all filmed in wonderful London, England. If you haven't seen this movie yet, SEE IT.  Then come to your own conclusion. "},{"Title":"The life of Helen, in two alternate worlds","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What would happen if you had a really crappy day, getting fired from your job, and then going home to find your boyfriend/girlfriend in bed with someone else?  And how would your life have turned out differently if you arrived later in the day and didn't find your significant other cheating on you?  This `alternate history' story is shown with both story tracks interspliced with the other throughout the movie.The story begins with Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow), an employee of a PR firm, getting fired because she `borrowed' some liquor from her office, causing her firm to be out of beverages for clients that day.  She doesn't help matters by trying to brush off the unfortunate incident with a cynical remark about the true purpose of PR firms.  She leaves the office and tries to call her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch) but Gerry put the phone off the hook while engaging in his tryst with his ex-girlfriend Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn).  While leaving her office for the last time, she encounters James (John Hannah) in the elevator when he picks up an earring that she dropped.Helen goes to the subway station to catch the train back home.  In one version of the movie, she catches the train and gets back home early and unexpectedly catches Gerry in bed with Lydia.  In the other version, she misses the train, finds out that the route is stalled because of an accident, tries to catch a cab but is mugged, goes to the hospital, and finally arrives back home later, after Lydia had left.As the movie splices scenes from both versions of the story, it's up to the viewer to infer what version is being shown.  In the version where Helen catches Gerry cheating on her, she meets James again while on the subway. They chat when James breaks the ice with humor but Helen is in no mood to laugh as she discloses that she just got canned.  After she catches her boyfriend in the act of infidelity, she leaves and later bumps into James at her favorite restaurant.  James approaches her and a budding romance between James and Helen begins.Cut to the other version, the one where Helen doesn't catch Gerry.  She gets home while Gerry is in the shower, surprised that she's home early.   He realizes that only a few minutes was the difference between his infidelity revealed and concealed.  Gerry, scared at almost being caught, is nervous when Helen arrives home but tries to mask his guilt by being pliant and indulgent to her.   John Lynch does a good performance of acting like a man who just avoided trouble by sheer luck.  To divert attention, he takes Helen out and fetes her.  Unfortunately for Gerry, Lydia wants to get back with him and thus wants Gerry to end his relationship with Helen.  Using the cunning of a scorned woman, she schemes to disclose her involvement with Gerry to Helen as the catharsis.Helen by now cannot find another job at a PR firm so she's reduced to holding two part-time jobs.  Gerry doesn't work - he's a writer still working on his `novel' so Helen supports them both.  One of Helen's jobs is to deliver sandwiches in the mornings to various offices and one day she delivers them to the Lydia's office.  She berates her for delivering sandwiches that were spoiled and which made her employees sick.  She then reveals to Gerry what she's done, which makes Gerry very nervous as he realizes that he's trapped by Lydia's threat of blackmail.Cut back to the version where Helen breaks up with Gerry and romances James instead.  Things look so perfect for Helen in this version of her life. Helen cuts her hair short and dyes it blonde to give her a new identity. James encourages her to start her own PR firm and thru his contacts, she gets her first clients for her fledgling firm.   This version seems like the ideal version but there's some clouds on the horizon.  The movie implies that James has not been totally forthcoming about his relationship status and reveals that he has a wife.So which version of Helen's life is better?  In the version where Gerry is trying to hide his previous acts of infidelity while Lydia is trying to break Helen and him up by subtle means, all of which causes much anguish to Gerry.  What to do for Gerry?  He thinks he finds a solution but there is a conclusion at the end of this version that isn't so fortuitous for Gerry.That must mean that the other version of Helen's life is better since she found out the true nature of Gerry's behavior and that allowed her to make several significant changes to her life.  She's met James and she started her own business.  But what about James' wife?  Well there's a story behind that too - I won't spoil the movie by giving it away.There is a twist to this movie and you might be a bit surprised by which version is the real happy ending.  I hope this isn't enough of a spoiler. I found this movie enjoyable; Gwyneth Paltrow does a passable job playing an English woman by skillfully using an British accent but her vocabulary usage sometimes gives her away as a non-Britisher.  But the best acting is done by John Lynch as he plays a cheating boyfriend burdened at first by his guilt, then by fear as Lydia contrives to disclose their secret.  He makes best use of his facial expression, especially his eyes, to convey a sense of worry, nervousness, guilt, and of being trapped when he's trying to assuage Helen's rising level of guilt while at the same time trying to prevent Lydia from revealing their affair.Not the greatest film but it's amusing and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"funny, interesting, witty, definitely a repeat watcher","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie because it's something that touches my heart. I have always wondered what if....   I like the quick wit of the characters especially.  It's one of those movies that you can watch 5 times and see something new every time.  It's a classic sleeper. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise but ultimately quite sappy","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  THIS MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSThis film is based upon an interesting premise - namely that the smallest factors in one's life can have inordinately large effects, and that the majority of our experiences are determined by chance occurrences.The film does do an interesting job of splicing together the two storylines, although it's a little confusing at first.  The two stories diverge when Gwyneth's character is walking down the stairs leading to the tube (although she's supposedly at Embankment, it was clearly filmed using a combination of the Embankment and Waterloo & City stations!  I wish the District & Circle line trains were that nice!) and they take off from there.  It's interesting to watch how the lives of the main characters would have played out differently given the different circumstances and the director does it with only minimal confusion.  Gwyneth's accent, however, is unconvincing at best and her word choice is clearly American.  Try to suspend as much disbelief as possible.The only thing which put me off was the portrayal of the characters of the leading men.  For instance, the character of Gwyneth's live-in boyfriend is made out to be a spineless wimp and his infidelity provides excellent fodder for nouveau-sexist anti-man sentiment.  Please.  Contrary to what this movie would have you believe, not every man cheats on his wife/girlfriend/significant other - and, mind you, it takes two to tango.  Men don't cheat with themselves.  It distresses me that this type of behaviour is linked to BOTH main male characters and that the pristine Gwyneth character is shown rising above all of the obstacles that those dirty, dastardly, no-good men have placed in her way.  In my opinion, this overriding attitude definitely detracts from the message of the movie on the whole. "},{"Title":"No spoiler, viewing recommendations","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film that isn't necessarily a chick-flick. A guy friend of mine saw it and like it too! I recommend watching this film uninterrupted and when you're in the mood to pay attention to a film. Also, it may take viewing more than once to get the whole effect.It's definitely worth watching, and even more fun to watch with a friend! "},{"Title":"The cinematic equivalent of being force fed garbage","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING Contains a spoiler Oh dear god. What's this meant to be then? A comedy, apparently. But where are the jokes, where're the amiable characters, where's the amusingly barmy plot? Nowhere to be found in this movie, sadly. From the opening scene, you know this film is going to grate on your senses like sandpaper, featuring one of the most irritating songs ever penned, Have fun Go mad. Ironically, the audience will probably not do the former, as there's precious little to find fun in, nut will almost certainly do the latter. Gwyneth Paltrow is forced, probably at gunpoint, to play THE most dippy, annoying, flighty heroine i have ever seen, whilst poor John Hannah is left to try and get a laugh out of this dribbling mess. And as for the script..Everyone's born with the Beatles lyrics in their heads.It should be called the Featles And, whilst that is teeth gnashingly awful dialogue, it's sadly the best line of the entire film. However, we do get to have a hearty laugh as Helen is smashed into oblivion by a truck at the end, (though why she had to live in any reality is beyond me) Please don't watch this, because, in layman's terms, It sucks to high heaven 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Just Imagine","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this film several times! First time I saw it was in MTV House, I didn't have special feeling then. Second time was that I attended a script class, the teacher chose Sliding Doors as a lesson stuff and discuss the choices of life would be different just because you'd missed the train. Yeah I thought to myself, I really made wrong choices, whatever job or find a new place to live, the outcome appeared bad luck. However, past is past and only way I do just see the movie and imagine that the romance I'd missed. "}{"Title":"Simply excellent...","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that one must see!  The ideas put forth in it are well written, the wit and humour of the movie are wonderful and of course John Hannah is simply a dish. I like the twists and turns that the plot takes, the emotional roller coaster, and the fact that the ending isn't the typical Hollywood style.  Also, Gwyneth pulls off her British accent yet again. It is a movie that one can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"essentials for viewing","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to be really stupid to like this film. Mainly because it is emotionally inane, philosophically shallow, profoundly unreal (try living in London if you want to understand this last comment fully) and best viewed by people so stupid they're too stupid to even understand how stupid they and this film actually are. Disagree by all means, that'll just prove how stupid you really are.  "},{"Title":"Way more fun to watch than Run, Lola, Run","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Surely not a great film. But an entertaining one. One which has a story to tell (two, that is). And this is enough to make it way more interesting an fun to watch than that German wanna-be flick Run, Lola, Run (aka Lola rennt) - which uses the same basic plot-idea, but only to show off; to let the audience go Wow, this director is really something different, as I feel it. All in all, Sliding Doors is nothing too special - but it delivers good entertainment. And that's more than a heck of a lot of other films. "},{"Title":"Likeable story, but only intrigue at end","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have watched even a small amount of sic-fi, or tend to be a philosophical sort, then the hook of Sliding Doors is simple and not particularly unique. A woman's life is shown going down two paths, split by a single seemingly minor event.I don't know about you, but in my life I have wondered countless times things such as, Would I have been in the car accident that happened in front of me if I would have made that last light before the interstate? or Would I be living somewhere else if I had shown up on time for that job interview? It isn't a particularly original idea to wonder what might have been, due to tiny moments in one's life.So the fact that Sliding Doors is based upon this principle is not especially enlightening. The two paths of the main character's life are also not especially interesting. The people who are in her life are consistent no matter which alternate reality we follow. She is more empowered in one path due to a stranger she meets who gives her confidence. In the other path she muddles about for a while longer.In the end, the one bit of Sliding Doors which intrigued me was, uh, the end. A slight spoiler here, but I will try not to give it all away. Ultimately, these alternate realities converge. Does that mean that our lives are predestined no matter what we do or what incidental events occur? If so, then that, to me, negates the whole point of the movie. Unless the point is to say, relax, don't struggle, we all will get where we are supposed to go. Anyway, that was the one intriguing question I took away from Sliding Doors.As for the rest, good performances, but not especially interesting lives. I rated this movie a 6. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't exactly the world's biggest Gwyneth Paltrow fan before I saw this movie, but I really enjoyed it.  The three main characters are fantastic.  I'm not really sure if she has that thick an accent in real life but I loved the way she portrayed both versions of her character, Helen.  This movie is full of emotions and lots of humor with a peculiar ending.  The best part is John Hannah's character, James.  He has the best lines in the movie and his accent is incredibly sexy.  In the end, great movie; I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I did not expect this movie to be deep and it was not for me. I thought it was a wonderful, warm comedy. A good date movie. It presented an interesting concept of one decision completely changing one's whole life, but wasn't very good at presenting it. Nevertheless, I enjoyed this movie for the laughs and the wonderful quotes. Go see it, but don't expect an Oscar winning movie or too-good to be true acting-neither is there. I had a great time watching this movie and it does still give you something to think about it.  "},{"Title":"intriguing","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The intriguing plot device of following a woman's life along two parallel tracks, depending on which of two courses of action she would have followed, is engrossing enough to keep us involved in this frothy romantic comedy. Different and entertaining. "},{"Title":"A good movie-luck? I think not.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's nearly impossible to be original in movie-making these days, And why? Because the reason something has not been done before, is probably because it won't work. Yet Sliding Doors DOES work, AND, is it luck?, maybe. Certainly it was the filmmaker's good fortune to cast Gwyneth Paltrow, who could not be better, but her casting is likely more attributed to some good filmmaking.The premise she makes the train-she misses the train is one we all have considered in everyday life---what, how, would my life been different had I just gone left, instead of right?You Star Trek fans know that when Kirk and crew go back in time, and make even the smallest of changes to history, that life itself is turned upside down. In Sliding Doors, Paltrow's Helen finds her life goes in two dramatically different directions, solely by missing or making a subway train headed home. In the film we can follow each of these two paths, step by step, with wonderfully surprising results.Many times I looked for this film to fall off the rails, yet it never did. Even the presence of Jeanne Tripplehorn, who's mere appearance has been the kiss of death to many, many films over the past few years, could not keep the bloom from this rose.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't expect this film to be so entertaining. It's a fantastic film. It reminded me very much of Red in the way that it explored possibilities and chance. There was another similarity. In Red the color red was an important element in many scenes and similarly in Sliding Doors, doors that slide figured importantly in certain scenes. Strange.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for this movie, I thought it was going to be stupid. Gwyneth Paltrow is OK in my eyes, but this movie made me like her even more. It took away my expectations and I thought it was so good that I bought a used copy of it. Seeing her in two roles was great, and the ending was unexpected but good. See it with someone you love. A cute love story! "}{"Title":"Twilight zone fantasy fun. *** out of ****.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is a romantic fantasy about the life of a woman who's life is suddenly split into two completely different directions at the same time. As the films plot is scattered out in front of us, we begin to feel involved, but the plot somehow manages to keep us away from becoming terribly attached to the characters. And, in my own opinion, the only thing saving this movie from becoming a flop is the originality and creative imagination elaborated.I liked the film's characters, though there was little introduction at the beginning. However, in movies like these you don't really need to introduce them, as long as they're charming or engaging, which they are. Gwyneth Paltrow, the busiest actress in Hollywood right now, with credits this year alone numbering four, is intriguing and inspiring.The movie changes elements at the third act. It mistakenly focuses on Hannah and how he wants desperately to get back together with Helen instead of going ahead with the colorful romance and the hilariousness of him trying to cover up the factious affair. Although things become disturbing near the close, I still enjoyed the happy ending which was unpredictable.Overall, I think Sliding Doors is worth your time. It is not a great movie when it comes to merit, although I enjoyed it a great deal. Like the tagline goes. Romance was never this much fun.  "},{"Title":"I wish","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Have you ever said to yourself, I wish this had happened? WELL DON'T. Everything happens for the better. This movie taught me that and a lot of other things. It is a good moral to the story kind of movie.My rating is 9/10 "},{"Title":"Just shy of decent and something that isn't memorable","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A movie with a great concept and a few good parts but it falls short of being average. Plot The film shows two parallel realities. In one a woman steps into a subway train only to go home to find her boyfriend cheating on her. In the other, she misses it, the outcomes of each being vastly different showing that even the smallest thing... can have a major effect on your life. Gwyneth Paltrow is downright gorgeous as a brunette but I felt her British accent was a little too overdone, but it isn't awful. As for the co-stars, John Hannah(The Mummy movies) is pretty good, but I have to say Jeanne Tripplehorn(Big Love) is downright awful. Even though this movie is just over an hour and a half long, I sort of lost interest about an hour in and that's where I think it all fell apart. I don't want to spoil anything but it goes from being a romantic comedy and then all of a sudden it goes to being a depressing drama. I found that both to be good and bad in a sense. I also found some of the dialogue to be really stupid. What brings this movie down the most is that it falls in with all the other clichéd romantic comedies. It's like; Oh I haven't seen that a million times in a romance movie before. But it still makes me want to move to London though. Total Score 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely irritating accent ruins this film for me","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had no advance idea what this film was about, so sat down to watch it with an open mind, and with a tendency to like Gwyneth Paltrow. I had never heard of the male lead John Hannah. I have lived in several countries, so am used to a variety of accents, but nothing could have prepared me for the idiotic Scottish twang and moaning delivery that this fellow John Hannah has. I don't know whether it is his natural voice or if he put it on for this flick, but it was SO inordinately irritating and grating that it did spoil the film for me -- at least all the scenes he was in. Why on earth the producers and director chose this man I have no idea, but he is the ruination of this cinema experience, sadly. At times it was difficult to determine what he was saying, and I'm sure many viewers will have been at a loss to follow his gabbling. Other than his totally obnoxious contribution, I found the roles very well filled and the storyline engrossing, with many high and low points... BUT I am forced to rate the movie low, owing to his awful presence. "},{"Title":"How did this become a movie? There was no special 'thing' in it!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie didn't have a special story at all. In general movies become such because some director has a great story about someone or something that is special, not from an all day life, only this movie does not. It's as if it was taken from the life of someone picked randomly in the street. (Not saying that everybody's life is about nothing). OK, there was some kind of a romance story but it was really not interesting. It was though not bad acting, and if we accept the fact that the plot wasn't that good, I have to say that I'm impressed by the actors who 'saved' the movie. "},{"Title":"Right away, they drop the ball","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  How our whole lives might change if only one moment were different!  A promising concept going back to Mark Twain (The Mysterious Stranger) but immediately bobbled, because in this movie the difference needs the additional help of a whole string of coincidences, starting when the very fellow who retrieved the earring in the elevator reappears as the seatmate on the underground. Phooey. "},{"Title":"Not enough John Hannah.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Too much Gwyneth Paltrow and John Lynch. Not enough John Hannah. You will catch yourself waiting for the next time they let John Hannah have a little screen time. He is so entertaining. A pleasant movie. It takes a little concentration to separate the two different lives the main character is living until they finally change the hair color of the main character in one of her lives. I thought that was a nice touch to help you follow the story line. I was very surprised by the end. However, it is almost a testimony for how right time/right place plays such a huge role in whether or not the happy things in life will succeed. Jeanne Triplehorn was absolutely vicious and wonderful as the foible for Gerry, the two-timer. John Lynch was successful at being the slimy two-timer. And Gwyneth Paltrow was, as usual, very suited as the eye candy part of the picture producing the usual shy grins and butterfly-lash glances. Now if such a happy ending could happen to regular-looking people; now there would be a story to watch. "},{"Title":"A great idea, but the result was disappointing","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is quite exciting to think what your life would have been like if you did one thing instead of another. Unfortunately, this movie was not as interesting or exciting as it could have been. The two stories were predictable and the characters seemed to be plot puppets rather than real people one could care for.  "},{"Title":"A Confused and Confusing Gimmick Movie that Never Quite Takes Off","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The premise for this ultra-thin effort strikes one as possibly amusing. In its execution, however, it falls flat almost immediately. Basically Gwyneth Paltrow (after getting the sack) either makes her train or doesn't, and then either catches her boyfriend shagging an old flame or arrives home just after the other woman has left the premises. From the start, we are asked to suspend complete disbelief because her boyfriend is a sad-eyed jerk with a big nose and bushy eyebrows who has nothing much going for him. Why on earth would this attractive young lady be living with him and why would he be cheating on her? Soon, we meet the gabby, fun-loving Scotsman she gradually falls in love with after walking out on the faithless boyfriend. Just as strange-looking as her beau, his brogue and demeanor are annoying as hell. Further, he is undeniably effeminate. In fact, I thought it might turn out that he was bi, because that artist friend of his looks awfully gay to me. Surprisingly, when Gwyneth and this less than macho man finally get around to sex, they actually make it look plausible. That took some real acting. When they are going at it, there's a quick glimpse of Gwyneth's lovely bosom, which is probably the only thing about this dumb movie worth seeing. Well, OK, I liked that icy, blue-eyed vacant look she gets when the man she is with let's her down completely. She does that well, at least, and is given plenty of reason to be disappointed. Otherwise, I can't for the life of me understand what this attractive woman would be doing with either of these flakes. Remember that preposterous but popular TV show, Ally McBeal, where it seemed like all the guys were these feminized little weasels who were trying to get laid by the sexy women as often as they could? Was the show about more than that? I dunno, because I couldn't stand it for more than five minutes at a time. Anyway, if you bought that ridiculous scenario, then you just might like this movie. Really, it is just plain silly and awfully confusing. We kept forgetting which Gwyneth we were watching at any given moment, the one who caught the train or the one who didn't. Lemme see Short blond hair caught the train and caught her boyfriend in the act, while long dark hair missed the train and still doesn't get it. OK, keep repeating that. Does it really matter? Do I care? No. You can get this thing in the reduced rack at WalMart. Trust me, it ain't worth the five bucks. "},{"Title":"Counterfactual flop","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Poor Gwyneth Paltrow, trapped in a movie that takes advantage of her skills and forces her to play the tired romantic comedy shtick. Initially I thought perhaps the simultaneous telling of divergent stories and the sliding door motif could be interesting. By the time the movie had Helen opening her own business in a cheery music video choreographed with the mandatory painting with blissful rollers shot, I was bored. Had the movie used the counterfactual technique either playfully or provocatively, the poor acting by John Hannah and Jeanne Tripplehorn might have been less embarrassing; however, the two stories became less plausible with each betrayal and the final sliding door situation seemed like it was trying to be cute but was just annoying. The most unbelievable relationship was between Gerry and Lydia - why would this woman be with this man? Not only that, why would she fight so hard to win him? Yet that premise is critical to making the plot work. Gerry, the eternal optimist, is equally unbelievable - people are not this happy. The fact that his rosy approach to life is later shown to be fictitious does not make his character any more authentic, just rather lopsided.Several scenes that were painful to watch because you've seen the mannerisms and lines in commercials and sitcoms are the following (1) The romantic boat scene on a moonlit evening when Helen and James first kiss; Helen puts her finger over James' rambling lips and kisses him (2) Gerry is being the natural born comedian over dinner with a group of friends and his eyes meet Helen's and they trade not-so-subtle knowing glances (3) Lydia's speech to Gerry in the hotel room; she invokes a metaphor about a train, a conductor, and Lydia's long wait at the station for Gerry and it feels like part high school creative writing class and part cartoon villain (4) Lydia's speech to Helen when she tells her that she's carrying Gerry's baby; see #3 criticism (5) Helen cheering Gerry rowing on the Thames; same nauseating happiness as the new office redecorating music video (6) Helen rolling into the pillow grinning after she discovers Gerry's charming note on the pillow the morning after (7) All the redundant references to Monty Python's quip about the Spanish InquisitionIn short, the movie left me feeling as if Paltrow was miscast. She is a top-notch actor and this movie would have been better if it stuck with second-class actors for a second-class production. Paltrow's presence highlighted (a) the inferiority of the others' acting, (b) the predictability of the other characters' roles, and (c) the awful quality of the lines she had to recite. If you want a cute, heart-warming romantic comedy look elsewhere. "}{"Title":"Interesting but fairly uneven","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed Sliding Doors but I have to agree with some other critics who claim it is a tad bit uneven in execution. Gwyneth Paltrow's performance is spot-on as a British businesswoman who misses a train on her way home from work, thereby not arriving home in time to find her boyfriend in bed with another woman. In a parallel universe Gwyneth DOES catch her train and other incidents follow. The movie is mind-boggling -- one tiny event can alter your entire life. If you stop someone on the street and ask them for directions, you could inadvertantly cause them to get hit by a car and die. Or maybe get mugged. You never know. The chances of such things are truly horrifying and puzzling.I liked the wit of this movie but somehow, on the whole, it seemed a bit corny. Good performances and an intriguing notion make this worth watching on TV -- you'll definitely be entertained. I wish I could praise it more than that. "},{"Title":"oh no...","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" this movie contains so much cliché.. incredible. Just because of the interesting idea of showing 2 parallel versions of her life, and the fatality that they come together anyway, i am giving 2 points...and this is actually why I chose to watch this one and give it a chance. Even if the title does not necessarily sound so, it is such a romantic flick.. incredible..Gwyneth paltrow is meant to be super cute, she makes her cutie face as well as her sad sad girl-face all the time, so you just have to feel compassion with her situation... her new lover is more of a sick stalker spider who cathes her in his net, and all the lucky and unlucky situations that occcur in the movie are just so stupid... incredible.. After a couple of minutes of watching, you exactly know what is gonna happen, I only did not expect her to die and the repeating scene in the elevator... everything else is predictable... "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film, quite intriguing and well acted, despite a couple of flaws.","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sliing Doors is certainly a decent and intriguing film, aided by a very good plot, about parallel stories of a woman who misses/catches her train. The script is quite touching and sometimes funny, and there is some nice music and cinematography. I was also moved by the ending, which was full of pathos and sadness. With her enchanting smile and fruity voice, Gwyneth Paltrow is very appealing as Helen. John Lynch is suitably dull, but melancholy as her cheating partner Gerry (who is constantly seen getting advice from his friend Russell), and John Hannah lights up the screen as James. I do have two problems with this movie. One is that Jeanne Tripplehorn doesn't quite convince as Gerry's ex-girlfriend, reduced to uttering rather predictable lines, and she is possibly underused too, again it could be to do with the structure of the story, which I found confusing when I first saw this film. The other flaw is that there is one scene that never rings true, the scene with Gerry's confession that he still loves her, and then soon after Helen finds in the parallel story she's pregnant. Overall, it is an enjoyable film, not the best movie ever made, but definitely worth watching. 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if facile","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A jolly what if..? romantic drama which chats breezily with time and fate in the same way that Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless mind chewed it over as if in a philosophy seminar. Burgeoning star John Hannah plays the good guy (James) opposite two parallel running versions of Gwymeth Paltrow's Helen, initially a lucky and an unlucky one but Peter Howitt luckily has more in mind than simply giving us two features for the price of one.You can almost smell the production team urging the inclusion of London landmarks and Britishisms, the quirky British romcom/John Hannah of Four Weddings tie-in. Again Howitt is strong enough not to overdo it. Yet the film is never more than competent and is enjoyable thanks to the charming (if emaciated-blonde) presence of Paltrow. John Lynch and Jeanne Tripplehorn are in the film as well but are, frnakly anonymous. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Oh Goodness","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Oh goodness - this is so well written, well directed, and well acted it's not funny. Give you what you want on the film's conceit, the 'sliding doors' bit, but how often, think about it, how often do you get something this good?This one gets better with time. Paltrow won several awards for this; she deserves them. Hannah is frightfully brilliant, as is Lynch, even Trippelhorn, all of them.Was it just a conceit or was there more to it? Is there ever more in any movie? Sit back and enjoy. And admit it if all movies were made this well, you'd have few worries. "},{"Title":"I have but one thing to say","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gwyneth Paltrow!Her Modern London accent is simply excellent - right on the spot! That *alone* is such an acheivement, it stands out in contemporary film!But the whole performance, mixing the oppressed, betrayed and humiliated version of herself with the parallel flourishing, newly-in-love variant, is first class, period. Just look at her radiance when she's with John Hannah's character, oozing with the infatuation of someone who's slowly returning to life without ever having thought it was possible; just look at her troubled expressions of self-denial as she's delivering lunch baskets, literally choking back suspicions that she's lying to herself and being lied to by her boyfriend. Her face tells it all. You'd get the whole story just by *seeing* her act. Man, she's one of the great of our time. "},{"Title":"Wow! Two sappy, inane chick flicks for the price of one.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  See Gwyneth looks pert. See Gwyneth look winsome. See Gwyneth pout. Now, see her do it all again.Sliding Doors is two romantic comedy/light dramas about the Gwyneth character running simultaneously in parallel universes. Sort of a creative brain fart which someone, for whatever reason, though would be a good idea. And if that doesn't make it difficult enough for you to suspend disbelief, then try sticking Gwyneth in England playing an Englishwoman who...well, who occasionally forgets her accent. For those who can still buy into this thin chick flick, you'll get Gwyneth filling up the screen with a half dozen or so expressions on her face about 90% of the run time.Dismal and inane, Sliding Doors did receive decent reviews and I am a sucker for romantic comedies. Go figure. "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching this movie was a huge disappointment.  The concept was very interesting and something everyone can relate to.  It is the very small details that shape your life, just as much if not more than the large ones. The movie had a great cast, the writing was almost there, but it just did not work.  Something was missing.  It is a shame because it could have been good. "},{"Title":"Good concept, poor execution","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is a mess of a film, but it gets points for attempting to be good.  Exploring the idea of what would happen to one's life as a result of one little insignificant choice is a daring concept.  However, the way the movie just jumps back and forth is often confusing.  Also, neither story is very interesting, and the characters are boring and cliched.  Paltrow does her best to carry this movie, but it just isn't enough.  Do yourself a favor and avoid Sliding Doors. "},{"Title":"Badly flawed gem","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a shame.  A perfect small film in every way but one.  An engaging premise, gently witty script, well filmed and very well played.The one fly in the ointment is a truly irritating performance by Gwyneth Paltrow.  Paltrow has only over played one character, and she sticks to type and does it again here.  The usual traits are all here in spades the Gosh, I'm thin and pretty head tilt; the inability to decide if she's an icy goddess being vulnerable or a dumb victim being brave; and of course the erratic accent.  Sorry, non-UK viewers, but Gwyneth's voice talents are only suitable for period pieces where everyone speaks in artificial Fakespearean or Austinese anyway.Even in the most vulnerable scenes, chilly Gwyneth retains tight control over herself and never convinces.  Her workmanlike acting is more suitable to stage than screen.  Such a shame that a mediocre talent can land plum roles apparently just through showcasing her skeleton. "}{"Title":"Simply Dreadful!!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd been meaning to see this film ever since it's release, and when it came on TV I recorded it to watch later.  Now I'm glad I didn't fork out the 10 bucks or so when it was in theatres.Perhaps it's because I don't belong in the target demographic for this film, but I found it to be so awful that I couldn't watch it beyond the first 20 minutes or so, and I love movies - have since childhood.The script was trite, Paltrow's accent was painful, and obviously a mish-mash of several locations, Hannah looked embarrassed (and well he should be), and what was John Lynch doing in a turkey like this?  The repetitious Monty Python references were an insult to the original (VERY original, unlike this film) work.The performances, adequate given the material, could not make up for the appalling script and even more appalling dialogue.  Richard Curtis and Ben Elton would never have written something as bad as this.  This is a classic case of cashing in when someone is hot.  "},{"Title":"Is a single idea sufficient to sustain the movie?","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sliding Doors is based on one idea to show how a life could change either taking a subway-train or missing it. Is this single idea sufficient to sustain a whole movie? In the present case I think not. It is difficult to establish what genre Sliding Doors belongs to as a comedy it is not funny, as a romance, its love-story is non-exciting. Does the movie intend to contain social satire? We find in it a continuous denigration of males this theme is shabbily developed and it just appears to be a mandatory tax to pay to feminism.I dare say that Sliding Doors stimulated my patriotism giving credit to the movie, Italy is preferable to England. I mean no Italian woman would make such an over-rude and stupid thing as stealing liquors from her own working-place, as Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) does (by the way, I also guess that in Italy we don't keep super-alcoholics in offices). And in Italy Helen wouldn't be fired for a trifle like this probably the director had to emphasize the routine brutality of males. And no Italian waitress would react to a customer's innocent courtship uttering obscenities another exploit by Helen.A final remark the rival of Helen, the beautiful American woman-in-career Lydia (Jeanne Tripplehorn) is depicted with so much grudge, that I feel compelled to strongly root for her. So here is my highly incorrect statement I like Lydia and prefer her to Helen, because Lydia is MORE BEAUTIFUL, because she is RICH and because she is AMERICAN. "},{"Title":"Acceptable drama, not my type","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is too smart for people to understand. Some movies are like this, but I usually go back to see it again to make sure I understand it. This one I feel the lack of will to do so. It's not attractive enough. Maybe it'll help if Gwyneth Paltrow posed nude? Don't take my joke too seriously. "},{"Title":"About How Your Life Can Change, If You Catch A Train Or Don't.","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Gwyneth Paltrow is so overrated. Let's be honest, anyone who watched her speech at the Oscars will agree that she even has a difficulty being convincing in the role of Mrs. G Paltrow.Here Her talents are pitted alongside John Hannah and John Lynch who is flat and an expressionless actor. The film was DAMNED from the start.But it was never acclaimed because of the performances. Even the most shallow of critics could see that this was not going to be an acting class from three masters of the profession. No Sliding Doors was herald to the rooftops because of the 'Ingenious' premise.It is ingenious to show a man what the world would be like if he had never lived by introducing him to his guardian angel. It's nothing short of plain silly to wonder what would happen if we didn't make the tube and then split the story in two.Don't listen to what they say. Sliding Doors has no charm or romance. It is not funny and the leading man, who we should be rooting for is an annoying prat and apparently goes rowing down the Thames, don't we all? "},{"Title":"Confusing","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The plot was confusing and the shots bouncing around between a blonde Paltrow and a brunette Paltrow didn't have any cohesion. I still can't figure out how she was with one beau as the blonde Helen and the other beau, who should have known her as the brunette Helen, has no trouble recognizing her when she was the blond Helen.This movie may appeal to individuals who can't sit still for longer than a sound byte. I saw it described as a comedy, yet I never saw anything particularly funny in it.John Hannah's accent was very nice. That is the best thing that I can say about the movie. "},{"Title":"Two halves that don't quite make a whole","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can only assume this is getting a release in Holland so long after it's UK release (just over a year) due to the current global interest in Gwyneth Paltrow in the wake of 'Shakespeare In Love'. Anyway, this was shown (like 'the Mummy' last week) as the weekly 'Sneak Preview' at the City Cinema, Amsterdam. Had I known what it was going to be beforehand I would not have gone, because though I recall enjoying it when I saw it last year at the Streatham ABC, it is really not a film that demands or requires a second viewing. Director Peter Howitt (Joey from the appalling 80's UK sitcom'Bread') has pitched this film squarely at the transatlantic market, presenting a lightweight and unchallenging comedy in the vein of 'Four Weddings', or this year's more interesting (to my mind) 'Notting Hill'. Like the latter of these films, 'Sliding Doors' comedy resides more in individual situations than especially clever writing or dialogue. The scene in which James (John Hannah) entertains his friends around the restaurant table is an exemplary case in point. Rather than writing any good lines into the script itself, James instead quotes freely from Monty Python (whose 'Spanish Inquisition' sketch is referenced throughout with no apparent dramatic, comedic or didactic rationale other than that of recycling already familiar material for a broader international audience). The film's entertainment value derives from the fact that the two disparate narratives involving Paltrow's alternate futures are so densely plotted that the film never really gets the chance to flag. That said, neither story really carries any weight of its own. The dual narratives are merely a gimmick, a structural device similarly used by Kieslowski in 'La Double Vie de Veronique'. Here the plotting almost appears random, with nothing in the way of subtext, allegory or explanation, so one can never wholly feel involved by either strand, merely distracted.This may explain why the denouement is so unsatisfactory. The film never really goes anywhere because it has nowhere to go. What we have here are two half-baked romantic shorts whose narratives are entirely unrelated save for the tenuous 'what if' upon which the film's foundations are built. It's not an unentertaining film with some chuckles and gentle romance provided along the way, but it comes across as rather forced and lacks the weight and the context of more recent commercially pitched Brit-coms (the two Hugh Grant vehicles, for example, or the sublime 'This Years Love'). Ultimately, 'Sliding Doors' is little more than a superficial diversion, which took off in Britain last year due to the serious lack of box office competition during the World Cup.  "},{"Title":"A Richard Curtis Clone","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SLIDING DOORS was marketed by the high concept plot of what would happen if you missed your journey home ? Really after seeing the movie I couldn`t help thinking there was far too much made of this premise . I don`t know if the problem lies in the hype or if I`m the one with the problem but I was expecting something along the lines of something really mind blowing like MEMENTO , and to be honest the dual storyline isn`t all that cleverAs for the rest of the film I just felt it was something that Richard Curtis would have made , in fact it`s scary how much style writer/director Peter Howitt borrows from the maker of FOUR WEDDINGS , NOTTING HILL  and LOVE ACTUALLY . Be honest if you put SLIDING DOORS amongst these three aforementioned movies you`d bet your life they were all written by the exact same person Gwyneth Paltrow is very convincing as an Englishwoman but apart from that there`s very little to praise in SLIDING DOORS and I got very fed up long ago with these type of slushy romantic comedies coming out of the UK . Hopefully the sucess of 28 DAYS LATER means British film producers  can now start making more diverse and interesting movies  "},{"Title":"Sliding Doors","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" From debut director Peter Howitt (Johnny English) this is a very intriguing British film about making difference to your life, based on what-ifs? Basically Helen Quilley (Gwyneth Paltrow, with her convincing British accent) has been fired from her PR job, and she is on her way home on the tube (underground train). Something amazing happens, she is bumped into by a little girl and doesn't get into the train (through the sliding doors, and then time reverses itself for a few seconds and a second version of herself is created where she misses the little girl and catches the tube. Let's call them Helen 1 (deosn't make it), and Helen 2 (does) to make it easier. Helen 1 gets mugged, gets a cut and goes back to her boring life with husband Gerry (John Lynch), leaves her hair alone, and becomes a waitress, and not knowing about Gerry's affair with Lydia (Basic Instinct's Jeanne Tripplehorn). Helen 2, in the other reality, meets James Hammerton (John Hannah) on the tube (after momentarily seeing each other in a lift), she comes home to see Gerry and Lydia at it, she moves out, gets her hair dyed and shortened (easier to tell difference then), and she starts to fall for the intelligent and lovable James. The concluding scenes see Helen 1 finally discovering the affair and falling down the stairs running out, and Helen 2 forgiving James for not telling about his wife he is divorcing (because of his mother thinking their still together), but she is hit by a passing vehicle. Both go to the same hospital, but only one can live on, that is Helen 1 with betraying Gerry. It does have the questionable happy ending, where James and Helen 1 (well, now just Helen) in the lift (again), and you never know what happens next. Filled with some good pop songs, including Dido's Thank You (which has snippets in Eminem's Stan) and Dodgy's Good Enough. It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film. Gwyneth Paltrow was number 89 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Good! "}]