[{"Title":"I'll bet you a dollar you haven't seen a movie like Henry Fool.","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its not that its groundbreaking in the way it tells its story, or that its story is that unusual - its tricky to put your finger on which element makes Henry Fool so unique, but as a whole the work is very unique indeed. If i had to give you a reason why this felt so new to me, was that i'd never seen a movie entirely devoted to literature before, the power of poetry in particular. I found it quite refreshing.Hartley has gone for an atmosphere of strangeness, a kind of artificiality which still rings true, and it works completely. Henry Fool (the character whose nature this movie is an investigation into, which takes the narrative form of his walking into the lives of a low-class suburban family, especially disaffected garbage-man and potential poet Simon) talks and behaves like what he imagines himself, which is the roguish hero of some tragic, romantic Shakespeare play, and a kind of difficult genius. But is he a genius for real? Is this confession he's writing, his life's work, a masterwork, or a piece of sh*t? Henry affects the lives of a small group of great characters in Simon's local neighbourhood, all drawn with marvellously light brushstrokes, and all seeming like imagined, literary beings, yet still very human. But is he a good influence or a bad influence on this neighbourhood?I can't predict whether you'll like Henry Fool or not - all i can tell you is that i found it captivating and original to the last. "},{"Title":"Hartley's Masterpiece  An epic, dark comedy with heart and soul and bruises.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If Hal Hartley were never to make another film, he could easily go down as having created a genuine American Masterpiece with Henry Fool.  Hartley takes this material and stamps it with heart and soul and distance.  It's like staring at a palette of beautiful colors - then stepping back to realize it's a bruise.  Henry is never less than this astonishing.As Henry,Thomas Jay Ryan gives what is easily the best film debut I've seen in many years.  None of the wimpy whispery-voiced drivel that passes for acting these days (from even some of our best screen actors) his performance practically pops off of the screen like a fart at a funeral.  The rest of the cast - James Urbaniak, Parker Posey, Maria Porter, Kevin Corrigan, et al. - are on the same inspired level, but it's obvious why the film is named after Henry.  I cannot wait to see this man in more.  Obviously allegorical, Henry Fool fairly teems with its laundry list of symbolism both quaint and profound, easy and impossible. I found my cheeks hurting from the smile stretching across my face for much of the film.  Other moments had my eyes welling with tears at the beauty &#150; and pain &#150; these oh, so deceptively simple lives toil through.  This is not, obviously, a film for all audiences, there is something of the fairy tale here and while suspension of disbelief is required, it is also its own reward.  Actually the characters, though larger than life, are so evenly and wondrously drawn as to become recognizable to all of us as ourselves or others in our own lives.  Here we weigh out the seemingly unfair advantages we perceive others has having, the pronouncements of self-worth and desire for acceptance and understanding. Hartley's dialogue is equal to the visual aspects of his film  almost stagey (in the good sense), but with a direct honesty that many, unfortunately, will find offputting.  His cast delivers these perfectly placed pronouncements with all the gravitas demanded of the situation - and sound natural doing so.  It's a beautiful film to listen to. Aside from the brilliant storytelling, Henry is also beautiful to look at.  Hartley's cameramen lens a Queenscape most unusual &#150; one never quite feels he knows where it's taking place, despite obvious Queens clues.  Every frame &#150; from Henry's powerfully bizarre arrival to the last triumphant (and gloriously ambiguous) cell is a pleasure, a joy to watch. At its conclusion all I could say was this was the best movie I've ever seen.  Upon reflection, I realize it probably isn't, but at that moment (and each ensuing viewing) I recapture that same, precise feeling.  That's what I want in a movie and Henry delivered.    "},{"Title":"Imperfect (of course) but extremely worthy","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rented and watched Henry Fool last night and spent much of this evening tracking down reviews of this extraordinary film. I'm surprised that none of them invoked Dickens, or at least John Irving.There's a constancy in Hartley films beautiful photography, disciplined design, and (usually) extraordinarily attractive actors who mouth almost excruciatingly gassy dialogue in a deadpan style that seems to serve as ballast. Henry Fool is no different. But this film delves so deeply and sympathetically into the Big Issues -- love, obligation, and most of all ART -- that it delivers a wallop that reminds me of how I felt at the end of Irving's Owen Meany. And I mean that as a high compliment.Henry Fool is imperfect, at moments even ridiculous, but you just might be changed by it. Not bad for a movie. "},{"Title":"News of the whirl","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Proof that famously idiosyncratic filmmaker Hal Hartley can expand the emotional and intellectual range of his often dismayingly bloodless work without compromising the skewed, life on the fringes vision that has built him a cult following. This resonant examination of friendship, fame, cultural trends, and the creative process, stars a garbage man and a mysterious bum. James Urbaniak is the socially challenged trash hauler -Simon Grim who lives with his severely depressed mother and slutty, acerbic sister in a cramped in Queens, N.Y. Thomas Jay Ryan is Henry Fool, the drinking drifter who moves into their basement, claiming to be a writer whose unpublished epic manuscript would shake of the world - if Henry ever allowed it to be published. (In fact he's talent free.) But it's Simon who becomes the literary star. Encouraged by his new friend, the trashman who never wrote before, turns out to be a natural poet, moving (and outraging) the public with the power of his words. The director packs a lot of tender heartache into the Grim household, and he presses his finger firmly on the bruised place in America where celebrity becomes its own curse. (In a great conceit, we never see of hear a word of Simon's masterpiece.) Hartley remains an acquired taste (for views with a lot of time to dine - this sitting runs about two hours and twenty minutes). But with Henry Fool he offers a lot to chew on. "},{"Title":"For The Fool In All Of Us","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	Welcome to Hal Hartley's world of the disenfranchised.  The focus here is on Henry Fool (Thomas Jay Ryan), a passionate individual just released from prison after seven years, and one Simon Grimm (James Urbaniak), a simple garbageman with a seemingly apathetic view of the world in which he lives.  Henry rents a room in Simon's house (which is occupied as well by his mother and sister) where he continues to work on his `confession,' the memoir he began in prison, which is actually a treatise on life that he believes will one day shake the world to it's very foundation.  Expounding his passions to Simon, Henry urges him to cast off the shackles of his dreary existence and to express himself by writing down what he feels in the journal he gives him. Henry becomes the mentor, awakening something within Simon long dormant and as yet unrealized.  Simon begins writing poetry, while at the same time we begin to see another side of Henry, a man unable to heed his own advice and whose quest for the life he seeks is too often derailed by his own indecisiveness and uncontrollable lusts.  Ultimately, we realize that Henry and Simon are not so different from one another after all.  Hartley's style bears a distinct signature, in that when his characters speak it is more than simply dialogue; it is small philosophies delivered in a mannered cadence that is engrossing and at times mesmerizing.  The supporting cast includes Parker Posey (Simon's sister), Maria Porter, and one of the finest character actors spawned by independent film in recent years, Kevin Corrigan.  In the final analysis, we realize that there is much more to `Henry Fool' than meets the eye.  I rate this one 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Hal Hartley is just too smart for most movie-goers.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hal Hartley is just too smart for most movie-goers. He's got a lot to say--and he actually makes his characters say ALL of it; in tiny, impotent little phrases that never astound so much as when you find yourself understanding something large about them.And Henry Fool is a fount of these emerging insights one test is not enough to know the heart of a would-be hero, one giant failure is not enough to know the soul of a would-be romantic, love isn't always as deep as it is strong, poetry comes and goes, art is in the understanding...Despite dispensing so many ideas, Henry Fool has amazing comic timing, some high drama, a little sex, death, and even a romantic ending. Not enough comedy, drama, sex, death, and romance for a big box-office turnout; but just enough to make the Hartley fans want more. "},{"Title":"Epic, yet personal","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a shame that Henry Fool remains relatively overlooked and underrated. In large part because it's such a departure from his earlier films, Hal Hartley purists couldn't stomach the epic scale and thematic shift of the film, and audiences who would likely appreciate the movie never even saw it. In my opinion though, Henry Fool is a true masterpiece of American cinema and one of the best films of the 1990s. If you look at films like Trust, Simple Men and Amateur as early, developmental works in Hal Hartley's maturation as a filmmaker, and then see Flirt as his attempt to identify himself more as a director than a writer, then Henry Fool is the fruit of that labor - not only is it precisely, minimalistically and efficiently directed, but it's far and away his best writing yet. His favorite themes are expanded and blown up within a mythic frame, and his casting here of stage actors (especially the hefty presence of Thomas Jay Ryan) separates the film from Hartley's earlier work. However, it retains the philosophical tone, the inner musings of character, and the precision of their actions. This time, however, Hartley accomplishes this by expanding the frame with which he grapples with friendship, family, ambition, achievement and betrayal, and ends up with a shattering parable about who we choose to be in our lives. The film is about greatness, and thanks to Hartley's fearlessness in envisioning his characters' conceptions of greatness, it is truly great.(Where's the DVD version?)  "},{"Title":"character driven","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like a movie that is character driven, you'll love Henry Fool which was written and directed by Hal Hartley.  This movie abounds with interesting, quirky characters.  The leads, Mr. Ryan, the title character, and Mr. Urbaniak, were terrific.  The plot, where the teacher/student or leader/follower is reversed during the course of the story is not unique but is presented well.  The other characters, Ms. Posey and Mr. Corrigan, undergo significant development as well.  I don't want to give away too much but I will say that this movie involves characters that are not politically correct and bathroom humor (literally).  The movie is long but you won't notice it as the movie is rich with dialogue (listen carefully), constantly changing scenes, and as already stated well developed chang ing characters.  I've deliberately avoided the plot until now because I was afraid I would say too much, but it involves a drif ter writer (and much more) Henry Fool who encourages a plain introverted garbage man, Simon, to write down his thoughts. The other characters Ms. Posey, Simon's sister, his mother, and Mr. Corrigan, thug patriot(?) are interesting as well.  My thanks to all involved for a great afternoon's entertainment.  Three plus stars.  "},{"Title":"The only film I found thought-provoking but not enjoyable","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found myself in a bizarre predicament with this film. It was a film that I could easily see myself discussing with a group of friends, and remained thinking about it after seeing it. However, I got no enjoyment out of it. From an intellectual point of view there were plenty of topics worthy of discussing, such as the worth of the mass view of your work and what constitutes art versus pornography but the problem for me was the presentation of these ideas.For me, the supposed hero of the story did nothing of his own accord and was led around by the ear of the title character doing exactly what he said. It's hard to root for him if he really has no stock in what he is doing. As well, the title character Henry Fool is unlikeable, and not just because he has a history of deviance. He practically forces his desire for success on someone who otherwise would not want it. There is no dynamic between the two, just a man and his tool that he uses for his own personal gains. To me, neither was likable and it ruined the chance of me rooting for their successes.Meanwhile, the film as a whole seemed needlessly self referential, occasionally fashioning some blatant point through the main character's work or another character's comment that applies almost directly to the film itself. It makes it feel as if the characters are only ways of forcing the writer's concepts about his own work to come to the open, and it uses them for whatever it wants and lets them pick up the pieces afterward.After all this, however, I think that I would still recommend you watch the film. While I have much bad to say about it, it made me think, and when any film does this, it is worth watching simply because I can easily see how a variety of opinions could be formed about the film. Furthermore, not being a writer I found it difficult to identify with any of the predicaments, which might add a personal touch to those who can. At the least I can appreciate an intelligent man trying to make a film of the topics that feel relevant to him. "},{"Title":"GOOD GOD MAN!!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I still am in shock over what i just saw. Henry Fool has got to be the best full length film ever!!!!.....Ok, maybe not. But it is a close second to whatever movie I can't think of right now.  I am visibly shaken by the feelings i experienced from watching it.  The only other movie that comes to mind as being absolutely essential to see would be Surviving Desire which is also a Hal Hartley Masterpiece.  Who is this genius and when can I meet him to thank him for changing my life??  Ever since I witnessed Martin Donovan's character Jude in Surviving Desire, I have been possessed with the will to live every moment of my life without pausing to think of how much pain I may experience from caring about someone or letting my feelings be known. Now, with Henry Fool I feel like Hartley has realized what he is best at and returned to what he knows is his best work. James Urbaniak is amazing! I hope to see him in many more movies. I have been so disillusioned by the so called critically acclaimed actors like Robin Williams and Robert DeNiro. It is so refreshing to see an actor like James Urbaniak. He gives me hope for the future. I am also happy to know that Hartley continues to work with Parker Posey. Henry Fool is my pick for Movie of the Decade!!!  "}{"Title":"4 out of four stars","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool is a wonderful film, easily one of the year's best (so I decided to take on the name of one of the main characters).  I went to the movie despite the fact that Hal Hartley's previous films have never done much for me, his style of storytelling never really appealed to me. I'm glad I went. Great performances all around, working with a literate script (that manages to remain so even during the film's much written about vomiting and defecation scenes), plus a great soundtrack, composed by Hartley himself. "},{"Title":"3 types of there","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Indie director Hal Hartley accomplished the quirky but definitely worth seeing Henry Fool, in which a trashy writer helps a socially awkward garbage man discover his real talent. Since the title character describes three kinds of there, I will use them to describe the movie.There is much in this movie that will give you a new view of your own life.Their talents come across very clearly in this movie.They're the people showing us that movies work best when not showing things exploding for no reason except to show off some star.Anyway, this is certainly a movie that I recommend. If it stars Parker Posey, you know that it's got to be interesting (see also The House of Yes). "},{"Title":"A good story with great potential, but...","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It takes a great deal of care for a film to suspend my disbelief and bring me in.  Usually, the most important aspect of a film to me are the characters.  If I believe the actors and connect with the characters, I get drawn in and become able to care about the story.  That is the exact area in which this film failed me. The main drawback was the title character.  If people like Henry Fool actually exist, I've never encountered them.  People just do not talk like Thomas Jay Ryan did in his part as Henry. Hal Hartley's films are always interesting, always thought-provoking, and always intellectual, but they've never struck me as being believable.  I run into the same problems with Kevin Smith's films.  The characters always sound like they're reading a script.  Arguments always resemble a court case in which the two lawyers always know exactly what the other is about to say and always have an immediate and perfect recital ready to retort.To me, the inescapable result is total transparency for the film.  It always sounds like one person arguing with himself over and over again, always working to get across one single point of view. With many independent films, my suspension of disbelief is lost due to poor acting and poor sets, both of which are unavoidable for the lower-budget indie film.  The sad part about this film is the acting was good, the sets were well-done, and the story was delivered well.  The problems exist in the writing and the poorly-developed characters, a problem that is common when total creative control of the film is in the hands of a single mind.  "},{"Title":"INCONSISTENT","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really loved Hal Hartley's Simple Men and looked forward to this movie, but it was so inconsistent I kept watching only because I assumed it was an allegory that would pay off eventually.  It didn't.  The title character was unbelievably irritating. Thomas Jay Ryan overacts so much I was beginning to think the movie was meant to be this bad, but with the flawed hero image that's painted by Hartley I knew by the end that it was intentional.  He tries to pack so much into this one he creates innumerable holes in his storyline (i.e., Posey's pregnancy coincides with Simon's burst of fame, but he doesn't sign his publishing contract or read Henry's confession until the baby's born - 7-8 months later!; and after living there for 7 years, why is Henry unaware that Mr. Deng's corner coffee/poetry-reading shop has been changed to a fad-following rock n'roll club?) I guess I just didn't embrace the spirit of the message regarding the merits of nonconformity because of the bad acting and storyline. Hartley has done much better.  "},{"Title":"Tries hard, but just misses","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although fairly entertaining, Henry Fool ultimately does not satisfy. What point is being made? Merely that artists are rarely appreciated in their own time, or that if they are, it is because of commercial success? This is hardly an overwhelming revelation. Or if we focus on Henry's fate, what is there other than how unfortunate his luck has been, or how woefully inadequate his self-knowledge? A lot of younger viewers will applaud the audacity of some scenes, but these are trifles, fast food tidbits to keep the viewer entertained. Hartley wisely omits any exposition of the actual memoirs or poetry being regarded; to do so would invite judgment by the viewer, and perhaps make even more ludicrous Simon's eventual winning of the Nobel Prize (after only 7 years of Simon's work being on the scene, we can only conclude that some major house cleaning has been done in the critical circles in Stockholm).  But the film tries to play both at farce and drama (the wedding, suicide, denouement, etc.), or we could forgive these events' unlikeliness. We are just not that impressed that it took Henry to get Simon to come out of his shell for that to carry the film. As Henry makes his run for it at the end, we ask ourselves So? "},{"Title":"We See The Poem","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hartley is a major talent, a unique, competent voice in a bramble of sameness. The last project I saw was No Such Thing, which is one of those that if you don't actively avoid it, it hits you deep in your soul and changes you.Like most Hartley projects, it was more abstract and pure than usual. All theatrical projects are abstract, in fact they need to be abstract to seem real. But these projects, and especially Thing were abstract in unusual ways that were carefully sculpted as artistic statements with power.It is a sophisticated method for what I call folding, where the nature of the presentation is explicit in the presentation, and carries much of the message, the art. But this is different. It is celebrated because it is more normal, and it has performances that seem close to what we normally see. In this, he's found a sort of sweet spot between the highly formal approach of his other projects and the acceptably strange stuff we get from, say Wes Anderson, or in Napolian Dynamite or Igby Goes Down.It still has lots of talk, and talk about talk and writing and media, Hartley topics.But all in all, I was disappointed. I wouldn't have been so if it were not a Hartley project. But I know he can cut deeply with his deviations. This seems too safe.The odd thing is that the device in the story is a poem that is so weird and powerful it changes lives, falls magically on lives. It is rejected by the folks looking for normal stuff but carries the poet to fame just based on its effectiveness. This is Hartley's usual tack, but this film is too conventional to cut deeply.Yes, it has superb performances. Even a one minute scene with a girl in a library (Rachel Miner) who gets an anonymous, personal poem, is so deftly done, that one scene inspires a whole imagined future.But because there is better, more unique poetry from this man, I'll direct you elsewhere in his work.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hartley comes of age.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An insightful piece on the collapse of a world gone mad. Our central figures consist of Henry Fool who enters the simple life of Simon, the garbage person. All hell breaks loose as simple Simon unleashes his sedate wrath in the form of a poem, (that we, the viewer, never get to read but know of its power from the trouble it causes). A little epic that says more about the USA than any other film has over the last decade. Director, John Sayles, has come close on a number of occasions but not in this grander manner. "},{"Title":"Something special","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The most underrated movie I've seen...This week, I wanted to watch the best of the best movies that I haven't seen, and out of all the movies like Se7en, The Usual Suspects and The Green Mile, that are considered the best of the best, the only one worth the 10, is this little known indie film. There's just something special about this movie I cant describe. The acting is top notch, as well as writing, and the ending is ingenious. But, I do think some people will dislike this movie. Some, like me, will love it, some will find it bad but there is no way to give this movie less than 4/10. "},{"Title":"Because I &#x85; people say that &#x85;you know&#x85;  I see.","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A seriocomic epic from '97, possibly Hartley's magnum opus, with a running time of over two hours, a cast of dozens and gorgeous sharp-focus cinematography. Fans should be reassured that the familiar Hartley performance style is still at work&#x97;oddly inflected line readings with long, pregnant pauses in between and the occasional two-characters scene with the actors circling each other like wary kabuki dancers. The rambling, often preposterous screenplay could have been composed by the titular Fool himself, sprawled out at the kitchen table with a sixer of Bud, but somehow all the indie shenanigans really come together in a way that kept me watching attentively to the last, ambiguous shot (which direction is Henry running in?). At about the two-hour mark, this stylized, shambolic comedy turns serious, bringing out the themes of guilt, atonement and personal responsibility that have been implicit all along. Great performances by the usual expert cast, though, like other reviewers, I missed Martin Donovan, Adrienne Shelly and other regulars from earlier Hartley films. "},{"Title":"Henry is No Fool....","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now, I'm not really a literary person, but I love film and this gem sparkles. For me, an unknown director and two lead actors was given credence by solidly good reviews and when it was shown on Sky Arts, I recorded it. I had heard of - and seen Parker Posey in films before, though.Henry Fool covers vast areas of literary philosophy and it is itself literary in its sheer story-telling. Ever intriguing, the characters jump off the screen, larger-than-life, yes, but, oh, so honestly displayed, we feel we know these individuals, like they were friends and neighbours.James Urbaniak, as the gangly, bespectacled refuse collector, Simon, whose social graces are near nil, who we see right at the start stumbling across a fornicating couple, is superb. Via several narrative routes, Simon gets to meet up with roguish, ex-con (sex offender) Faustian, Henry Fool, who is a confident, scruffy novelist (Thomas Jay Ryan). Henry gets Simon to write, in an attempt to get his thoughts and feelings out and to communicate better with the world.Over the film's two-and-a-quarter hours, we witness Henry messing up his life more and more - getting Simon's sister (Posey) pregnant and drinking into addiction and getting further into debt. Meanwhile, Simon's poetry is cautiously received, initially cited as 'pornographic' but daring and brilliant, culminating in a Nobel Prize. Henry, meanwhile, always on the cusp (but never getting there) of finishing his own great memoirs, being actually rather untalented, falls further apart.What ensues from Hartley's Cannes-winning screenplay is a detailed, original and very realistic tale of two oddballs and their surrounding loved ones and associates, which never rushes either them, nor us.The sparse, atmospheric score (also attributed to Hal Hartley - source IMDb) superbly adds to the feel and tone of the film.This indie flick is probably too oddball and has no star names to draw it from near obscurity into the mainstream. Not only is it immensely enjoyable but involving and engaging, too. I usually delete films from my provider's box, once seen, but this one I want to see again. Fine film. "}{"Title":"Arty but still worth watching","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's pretentious and a bit too long, but writer/director Hal Hartley manages to get out of his own way enough to make Henry Fool a satisfactory excursion into the offbeat.Simon Grim (James Urbaniak) is an alienated and nearly mute garbage man. He lives with his aimlessly slutty sister (Parker Posey) and his burnt out husk of a mother (Maria Porter). Their quietly desperate lives are upended one day when Henry Fool (Thomas Jay Ryan) takes up residence in the dingy basement apartment in the Grim family home. Henry is obscene and impulsive, debonair and contemptuous. He's like a bipolar homeless man with a masters degree in English literature, someone who always comports himself as being much smarter than his circumstances.Henry is a writer and claims to have written a confession that will roil the world with its power and insight, but he won't let Simon read it. What Henry does do is inspire Simon to put his own thoughts to paper with the result being an epic poem of such profane beauty that everyone who encounters it must respond with either devotion or loathing. Henry guides Simon into cultivating his own talent in spite of the world's opposition, while falling in love with his sister and revealing more of a past that turns out not to be quite as high minded as Henry likes to put on.Eventually Simon takes on the life of Henry's dreams. Henry, however, falls down into Simon's old life until an act of either heroism or debauchery moves Simon to try and salvage what's left of his one-time mentor's existence.This is what you call a character drama where what the characters do is less important to enjoying the film than how they do it. What distinguishes Henry Fool from other such work is that it's really not much of a showcase for its cast. Thomas Jay Ryan is given a charismatic part to chew on, but the other actors either have little to do or, like James Urbaniak, they play characters of such limited scope that it never seems like they do much.No, what makes this urban yarn of frustrating reality work is its slow unfolding of a paradox. Simon Grim is a sub-ordinary man who meets the seemingly extraordinary Henry Fool and is led to being something more than he could have ever imagined. But that same transformation of Simon shows Henry to be nothing at all like what he appears. Simon becomes what Henry always presented himself as, and Henry is forced to abandon his dreams and become what Simon was. It's a very careful take down of intellectual pretension underscored by an admiration of real creative ability. And yes, a movie can attack pretension while being itself pretentious.Throw in cultural observations, some amusing and some overblown, along with a prescient understanding of what the internet was going to do to the publishing business, and you've got a diverting but slightly taxing motion picture. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Collision with Literature","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a story of a whirlwind force of character that blusters in and transmogrifies a community for both good and bad. In doing so, the essence of the neighborhood is somehow brought to engender the truth of being, and to simply live life through experience, eschewing society's rules of proper conduct. In doing so, a caricatured world is created that seems pleasantly larger than life in order to express some greater deed. The result is brilliant. The characters are quirky and disturbingly fun, largely unbelievable and yet endearing in a unique fashion. The dialog was memorably sensational, with Henry Fool leading the pack with his celebrated utterances. The direction was the culmination of Hal Hartley's greater experience rolled up into one amazing flick. AS well, the camera man was unobtrusively masterful, using the tricks of the trade with subtle wit. Both painfully direct and wickedly humorous, Henry Fool ends with the same symbolic mastery of his awe-inspiring entrance. Merci beaucoup.Genruk of Evil Eye Reviews "},{"Title":"A True Original","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I came upon this film not knowing of Director Hal Hartley; i.e., despite seeking out independent and art house stuff. I concede I've a major crush on Parker Posey. Try my odd approach I started watching the first half of FAY GRIMM, the 2007 sequel to HENRY FOOL. Only upon taking a break did I learn that FG was a follow-up. I then went back and watched the entire HF before returning to watch the second half of FG. That this worked so well for me must say something about Mr. Hartley's film making. I'm guessing something good.Another IMDb User states that You've never a film like HENRY FOOL. I could not agree more. Devices like subtle (and not-so-subtle) humor and gross outs (See CLERKS) are not new. But HF does the impossible it presents an absolutely repugnant protagonist, a dull foil and a stagnant setting and endears the lout to us and makes an ugly mundane Queens neighborhood endearing. I could write a small book about the relationship between Henry and Simon. The former is a fraud, knows he is such and even knows that others know he is such. No one sees through Henry better than Simon, who despite all his own inadequacies, understands that Henry is espousing wisdom that Henry does not fully understand and may not even believe. That Simon becomes motivated seems almost adverse reaction to Henry's unsolicited rants. The relationship continues but what do we call it? Nurturing? Festering? Pro-active? Antagonistic? One-ups-mans-ship? Is it Lennon/McCartney or Crips/Bloods?This film becomes just so entertaining that I forgot that I was watching non-commercial, independent fare that wasn't going to blossom into elaborate sets, international settings (though such changes in FAY GRIM) or other expensive treats. I was having so much fun I replaced my scholar's cap with a backwards baseball cap and began rooting for..... well,.... actually I didn't know what I was rooting for. Maybe that is the beauty of HF. But when I got done watching HF I had the distinct belief that I had seen something original that was the product of - if not genius (I hate that word) - at least sincere inspiration and energy. I dare you to see it.PS/I've no clear idea on why having a Budweiser can in almost every scene works so well. Miss Posey is absolutely hysterical and her performance tops even her Christopher Guest work. "},{"Title":"An Entirely Personal Film, Created From Scratch.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What if the mentor who gave you success turned out to be the worst writer you've ever read...and was counting on your newfound influence? What if he married your sister? What if his ego was as big as Montana and at the same time as fragile as glass? How could you ever repay him? How could you ever resolve these questions? Ask Hal Hartley. Or see his movie.This independent seriocomedy opens by studying a generally bungling garbageman named Simon Grim. He soon makes perhaps the first friend he's ever made in his life with Henry Fool, a sharply droll scoundrel, though a failure as an author. Henry's giant ego, what with his delusions of literary genius and grandeur, not to mention his comparison between his pedophilia and that of Socrates, justifies his wily, prose-like lines. Henry incidentally exposes Simon to the life of literature, who then writes a profoundly staggering poem, as we judge by the reactions of all who come across even a few lines of it. As Simon is swept up on his rise to the prestigious apex of the most talked-about underground poet in the world, Henry's own endeavors at recognition merely bring about unpleasant dismissal by the very publisher who commits with Simon to issue his already legendary poem.Hartley is a very personal filmmaker. I particularly like a director whose film is entirely owned by him or her, especially one with an unlikely extensive running time like this one. Because his script is entirely his own, and created from scratch, he has actors suggest more than they divulge. Simon is a great poet because of how socially bound he is, never speaking or changing his expression and thus always looking inward, much like great poets have, like Rilke for instance.Hartley wisely doesn't show the poem or the confessions over which Henry has long toiled. Whether they are good or bad depends on the histrionics of the outside story. They are almost the classic mystery items in so many thrillers and pulpy crime pictures, but to a much superior effect. They are not subsidiary, but vital. "},{"Title":"What a Surprise!","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wasn't going to review this one, because I only watched/own these films because I'm an avid Goldblum fan. Yeah, I know he's not in Henry Fool, but he IS in Fay Grim, and because Fay Grim makes no sense WHATsoever without having first watched Henry Fool, I have them both.Having started out that way, Henry Fool was, for me, something to get through in order to get to the good stuff with Jeff.Boy, was I surprised. Henry Fool is a brilliant piece of work. I was shocked, frankly. Now, I can't stop telling my friends about it. This is thoughtful, even if it is a bit dialog-heavy. It is fun, even as it takes itself seriously. It appears superficially fun and quirky, even as it surreptitiously broadens its depth. It entertains, even as it teaches us to shoot for the stars.Henry appears to follow his own advice - he appears to shoot for the stars, when all the while, he seems to be buying into his own con...or does he? This film is awesomely quirky, but there is substance beneath the idiosyncratic screenplay. This has become one of my new favorites. However, you can't fully appreciate the depth of the deceit without following this one up with a good strong dose of Fay Grim. Check it out, or lose out on a GREAT ending to this film.I would recommend this for just about anyone who likes intrigues, livid dramas, and/or Parker Posey. I have to say this is one of her best performances. She's a NUT in this! It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"You should really see it","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Henry Fool' is a great film, and is also one of my favorites. I think that people should see it because it's great. I'll just give you people out there who haven't seen this movie a little written previewFirst off we have this guy named Simon's side of the movie. He is a nerdy garbage man living with his sister and depressed mother. According to his mother and sister, he has never had a friend until one day out of the blue, a man named Henry Fool comes along. He inspires Simon to write, and he does. He writes a bunch of pornography that everyone says is sick and twisted. He tries to get his poem published, but sadly receives a bunch of letters from the publishers saying that they hate his poem. Poor Simon. Even though the publishers hate it, there are two people who like it. Henry Fool, and this one high school girl who asks him for his permission for his poem being in her high school paper. Henry, trying to be a good friend, asks Simon's sister Fay to type up a portion of Simon's poem on the internet. It's here where people find it, and it starts appearing on the news. After, he settles a deal with a publisher named Angus James. He then becomes a famous poet.Second, we have Henry Fool's side of the movie. He has a parole officer because he's been bad. He is known as a criminal, but he's not that dangerous. Well anyway, he supports Simon on his poetry while writing his own confession. Later, his criminal past does catch up to him after he kills someone and needs a plan to get out of the country.You should really see this movie. I've seen it ten times and I'm still not tired of it. "},{"Title":"Europe doesn't know much 'bout Hartley's work","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hartley is a great observer, and Henry Fool is a solid proof of it. A film which is more real than reality itself. It is so cold that it gets warm, so slow that is seems fast(like all his cinema Hartley drawed one of the most interesting characters ever seen on a screen, an heterogenic rebel called Henry Fool. I felt deeply touched when I saw how the starting shyness of Urbaniak turns into a stable and strong self-security, and the collateral effect which causes around him. I'd like to remark the emotional load contained in the soundtrack, which I'm sure you know it is composed and partially played by Hartley itself. Minimalism is a word very attached to Hartley, but the real magic resides in the wise usage of it. I still haven't seen The Book of Life, because Europe doesn't know much about Hal (I love and comprenhend him so much...)  "},{"Title":"emotional","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, the dominant structure of the film is about expressionist of some feelings behind the negative personality of the garbage man that he is not also aware of his potential. our main character henry fool is the main actor of garbage man's success,but the genius person must react the situations more quickly. the diaolg between henry and the nobel prize winner is breaking the walls between them as before they were teacher and student and after ýt turned the opposite way after that part of the movie. maybe ý have alotof feelings but my words are not enough. someone must watch it and after he must say something about it.  "},{"Title":"A truly artistic masterpiece","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film Henry Fool is a genius portrait of a poet, Simon Grim and his muse, Henry Fool. It shows how an ordinary garbage man has the unique talent of writing in a way that really moves people. We are not told if it is good or not and we never see or hear any of his writings but many of the people that read his material seem to have an urge to react in some way, for instance Simons mother commits suicide after reading the poem and his sister gets an instant menstruation. The whole movie is filmed in a strange way that makes the whole film seem like its a theatre play set in a painting and with the actors, especially Thomas Jay Ryan (Henry) and James Urbaniak (Simon), acting very theatrical, without being stiff and amateurlike, this film is truly art and it makes you think a lot. The humor in the movie is seen in the grotesque way Simon ends up becoming a writer, cause its really quite a lot of unfortunate things that happens to him before his life brightens, mostly because of his friendship with Henry Fool. Henry Fool is a very unfortunate character himself that finds his only meaning in life by finding Simons talent of writing and making the poem a succes. His own book is really not what he thinks himself and his life is a mess but he kind of lifes his life through Simon. This is just a great film and you should see it. Yours sincerely Kenneth Abildgaard  "},{"Title":"You can't put a cage around a man's soul","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Henry Fool' is truly a different type of movie that shows the transformation of a reclusive Simon Grim  (James Urbaniak) from garbage man to poet. Simon is encouraged by Henry Fool (Thomas Jay Ryan) to devote himself to writing. His work is well received by some and generates controversy with others. However, as the Simon progresses, he begins to see that Henry's tirades to the tune of `you can't be a cage around a man's soul' have little to do with actually being an artist.This film is definitely a drama but you never get the feeling that you are supposed to take it 100% seriously. In this respect, Henry Fool fails. It does not convince the audience of its validity. The characters are extremes and difficult to relate to. On the other hand, the acting is very good and the plot provides enough surprises, though hardly realistic and believable, that it is an interesting movie and worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Hilarious and Deep","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At one level the story is a hilarious comedy, sometimes over the top, perhaps occasionally bordering on bad taste (but that's okay). At another level the story is a deep study of literature, and artistic activity in general. The story raises questions about the psychology of the artist. The story shows that, often, fools and grim people are attracted to artistic activities. It also shows that what makes a work of art worthy or excellent is not always what you would expect. Perhaps the greatest achievement of the movie is to have created two authentic and unforgettable literary characters, Simon Grim and Henry Fool. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've seen!!!","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool is a great film.  The characters are amazing, and the acting is even better.  Parker Posey (who is my favorite actress) is superb, giving one of her best performances ever as sex addicted white trash. I must admit that when I noticed that Hal Hartly directed it I was a little reluctant to rent it.  I don't really enjoy Hartly's other work including Flirt and Amateur both of which Ms.Posey is in.  But after I watched it, I felt compelled to tell every body I knew about it. The Script was hilarious espically Parker's second line in the film God I wanna get f****d.  You okay?  See ya.  This is the type of writing every film needs and this one does. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a bad ending","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For me, Hal Hartley is easily the only American director whose work I have seen lately and Really liked. I had seen 3 movies before this one and I was kind of afraid that he might be caught in a rut, not be able to deliver something new, something that wouldn't remind me too much of his previous work. Maybe lacking enough new ideas. Well, he definitely succeeded with this one. Partly anyway.Until about the last ten minutes the characters really got into me, the conflicts and situations these people found themselves in really touched me. But. In the end all that suddenly fell apart. And did that really abruptly. In such a way that I found myself thinking that WTF is going on here, there's no way that these characters could think of doing something like that or feel this way.Fortunately I still remember emotions everything before that generated in me. Yet, the ending did put a sour stamp on it for me. "},{"Title":"90s in action","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The central theme of what is possibly the best film made in America in the '90s ABOUT America in the '90s -- that the transition from the mainstream to the original is plagued and diverted by cultural roadblocks that auto-translate the original into the mainstream, in effect creating a society that caricutarizes itself at every step -- is ironically and tragically played out in the viewer comments to this film. It is apparently impossible for an American audience to distinguish the mentality or temperament of a character or an event from that of a film itself as a structural entity. It is furthermore difficult for this population to distinguish the intellectual from the pretentious. The brilliantly created web of major, minor and medium characters  -- from the fad-driven publisher who is loathe to digitalize books to a mother and sister who laugh hysterically at the idea of Simon becoming a poet -- fit perfectly and organically into a society where the internet can instantly make something that personifies fringe (this doesn't mean that is good -- we are never given a glimpse of the poem)into readily accessible and, eventually, mainstream. I'm not sure, and I'm not sure I'm supposed to be positive whether this is good or bad. It is a slippery slope either way, and the ambiguity of whether Henry is running to or from the plane to get the Nobel Prize at the end made me want this almost two hour movie to last at least another couple. I am consoled by the fact that this is only my first Hal Hartley.  "},{"Title":"I want to be Simon Grim for Halloween!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This one snuck up on me. I was renting movies as usual and had remembered seeing a preview for this like a year ago, all I remembered was the title. It was great! Here it is a week later and I'm still thinking about it. I now want to see everything by Hal Hartly.  "},{"Title":"this film was hilarious AND thoughtful","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't see why people didn't get this as a comedy - sure, it was a lot more than that, but I must say that, among other things, I laughed uncontrollably (until it hurt to breathe) at the scene where henry drags simon to a strip club.  this film explodes with incredible, understated, deadpan humor, and thomas jay ryan's bad-theater performance is so apt - so pathetic and repugnant, yet bracingly heroic.  this is the best film I've seen in a very long time. "},{"Title":"Life is not altogether beautiful, but hopefully colourful","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry (the Fool) is a mirror of life, and of everything that is a part of life and that gives life its worth - from love, indecency, hope to utter hopelessness.He is the ear to the ground and at the same time he is the inspiration for others. He is faith and faithlessness in one, he is both nature and anti-nature. He is ready to tear down the same house that he was recently so passionately building.The key question of the movie is posed in the closing sceneHe is smuggled out through customs in a disposed-of manner, disguised and with a fake identity.  Whereto (or rather wherefrom) does Henry run in such a hurry in the airport?   The answer is at the same time the entire, bitter-sweet logic of this splendid movie.The movie made me think of an old Culture Club song, Colour by Numbers, which I think goes like this    When I looked in your eyes Felt the spirit of man Demanding more than just a smile Took a chance for a while Speaking in tongues That float us down rivers  The past will remind usAll colours we choseWhen i told you those lies Felt the spirit of love  Demanding more than compromise Took a chance for a while  Speaking in tongues That float us down rivers The past will remind usAll colours we choseSome people say that the way that we live Is out of this place And some people say that the way that we live Is blinded by fateAll colours we chose  "},{"Title":"Is Hal Hartley the Sondheim of movies. I think so! WORDS!!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the style of movie that makes up for the dross that is force fed us. Words are the way to tell a story and what wonderful words, so complex and original. Who cares about the plot, as a vehicle the plot is worthy enough to present the tale of a diverse range of people. I cared for the characters, I mean I really cared for them, and that hardly ever happens in any movie, it's hard enough in life. This wonderful movie/story will not suit everyones taste. That's that's the way it should be. How boring would the world be if every day was sunny and we all agreed on what was worthy and what is crap. We'd all go helter skelter the way of Simon Grim's mother. Sondheim and Hartley could act as a foil for each other, one presents his story with such a beautiful simplicity of words, and Hal, well hell, he's eloquent! Worth the look. If it's not your cuppa tea you've still got Runaway Bride etc. Dare yourself to try something different, but don't read, or if you do read, don't believe a word of what the marketing gurus have slapped on the video cover. This is not a film in the 'normal' sense. Thank Hal Hartley and God for that. "},{"Title":"My faith in American movie has been restored","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool has succeeded to restore my faith in American movie. The main strength of the movie is its use of irony. Characters are well developed and authentic, however sudden moments of transcending beyond their character and use of rich language ironically break their authenticity. This effect would not be possible without skilled actors. The philosophical content of Henry Fool reflects continental existentialism with a touch of irony, the advertising of Bud-beer is done with irony, the role of the internet is ironized, American intellectualism is ironized, the role of literature is ironized and even narrative techniques are ironized. Combined with great actors, impressive filmography, and sufficient film length Henry Fool is a successful movie.  "},{"Title":"For the wannabe in all of us.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool is truly possessing of brilliance.  It's amazing that a film like this even gets made these days -- and then gets virtually no recognition, Academy or otherwise.  I felt it possessed a kind of haunting honesty which caused me to dwell on my own particular issues of denial and limitations as far as degree of talent and ability are concerned.  Henry, while certainly classifiable as either a pseudo intellectual or literary snob -- or both -- did possess many gifts.  Like Soliere to Mozart, he was able to detect in Simon true genius in its rawest form.  And through his profuse encouragement, he persuaded Simon to extricate himself from a life as a menial trashman to that of literary giant-cum-poet.  He seemed to do this, though, in an almost self-serving fashion.  This is what he hoped he saw in himself.  You can't help but sense this due to Henry's constant misgivings in permitting anyone to read his confessions, which later we learn are little more than the misguided ramblings of a self-proclaimed literary renegade who spent a triple-anum writing his tome in the pokey for doing the hokey-pokey with a 13 year-old.SPECIAL MOMENTS  (I) Henry's long-winded analyses of culture and counter-culture while rationalizing to himself and Simon that he is obviously a victim and misunderstood genius that present-day society seeks to destroy but will in future times name a library after.  (II) Simon's coming-of-age awakening throughout the story and his unselfish acknowledging to Henry in the end that he owes him everything.  (III) Faye's empty-headed emotions constantly astir, sexually and emotionally, culminating in parental surrender after having child Ned -- who seems destined to become Uncle Simon's protege.THE BEST MOMENT  The ending. ....... > Now that's a movie. "}{"Title":"Masterful character study","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found the characters in this absolutely fascinating.  Yes, Henry is pretentious, yes is is not as smart as he believes, but that is what makes him so much more interesting in the end.  I have heard many people complain that this film is slow and boring, but I found it mesmerizing.  I wanted the film to go on for another hour.  I wanted more of the wonderful characters that Hartley painted on his sprawling cityscape of a canvas.Henry Fool is not about the depravity of Henry, the success of Simon, or the tragedies that the Grim/Fool family face; it is about the reactions of people when the learn who they really are.   "},{"Title":"Maybe Brilliant","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a while back and have thought of it often since. I have this notion about what its all about and what it all means.A creative person is inspired by both the good and the bad. The good influences tend to get a disproportionate amount of attention, but they can oftentimes be less important than the bad. When I say bad, I don't mean destructive, but rather I mean those influences which are greatly flawed or of low artistic merit. Great works often come out of protest, whether consciously or subconsciously concieved. Maybe that is the case here.Henry is the force that pushes Simon to the task of writing what becomes a crushingly important epic poem. Of course, we later learn, perhaps to little surprise, that Henry is a terrible writer himself. Yet, despite his utter lack of ability, he is the essential force at work in the narrative.I think Henry relates to the viewer in the same way he does to Simon. I apologize to Thomas Jay Ryan if I am wrong here, but his performance is not good in the conventional sense. He is melodramatic and sometimes just plain ridiculous. But I think that is part of the idea. Perhaps the viewer can be inspired, artistically or otherwise, simply by the flaws of Ryan's performance, which are so evident. I know it at least made me think. His performance stirs because it is off, not reprehensible like some mailed-in action superstar performance, just off. Maybe this is brilliant. "},{"Title":"Mixed nuts","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was ok.  Some funny moments.  Some shocking moments.  Some good moments. Some overlong moments.  And in whole nothing AMAZING but the original plot was incredible with the poem that changes everyone's lives in a different way.  If that had been more elaborate, this film would have been genius!!!! Too bad it's not.  It's ok "},{"Title":"Worth the Watch","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented and watched Henry Fool last night, and am so glad that I didn't give in to my instincts throughout the movie to get up, turn it off, and go to bed.  Although this movie is quite long, it is well worth it.  This was definitely one of the best movies I have seen.  I have read a lot of the reviews of this movie, and there seems to be an underlying theme of disapproving reviewers that the movie had no point, was too long, or to choppy.  I don't know for sure, but I am beginning to think that is the whole point of this movie.  I don't think you are supposed to come to some conclusive decision as to the meaning or moral of this movie, at least not right away.  I found myself feeling very uncomfortable while watching this, and I later realized why.  Most popular, and not so popular, media of all forms, spoon feed us how we are supposed to feel about things we see or hear.  We as a society are programmed to come to quick judgements.  But, one cannot make any judgements about these characters, the story, why things happen, or why they don't happen.  We can't tell who's good or bad. Nothing is spelled out for you - it's up to your perception, and it really gets you thinking.  I have thought about this movie all day, unable to make a judgement as to whether or not I liked it.  I don't think you can really do that with this movie.  It reflects reality better than any movie I have seen to date.  Henry Fool is not good or bad, stupid and boring or amazingly entertaining.  Henry Fool just IS.  That's what's so cool about it.  What a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"First Hal Hartley film inspires and confuses me!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the first Hal Hartley film I have seen but I was intrigued enough by it to do a web search and ended up here. I mostly wanted to read what others said to get some clarity to my thoughts on the film.  I really appreciate those of you who offered your analysis and insight.  Very interesting! The comedy was certainly dark and something about the characters reminded me of Roald Dahl (Charlie and The Chocolate Factory) except for adult consumption, what with the lasciviousness of Simon's nympho sis, Fay. The characters were intriguing.  And as with real people you meet, they grow from caricature to more developed people, but not in any obvious, bursting way.  I disliked Fay at first, cackling at Simon for thinking he could be a writer, not to mention, throwing hot water on him, an act which did get her to wake up to what she was becoming.  As he grew into a poet, she grew as a human being. I think that the question one of the reviews here asks-Was Hartley asking about the merits of making a living writing poetry vs. living the poetic life-is really insightful and clarifies my basic thoughts on the film.  Thank you! Simon really never seems to change THAT much.  And let's face it, next to Henry, he is BORING. Sure, he starts writing, but we as an audience never get to see his writing. Now, obviously it does affect and help people. Henry, on the other hand, never ends up writing anything publishable or good, but he helps and touches people in his life.  Of course, he helps Simon by inspiring him to write and teaching him about literature and life. He helps the doubting priest, who is beating himself up with guilt over the fact that he doubts.  Henry points out to him You doubt because you CARE! And what quality could really be more important in a priest than true caring.  Henry's caring is evident when he helps little girl Pearl, abandoned by her neglectful father.  The image of him carrying the little innocent girl on his back while he bicycles her home is one of my favorite in the whole movie.  As the priest says later Henry is at his best when he is helping others. One final question.  Which way is Henry running in the end? Toward the plane or away?  Was it purposefully ambiguous?Elizabeth "},{"Title":"Hartley brings warmth to his icy world","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is this the first time Hartley has understood character? It's an issue he's skated around before, but at last we can accept what would have simply been his talking puppets in Simple Men and Unbelievable Truth as real, breathing beings. The obsession with grotesque bodily functions can now be read as human, not alien. Thank God. "},{"Title":"Hartley is back in form.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know that no one else will agree with me, least of all Hal Hartley, but I like to see this film as something of an atonement for 'Flirt.' I have long been an admirer of Hartley's work; his films resonate with me. But let's be honest, Flirt was a mistake. Always a film-maker of ideas, Hartley let the idea take over. I feared for his future -- A dreadful tranformation from Auteur to Poseur seemed in the offing. After seeing Henry Fool this afternoon, I believe the danger is passed. Woody Allen made Stardust Memories, yet he managed to find redemption. Henry Fool proves definitively that Hartley is no fool himself. "},{"Title":"a little overambitious","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Hal Hartley's work, partially because in his efforts to place style just a bit higher than substance he's yielded some really interesting results.  Language, pointedly written and used as quick barbs with portentous spaces between them, can say a lot when paired with simple, lovely imagery.  That's his forte.  He paints a visual picture of ordinary suburbia with the resonance of a Hopper painting. He makes gas stations, cheap diners and run-down houses into poetry. And the people who live in them walk amongst these ordinary places like anesthetized automatons waiting to be de-thawed by feeling.  It's fun to watch them wake/warm up.Henry Fool is so completely different from his other work to date. It is an epic, certainly - it's LONG.  The stylistic language remains but it is longer, softer, more philosophic and thus often more alienating.  I think the film suffers a little from its scope - is it about Henry or is it about Simon?  Is it making a value judgment about a life lived AS poetry or as a life lived THROUGH poetry? Is pure inspiration as noble as pure success?I liked it, but I walked away from it exhausted and with no lingering images to grab onto. In comparison to his other films, so much is said, felt and expressed - and so many ideas are thrown about and examined - maybe I'm just in a state of shock from the sudden change.Plot aside, Thomas Jay Ryan is an intense, sensual and exciting actor. Somebody put him in more films, please.  "},{"Title":"Words, words, words","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If only a film could be given an award for word usage. HENRY FOOL is a bad movie, with bad acting, a horrendous plot, and no through-line. HOWEVER... The word usage and way that the characters spoke was absolutely eloquent. As a writer, I wish I could write dialogue this amazing. This is a helplessly boring film which goes nowhere and takes forever to get there, but the words are amazing... 1 star out of 4. "},{"Title":"A Small-Town Epic","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A stranger comes into town, and awakens a sleeping...poet.What an amazing, pleasant surprise this film is.  After being a Hartley fan for several years, I had grown used to his style, and was greatly enjoying watching him evolve and mature as a director over that span.  Henry Fool is nothing short of a breakthrough, for an already talented filmmaker.  Hartley compromises a bit of his style, to make a film that surpasses everything else he's done.Henry Fool is to small towns, what Lawrence of Arabia is to war.  The landscape is not vast, the scnenery is not panoramic--but the emotions and depth of feeling is.  The thought that goes into every gesture in this film seems to illuminate, every gaze goes in two directions, within and without. The characters are so well explored and developed, that we don't want to part with them at the end.  The story is not only brilliant, but when combined with Hartley's direction, it works on every level, leaving an impression that kept my mind mulling over it for days.  One of the hardest things to do in film is subtlety, and Henry Fool finds it, to perfection. My pick for film of 1998. "}{"Title":"The film that made me a Hal Hartley fan","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It has been quite a while since I've seen that film, yet it has stayed with me.  This is one of the better examples of Hal Hartley's peculiar genius, and an example of why character development is so important.  What Anton Chekhov was to literature, Hal Hartley has accomplished on film, even making some of the most detestable characters sympathetic on some level while not ignoring their glaring flaws.  The ending, which I will leave to you to experience, was easily one of the most subtly and intelligently done I've ever seen, and mainstream Hollywood would do well to learn from this and others of his films. "},{"Title":"spoiler - updating my review 12 years later","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm going to update this film review, being much older now. here 12 years later. Hartley should remake the film from the girl's point of view. you know. the 13 year old one that the guy has underage sex with (i.e. statutory rape). the one that doesn't even have a name in this film. its really really ***** up . i want to know about her life, not this guys life. in fact i don't know if i really like this movie as much as i once did. it is not exactly sympathetic to the guy... he is not the hero. but then again. i just ... i want to know how her life is, i don't care about his life. ***** him and ***** his life. -----------well, what is the point of this review. i reckon i will tell Hal Hartley and everyone else that worked on this movie was good for me to see.i mean i cried and cried and cried when the mom died, and other places. i know people like these characters. i am like these characters. when i see them up there, it gives me precious visions and dreams of myself and the people i know. these dreams and visions are among the most powerful and positive things in my life, i believe.the movie is about people, poverty, depression, mental illness, love, marriage, sex, babies, death, hate, violence, community, fear, anger, cowardice, forgiveness, art, and courage.i mean for chrissake the main title character is an adult out of prison for having sex with a 13 year old girl, which makes him a pedophile and a statutory rapist. the movie is about him and how he lives after that.compare it to other Hal Hartley you got a weird fascination with porn, male heroes with extremely questionable, evil pasts, not sure how dangerous they are, anti-social hateful ranters who cant seem to fit into the whole 'job for money' thing, police in dual role, as destroyers and oppressors, but also as caring helpers, part of the community,incredibly odd off hand meetings with supposedly insignificant and unimportant people that in fact become the most important most significant most influential characters in each others livesoh yeah, and this movie has more to say about the internet than i have ever learned in my years of studying computer science. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this film is intriguing on the surface, it has too many inconsistencies to hold up as a good work. The film starts with a tone of anger, then magically morphs the entire cast through stages of enlightenment,sadness, more anger, etc. What is strange is how all the characters seem to change at exactly the same time, some of them for no apparent reason. Throughout all of this, Hartley interjects shocking and gross scenes of people vomiting, sitting on the toilet, having desperate sexual encounters, random violence, and a suicide. These seem to come up at regular intervals about every fifteen minutes, whether they are relevant to the plot or not. Hartley sabotages the good qualities of this film with the shock junk enough to make it a poor film.    "},{"Title":"Masterpiece with a perfect ending","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. One of maybe three films I consider a masterpiece. I have read many reviews, though, where the reviewer seems to think the ending is an over-the-top, sell-out happy ending. I disagree. I think it's a great ending, but it's not as clear-cut as some people assume. I won't give it away for anyone who hasn't seen it, but in the very last shot which shows Henry running along an airport runway, watch it carefully  It is not made clear from the background of the shot which direction he is running, whether he's running *away* from something or *towards* it---which I love, because it leaves it up to the audience to decide for themselves what direction he's running in. I don't think it really matters either way; the point is that Henry has made a decision, and he's not just running with it, he's embracing it with all of his being. That's my interpretation of the ending---and I love it. I wonder if Hal Hartley did this on purpose (if so, it's brilliant), and I wonder if anyone else has noticed this.Also, the score, like everything about this movie, is subtle but powerful. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.  Best film of 1997","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply brilliant.  Cast is perfect.  Hal Hartley finally perfected his already highly enjoyable style with this underrated, understated slice of literate filmmaking.  I will buy it on DVD as soon as it's released.  On my forever-hypothetical list of twenty all-time best films. "},{"Title":"Is there a synonym for ham-fisted?","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was bad.  I like art cinema and am sad to see it so under-appreciated, but all those voices praising Henry Fool as the savior of the independent American movie have to be delusionally desperate to hang their hopes on it.The acting wooden.  The dialogue preposterous.  The plot negligible and ludicrous.  The blank stares following every utterance excruciating.Warning spoilers ahead.Besides the fact it's over two horrible hours long--aren't art films supposed to be LESS bloated and mind-numbing than their big-picture counterparts?--we are given no indication that Simon's poetry is actually any good (It makes a mute girl sing. So...?) and is popular only because some people find it obscene--hooray for the Internet!Very little actually happens onscreen (the talking-head factor exceeds that in The People vs. Larry Flynt, another horribly overhyped mistake), subplots are introduced and dispatched clumsily (Congressman who? and why's the bully working for him?), characters either don't change (Simon dresses more nicely well, good for him!) or change inexplicably (just why did the parole officer help Henry escape the country?).  It's a lot like life, except in life you usually know what's going on and it's sometimes interesting.The only redeeming factor in this film (and the only good laugh) is a cameo by Camille Paglia, human punch line, but it comes way too late to be any consolation for the viewer.Avoid! Avoid! "},{"Title":"Not Mr. Hartley's best work","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm puzzled as to why several reviewers have rated Henry Fool as Hal Hartley's best film to date. While there is much to admire and think about in the film, his outstanding earlier films (The Unbelievable Truth; Trust; Simple Men; The Amateur; Surviving Desire) far surpass this one. I was disappointed at the outright ugliness & sour tone of the film -- in such a marked contrast to the hard-won hope and idealism of his other films -- and the occasional gross-out humor which seemed lifted straight out of Dumb and Dumber. Excuse me, but I do *not* go to a Hal Hartley film for vomit and diarrhea scenes.The female characters were perhaps the biggest disappointment in Henry Fool. The empathy for women that Hartley had previously displayed is completely missing here. Simon's mother and sister are pathetic ciphers. There are ways to portray women who are not admirable with compassion and humor, such as Maria's white-trash sister in Trust. In Henry Fool, the women are insulted and degraded by the filmmaker.I hope that Henry Fool was just a temporary sidetrack for the director, and not an indication of the direction he's now going. Hartley is such an incredible talent; he's a truly original voice in American cinema.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad 2hr plus Beer Commercial, if that's what you like.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I am not the biggest art house film lover.  I have enjoyed many of the artier tales that have made their way to the screen, but this one lost me. Maybe it was the extreme length of the movie. Maybe it was the incredibly Long pauses that went so far beyond existing for effect.  But most of all, it was the so very obvious endorsements for Budweiser.  I don't think the movie went for more than fifteen minutes without flashing a bottle, or a billboard, or something else.  It became a joke.  I was waiting for Henry to turn on the TV and see one of the Frog commercials.  I couldn't wait for this movie to end.  I sat with a couple of friends, who enjoy all types of independent films, and all we could do was try to spot the Bud ad, like looking for Waldo.  If you missed this in the theater, skip it on video. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and quite ironic.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All of Hartley's movies have a style which many will either not understand or take in a different way For example, you can't picture any real life person talking the way these characters talk. You couldn't picture anyone saying what these characters said. And the overall feel was in the form of a play. That's not a bad thing; it was done on purpose. The reason will elude you; that's just a typical Hartley nuance. I really liked Hal's 1990 film, 'Trust,' but not too sure what could be said about the rest. I did like this one, telling the story of a mysterious stranger coming out of nowhere who encourages a garbageman(!) to write risque poetry.I'm not a Hartley fan. Remember, there was only one other movie by him which I enjoyed. If you want a change in pace of your average cinema, give this one a try. $3.50 is not much money so you won't have much to lose. "},{"Title":"moronic video box","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like another commenter, I rented this movie because of the description on the box (and because of Parker Posey).  The box said things like Screamingly funny!! and You won't stop laughing and stuff like that.I didn't laugh once.  It was basically a tragedy, with a touch of irony! Not even close to screamingly funny.  It's the most bizarre thing I've ever seen - did the person who wrote the review on the back even watch the movie?  I found it immensely boring, though the point of the movie was a good one (the nature of art and all that).  There are parts that are ironically amusing, but not laugh-out-loud funny.Once I got past that horrible disillusion, I thought the film was just a slight step above Horrible Waste of Time, but below Glad I Watched It. "}{"Title":"A Clumsy Classic","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool is the story of a pretentious, coffee house dilettante who finds redemption, not by composing a great book (confessions) but by taking action in a way that partially redeems the crime he was convicted of.He does take part in the creation of a great book, but only indirectly. Ironically, he performs the role of an Elmer Gantry, inspiring great art from a naive artist, whom he is able to empower. The movie has some terrible editing jumps & other flaws of independent films, but has already become a classic, in my view, because it makes people think, and is unforgettable.   "},{"Title":"pretentious borefest","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, there goes 45 minutes of my life which I will never get back. The movie actually runs longer than that, but I turned it off. I'll never cease to be amazed by what gets considered insightful or deep. Now that our standards have been lowered by MTV and the like,movies like Henry Fool can be made and receive such acclaim. I don't mind slow movies and maybe I missed something since i turned it off early, but I just couldn't stomach watching the title character or anyone else for that matter. The title character was an obnoxious, pretentious lout of the variety that you are likely to meet (or overhear against your will) at a college coffeehouse trying to impress everyone in the joint with his artsy exploits. You know the type. The cliched brooding attitude, fashionable pessimism, and grimy appearance are what this guy's all about. The typical Tortured Soul. I broke out in a fearful cold sweat when I realized that the next time I went out to get a cup of coffee and try to read the paper, I was probably going to have to suffer through yet another existential sermon by yet another Henry Fool who thinks he's deep. How many times have we experienced guys like Henry Fool and thought; What an idiot!?. Now we have a movie that features one such person and it gets acclaim! Why?! It has all of the cliches for a quirky, offbeat,art film; 1)a cast of unlikeable yet trendy characters  and 2)NOTHING happens, the story is something you are likely to discretely tune-out if it was being related to you by a friend over lunch. Why bother wasting time by watching this little quirky slice of life film, when you could be out living your own, and more happily too? I could keep ranting but my ulcer's acting up just from thinking about this awful movie.            "},{"Title":"see to find out...","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great film with splendid actors! It is really worth it! Funny how someone can´t like it... I believe you have to have a certain way of thinking to enjoy it .But if you do... wow!  So in order do find out if you have...see to find out!  "},{"Title":"The garbageman as poet","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hal Hartley's work, as evidenced by the mixed bag of criticism that always greets his films, is an acquired taste.  I did not like Henry Fool as much as some of the director's other movies, but I never found it boring or unintelligent or a waste of time.  Henry Fool forced me to consider the randomness of artistic talent -- I was struck by how effortlessly Simon falls into writing (though it apparently had never occurred to him before his meeting Henry) while Henry's toil results in a magnum opus nobody thinks is worth reading.  For me, the most effective elements of the story revolved around Simon's meteoric ascent in the publishing world.  Interestingly, Hartley opts not to simply satirize the hype machine (denouncement of the poem as pornography leading to fame and a Nobel Prize for Simon) but complicates matters by showing that some people are genuinely moved by Simon's work (like Mr. Deng's daughter).  This is the sort of thing that impresses me about Henry Fool in particular and Hal Hartley films in general.      "},{"Title":"Hartley brings warmth to his icy world","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is this the first time Hartley has understood character? It's an issue he's skated around before, but at last we can accept what would have simply been his talking puppets in Simple Men and Unbelievable Truth as real, breathing beings. The obsession with grotesque bodily functions can now be read as human, not alien. Thank God. "},{"Title":"I saw it in Honduras, of all places","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One night in May of 2004, I was flipping through cable channels while visiting Tegucigalpa. I still can't understand what captivated me about this film. It's possible I had tuned to the channel at the moment Simon was spying on the young couple making love. As an aspiring writer at the time, the plot intrigued me. What I also liked was how Henry talked; his stories were interesting and he was very articulate. I especially like his speech to Simon about grammar and the word they, though I can't understand why. The chemistry between Simon and Henry is interesting; Simon is an introvert with a great talent for writing, while Henry is more outgoing yet talentless.Unfortunately, the film runs very long and after a while I turned it off, but my curiosity has been aroused. Months later, I rented the DVD and watched it with my mother. She enjoyed it so much, she watched it twice. And she's very picky. She said it reminded her of the film Magnolia (with Tom Cruise), but also that Henry Fool seemed more tragic to her.This film may interest aspiring writers, as well as those (like me) who get stepped on a lot in life and are sick of it. Simon and Henry are my heroes. Thank you to Hal Hartley for making this good film. "},{"Title":"If henry Fool is ART, then Twinkies are the ambrosia of the gods","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry i spent $2 renting this movie.  What passes for art these days!!!!  The acting was amateurish (especially the Henry Fool guy; i've seen better acting in high-school plays), the camera angles gave whiplash to the cinematographer, the dialog was pretentious, the plot was beyond any willing suspension of disbelief.  And let's not forget the puking and s**tting scenes!!!  Without them, the movie would be hard to understand. "},{"Title":"One slow, barely-watchable film","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to like this film, but I found it unbearable. Hard to believe it's about 137 minutes - it felt longer than Titanic. It took a real effort to make it to the end. A reviewer quoted on the video box called it Hilarious! One outrageous bathroom scene does not make a moody, brooding, pretentious, glacially-paced film hilarious. If Henry Fool is so much as a dark comedy, then I suppose Shindler's List must be, too.   "},{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is essential that we maintain and encourage independent film makers like Hartley. He is prepared to entertain interesting dialogue and a steady pace, elements missing from a good many more mainstream American films.Henry Fool has some terrific comic and dramatic moments, and its very concept (if not the plot as such) is refreshingly original. Nevertheless, it suffers from excessive length, narrative inconsistency and a lack of focus. As a writer myself, I thought it expressed the artist's dilemma neatly (do you have faith in your own work, or doubts, and do you allow yourself to prostitute your art?). But the film lacks the intrigue and subtlety of Amateur, which I enjoyed much more.7 out of 10, to encourage Mr Hartley. Make it snappier next time, Hal. "},{"Title":"Don't have a nose ring; liked this movie anyway","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like most of Hal Hartley's films, Henry Fool is a story with a moral, heavy on the dialogue, but enjoyable nonetheless. My summary responds to an extant IMDb comment on the film, which is one person's opinion.While I understand why not everyone would like Henry Fool, I know a number of people who would, especially if they're into dialogue, are writers, enjoy making fun of writers, or enjoy plays, or play-like movie acting like some of David Mamet's film work.There's a lot to like about Henry Fool, a great cast, a great Faustian story, and an explanation of the difference between there, their, and they're better than any I've heard. Actually, the only I've heard that I can remember, but pretty funny regardless.As usual, Parker Posey is fantastic, but so are James Urbaniak and Thomas Jay Ryan. It's an ensemble work, quirky, a little heavy handed, but entertaining, thoughtful, and well written.   "}{"Title":"Unique and Exceptional","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hal Hartley layered this masterpiece so seamlessly that it cannot be considered except as a whole.The essence of this film is the importance of great art and that one can, and should, commit oneself to the creation of great art independent of what any and all others think.Richard Lattimore, in the poem If wrote Do it then/if you do/incontrovertibly know/the worst thing you have done/is the best thing under the sun/if it was written true/if it was meant to be so.Simon Grim is gripped by the power of art, of a great lyrical work of poetry that leaves him no choice but to submit to it without reservation. Ultimately, its power, like a brutal gravitational force, warps the lives of those around him, and yet Simon himself, while transformed, is left largely untouched.Riots ensue. A school is burned down. One woman dies and a child is born. A worthless scoundrel becomes an ordinary, blue-collar father. A garbage man wins the Pulitzer prize.And yet I have not even touched upon what is truly great in this movie. It is only in the madness of poetry that one can drink of its greatness. If you have the capacity to be mad, to love, to dream, then perhaps this movie is for you. You will find your soul refreshed.If not, you will say to yourself, What a maniac! and think no more of it.But there are few true chances for inspiration in this life, and this is one of them. So much the worse for you if this chance is lost to you. "},{"Title":"Needed some serious trimming","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My biggest gripe with Henry Fool is its length, and the problem could have easily been avoided if the director focused mostly on Simon Grim and his difficulties of getting his poetry published.  Instead, there are too many major characters and subplots that only hinder the progress of the movie.  Once Simon overcomes the obstacles and finally has his poetry published, the movie should have been nearly finished.  Unfortunately, it just goes on and on from there.To the movie's credit however, the Simon Grim story is a very good one, and there are some memorable scenes, particularly the one where Simon annoints a vixen's buttocks with his vomit. (It looks like something Howard Stern would have on his show.) "},{"Title":"Did I Miss Something?","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was thrilled to rent this movie on the day it came out, having missed it during the week or two it played around here, and having heard great things from knowing people. Maybe my expectations were too high, but I really disliked this film. The acting was stiff and two-dimensional, and the supposedly fantastic dialogue clanked in my ears. I have no idea why this movie had to last 137 minutes. Have you all gone insane, or have I?!?  "},{"Title":"Not a Hartley fan, but I like this one.","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a native New Yorker, I tend to be drawn to movies and television shows shot in either the 5 Boroughs, and/or Long Island. I also have the occasional appetite for independent films, and don't mind movies starring total unknowns. But none of these factors have ever made me a fan of Hal Hartley's movies. Believe it or not though, an IMDb user suggested that fans of Christy Carlson Romano watch a copy of this one, and I've been appreciating it ever since.Simon Grimm(James Urbaniak) works as a nerdy put-upon garbage man in Queens, NYC, who still lives with his promiscuous sister Fay and depressed mother(Hey, don't laugh. I know of people with better jobs who still can't afford homes of their own), who rents a room out to people whenever they can. Along comes Henry Fool(e), who invites himself into his family's rented room. Fool(Thomas Jay Ryan) is an ex-writer who passes himself off as an iconoclastic lover being persecuted by both the masses and the man, partially because he had a regretful fling with a 13-year-old girl at one point in his life. Henry Fool IS a fool, because he's convinced that he and Grimm are somehow cut from the same cloth, and encourages him to write down whatever is on his mind. After some spelling and grammatical corrections, Fool does everything he can to expose this writing to the public, which is denounced as obscene by some and brilliant by others. Hartley does the same thing to Simon's story as Quentin Tarantino does with the glowing briefcase being retrieved by Vincent Vega(John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield(Samuel L. Jackson) in Pulp Fiction. He also puts his characters through different stages in their lives, like Warren(Kevin Corrigan) who starts out as a street thug having public trysts with a girlfriend and attacking Simon for seeing one of them while he's trying to do his job, to supporting far-right anti-immigration political candidate Owen Feer(Don Creech), to becoming a low-life wife & child abuser.Contrary to popular assumption, events *do* take place in Hartley's movies -- obscure stars get surpassed by total unknowns. In The Unbelievable Truth, the biggest name in that movie was Jeff Howard, who's better known for his role as Joe Ferone in Up the Down Staircase. Then Adrienne Shelley replaced him as the biggest name. Likewise in Henry Fool the biggest name from this movie was Parker Posey, and now it's Christy Carlson Romano. In Romano's case, however, her fame came from her work on Even Stevens & Kim Possible, not because of her very non-Disney performance here, which proves to be crucial to the direction of the story. And all I'm going to reveal about that is that parents who's kids are fans of KP and/or Ren & Louis Stevens will be very surprised as to how far Warren's stepdaughter Pearl is willing to go to end her suffering, and let you figure the rest out for yourself. "},{"Title":"Crashing Bore","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, a pompous, pretentious BORE of a film.  Did Mr. Hartley really need two hours and seventeen minutes to tell this trite little story? Would have been a nice little half-hour filler piece on PBS. "},{"Title":"Was this a dress rehersal?!?","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie left me angry at Hal Hartley.  This movie could have been so great.  All of the inconsistency and choppiness of the movie kept making me think that I was watching a dress rehersal for the real movie.  If only that was the case it would have been an amazing experience.  Still entertaining and worth seeing but it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's so surprising to see so many good reviews on Henry Fool. After intriguing first twenty minutes, the films goes absolutely nowhere, resorting to one cliche after another. The ending looks like it was borrowed from a bad Hollywood melodrama. The film hardly says anything new about the nature of creativity and fame, and the characters remain essentially cardboard. At times, it looks like it was hastily re-edited to please some mysterious studio executives. It's so discouraging to see Hartley, an interesting and original filmmaker, doing his equivalent of Good Will Hunting (another act of self-denial from an independent filmmaker) .  "},{"Title":"What's all the hubbub?","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen a lot of favorable reviews of this film from people who are familiar with the filmmaker's previous work, claiming that this is a new plateau for him.  I'm not familiar with his portfolio, but if this is better than previous films, those must have been utterly unwatchable. On its own, this film Just Plain Sucked.I can't put my finger on a single redeeming quality.  It was pure hell for way too long. "},{"Title":"IS THERE LIFE IN THE U.S INDY ??","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the highs of the mid 90s, the US independent scene has certainly gone into a recent nosedive. Therefore it was refreshing to catch this film. Whilst not up to some of Hartley's earlier efforts, it certainly sustained the interest. Not as offbeat as Flirt or Amateur, and in many ways a modern-day fairytale. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Painful art","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The point of this movie seems to be that for art to be good, it must provoke a strong reaction.  Good art isn't necessarily enjoyable.  This movie very seldom provoked a strong reaction in me, therefore, on its own terms, it is fluff.  (Stale fluff, at that) "}{"Title":"Comedy???","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie hoping to see a comedy as was advertised on the movie box. Not even close. Nothing was funny, and the movie was not very intellectual either. S-l-o-o-o-o-w movement of the events, one dimensional not very realistic plot. All the developments seem to stop only one level down from the main plot line. How come that such a boring movie is so overrated???  "},{"Title":"Sophistry on parade","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool is well-cast (then again, I'd pay cash money to watch Parker Posey read the phone book), but it's wildly uneven.  And it goes on forever, apparently without figuring out what it's trying to say.  Is it a comedy? a drama? a social/cultural/literary satire? At the supposed-to-be-funny parts, the rest of the audience were laughing more than I was; I found the humor to be rather obvious.  This is one for the nose-ring crowd.  Adults, keep moving. "},{"Title":"A pretentious, pseudointellectual mediocre indie.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Henry Fool tells of a stoic young garbage man who is encouraged to write poetry by a transient dilettante, Henry Fool. The story has little substance and, with the exception of the principals, is cluttered with sundry characters who serve no useful purpose and whom were not made to care about anyway. The plot is simpleminded and the story not particularly entertaining. There are no underlying morals of any significance and the end is a meaningless truncation. There is little art value in the film which pretentiously takes itself much too seriously. Watching this flick is like waiting for the other shoe to drop for 2.5 hours only to find out it was a one legged film. I'm not sure who would appreciate this flick. College students or indie freaks maybe. "},{"Title":"Perhaps Art Movies should have warning labels","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Reading some of the adverse comments, perhaps Art Movies should have warning labels. With little notices saying No car chases and the shelf for Independence Day and Armageddon is over in the brightly lit part of the shop! Even so I'm still trying to work out what Henry Fool has done to me, and I had to watch it in two goes. It was so claustrophobic. "},{"Title":"Almost","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Over-acting. Desperately in need of continuity adjustments, and overly long. Other than that, it was interesting and well written. But Hartley is still searching. I can't wait until he finds.  "}]