[{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"59 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Who said all movie series become worse with every installment? Lethal Weapon 4 is probably the best fourth movie in a series ever. I find it incredible that the magic is still there. The main characters still feed of each other and their friendship (both on set and off set) is clearly felt in every scene they have together. Mel Gibson has finally laid the ghost of his wife to rest and is as chipper as ever. He does this without seeming truly obnoxious (even though that is a part of his character). In fact he seems more likable in this film than he did in all the previous films. Danny Glover reprises his role from the previous movies and that is not a bad thing because the Murtaugh role is the best of his career. Rene Ruso returns in her part and although it has been cut down considerably its still a decent role. Joe Pesci is also back and this time around he gets to add some depth to the character (something that was missing in the previous film). Chris Rock is decent. He isn't much of an actor but he is pretty funny and fresh. His part also adds a little something to the all-round comedy of the film, but if you want to know what it is you will have to watch the movie yourself. Jet Li is the villain in this movie and while he is the weakest villain in the series acting wise, he is definitely the most menacing.The action is still brilliant despite the fact that the actors are getting older. The story is decent for a fourth film and the overall execution is brilliant. I actually prefer this film to the second and third of the series because I find it to be more entertaining overall. It cuts down on the seriousness (even though its still there) and adds a lot to the comedy and this is a very good choice.All in all an excellent film. Highly recommendable for all fans of action movies and the series in particular.8/10 "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4 - Great ending to a great series","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"49 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is the end of a series which spanned almost two decades.This time around Riggs (Gibson) is facing three very personal problems. 1) Age is catching up to him, 2) his g/f is pregnant and he's facing being a daddy, and 3) he's facing the dilemma of wanting to remarry. Also, Murtaugh (Glover) is about to be a grand-daddy to a baby by his oldest daughter, and she is secretly married to Detective Butters (Chris Rock), which everyone is keeping a secret from him.Add to this the fact that both they are now taking on one of the most powerful crime syndicates in the world, the Chinese Triads, in an effort to stop slave trading and money laundering. The task of a bad guy this time goes to Jet Li, who made his American debut (atleast from an American Film Company) in this movie. Yes, this is the movie which launched him here in the states, and he deserved it.This movie is as good as the rest of them, though nothing beats part 2 in my opinion. Lethal Weapon 4 really hits home on a lot of subjects, such as facing responsibility, to coming to terms with who you are. And it ended the series in a way that makes you smile and love it even more.I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Solid Sequel","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"45 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK... so the language is gratuitous. Just having Chris Rock on set put it over the top. But his acting aside, I thought this was a worthy addition to one of the best cop/buddy series around. It was enjoyable to see the characters we love deal with the inevitabilities of aging and the fierce loyalty of friendship. Some of the mystery is gone and it feels like a pair of comfortable shoes. But aren't those shoes your favorite ones? It was interesting to see the development of Lorna and Riggs' relationship, as well as the growing up of the Murtaugh kids. It makes you feel like you're catching up with old friends at a reunion! Plenty of action and the incredible work of Jet Li make this movie a favorite at my house. Overall, a great wrap-up to the series and a lot of fun for long time fans. Worth seeing! If the language is a real issue, watch for it on TNT and enjoy the edited version. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are some movies where you get sick and tired of sequels, but the Lethal Weapon series isn't one of them, all are full of action and humor, with Chris Rock and Joe Pesci. Lethal Weapon 4 has some awesome sequences of action and lots of explosions, guns, blood, fighting, and everything you would expect out of a action flick. I seen a lot of action movies this ranks up there with the best I have seen, well worth your money. "},{"Title":"Perfect balance between comedy and action","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, the script in the film is brilliant. Joe Pesci, as always, makes the crowd laugh until they have tears in their eyes. Just by having Chris Rock in the cast makes the film worthy of watching. Just like the other lethal weapon films, there's the great duo that makes this film shine, and of course that i am talking about Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. My favorite part of the movie is where Joe Pesci has a little argument with Danny Glover, and the constant mistakes by Mel saying the name of Cris Rock's character are hilarious. The roof top jumping and the last fight with Jet Li was also great. So if you haven't seen this, get some some money from your parents and go and rent it!!! "},{"Title":"The fourth installment in the now huge Lethal Weapon series has no shortage of action, but it just doesn't have the high quality of the last three.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  By this point in the series, it seems that they just aren't trying as hard with these films, which is kind of a shame. The Lethal Weapon series is really a good group of action films, but part 4 doesn't really seem to take itself seriously. It clearly had the biggest budget and probably some of the most elaborate stunts and action scenes (as well as some of the most exciting, such as that thrilling freeway chase scene), but many of the other elements of the film have deteriorated badly. I think that with the addition of Chris Rock, while he delivered a satisfactory performance as far as the role that he was playing, caused the film to detract into too much goofy comedy, which unnecessarily diverted attention away from the surprisingly interesting smuggling plot involving illegal Chinese immigrants and counterfeit money. Joe Pesci was just as funny as ever, which is probably the reason the Chris Rock actually took away from the film as a whole. Pesci is all the comic relief that a Lethal Weapon movie ever needed, and Rock is another substantial addition of comic relief that just isn't necessary. Danny Glover and Mel Gibson work great together for the fourth time; I'm beginning to wonder if they couldn't go on with this great duo forever. And of course, Renee Russo is back, with her and Riggs picking up with their quirky relationship, right where they left off at the end of part 3. But the person who really steals the whole show is Jet Li. Man, I thought Jackie Chan was fun to watch! Even though it's not all exactly real, this guy pulls out some unbelievable martial arts moves that give Lethal Weapon 4 a much-needed boost of energy. I wonder how long it will be before Jet Li and Jackie Chan come out with a movie together. Probably never, because if they worked together, no one could touch them, and if they were enemies, neither of them would be able to end up as the loser or the bad guy. Oh well, we can still hope, right? Even though the 4th installment in the Lethal Weapon series is not nearly as good as any of the previous three, it still remains a quality action film, despite its many weaknesses.  "},{"Title":"One Of the Rare Franchises That Never Gets Too Overbearing and Dull...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 starts out with a boring and ridiculous beginning. I remember watching it the first time and thinking, oh no, another bad sequel.However, once past the first ten minutes, the film starts to pick up its pace and retreat into familiar Lethal Weapon style.Just like film 2 and 3, Lethal Weapon 4 isn't as good as the original, but it never gets to the point of unbearable. It is quite entertaining and fun to watch, with some very great actors, that have some very great chemistry between each other.Mel Gibson and Danny Glover fit like a glove, and Joe Pesci is perfect as the comedy relief, not being like the recent side kicks we always see, that are so obnoxious we want to punch them. Mr. Pesci is a very talented actor, and he always makes me laugh, whether it's Lethal Weapon 4 or Raging Bull and Casino.Rene Russo provides Mel's love interest yet again, and though I found the marriage thing a bit of a throw-in, it was still good for the story. It provided some laughs at the end of the film.Chris Rock stars in one role where his character is not completely annoying or loudmouthed, mainly because he wasn't extremely famous yet, and had only been on SNL and a few small roles in film... Joes Pesci and him throw back and forth a few insults and jokes, and bounce off each other, which helps me welcom Rock a bit more.Jet Li's first American film, I believe, proves he can be a quite and intriguing character, which later helped him get roles in films like Kiss of the Dragon and The One.Another thing about this franchise is that director Richard Donner directed all four films, and it's always good to use the original director for a sequel, rather than a lesser director, as we have countless examples of. (especially horror films!)From the opening jazz music we have come to love, Lethal Weapon provides enough entertainment and fun to keep one entertained, and it's definitely worth watching. I hope they stop while they're ahead, and do not make another Lethal Weapon film, because it's rare for a film series to still be entertaining and imaginative after these many sequels. 3/5 stars- "},{"Title":"The Magic Was Still There","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is extremely rare for the fourth film in a series to be just as good as it's three predecessors. Lethal Weapon 4 was awesome.Mel Gibson and Danny Glover had no trouble recreating the magic from the first three films. The humour was there, the action was there and the chemistry between them was there. Joe Pesci was back as Leo Getz.Lethal Weapon 3 was released in 1992, Lethal Weapon 4 was released in 1998. Six years had passed yet none of the actors or production staff involved in Lethal Weapon 4 had any problem in making a great movie.The action throughout is brilliant (are real American policemen as mad as Riggs and Murtaugh?). And of course the humour is there; particularly the beginning of the movie where Murtaugh (Danny Glover) strips down to his underwear in the rain and acts like a chicken in order to distract the bad guy. There are other humorous scenes throughout and a great plot too.Roll on Lethal Weapon 5. "},{"Title":"A worthy end to a Lethal Legacy","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  So many people have knocked this film, I guess they have forgotten what movies are all about. Loud, action sequences, and humor mixed in for two or more hours of entertainment. The more characters they add also adds to the completion. After all fans noticed that Rianne had a crush on Martin Riggs in the first movie. As the movies went on, each new Lethal showed that was a harmless crush. Martin Riggs who lost his wife because he was a cop, is afraid of getting married again for fear of losing Lorna. My favorite portion is seeing that Martin Riggs after so many times of being the tough hero, needs Roger Murtaugh at the finale to finish the battle. Also you finally see the clenching speech,given by who else Leo Getz, that makes Martin run for the altar with Lorna. Lethal Weapon was the start of a partnership, when they were paired together. Lethal 2 built on that relationship, when Riggs admitted some things he never said before( you find out more about Victoria Riggs death). Lethal 3 tested it, when Murtaugh was going to retire and his kid's friend was killed by him. Lethal Weapon 4 finally made it a family, by well you just have to watch this to see and hear the ultimate ending line to a film. All in all a great movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Decent Finale","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" All the usual suspects are here, but finally Riggs is getting too old for this s**t. Funnier than the rest of the series, this is still a good movie, although it wouldn't rank highly if it stood on its own.The inclusion of Chris Rock, although quite funny at times, was for the most part, very annoying.The Lethal Weapon is getting quite blunt in this outing, this time trying to bring down the Triads that are smuggling Chinese into the country. Jet Li is brought in as the bad guy and he has Riggs beaten hands down, but he underestimates the Riggs/Murtaugh combination, a very costly lesson to learn.7/10 "}{"Title":"They ran out of ideas.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've seen. It's especially disappointing compared to how good 1 & 2 were. The main problem is that it can't seem to decide whether to be serious or funny. One moment, the movie has a comic tone. The next somebody gets killed. Also, what's funny about a pregnant woman being beaten up? The first two in the series took things more seriously and threw in only a little comic relief. Why'd they have to turn this into a cartoon?Also lacking in this movie is a good villain as in 1 & 2. Jet Li pretty much just stands around and sulks menacingly through the whole movie. And what a silly plot. Jet Li needs to kidnap a family so that he can force the uncle to make counterfeit plates to print Chinese money to pay off a general so that his relatives can be released?This movie left such a bad taste in my mouth. I wish I could erase it from my memory so that I won't think about it the next time I see Lethal Weapon 1 & 2.Overall, I rate it 1/10.  "},{"Title":"My favorite of all Lehtal movies","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is by far my favorite out of all the Lethal movies. I love the first one two. I am a Lethal Weapon movie fan, so I like all of them, but the 4th is my favorite. It is the humor that I love.Chris Rock and Joe Pesci are great together. I also love Renee Russo's character. It is nice to see such a strong female character in a action movie. Although I would have like to see her role bigger, she still had a good part. Although her role in the 3rd installment was a little better.I would still like to see yet a 5th installment to see where everyone is now. "},{"Title":"Best Of LW Sequels & A Good DVD 'Demo'","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"23 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I read somewhere when the DVD of this film came out that it would be a good demo model for dealers trying to sell DVD players and surround-sound equipment. Well, they were right; it's awesome, or at least it was back in '99 when the disc came out, back when not everyone had a DVD player. It's still top-of-line for picture and sound. When bullets are flying around, you hear them from all five speakers. It here it almost seven years later and we still find many films without this kind of excellent surround- speaker participation.The Lethal Weapon series, this being the fourth and last of them, was popular because of the combination of action, comedy, suspense, romance and drama. For me, they wore thin because the characters were too loud - always shouting at each other, too profane, too smug, too much Liberal-agenda and there was too much action. Things needed to slow down here and there, and give the viewer a break now and then.This sequel is no exception, although it was a little tamer than the first three Lethal Weapons, that is until going berserk again in the final few scenes, one of which - the hospital scene - was totally unnecessary. To be honest, some of the action scenes in this movie were amazing even if they had no credibility. You just have to suspend belief and enjoy some of the outrageous scenes in here.As usual, there are the left-wing agenda plugs, unwarranted cheap shots at the NRA, it's okay-to-have-a-baby-out-of-wedlock, etc. etc. Although the couple does finally get married, a rabbi performs an irreverent quickie ceremony, another slam on the seriousness of marriage.With all that goes on in this film, as in the three previous LWs, you are worn out by the end. If you are a fan of this serious, this last sequel should please. I thought it was the best of them. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Action-packed and Hilarious Finale To This Great Franchise.","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 is an excellent,entertaining Action-packed and hilarious conclusion to the Lethal Weapon series that is filled with great direction,exciting Action,a memorable villain and a great score. Although not as good as the first three films,Lethal Weapon 4 is an Action to watch if you liked the first three Lethal Weapon's.Lethal Weapon 4 finds Riggs(Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh(Danny Glover)having to deal with Chinese criminals including a deadly criminal named Wah Sing Ku(Jet Li)who are smuggling Chinese slaves into the United States and have to stop them. With the help of new partner Lee Butters(Chris Rock)Riggs and Murtaugh have to deal with the Chinese criminals as well as Riggs becoming a parent,Murtaugh becoming a Grandfather and getting old and the gang is all back for more laughs and thrills.Lethal Weapon 4 is a Action-packed and funny conclusion to the Lethal Weapon franchise and every main character is back. Every franchise or film series comes full circle and the Lethal Weapon series is no exception and the Lethal Weapon series goes out with a bang with this film. Now,Lethal Weapon 4 since it's release has divided fans with some loving the film and some hating the film,I fall right into the former category because I liked this film and the other Lethal Weapon films for what they arethrilling,Action filled,funny movies. Right from the explosive opening Lethal Weapon 4 is a film filled with Action and great laughs taking what worked in the first three films and adding it to this film. LW4 is funny and is probably the lightest of the films in terms of Comedy and Humor with the characters Riggs,Murtaugh,Leo and Butters and the moments and dialog between the characters is hilarious and memorable. While LW4 is an Action-Comedy the film at it's heart is about getting old and change especially with Riggs and Murtaugh because Riggs and Murtaugh have been through a lot of things throughout the series getting into crazy adventures and even though the two have survived and had success Riggs and Murtaugh realize that they are not getting any younger and success won't come as fast. The change comes when Riggs realizes he's going to be Father with Lorna Cole(Rene Russo)and Murtaugh being a GrandFather of Rianne's(Traci Wolfe)and realize they can't be cops and take risks forever. Each sequel introduces new characters throughout the series. In LW2 it was Leo Getz,in LW3 it was Lorna Cole and in this film it is Lee Butters and Wah Sing Ku. Lee Butters is a character who works with Riggs and Murtaugh and brings laughs and one liners and is the opposite of Riggs and Murtaugh and is the new generation of cop. The character will divide viewers some will like him and find him funny while others will feel that Butters doesn't belong in the film but I like the character for his laughs and loudmouth energy. The villain Wah Sing Ku is pure evil and is physically the most challenging bad guy Riggs and Murtaugh have ever have to face because Wah Sing Ku is so quick and can take your head in one second without hesitation and he doesn't have to say much words because he is that menacing. Every time Wah Sing Ku shows up a there is tension all around and you will feel like something is going to happen when Wah Sing Ku is around. LW4 like the other films moves at a wonderful pace and never slows down until the end. The Action and fight scenes are great and each Action scene is raised to a higher level each time and there is suspense and nice build up to each Action scene. The ending of the film is excellent because it is filled wonderful Action,Laughs and heart and will have viewers smiling at the end and it is a great cap off to this excellent series.The cast does amazing jobs in their roles. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover do excellent jobs one last time as Riggs and Murtaugh once again having great chemistry. Joe Pesci is hilarious once again as Leo Getz and has great scenes with Gibson,Glover and Rock. Rene Russo is fantastic as Lorna Cole and has good scenes with Gibson. Chris Rock is great and funny as Riggs and Murtaugh's new partner Detective Lee Butters. Jet Li is menacing and believable as Wah Sing Ku,one of the villains of the film. Kim Chan is wonderful as Benny Uncle Benny Chan,a Chinese crime boss. Steve Kahan(Capt. Ed Murphy), Mary Ellen Trainor(Dr. Stephanien Woods),Darlene Love(Trish Murtaugh),Traci Wolfe(Rianne Murtaugh),Damon Hines(Nick Murtaugh),Ebonie Smith(Carrie Murtaugh)and Eddy Ko(Hong)give good performances as well.The direction by Richard Donner is excellent,with Donner always moving the camera and giving the film a great pace and energy especially with the Action scenes. Great direction,Donner.The score by Eric Clapton,Michael Kamen and David Sandborn is great and intense and matches the tone of this film. Another great score from Clapton,Kamen and Sandborn. There are also songs by War(Why Can't We Be Friends)and Eric Clapton(Pligrim). Wonderful songs.In final word,if you love Action films and the Lethal Weapon franchise you will love Lethal Weapon 4,an Action-packed,hilarious conclusion to a great series that is well worth your time. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Time to think about #5","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When you have a series that has been successful as the Lethal Weapon films, it is hard to wonder were to stop. Number three was supposed to be the last. Then Mr. Donner got that itch again, and to our satisfaction and benefit. It is time for number five. And if we know the superior work that Mr. Donner can do, if it would happen, we know that it would be a hit!!!! Murtaugh and Riggs can retire !! There was plenty of story left when LW4 left off. It would be great to bring back Chris Rock, It would be great to have Sgt.Murtaugh's son follow his dad on the police department. Lorna and Reanns' babies will be a bit older and we can see how kids may, or may not, have softened them up. But this is Lethal Weapon....anything is possible. I say they should go for it!!!! "},{"Title":"It's good","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Massive spoilers will be indicated ... you can read the first paragraphs without fear! o)Murtaugh & Riggs are one of the funniest and best on-screen couple! ;o) Seriously though If you're looking for a good buddy movie, look no further! Lethal Weapon is your weapon of choice (forgive the pun)!The chemistry still works here, you have an intriguing story, some very good action scenes and some funny moments too. Jet Li plays a very good villain in this, so why only 7/10?!That's were the spoilers come into play. Don't read any further if you haven't watched the movie yet! Not that you would be surprised that the good guys win (a fifth part in the instalment would be great, but a recent EMPIRE interview with Mel Gibson did not indicate anything in this direction, what a shame). Or that the bad guys lose ... but that is the point were it was too much for me. It was hard to swallow, that Jet Li's thugs wouldn't shoot the Murtaugh and Riggs, but keep them tied up and start a fire. It's like dough, don't you know they will eventually escape?! But seriously though this is a fact that you can accept. The death of Jet Li is another thing you have to accept, but for me it was not acceptable. As a big Li Fan, I was more than disappointed how he got killed. It was ... just to cheap! Murtaugh & Riggs had no chance against him ... I like them both too, but I just couldn't bear the fact that they killed him like that ... although it was a struggle it seemed to easy ...That's the only reason why I didn't rate it higher. Other than that, there is nothing bad I could say about the film o) "},{"Title":"Action & Laughs - what more do you want?","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, it may have been stretching it to go for a fourth Lethal Weapon film. I mean, do you remember Rocky 4 or Death Wish 4? But, this film was a departure from the rest and, as such, deserves some credit for what it tried to do. You can't argue with a film that includes Mary Ellen Trainor, Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Rene Russo, Chris Rock and Jet Li. There is going to be action, there is going to be comedy, and there is going to be some schmaltzy romance.The addition of Rock, along with Trainor and Pesci was a hoot. The laughs never stopped throughout the movie. I am a HUGE Chris Rock fan and he did not disappoint.The action in the film was hot and heavy. The only thing that was bogus was Gibson defeating Jet Li. Come on, nobody defeats Jet Li. He is indestructible and I refuse to believe that Gibson can beat him. But, I have to admit that this was the best fight sequence I have seen.This is not prime rib, it is chocolate cake. Chocolate cake is good, especially with ice cream. So sit back, and enjoy your dessert. It doesn't much more flavorful than this. "},{"Title":"In Hong Kong, you'll be dead .... but in America.......","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my most favorite Lethal Weapon series movie. Like many people, I liked Wah Sing Ku played by Jet Li as the villain. The comical part that's the staple of this series where Detective Murtaugh always gets his property devastated is played out in this movie as well. I still can't get over the part where Mel Gibson walks into the restaurant that's the front for the Chinese gang and brakes the large glass on the wall for no reason at all. Jet Li says In Hong Kong, you'll be dead !, but in America I think you'll end up in jail by law suit brought against police brutality. Riggs will no doubt lose his job, and police chief will be making public apologies. Okay, the rest is typical action Lethal Weapon style, and Glover and Gibson really brought their goods to this movie. One question I have is why does this series have so many action scenes on, by or in the water ? The final encounter between Gibson and Jet was one of the best show downs of this series. "},{"Title":"Very Funny AND WITH ACTION!!!!","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very funny along with a lot of action. To me it was like the perfect movie. Funny and violent. Mel Gibson in the other movies basically has a death wish, he does in number 4 too, but to an extent. He usually spends time when he isn't beating up criminals trying to get a rise out of people. Now, my all time favorite scene in the movie is when they find the 1 billion yr old Chinese guy at the dentist and they interrogate him with laughing gas and they all start laughing. It gets funnier every time I see it. The fact that Chris Rock was in this movie made it even funnier, and Joe Pesci's character Leo Getz is always going to be funny. This is like the perfect movie. "},{"Title":"A fun and great ending to an awesome action series!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Finally, I have seen all Lethal Weapon movies. I have to say that I really enjoyed them. Honestly, now it's a tie between 1 and 4 on which Lethal Weapon movie was the best. This had great action sequences and originality that most buddy/cop movies don't have have any more. Now, this will be my last and final complaint about the rule of having 10 or more lines according to IMDb. It's a tradition when it comes to the Lethal Weapon movies. D Anyways, people, when there are just basic movies that have a simple plot and don't need to be analyzed like some crazy critics on here that go on and on for 5 pages, I feel that it is unfair when I just want to see if a movie is good or not. I mean, don't you wish it was just like See it! or This movie is bad, don't see it!. Just that simple! D 8/10-It's been a pleasure, folks! "}{"Title":"The last installment of this great series ends with a bang.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 has concluded the popular series with a major ending that will be cherished and remembered for years to come. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover once again give their very best to this series, and in this movie they are at their funniest. Joe Pesci was good in this movie as the annoyingly funny Leo Getz. Rene Russo does a good job playing Riggs love interest, and the one fight scene in Glovers house is the highlight of her character. Chris Rock threw a great show as detective Butters who is snooping around with Murtaughs daughter Trish. And for Jet Li, he gave a terrific performance as the main villain in this movie. His fight scenes are amazing, and some of the best ever put on film. This is an excellent film to have in your video collection, and deserves to be mentioned with the rest of the Lethal Weapon movies. "},{"Title":"They never get too old for this ****!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is about as entertaining as a movie can get! You can tell by watching this movie that cast and crew worked together as one big family. A lot of cast and crew members of the first three Lethal Weapon movies returned in this movie. That is the biggest power of the movie.The story itself actually is quite weak, messy and not always easy to follow. This is due that the story was still being written during production and all the scene's had to be shot in chronically order in order to finish the movie in time. But this seriously is one of those movies were the story is of no importance at all. The true power of the movie is in the characters and their relations. There are some incredible fun sidetracks in the story and some amusing dialog.Additions to the cast for this movie are Chris Rock as an highly enjoyable police officer and new partner for future Lethal Weapon movies (?) and Jet Li in his first American movie, as the new main villain. Both were really good and enjoyable in their role. I dislike both actors right now actually but at the time of Lethal Weapon 4 they were still two unknown actors therefor there is no reason to dislike them in this movie for me. Another fun role is played by Kim Chan, who's character involves at least one hilarious scene.Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are still amazingly good and fun together, after already three Lethal Weapon movies and are truly a golden screen duo. Other welcome returning actors are Rene Russo and Joe Pesci. It's funny, I normally don't like Rene Russo in movies but this is one of the few I can stand her in. Joe Pesci is fun as ever as hyperactive Leo Getz.The movie also features some top-class action sequences and fights, making this movie not just one of the most entertaining but also best action movie's of the last couple of years. The movie's opening is just great! Maybe even better than the well known opening for Lethal Weapon 3.Seriously one of the most entertaining movies of the last couple of years.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, LETHAL WEAPON 4 is an excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride. I thought that Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) made a good detective team, especially when they were doing detective work. A couple of things I liked about this film were the romance between Riggs and Lorna (Rene Russo) and whenever the bad guys got their a**** kicked. Those parts really made me feel good and smile. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent, suspenseful, funny, and action-packed thrill ride to all you Mel Gibson or Danny Glover who have not seen it. When you see it, buckle up and hold on tight for a ride of pure thrills and laughs. "},{"Title":"Plot does matter.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sure I like an action film just as much as the next guy, but I also like another thing, a thing I like to call plot. The first 3 Lethal Weapon films were great on action and plot, unfortunately this one has niether. Another downfall was to many characters, everyone drug the film down. Sure Jet Li was a magnificent villian, but what good is he if he's in a film this bad. The action in this film left a lot to be desired, number one had the breathtaking fight between Mel and Garey Busey, number 2 had the awesome car chase at the beginning, part 3 had the scene set in the hockey rink during a kings game, this movie has no memorable scenes, and the attempts at humor are pathetic. One last thing, why did Riggs have short hair. "},{"Title":"Amazing! Spectacular! Incredible! Fantastic! The Best 'Lethal Weapon' Since The Original!","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I absolutely adored this movie. The cinematography and sound effects are the best in the series, the action is great, and LW4 is the fastest-paced in the series also. It was incredible.This one is about Riggs and Murtaugh investigating a case of Chinese immigrants being transported as slaves. Jet Li does an amazing job as the bad guy and the newcomer cop, Chris Rock, is great as well.Joe Pesci returns again as Leo Getz and Rene Russo is back as Lorna too! They're both great.There are some very hilarious scenes in the movie and the action is just amazing to watch. This movie is fun fun fun! One of my favorites.If you haven't seen this one or any of the lethal weapon movies, then rent them all and watch them! They're all great, especially this one! I give this a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"For me it was back to form with this one.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I found Leathal Weapon 3 a bit disappointing. As it usually goes I go against the crowd in that I like this one a lot better than three. The action is great, there is a good villain, and there is a lot of comedy with fewer scenes where the movie seems to be trying to make you depressed. Murtaugh and Riggs are getting older and it is starting to show. Their new opponent a super butt kicking member of the Chinese mob trying to get his brother over to the US. This movie starts out with a bang as an insane pyromaniac is burning up the town, then the story goes to the whole Chinese story. The comedy is great as Chris Rock makes for an excellent new character and the dentist scene is very funny. The action includes a very good car chase and numerous fight scenes with the highlight being between our heroes and a very ticked off Jet Li character. This fight alone made the movie worth it as it is very exciting and you really worry for our two officer's lives. It is not perfect, however, as once again it sort of has more of a television episode feel rather than a theatrical movie, but it still doesn't take away from the enjoyment I got from this film. "},{"Title":"One Encore Too Many / A Pale Shadow of Past Glories","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really loved Lethal Weapon.  Mel Gibson deserved high honors for his portrayal of a tortured, suicidal, Vietnam veteran in the first film.  More than a decade later, these fine actors are being trotted out strictly for laughs, and everything I found engaging about these movies is gone.  Bad plot, major holes in the story, heavy handed, politically correct dialog (yeah, right, cops hang anti-NRA posters in the squad room, and these guys love gun control international.  Yeah, these characters are anti-handgun! Gag me.) It is just SAD.  Hang it up, guys, you are too old for this stuff, and you surely need a different director.   I could shoot holes in the plot, but it would be a waste of time--it is a blooper gold mine.  I wish big Hollywood Cop movies would have at least one real cop on the set to point out how things are really done, so we wouldn't see such embarrassing retelling movie stereoptypes. "},{"Title":"Better then Lethal Weapon 3 but not as good as Lethal Weapon and Lethal Weapon 2","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After a six year hiatus the Lethal Weapon returned with a fourth film, the last of the series though there are rumours of a fifth film. With a budget of $100 Million Lethal Weapon 4 was considered the weakest in box-office return and critical reaction but in my opinion I consider it better then Lethal Weapon 3.With both Sergeants Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are getting older and whilst still causing damage in Los Angles there can do less physical fests. Both men's families are expanding, Rigg's partner Lorna (Rene Russo) and Muztagh's daughter Rianne (Traci Wolfe) are pregnant and both are them are promoted to captain. At the same time they investigate people smuggling by the Triads led by Benny Chan (Kim Chan) and Triad enforcer Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li). With the aid of young police sergeant Lee Butters (Chris Rock) and private investigator Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) the two set out to bring down the Triads who are putting people into slavery.Like the first three films there is strong chemistry between Gibson and Glover, with good comic timing, particularly in the beginning when a nutcase in homemade armour, a flamethrower and a machine gun is causing a lot of damage. But the two are getting older and it was clear that a stunt double was being used more often and there were jokes about their ages. It was also good that Gibson cut the Three Stooges stick and his character was more serious and down to Earth With the rest of the cast there Chris Rock was decent, offering his motormouth style of comedy and he is a much better then many American comedians like Chris Tucker, Martin Lawrence and Dane Cook. He is better stand up but he is a decent actor and he is also good as playing a straight, serious character as well. Jet Li was excellent as the villain, both as a material artist and as a sinister threat, the real mastermind of the plot. Pesci's character also improves from the annoying being he was in Lethal Weapon 3, but his character still doesn't add anything to the film.Richard Donner keeps the stunt work of the first three films and there are some excellent sequences, especially involving Jet Li's fighting ability. There are good gun battles and a excellent car chase on the freeway which was done with traditional action techniques. The scene involving the nutcase was also fun. But some of the action became more over the top, with bad guys missing with great skill with AK-47s whilst the good guys can shoot really well in the dark and at distance with pistols. Other examples are when Riggs uses the laser sight of his gun to bounce a bullet into the back of a Chinese guard, considering that's not however a laser sight works and Riggs and Murtaugh drive through a building without killing anyone and then jumping back onto the freeway. Another examples are when Riggs shots the back of a nutcase in his flamethrowers fuel supply and he ends up flying into a fuel tanker and a oil drum flying into the air into Murtaugh's boat. But Donner is a good action director and when it's done right it was great to watch.There is a good use of a Chinese score in the film, adding to the atmosphere. Donner does have good pace in the film and the script does have some fine ideas, like counterfeiting Chinese currency and human trafficking. But some elements are just fillers like the car chase when in the end the officers question Uncle Benny for information. Like the first film the henchman takes over the organisation. Also the ending is cringe worthy with Lorna giving birth, with an unfunny scene where Lorna and Riggs getting married by a Rabbi (it more funny that we all know Gibson is a raving anti-Semite) and a sentimental ending about family which only Americans can do in a vomit inducing way.The film is worth watching simply because of Jet Li. "},{"Title":"I'm getting too old for this s**t","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Is it my imagination, or is the once cool Lethal Weapon series on a death spiral?  The movies now have a cast of thousands (Glover, Gibson, Pesci, Rene Russo, Chris Rock, everyone's latest baby, a bunch of bad guys, etc.) and they seem like nothing more than a feeble attempt to get them all some screen time.  There's no coherent dialogue, no plot, and no point. Watching Jet Li play the latest supervillain was the only reason to be mildly entertained. "},{"Title":"TRASH","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I am not a lethal weapon fan (haven't seen any of the others in the series). I must say that this movie is the worst I have ever seen in a theater.  I can suspend belief willingly for a movie until it starts insulting my intelligence which this movie does in almost every sequence. I wanted to puke when Glover's character feels the pain of the chinese immigrants because they are like slaves. Could the writers think of a more cliched way to get an emotional reaction? I abhor the way the race card is played in such a transparent manner. THIS MOVIE IS TRASH. I seriously felt dirty leaving the theatre... "}{"Title":"Flaws this profound are rare in a relentlessly mediocre film.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some strong points.  Jet Li is a phenomenal athlete and fairly menacing screen villain.  Several of the action/fight scenes are well choreographed.  Chris Rock has a couple of good scenes, especially the cell phone discussion with Joe Pesci.  But the movie suffers from such deep flaws that one has not only the disappointment of a poor film, but of a director and actors who know that star power and their franchise will carry them along and who just don't care anymore.Just some of the problems I noticed, in no particular order(1)  One of the major events in the movie is the promotion of Riggs and Murtaugh to the rank of captain.  There are two major problems with this plot point.  First, though it hardly matters in this avalanche of the improbable, their promotion isn't just implausible, it's ridiculously improbable.  They are supposed to have done so much damage that the city's insurance carrier will no longer insure the police.  So they are promoted off the street.  But since there are no open spots for Lieutenants, they are promoted one rank higher.  Excuse me?  They do so much damage that the city loses its insurance coverage and they can't even be taken off street duty?  Are *all* cops on the streets?  But that could be overlooked if it were not for the second problem  The promotion does, apparently, nothing.  The only effect of their promotion that we see is that they are called captain and sir.  They keep their same desks, their same duties, their same partnership.  (Do Captains even have partners?)  So why, since it doesn't do anything, do we even have the promotion subplot in the movie?(2)  I know I'm going to sound like a prig for mentioning this, but I was really repelled by the level of casual brutality and harassment Riggs and Murtaugh show.  They don't even have to wait for proof or even reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing, they simply destroy property, ruin a business, beat people up, shoot them, etc.  These are clearly rogue cops, and it may be a sign of the formula of the movie failing that we notice it.  It is not as though any action-movie heroes are textbook cops, but this movie is unforgivable in forcing you to notice it.  Perhaps more disturbing is that Riggs and Murtaugh are joined in this adventure by Lee Butters (a younger cop played by Chris Rock) who is just as casual in his brutality as the older cops.  He also casually cocks and brandishes his gun at Leo Getz (played by Joe Pesci), apparently just so you can tell that being a bad cop isn't restricted to the older, jaded officers.(3)  Big secrets are kept in ways that suggest that the characters haven't seen each other since the last film.  Riggs and Murtaugh are the closest of partners, the earlier movies make it clear that they think of each other as family.  But Murtaugh never mentions that Trish (his wife) is a successful writer?  Maybe he is embarrassed about what she writes, but would he never have mentioned in the early days that she had written something that she was sending off to a publisher, that it had been published, *nothing*?  But perhaps given the example he sets, he should not be surprised to find that his daughter has never revealed that she has been dating a man, has fallen in love, has married him, and is carrying his baby.  She has also never mentioned his name or occupation.  And this after making much in the last three films about Murtaugh as the devoted family man.  That's a betrayal of the characters and it's revolting.Now more briefly(4) Women escape hostage-takers but don't run to alert neighbors or call the police, but remain in area to be recaptured.(5)  Renee Russo's character (Lorna Cole) devolves from the third movie's smart cop to a broad farce of sappy, stupid, pregnant woman stereotype with some martial arts thrown in.(6)  They seem to have entirely forgotten here the first movie's point that Riggs is an outstanding martial artist.  He doesn't get beaten up because he is getting old.  He gets beaten up because the writers have, again, betrayed the character.(7)  The Chinese villains are supposed to be dastardly killers, using their cars to push their victims in their cars (conveniently stopped at railroad crossings) into the path of (conveniently) oncoming trains.  But it is a quite silly form of execution, not because it relies on the unlikely coincidence mentioned, but because all it takes to thwart this method is to hit the gas.  The path ahead is clear; when you're getting pushed just go with it and the train will pass behind you.(8)  Murtaugh's very quick to suppose, given basically no evidence, that Butters is gay and attracted to him.  Nice sleuthing.(9)  Simplistic, smug, moralizing on guns and slavery.  We're clearly supposed to feel uplifted by Murtaugh's opposition to slavery.  Good for you, Rog.  Are you against murder and cruelty, too?  If Richard Donner is a filmmaker who botches a film this badly, why would I trust him for moral guidance?Of course, there is the usual run-of-the-mill action film weirdness  windows are made of a supremely fragile material which looks like glass but which is effortlessly broken by the protagonist's fist, and cars on the LA freeway that do not swerve or slow down when following a man on a inverted table being dragged by a sheet of plastic from a prefab house.  But these aren't really faults of the movie so much as a stupid turn the genre has taken.  It is a rare action film these days that doesn't fall into these traps.All in all, Lethal Weapon 4 is a movie worth watching only if you don't care about film or about yourself.  "},{"Title":"The worst of all possible sequels","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Big pointless explosions, long painful fistfights, lame comedic intervals, one-dimensional bad guys  this is what the Lethal Weapon franchise means. Lethal Weapon 4 delivers all this in mind-numbing quantities.  This edition also delivers smarmy feel-good speeches and even hugs between Riggs and Leo. Pesci and Rock slug it out over who is supposed to be the comedic relief with most people wanting them to just shut up.  Only two plot-lines are advanced, of which even someone who has seen only one of the previous films can guess the outcome.  Riggs and Murtaugh destroy property, kill suspects, and walk away.  Shouldn't it be called Lethal Justice? "},{"Title":"Franchise Back On Track","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh are back in Lethal Weapon 4 which thankfully gets the franchise back on track after the misfire of lethal weapon 3Plot In A Paragraph With old age creeping up on them, Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) face personal problems as Riggs's girlfriend, Internal Affairs officer Lorna Cole receives a tip off that Murtaugh (who is suddenly splashing a lot of cash around) is on the take, whilst pregnant on maternity leave. Meanwhile Murtaugh finds out his unmarried, eldest daughter is pregnant, whilst they do battle with some nasty Chinese triads.I'll get what I don't like out the way first. There is an awful use of stunt doubles which are glaringly obvious when watching this on Blu-ray. Chris Rock, whilst OK. Seemed to be just doing his stand up routine through most of his time on screen. And Murtaugh saying please let him be black when referencing his grandchilds father, bothers me a lot more than it probably should have.Now onto the good. It is always good to see Mel Gibson and Danny Glover together on screen as Riggs and Murtaugh, as they have a real chemistry together. It is nice to see Rene Russo back and I loved Joe Pesci's turn here, especially the scene at the cemetery at the end of the movie. Jet Li is brilliant and is the deadliest villain of the franchise in my opinion, he is a definite step up from Jack Travis in Lethal Weapon 3. One of my favourite things about the Lethal Weapon franchise is the cast. It has not changed throughout the four movies. Aside from Mel Gibson and Danny Glover as Riggs and Murtaugh, Darlene Love plays Murtaugh's wife, Traci Wolfe, Damon Hines, and Ebonie Smith are Murtaugh's kids, Steve Kahan is Captain Murphy, and Mary Ellen Trainor is the police psychiatrist. This is the final film in which composer Michael Kamen composed the music for producer Joel Silver. Kamen would pass away from multiple sclerosis in 2003. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time when it was released in the theaters. For all practical purposes, this is a bad film. The best way that I can describe the overall tone is a cross between an episode of the TV show Jake and the Fat Man and one of the Police Academy movies. The acting is fairly poor. Glover plays the same type of character he played in most of his films. The plot is a simple enough story. Even today the story holds up and is suspenseful to watch. There really isn't much more to say about this movie. I will say it again a movie's function is to entertain. And I am always entertained when watching this one. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4 Bucks the Trend","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are at it for a fourth time. That means more nuttiness from Riggs and more complaining and hoarse groaning from Murtaugh. Lethal Weapon 4 was good for one standout reason Jet Li.Jet Li plays the bad guy in this one and does a good job at it too. His martial arts skills makes for some nice fight scenes. Of course there was the comedic element of Lethal Weapon 4 in Joe Pesci and the addition of Chris Rock.Honestly, for a fourth installment of a movie, LW4 was pretty good. Most franchises fall flat by part two and if they make it to a part three they have totally unraveled. LW4 bucks the trend and performs soundly. "},{"Title":"More Action , More Comedy , Less Story","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my best action movies since i was a kid , i watched it up than 10 times .. Glover & Gibson both are fantastic Bilateral .. the action and fighting were more than the preview trilogy , comedy as well . choosing Jet Li for this part is a good choice .. he played his role as it should be .. joe pesci wasn't bad even he got the razzie award because this movie .. but i think he wasn't deserved it because Chris rock deserve it Aptly .. Rene Rosso didn't appeared too much in this part but she acted well specially in the final scene into hospital she was very funny .. although this part have more action , fight scenes and comedy but it lacks the good story .. i hope in the 5th part (2015) the production company show us a brilliant story or i think it will be a loser part "},{"Title":"LW goes Hong Kong Phooey (dad)","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At the time of the review, this had been the last flick of our beloved duo and they quit with a bang or more accurately with a gong. Indeed, this time, the movie address the Chinese underworld as the setting. It's a bright idea because it's another element in LA criminal life and it adds an exotic flavor that was lacking in parts 2 and 3. If the action is still too loud, too repetitive (a skilled villain hidden in a dark lair) and the criminal investigation hardly unbelievable, the balance between action and comedy is much better than the last two and each characters has its moment. Above all, it has the most hilarious moment of all the saga when the duo goes into the dentist. The newcomer here, Chris Rock, is rather shy but brings a few good lines. The idea of Danny's misconception about his sex life is well played. Pesci is again great and it has the opportunity to show a more dramatic side as well. Jet Li ranks as the best villain of the saga and at last, Mel stays this a bit crazy buddy but who really pay attention to those around him.With this formula and its cast and production, they could have go on a long time and it will have been our pleasure. "},{"Title":"Not a bad conclusion to the quadrilogy","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After what was by far the longest gap between Lethal Weapon movies, the fourth installment in the quadrilogy finally came into theatres, six years after the third one. I was only about six months old when the original was first released, and by the time this fourth one came out, I was nearing adolescence, but was still too young to watch R-rated movies. I've seen all four LW films for the first time this year. Watching this 1998 action comedy's three predecessors, it seemed to me that each one showed a slight drop in quality from the last, so I had fairly low expectations for this fourth one, but still planned to finish watching the series. Many may disagree, but I think this one actually showed a slight improvement after Lethal Weapon 3.Sergeant Martin Riggs' girlfriend, Lorna Cole, is now pregnant, so he will soon be a father. Sergeant Roger Murtaugh, meanwhile, will soon be a grandfather, as his daughter, Rianne, is pregnant. One night, Murtaugh and Riggs are out on a fishing trip on Murtaugh's boat with their chatterbox friend, Leo Getz, who has become a private investigator. However, on this trip, trouble finds them once again, as their boat is struck by a large vessel! After a fight against Chinese men aboard this vessel, Riggs discovers that it is full of Chinese slaves! Detective Ng believes that Chinatown crime boss Uncle Benny Chan has something to do with this smuggling. Since Cole is pregnant, she cannot help out much on this mission, but Riggs and Murtaugh are sent along with Getz and Detective Lee Butters, the father of Murtaugh's grandchild, to take on the Chinese Triads. Riggs and Murtaugh are now both showing signs of aging, which unfortunately will not help them on this mission.In addition to the action in the Lethal Weapon franchise, you also expect humour, and there's lots of that here. I definitely laughed during the intro, with Murtaugh clucking like a chicken in his boxers during a confrontation on the street. Joe Pesci once again plays Leo Getz, and this character is still funny, with his conflict with the two main characters, and the scene around the beginning with the shark on the boat. This third sequel also introduces Detective Lee Butters, played by Chris Rock. The confrontation with Butters and Getz on the road had me in hysterics! There are some good action sequences as well, with fights and chases, which definitely had me in suspense. Unlike LW 3, Rene Russo doesn't steal the show here as Lorna Cole, though she could have if the character had not been made pregnant. Also, the romance between Cole and Riggs, while maybe still not perfect, was done a bit better here than in the previous film. The film also has some significant problems, however. The laughing gas scene is rather tedious, our heroes take a tad too many blows in the fight sequences, and the film left me wanting just a bit more.Like probably most people, I would say the original Lethal Weapon is the best of the bunch. However, I think Lethal Weapon 4 comes in third, inferior to both LW films from the 80's, but better than the first one of the 90's. I know many would disagree, but I would say this fourth installment in the quadrilogy was a good end to the series. There have been talks about Lethal Weapon 5 coming out in 2012, which have been on again and off again. Since I've found contradicting news articles on this project, I don't know whether it's happening or not (maybe nobody does), but I don't know if it would be a good idea anyway. It's been over a decade since the last installment in the series, and too many sequels can be a problem. Well, whether they make a fifth movie or not, and whether it turns out to be any good or not, overall, the four films that have already been made make a good action comedy series. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson,Danny GloverJoe Pesci,Rene Russo,Chris Rock, and Jet Li","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" out of all four movies in the series,this is probably the loudest and most chaotic,but that doesn't mean it was a bad movie.i think the storyline was a bit thin and not really all that original,but just like in part three,the action,and the chemistry of the stars makes up for that.and this movie also has more laughs than the previous installments,many courtesy of both Joe Pesci and Chris Rock.Rene Russo is back,along with Mel and Danny.Jet Li joins the proceedings in this one,and brings some spectacular fight scenes courtesy of his martial arts skill.i don't know if this is the best of the series,but i thought it was as good as number three,which i really liked.for me,Lethal Weapon 4 is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"I love this sequel!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the fourth & maybe last installment to this popular action packed series, ROGER MURTAUGH (DANNY GLOVER) & MARTIN RIGGS (MEL Gibson) accompanied by chatter box LEO GETZ (JOE PESCI) & LORNA COLE (RENE RUSSO) not to mention officer (& new comer to the series) LEE BUTTERS (The always hilarious CHRIS ROCK) attempt to take down a Chinese criminal who is trying to free his brother from prison & is using Chinese refugees to work in a major counterfeiting ring, as always these guys won't go down easy, leading to the usual car chases, on foot chases, explosions, kidnappings, break in & entering & plenty of bullets & fists flying fast & furious. If Director RICHARD DONNER, Producer JOEL SILVER & the writer attempted to end the LETHAL WEAPON series with a bang, than in these eyes they certainly did just that & more! this has to be my favorite sequel in the series! there's just so much going on, the action is tremendous, the fight scenes are well choreographed & there's also plenty of laughs abounding as always, some of the stunts are really amazing & will keep you on the edge of your seat, from the exciting beginning, right on through to the action filmed climax, this LETHAL WEAPON is the best & manages to make up for the less exciting, though still pretty good, LETHAL WEAPON 3. JET LI is an awesome fighter & makes for a really cool villain as well. Don't miss it! **** stars "}{"Title":"The Third Best of the Lethal Weapon films.","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Six years later... Riggs (Two-Time Oscar WinnerMel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are promoted to be Police Captains!, instead of being tough street cops. Their latest case, when an illegal ship has transported Chinese civilians to slavery. A big time Chinese crime lord-Benny Chan (Kim Chan) and his loyal assassin (Jet Li) wants a missing family that was supposed to be in the ship. But the missing family is with Murtaugh's family. Chan is making false money with counterfeit Chinese currency with the traids. Riggs' Wife (Rene Russo) is now pregnant and Murtaugh's oldest daughter (Traci Wolfe) is also pregnant. Now Riggs admits, he's getting too old for police work. This is their last action packed wild ride.Directed by Richard Donner (The Omen, Superman, Timeline) made an very entertaining action/adventure/thriller with an sense of humor. This is the last Lethal Weapon film. This is a improvement over Lethal Weapon 3. Jet Li steals the show as a villain (Which is also the first time that Li played a villain), which he's terrific. Oscar-WinnerJoe Pesci makes a welcome return from Lethal Weapon 2 & 3. Chris Rock is the new addition to the cast. Although this was a Box Office Disappointment, because of it's $140 Million Budget! Yes, the script is incoherent but it's works surprisingly well. Because the filmmakers got away with Murder in this film.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer with an terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an commentary track by the filmmakers. The flip side of the DVD has an 30 minute featurette hosted by Danny Glover, Deleted Scenes from Lethal Weapon 1-2 & 3, Behind the Scenes featurette, Interview Gallery with the Cast & Crew and Theatrical Trailer. This is an enjoyable sequel with some great action sequences with a few hilarious scenes. If you are an action fan. Don't miss this one. Story by Jonathan Lemkin (The Devil's Advocate), Alfred Gough (Spiderman 2) & Miles Millar (Shanghai Noon). Screenplay by Channing Gibson (Cradle 2 the Grave, Walking Tall-2004). Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 is in my opinion easily the best of them all! for one thing Jet Li does a great job in his role playing bad guy. the sad thing is he is in the movie Way to short.. there should have been more scenes with him. Also I would like to think that his role is the best he has made ever in Hollywood. In some way it feels like they have used Jet Li's performance in the right way . though, again, he should have been more into the movie.Chris Rock also makes another amazing role, I just love the loud Chris walking around talking nonsense... and in this movie he does that A lot and Well! other thing..the plot is not much to talk about but works for that this is; an action movie. the action is good! very good =)it was indeed a great end to a nice series of action films... "},{"Title":"A very good action movie","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The action scenes in this movie were quite exhilarating, especially the one on the highway. The martial arts skills and presence of Jet Li were also a pleasure. Irrascible Joe Pesci was amusing and Chris Rock in small doses was welcome as well. The corny buddy moments and camraderie were a little nauseating but an expected part of of the package. Excellent diversionary entertainment. 7.5/10.   "},{"Title":"Another action-packed chapter to the series!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen all the other Lethal Weapon-films, and I LOVE 'em all. Jet Li gives a great performance in his hollywood-debut as the evil martial-arts criminal Wah Sing Ku. Great performances from the cast all the way through and the usual ping-pong lines between Riggs and Murtaugh.Great film, not the best, but great 4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Overall a good film but with one or two irritations","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal weapon has always been a series that mixed action with comedy, each film varying the level of both. In the first installments the humour was overshadowed by the sinister nature of the plot. Lethal Weapon 3 took a much more relaxed attitude, and this has carried over to Lethal Weapon 4.I really enjoyed this film, I thought the action was good and the humour well-done. Gibson and Glover return in excellent style as the un-orthodox cop partners, Riggs and Murtaugh, and the more recent additions fit in well. Even the supporting cast of extras have a chat with the main characters, making it seem a far more natural environment.However this film did have its problems. I shall get those out of the way first.When in a chase, the dialogue becomes so hectic and each character shouts over one another until its a mess of 'blah'. This works once or twice, but the repeated use of it wears thin after four films, as does the mild-mannered chats in huge firefights. Also the more silly of the funny scenes seem out of place in a film that has a potentially serious plot. Finally the character of Leo, this is no criticism of Joe Pesci who is a great actor, but the character of Leo is infuriating and only bearable when bringing out the Chris Rock character.Bad stuff aside, onto the good points! The actual dialogues between characters are hilarious, Gibson and Glover have many conversations that made me laugh out loud. Chris Rock adds to the comedy with a more young 'in your face' attitude. The relationships between the actors seems very genuine and convincing.While on characters, it is always important to consider the villains. I'm probably not the only one to say that Jet Li plays by far the best villain in the series. True you don't find out much about him but he steals every scene he's in. Considering he couldn't speak a word of english when making this film, his lines aren't exactly extensive (1 line). Still he gets across the emotions of his character perfectly. And of course, his prowess in fighting is several steps above any other villains in the series. Great bad guy.All in all I found this film a lot of fun to watch. It is afterall a cop-comedy, not a serious action thiller. The problem comes only when they try too hard to lighten the mood, and it becomes irritating. Thumbs up though! Very enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"I liked it but it had sequel syndrome!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I found it highly entertaining. It had good comedy sequences and excelent action.The acting was good,and I really liked Chris Rock's character.But the plot was not up to par.  "},{"Title":"Best since first","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has to be the best one of the series since the first one.  This one, you have all sorts of big named stars and they all do their characters perfectly.  I liked the accompany of Chris Rock and the evil villain Jet Li.  They were both really good as their characters.  Chris Rock was funny, Jet Li kicked everyone's a$$ in this one.  Rene Russo's there but not that long.  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover do once again wonderful as the duo.  Joe Pesci's back again and he's still good.Overall the whole movie is good and this is definitely the best since the first.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My favorite in the series","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is my favorite film in the weapon series. The film has more action, one-liners and shows that Riggs and Murtageh really are getting to old for this sh*t. Joe Pesci and Chris Rock are very funny and Jet Li provides great martial arts. 5/5 "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just wanted 2 say that I love this movie a lot! It's 1 of the best out of the entire Lethal Weapon series! My favorite characters are Mel Gibson (very handsome), Chris Rock (a loudmouth, but still funny), Joe Pesci (1 of the funniest characters) and Jet Li (a lethal bad-a**, love his wicked moves, handsome 2)! Also, Lorna, Rianne and Carrie are just the prettiest women in this movie, they are of pure beauty! I hope that they come out with a Lethal Weapon 5! My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"A high voltage adventure that we'll rock you from beginning to end!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is one of the best in the Lethal Weapon series. This movie is incredible. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are great as those two crazy cops fighting crime in L.A. Joe Pesci and Chris Rock bring fantastic comedy to the film, and Jet Li is outstanding in the fighting scenes. Awsome action sequences that are even better than the other 3 films before it, make this movie a must see for anyone who likes a really good action film filled with lots of chases, gun fights and explosions. This movie truly delivers! Of the four Lethal Weapon films, this one is just as great as the original.   "}{"Title":"Not as good as the first 3","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Here we go again, a new character, Lee Butters (Chris Rock). As before, I was worried about a new addition to the Lethal Weapon team.All of the main characters from the previous 3 movies are back, but the comedy is at an all-time low for a Lethal Weapon film. The action, however, is still existent, and that saves the film from being dull. But don't get me wrong, the humor is still there, it's just not as constant.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Back on the right track.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A new cop joins the group as a new regular joined for the others. Rock is good here, although he feels like a younger version of Gibson and Glover rolled into one. The bad guy's motives and personalities are still unexplained but that's not what this film is about. Its about action and comedy and it delivers it better than it has done since the first film in '87.  8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Above average Hollywood action","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Above average Hollywood formula action movie that is also the worst of the LETHAL WEAPON series but still is a cut above the typical Hollywood action fare.Why?Star chemistry is the key as with the rest of the other LETHAL WEAPON efforts.This one was too watered down for more mainstream appeal (quick cash) and had a much more comedy atomsphere,thus in effect,lampooning themselves.Average script and below average screenplay.Action packed but cartoonish in style.The acting was passe as well.Star power and charm simply carried this energetic movie.Only for big police action movie fans.........    "},{"Title":"An Explosive Blockbuster!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The action-adventure team of Richard Donner and Joel Silver has done it again! Lethal Weapon 4 explodes onto the screen. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ignite the screen as buddy cops Riggs and Murtaugh and all the old favorites are back to join then. Leo (Joe Pesci), Captain Ed Murphy (Steve Kahan) and Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) make returns in this powerful action-blockbuster. Joining the already impressive cast are comedian Chris Rock (Detective Lee Butters) and international action-star Jet Li (Wah Sing Ku). It is great to see something other than drug traffickers dominating the scripts for the final installment in the Lethal Weapon series. This movie has everything that I have come to know and love from the Lethal Weapon movies. Laughs and action a 'plenty are here with the action more hard-hitting than ever. The inclusion of Chris Rock as Lee Butters adds to the comic parts of the movie, although Gibson and Glover match Rock with witty one-liners all the way. Although this film has been criticised for being 'shallow' I believe that this is possibly the best film of the series. This movie is well worth a view and certainly worth the hiring fee. Although it is best if you view this after the first three as you will get a better idea of the characters and scenes they talk about in the 4th installment. Another good feature in the re-released version of Lethal Weapon 4 in Australia is that the end credits are a collage of famous and infamous moments of the Lethal Weapon series including old favorites such as the 'toilet scene', the final scene of Lethal 3 and the sniper scene from Lethal 1. Overall I would have to say that this film has got it all comedy, action and a few good and interesting plot twists. If you are like me and enjoy a good action flick with plenty of violence and great one-liners check this one out. Although this film does not take much to understand it is perfect for a Sunday night flick. Enjoy what is a great film! "},{"Title":"Action Packed","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Absolutely funny and action packed.  Glover and Gibson give the audience another run through 2 hours of non-stop jokes and action, which what makes the movie grab your attention.  Although the movie seems to drag forever when Gibson and Glover continue to exchange bruises and cuts with their adversary (Jet Li), it finishes with a load of laughs and tears. "},{"Title":"Jet Li kicks butt!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't like Mel Gibson, I've never heard of Danny Glover until this film, I've never heard of the Lethal Weapon series until this film, and I saw this film only because Jet Li is in it. I ended up liking more than Jet Li's performance. This movie is funny without going overboard to slapstick, and although Jet Li's screen time is way too short, I like it anyhow. Mel Gibson didn't annoy me for once, and him and Danny Glover are just so fun to watch. They have a certain chemistry that is definitely needed for the characters they play (who are best friends, am I not right?). Jet Li's character was more flat compared to Gibson's and Glover's, but who cares? I enjoyed watching him play the bad guy, and how fantastic he was! He may not be a very versatile actor, but his martial arts and his basic grasp of the craft is just enough for a fairly one-dimensional character.All in all, Lethal Weapon 4 is great entertainment with a great Jet Li. Do watch it. "},{"Title":"Great cast","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this was the best lethal weapon since 1989's Lethal weapon 2.The action scenes were incredible.The comedy was great.The plot was also very interestin unlike LW3.And the special part of this movie was the all star cast.Theres Mel Gibson,Danny Glover,Joe Pesci,Rene Russo,Chris Rock,and Jet Li.They all have great chemistry and we can't forget some of our old favorite like Police Psychiatrist Dr. Stephanie Woods(Mary Ellen Trainor)and Capt. Ed Murphy(Steve Kahan).So If you wanna see a good action film all you have to do is decide to go on 3 or after to your nearest Vhs and DVD rental store, "},{"Title":"My number 139 movie ( contains story )","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is my number 139 movie. I think it is the second best part after Lethal Weapon 3.The story  Some Chinese guys bring Chinese men to America, for slave labour. Martin Riggs ( Mel Gibson ) and Roger Murtaugh ( Danny Glover ) get the order to solve that problem. With the help of the non-stop-talking Lee Butters ( Chris Rock ) and Leo Getz ( Joe Pesci ), they get in contact with wah sing Ku ( jet Li ). Lethal Weapon 4 is a good and fun action movie, that is filled with good stunts and very good action sequences ( beginning, motorway ). The actors maybe are not that good, but this is an action movie that wants to entertain us, allright ?I have to admit that I like &#132;big action films, and &#132;Lethal Weapon 4 is no exception. I consider it a good action film, but there are many action films that are ( much ) better.  All in all, I rated this movie 8/10 and I recommend it to actions fans and.If you have any questions, feel free to ask them.  "},{"Title":"Ranked #1","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (spoiler warning)Unlike most others, I actually think the Leathal Weapon movies improve with each sequel - thus #4 is the best and #1 is the least good. Don't hate me for it. I think they're all good. But the brainlessness of the films are easier to explain (and appreciate) if one sees them as action-comedies.This film also brings a good closure to the saga - many things are settled for good Leo Getz becomes a member of the family, Riggs can finally lay the memory of his murdered wife behind him and marry Lorna, and during the end credits, we get to see evidence of the friendship between the members of the Lethal Weapon crew photos from all four films and the unmistakable song line Why can't we be friends. I actually find this violent, brainless movie to be very heart-warming - not only because of the love between the characters, but because of the obvious love between the actors and of how fun it must have been to make this film.Wonderfully funny. "},{"Title":"OK (and hopefully final) sequel","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've just watched all Lethal Weapon movies on video in the last 2 weeks.  I liked #4 better on video than in the theaters in 1998, because I was caught up on the stories and the characters.  Still, it's the weakest of the series.  As someone already said, Riggs is too settled.  He and Lorna make a good couple and there's real chemistry there, but Riggs with the short hair and looking a little heavy, and with a girlfriend and a baby on the way, etc., well, he just isn't real Lethal anymore.  And a big part of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh (the core relationship, always) is their differences.  Now they're just about the same.  Plus Leo Getz wore out his welcome and shouldn't have been in this one.  #4 has its moments, and I really liked Jet Li, but the whole enterprise lacks the snap of the previous entries.  So Mel, Danny, Joe, Renee, and Chris, thanks for the memories, but please don't make another one.  Mel has been saying recently that there won't be another one; hope he sticks to it. "}{"Title":"Definitely the most fun of the series!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4, while not the best of the series(the first one takes that trophy), it is by far the most fun. Everything from Chris Rock and Joe Pesci's outrageous rant on the cell phones to the awesome stunt fights between Gibson, Glover and Jet Li.Riggs and Murtaugh are back. This time they must try to protect a Chinese family from mercenaries who are planning to undergo a counterfeit scheme to take their allies out of prison.I found very few flaws in this movie. The only one I can find is that the plot could have been clarified a little better. Another thing would be, in the first movie Murtaugh turned fifty years old and about ten or so years later, he doesn't look that much older.The strongest points were the sense of humor and the action sequences. The greatest example of the humor would be the scene where Riggs, Murtaugh and Butters interrogate Uncle Benny while nitrous oxide is pumped into the room.If you're a Lethal Weapon fan, you'll love this. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Interesting series","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I seen this movie many times and after the DVD version, i decided to comment on it.Speaking of action, the spice of this movie is the appearance of Jet Lie in one of his first western movie. His appearance is serious and challenging because he is looks serious this time, where normally he act as a more relaxing hero/character for Chinese's audience.There words in this movie are rather strong but from the comical view and action part, it supposed have no problem at all for all viewer.Thanks to the producer of bringing Jet's in, the movie is getting more interesting and worth to watch. "},{"Title":"still good!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon movies have been great so far and so is this. LW4 has (even) more comedy than the others and some good action. As a comedy this rates as one of the best in a long time, I laughed out loud several times! The action is good, pretty inventive and original in places, Jet Li is especially good as the bad guy. The best thing about this and the other Lethal Weapons is that you can see the crew had a lot of fun making these films. Rarely you get the sense of honest fun in filmmaking these days... "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROX THE WORLD!!!!!!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is w/out a doubt the best in the LETHAL saga. Great writing,directing,acting,andaction sequences make this a perfect endind to the quadrilogy! mel gibson is one of my favorite actors and he rox in this movie. JET LI IS WAY BETTER THAN JACKIE CHAN AND BRUCE LEE COMBINED!! he is awesome in that and hes awesone in ROMEO MUST DIE! if u havent seen this action packed comedy i suggest u rent or buy it. trust me. IT ROX!! "},{"Title":"Lethal for the 4th time, and still going strong","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel and Danny are at it again, and supposedly, for the lasttime. In the third of probably the best cop film series next to the Dirty Harry flicks, Riggs and Murtaugh are going tomiddle-aged life crises, because the ladies in their lives areexpecting little packages! Rigg's fellow cop and lover LornaCole (the ever-watchable Rene Russo) is pregnant with theirfirst child, while Murtaugh's daughter Rianne is also having a baby, with the identity of the father is unknown to everyone,except the mom, of course. Beyond the atmospheres of theirlives, Riggs and Murtaugh are up to their necks in trouble as the two toughest cops in L.A. are soon battling out withvicious Chinese gangsters led by the ruthless head-kicker Wan San Fu (Jet Li, in his first American role, and also whichhe plays a villain for the first time in his career!), who are smuggling illegal immigrants from their country into ours.Along for the ride is the big-mouthed pipsqueak Leo Ok, ok! Getz, played with hilarious style by Joe Pesci, and also,trying his best to please (annoy?) our main heroes, is rookie cop Lee Butters (Chris Rock, in pure manic mode!) who isassigned to work with Riggs and Murtaugh on the smugglingcase.Though the process and feeling is getting kind of tired anddull, as if the leads really are getting too old for this s***, the Lethal Weapon franchise is still alive and kicking hard, thanks to the frantic action sequences (try the beginning andend for starters!), the usual antics caused by Riggs to get on his partner's nerves, and the high voltage powerhouseof Jet Li, whose moves are so quick it would make Jackie Chandizzy! The showdown between him and Riggs and Murtaugh isclaustrophobic and uptight, it seems that you could actuallyfeel the pain being dispensed by the characters! "},{"Title":"Are you ready for more Mel and Danny?","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, they definetly saved the best for last!  Lethal Weapon 4 delivers where the previous 3 movies couldn't!  Mel, Danny, Rene, Joe, and Jet Li!  Yes, Jet Li.  What a great performance from this fairly new actor to American films.   Chris Rock adds some very funny humor where Pesci can't deliver.  NOTE  The scene where Chris Rock talks about the cell phones is a RIOT! I especially liked the way that the credits rolled by at the end of the movie.  All the pictures of the previous films were a great walk through the past films in this great 4-part saga! "},{"Title":"Yeah... nice","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Too much action ?!? Maybe .  1 p  Enaugh big important actors ?!? YES !  3p  Good script ?!? NO !  0p  Actors playing well ?!? Maybe . 1p  How good is he direction Bad, Medium or Good ?!? Medium. 1p Better than any other from this series ? No. 0p     Let's see we have a total of 6 points from 18 . So this is a pretty bad movie ! "},{"Title":"Well ... I enjoyed it","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After all the bad comments I've heard, I waited to get it free on weekly hire at the video shop ... and I really enjoyed it. It is funny, has good action, good suspense, and kept me completely amused for the evening, you just have to check you critical eye at the baggage check on the way in. Thanks Hollywood for more mindless entertainment. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  **some spoilers** Lethal Weapon 4 has some flaws that the previous three didn`t have.  First of all, this is number 4 in the series, and there`s not that much here, that wasn`t present in the previous three.  But as always we get plenty of neat action, and with the assistance of Jet Li as villian, LW 4 can proudly stand among its older brothers. I`d just like to say something about the fight-scene between Gibson and Li in the end.  This is a scene where Li loses, just because he is the bad guy.  In real live however, Gibson wouldn`t have had a chance against Li. In the end however, Lethal Weapon 4 is just as good and entertaining as the previous three movies, but something has to be changed with the concept if they decide to make Lethal Weapon 5. 9/10  "},{"Title":"My comments are for real.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the most entertaining movies that I have ever had the pleasure to see. Just like the earlier Lethal Weapon movies, part 4 has it all. With the return of all the regular cast, this movie is as comical and action packed like the first four. And having Chris Rock and Jet Li is like the icing of the cake. This is a very well put together movie and I enjoyed it alot, I strictly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Solid Entertainment","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is not as good as Lethal Weapon 2 but it still manages to bee entertaining without being stupid. I must applaud the Lethal Weapon creators for managing to make 4 good films, most film series' that have 4 movies usually get weaker but not this series. Chris Rock is the best thing about this new film has adds funny comedic touches and takes part in the action. "},{"Title":"Leathon Weapon a Comedy.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love the Leathal weapon series, like Back to Future, Die Hard and Indy, so I have nothing bad to say about this one or any of the others, all I have to say is that I don't really see this one as an Action film, but as a comedy,  I didn't expect to have laughed so much when i first watched it. This film has collected all the characters from the first 3 and added 2 more in the form of Chris Rock, and Jet Li, and to me it's a real good end to a series of the best buddy movies. I hope there's a new sequel, and according to previous patterns a new character! "},{"Title":"The funniest of them all","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are back for this outrageous 4th sequel.The beginning is great when Riggs and Murtaugh have to take out a man in armor with a flamethrower.The story is when Riggs and Murtaugh get caught up in an Asian counterfeiting ring led by kung fu actor Jet Li things become lethal.Uncle Benny is also a good villain and makes me laugh a lot.Loads of f words and explosive car chases but thats what makes this movie so enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Fun and action","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Lethal Weapon series is one of the few that still continues to be fresh after a fourth part. And they carry along something many other movies where a lot of things are blown up miss - action with a laugh and even a logical plot.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not Great, Predictable","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs (Gibson) and Murtaugh (Glover) are at it again, battling a gaggle of international criminal masterminds while destroying millions of dollars of property in the process.  This time the criminals are Chinese gangsters and rogue military guys led by Jet Li.  Riggs and Murtaugh are aided again by Joe Pesci, and new kid Chris Rock as Murtaugh's son-in-law and fellow cop. This franchise is going the way of the James Bond films; relying less on plotting and character development while having special effects and pyrotechnics carry the film.  There's all kinds of explosions (tanker trucks and ships), high speed chases, and kung fu fighting.  It seems to be working with audiences, but not for this viewer.  It's not all that bad, it's just that it's not memorable...and it's getting old.      "},{"Title":"GREAT SUPER-ACTION!!!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is even better than any other previous L.W. movies. Because they added more main characters in it, especially Chris Rock, the funny guy.When I saw Jet Li, he was so powerful and strong, just like Bruce Lee. Whenever Li is in other movies (playing good guys), I would assume that he wins every fight. I would also appreciate some comedies in this picture, because the funniest part was when Mel, Danny, Chris, Joe, and the patient were at the dentist and got caught with laughing gas. So once again, great super-action! "},{"Title":"Your never too old for this *#@$!!!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge fan of this series that got better with each installment. Once again we see just how much chemistry this cast has. Gibson & Glover are a match made in acting heaven. Russo's great as always. Rock is funny but Pesci was hilarious. And Jet Li is brilliant. Not only is his martial arts fantastic but he can act and he's got tremendous screen presence. This was very entertaining ending to a very entertaining series. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A good action-comedy packed with laughs and adventure.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  BackgroundI am a 24 year old male engineering and computer science student living in SC. I do have a large humanities background.OverviewI gave this movie a 7 out of 10. I think that it is a good action-comedy packed with laughs and adventure. Right from the start the movie is bursting with good comedy and intense adventure. It is a little over the top sometimes, but if you don't mind that kind of stuff you will really enjoy some of the crazier parts. Personally in this type of movie, I just prefer to go ahead and get the action-comedy raw, and skip the plot and character development parts. It is like Home Improvement I could watch Tool Time all day long and love it. Who says there has to be plot and character development anyway? Don't get me wrong, I want plot and character development in most movies. but movies like this they aren't to just go ahead and be a few hours of hilarious fun. I really liked the two main characters and I also liked the two sidekicks, especially Chris Rock, who was too much to take sometimes. I think this was the most intense of the Lethal Weapons series, and probably the most fun to watch. I didn't really like the Chinese maffia motif thing. I would have preferred a good old standard villain with more personality but that is me.Thanks. "},{"Title":"Jet Li Is A Fantastic Bad Guy","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   I am so glad that Jet Li signed on to play the bad guy in this action, because without him, the film would just be much of the same old Riggs and Murtaugh, again. This time we have the added pleasure of Chris Rock(soon to be the son in law of Murtaugh) to entertain us. He does accomplish that, if you try not to take him too seriously. There are many edge-of-your-seat scenes that are original, to say the least-these include a car chase through a building and a fight scene in Murtaugh's house in which Rene Russo kicks some Chinese ass. Lethal Weapon 4 is a great night out, as long you don't ask too many questions. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"All's well that ends well...except Lethal4","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal 4...what can I say? I was expecting a HUGE blockbuster, and what do you know, it DID top the box-office charts too! But for WHAT? A weak plot and an extremely dull new character and the pg-13 version of the movie absolutely ruined the whole show for me! I've searched everywhere possible, but simply CANNOT find the R-version! What kinda fun are Riggs and Murtaugh if they're not loud and abusive?I will always be a Lethal Weapon fan to the end, but Lethal 4 just signalled the end, which is a pity. The story is a little weak. OK, it's very weak. Jet Li makes up for the weakling bad guy in LW3 but that's about it. What's hard to believe is that Riggs and Murtaugh ARE finally too old for this #$%@ but alas that is the bitter truth. When I accept that, I might give this movie one more chance. I've seen it twice and have been left with a bad taste in my mouth both times. Partly because it was the kids-only no-swearing pg-13 version, and partly because I just can't accept the guys are ... OLD! How come Russo doesn't look aged? Kahan looks as young as he was in LW2! Anyhow, darn, I'll miss the gang. Except that new guy.The weakest Lethal Weapon, but it IS Lethal Weapon nonetheless.Oomph!-meter (from 5) **1/2 "}{"Title":"A very danger weapon, but not too lethal.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had the opportunity of watching Lethal Weapon 4 (1998) on theaters.  When a movie is watched in the big screen with a great surround sound equipment and a big audience the experience is different than watching the movie on video at home and alone.The movie has an opening with action and comedy.  A semi trailer explodes and goes sky-high- really cool.  Then the movie moves to a different setting, always keeping the comedy.  Suddenly action starts again.  But after that thrilling sequence at Los Angeles Harbor, the movie plot goes down.  For more than 30 minutes, the story is just talking with some funny moments.  After that, the plot goes high again; of course, it's not a big plot Chinese people making fake Chinese money.  However, the movie has great action sequences, like the car chasing, and good kung-fu fighting performed by Jet Li.  The fighting could have been more, I mean, what Jet Li showed on Lethal 4 was not all he knew, but maybe the kung-fu wasn't that much because Gibson and Glover don't know anything about martial arts.  Jet Li couldn't perform big moves against men like Mel and Danny, so the director keep the fighting cool but not that cool.  Joe Pesci and Chris Rock gave the movie a funny touch, like when they both start chatting about cell phones- really annoying but funny at the same time.  Rene Russo did good too, specially for a pregnant woman.  Fighting Chinese people while pregnant is not an easy task.EVALUATION 8 out of 10.  **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Mad Bad & Dangerous - but no!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As a hot-blooded, heterosexual Englishman I usually go for action films for the pace and violence - certainly not for the scripts.  But Mel Gibson has always had a very strange ooh I wouldn't kick him out of bed effect on me. OK he's made some stinking turkeys in his time, but he's always done them with dignity, cool and above all sexiness.However, Lethal Weapon 4 was the worst pile of disjointed, feeble, over-budgeted rubbish I have yet seen him in.  The series has worked for me due to the great chemistry and witty repartee between Mel and Danny but it has become jaded and stale.  The script was not just a crumby action script - it was like talking to your alzheimer's suffering grandmother.  The story didn't flow and far too much pally-buddie-coincidence driven scenarios ground down an action packed adventure into a series of slushy sentimental cliches.What I would say in it's defence is Jet Li was fantastic.  He upstaged the entire cast.  A menacing look here, a well placed (but still cool) kick there and the partnership of Mel & Danny was left looking comatose.  When they are discussing leaving Jet alone because he's too good.  I thoroughly agreed.  Give him the entire Lethal Weapon 5 and Mel and Danny can stay on the golf course with Connery and other aging over-payed and lazy actors.Sorry Mel, but however good you are in bed - you need to do better on the screen before you come anywhere near me. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Extremely fun fourth installment has a great cast and is very funny in certain scenes.The final battle is gruesome but very entertaining.Mel is great.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"By far the best of the Lethal Weapon films!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think it was possible for them to come up with another Lethal Weapon that would be this action packed and funny, but they did. Definitely worth watching a second or third time, and ironically it makes you hope they add another to the series...Lethal Weapon 5, the Next Generation maybe? "},{"Title":"One Good Reason To See This Flick","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The thistleberry seed at the end of the movie is so cute!  How'd that tbs get to be so darn cute?  It's a mystery!  Especially in that cap! "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal weapon 4 is one of my favorite action movies ever. It was the perfect blend of comedy(Chris Rock, Joe Pesci), and action. Also, throw in a great bad guy, Jet Li. He was incredible, and gives one of the best performances of the movie. This is a great movie. "},{"Title":"The best of them all!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was the best of the Lethal weapons.  I like this movie a lot it has a so much  action in it.  IT was funny and entertaining.  I was an the edge of my seat the whole time. I think that every one should see this film if you want to see a lot of action and you want to laugh.    "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is funny! There isn't so much action in it, but it has a lot of humor. More humor than action, but that's okay. If you're looking for action, go rent one of the others. If you're looking for a good comedy, this is the movie to see! "},{"Title":"Better than expected..!!!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'd heard a lot of negative comments about this film so waited until it came around on video before seeing it and I have to say I really enjoyed it. Sure it's pretty much the same old formula but nonetheless Mel Gibson and Danny Glover make a good pair and have a lot of on-screen chemistry. There's enough explosions, gunplay and wisecracks to keep the average action fan happy and some (although admittedly not much) character development. There isn't any mention at all though of Murtagh's supposed retirement at the end of Lethal Weapon III or why he's still on the force which was a bit strange. Surely it wouldn't have taken much to chuck in a few lines of dialogue to explain this. Ever since the 3rd movie, the studios obviously figured, since the movies were successful, they would aim for a wider audience and so tone the movies down a bit. I think the last 2 films although good still didn't have the edge of the first 2. The 2nd was the best in my opinion. I'm not sure if making the same film again will be a good plan if there is ever a Lethal Weapon 5. There was a rumour going around that Danny Glover's character was supposed to die in the beginning of the movie. I think this would have probably been better, or something similar as Mel Gibson seems to be losing his Lethalness. Seeing Riggs go totally off the deep end a'la Unforgiven would have made this a lot better......probably!!! "},{"Title":"The gang is all there, and then you have Chris Rock...","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was very pleased with this movie.  I don't see how anyone could write this movie off in such a malign way.  Lethal Weapon 4 has everything in it. You have the original cast, and then the addition of Chris Rock spices up the movie tremendously.  The action is intense, of course, and Jet Li is a quiet but very evil villain.  The fight between Gibson, Glover, and Li in the end was great.  All three took quite a beating, and it was very fun to watch. Joe Pesci is always quite good, too.  The movie is just full of fun action that doesn't let up.  I wouldn't mind seeing a 5th Lethal Weapon, but I think Glover and Gibson's grey hairs are on the rise.  That's too bad. "}{"Title":"a strong hit for gibson and glover","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  it's so exciting to watch your favorite stars in your favorite movie series lethal weapon after a long time..lw4 has it's own taste..where you enjoy the sense of humor...action..thrill..adventure...and state of the art visual effects..all this package is represented in a giant hit movie that you won't get your ass up while watching it!!  "},{"Title":"The boys great as ever. Shame about the villains","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs and Murtaugh are now a well established double-act and don`t disappoint in LW4. The gags and practical jokes are well up to standard. Personally I was disappointed at the size of Rene Russo`s role in the film after establishing her so well in LW3. However the main disappointment was the lack of a villain of the calibre of the other three films. Flying kicks is not really enough. Small beef however about an otherwise fun and at times exciting blast of a film with great central performances from all the good guys. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was so shocked that they did a fourth Lethal. I thought that 3 was going to be the last time we would see those characters together on film. But they proved me wrong.I think that this will be the last Lethal. For one thing that they finally gave Martian Riggs a family.Roger Murtagh is still the same.Leo Getz was ok.Everyone else did good.The main fight at the end was cool. In the first 3 Lethals you seen Mel Gibson is the one that fights the bad guy. But this time he came up short. He and Danny couldn't keep Jet Li down.\If this is the Last Lethal then they are going down in style "},{"Title":"That Guy is SOoooo Fast","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just rented this movie,  I would like to say that this is such a great film.  I have never seen anyone move so fast, (except Jackie Chan).  All in all a good film.  A few good parts again the ninja guy "},{"Title":"A fitting finale if this is to be the last of Lethals","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  LW 1 was great, 2 was met with equal enthusiasm, 3 ??? - I have not seen but I never heard my friends say Go see LW3 so when approached with 4 I was a little skeptical.  Truth be told my sole purpose for watching this film was to see Jet Li's Hollywood debut. If you can get over the first twenty minutes of banter then you're in for a fairly comfy ride.  Mel and Danny's conversations range from touching; to complete warble and you get the feeling that there is nothing left in their characters that hasn't been seen in the previous Lethal films.  Rene Russo's character strikes me as annoying and nothing more than a distraction to the main plot.  As usual Pesci, as Leo Getz, provides the laughter and can do no wrong whilst Chris Rock is the new cop in town and slips into the role with ease. Just when you think that LW4 is nothing more and you're about to leave the cinema or turn off the VCR/DVD/LD player... Jet Li appears.  As Wah Sing Ku, Jet enthuses limitless energy (in his character and his action shots) bringing the film to a knife's edge.  His Hollywood debut as the bad guy is carried out superbly and demonstrates his wonderful diversity.  Jet's charm and graceful movement oozes out to us and we're left wanting more.  Perhaps he does this too well because I wanted him to kill off Mel and Danny.Because of the photo album, I feel that this will and should be, the last of Lethals - there is nowhere left for Donner and Joel Silver to go and no character or indeed villain will surpass Li's electric Wah Sing Ku.  I got the feeling that Donner was a little too greedy in casting.  6 stars equals too many.  Donner should have stuck with 3 plus Li and bring a darker edge like the first Lethal. In a nutshell, the banter can drag on but it's worth watching for Li's explosive performance alone.  An excellent evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Wise guy hey","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this one wasn't the best Lethal Weapon but most entertaining.  You got to know a lot about Joe Pesci's character in this movie and it was quite touching at times.  Jet Lit got that stone cold look down perfectly and I'm sure we'll see more of him to come. Very entertaining flick.My gradeB "},{"Title":"please end Riggs' and Murtaughs' miseries","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Too much of everything. OK, movies are sometimes made to be entertaining and shallow. This however is an insult to people's intelligence, I can understand that some people like this movie. But it's really getting tiresome with Riggs' and Murtaughs constant bickering and arguing, their characters haven't developed a bit since the 2nd movie.They should've quit after the 2nd sequel, I'm tired of Riggs and Murtaugh saying they're too old for this s***. Can't be hard to make a 5th movie, 2 hours of them saying that line to each other I reckon.Too bad Jet Li didn't finish them off in the end, would've done the world a big favour, now we have to put up with a 5th movie most likely.  "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Lethal Weapon films have always been some of my favorites, but this one is my favorite of them.  So enjoyed the humor and gags between Rog and Riggs. Can hardly wait to watch it with my husband, he will love it too. He has already watched the others multiple times, as have I. Gibson and Glover are a good pair. Their fondness for one another really shines through. Make more!!  "},{"Title":"Violent, offensive sequel offers a few bursts of excitement.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes everybody, the gang's back in action! Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson), and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) have returned, and this time, they will need a helping hand...Riggs and Murtaugh team up once again to bring us the fourth entry in the immensely successful LETHAL WEAPON series, LETHAL WEAPON 4. Lots of action, gunfire, huge explosions, wild stunts, general kinetic energy, cool shoot-outs, awestruck martial arts, and total chaos accompany this movie into full blast...sort of. Lethal Weapon 4, though earnestly tried by both the cast members and the production crew, misses the mark...Director Richard Donner (LETHAL WEAPON 1, 2, and 3) returns to the series as well as the two veteran leading actors. Rene Russo is back as Riggs' pregnant love interest, and Joe Pesci gives us plenty of laughs too as a funny Private Investigator, Leo Getz. A new addition to the LETHAL WEAPON cast is Chris Rock, who was hilarious as Detective Lee Butters.  He has tons of laugh out loud moments, and coincidentially, he was the one responsible for getting Murtaugh's daughter pregnant...Martial Arts sensation Jet Li makes his U.S. debut here in LETHAL WEAPON 4 as Wah Sing Ku a nasty villian with a style, and a penchant for beating up the competition. Li is the show stealer for this movie. He displays many patented, slick, and rigorous lightning quick moves and speed. He is tough, graceful, and a nearly impossible villian to beat. Li also does a fine job creating a malicious edge as well too, using a necklace full of beads as a potent weapon...Looks like a reunion here, folks! Riggs and Murtaugh are up to their necks as they attempt to crack an illegal immigrant smuggling ring. This ring of terror is lead by, who else, supervillian Jet Li, and his assistant, Uncle Benny (Kim Chan). The two idiotic cops have managed to provoke the anger of both Li and his Triads, and now, the buddies are on the organized gang's hit list...marked for death...LETHAL WEAPON 4 is pure firepower with lots of hilarity, but this film needs lots of target practice. The cast plays for laughs in this film as well. One scene that was also a spotlight grabbing opportunity was when both Chris Rock and Joe Pesci were arguing (and improvising) to one another about how cellphones are useless and annoying and they skyrocket your phone bill and such. That scene was a defining moment in this movie. Chris Rock deserves accomendation for being a funny, wisecracking comedian who has a disputable attitude. Like Jet Li, Rock stole the show from the two leading characters.The action is LETHAL WEAPON 4 is furious...if sparse. Although the action sequences in this motion picture are sedulously choreographed, most of the good scenes have already been shown in the trailers. You know that that's a desperate attempt for money and attention.  The explosive beginning of LETHAL WEAPON 4 wasn't bad...in fact, it was terrific.  Still, the exploding gas truck and lots of inferno in this introduction was all too full blown...and predictable.  The car chase scene at the freeway, where the car Riggs and Murtaugh were driving crashed through an entire building literally was also fun...but I already anticipated that. The marathon at Chinatown was kind of presentimented too much also...LETHAL WEAPON 4 is obviously losing its magic. Why? For starters, here are several pathetic attempts at eliciting laughs.1) Danny Glover resorts to running around in his boxers just to get a bad guy's attention. 2) Danny Glover (Murtaugh) thinks that Chris Rock is getting close to him because this young neophyte is acting officious in front of this captain. 3) Mel Gibson using stereotypical remarks on Chinese and Asian Americans just to get some answers. (i.e. Flied lice.) 4) The Lethal Weapon gang plus Uncle Benny must use laughing gas in order to interrogate Benny. Benny though, shined too with some of his witty dialogue. 5) Riggs no longer retains his suicidal tendencies; instead he tries to attract laughs with his silliness on how to become a daddy.LETHAL WEAPON 4 should exit the curtain right now while its reputation is still running high. Sure, the action is overwhelming in this flick, but all the excitement was already drained with all those overhyped, wasteful trailers. This film has one too many boring dialogue, inane comedy (for the most part), and a mean-spirited attitude towards Asian Americans.  Only one redeeming factor saved this film from being sent to the compost heap Jet Li.  He's one of the most aplomb, confident martial artists around; too bad he couldn't have played the hero.  Riggs and Murtaugh are getting too old for this...RATING ** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Just when you think it's all downhill","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Glover and Gibson are a great team, and just when you thought that this series had nowhere to go but down, it comes back with a vengeance.  The storyline is almost trivial, but that doesn't matter.  The comedy is great, the interaction of the cast is fantastic, and the special effects are intense.  Not one for fluff movies usually, I find myself drawn to this series for its comedic work.  Adding the annoyingly appealing Chris Rock to the mix to go along with the annoyingly appealing Joe Pesci is a move that we can get used to.  The photo album montage at the end is a nice touch.  "}{"Title":"great bangs for the buck!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have always loved the Lethal Weapon films.  I truly enjoy all of the films that are part of the series.  This one was great.  All the action I expected, with one-liners typical of Arnold Swartzenneger.  Amazing that these guys could contend with the fighting scenes... considering that they are getting older (Mel and Danny) but, I hope that they make more films... just because they are so much fun.  "},{"Title":"On par with #3","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An thoroughly enjoyable movie. There are some good and not so good elements to it.The good points Jet Li is great, the car chase scene is exhilarating.The not so good points Not as funny as #3, and Renee Russo is really bad.The Lethal Weapon series was always enjoyable, and this one doesn't disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Gibson and Glover can't lose...","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent ensemble cast.  I love all the Lethal Weapons, and I think this one was a little better than Lethal Weapon 3.  Lots of high energy explosive action for any movie goer.  Jet Li was a nice addition, too.   "},{"Title":"How many explosions can you fit into ten minutes?","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is a lot of fun.  Our two heroes, charge their way from situation to situation without a care in the world, often with hilarious results.  The plot is thin, but the action is thick and fast, and the dialogue is outstanding.  There were more explosions in the first ten minutes than on any other film I can think of.  This is one to watch. "},{"Title":"Still the same, but still fun","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this Lethal Weapon expecting it to be close to exactly like the other Lethal Weapons, and guess what, I was right!  This one won't win any awards, but if you're looking for great escapist action/adventure/comedy, see it.  I think they also succeeded in creating their best villain by far. "},{"Title":"Sequel as sequels were meant to be...almost.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I missed this one at the theater and saw it for the first time on DVD. Let me say first that DVD ROCKS!! Lot's of extras and tons of fun on this DVD. I had no reservations about buying a movie that I'd never seen because I know I can trust Richard Donner (Superman, Ladyhawke, Radio Flyer, The Goonies and the other Lethal films) for a good time with the exception of Assassins. Look at it this way, Lethal Weapon films are their own genre and the best of the buddy cop films.One thing that happens too often in sequels (Godfather and Star Wars Trilogy excluded) is that there seems to be a loss of certain key elements that made the original great. I missed the seriousness of the original when watching this latest installment. It's as though the characters have forgotten that they are in a mortal realm where death is something to avoid. Gibson's character had a death wish from the beginning but he never faced a dire situation without reacting emotionally. In this film, no-one seems to be real. Especially when facing life altering challenges.But, who cares? We expect sequels to be bigger and badder. The biggest opener of all the films was the blowing up of the building at the beginning of LW3. So, the flame thrower wielding madman was a step back in my opinion but fun nonetheless. Jet Li was fantastic and the dentist office scene with Uncle Benny is priceless. I loved this film and appreciate it for what it is, an all out action thriller. I wish that it had more of the flavor of 1 & 2 and less of the cornball humor that was introduced with #3. I must admit that Joe Pesci's Leo is better in this one than the other two. I found him fitting into this story better.Chris Rock was an added plus. He's much better on film than on SNL and this role fit him perfectly.The best part of Lethal 4 is the chemistry. You can tell that everyone is having fun and that makes the whole thing gel. There's that Lethal Weapon magic here that gets your adrenalin pumping and keeps you wide-eyed and nervous.This film is a keeper for sure. Great action and one hell of a car chase---table and all!! Lethal 5 please! "},{"Title":"An excellent mix of action and comedy!!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent mix of action and comedy!! I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Fun with no depth","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Of the four Lethal Weapons, LW4 is by far the worst, but it's still fun. The film has nothing memorable or special, but it is very enjoyable, and worth the price of admission.  The whole plot is decent, with Riggs and Murtaugh, two cops dealing with old age and other situations.  It works as a nice comedy, however they manage to throw in an action subplot, and not a very good one.  LW4 bounces back and forth between action sequences and funny conversations, many of which have no meaning, which explains why the film is about 15 minutes longer than the others. Half the film has no point and is just a bunch of goofing off. Still, it's entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic DVD","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best DVDs available today.  Not only does it have great sound and great video quality, but there are a ton of extras.  The deleted scenes from the first 3 Lethal Weaponmovies make the disc worth buying by themselves. "},{"Title":"Loads of fun, but check your brain at the door","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel and Danny and Joe and Rene and Chris work so well together that I would not be surprised to see a 'LW5'.  A fun, fast paced script that is totally and completely entertaining, although for those cerebral movie goers that like to get into the characters heads and figure out the motivation for their actions, forget it.  Sit back, relax and be entertained.  Well worth the time and money. "}{"Title":"Great movie that lived up to my expectations","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In this fourth installment of the popular series, L.A. detectives Martin Riggs (MEL GIBSON) and Roger Murtaugh (DANNY GLOVER) are getting older and have more things on their minds than just police work. Murtaugh is about to become a grandfather courtesy of his daughter who's secretly (only to her dad) married to another cop, while Riggs is about to become a father with Internal Affairs inspector Lorna Cole (RENE RUSSO), although they're not married. With the assistance of their comic sidekick and former money launderer turned private eye, Leo Getz (JOE PESCI) and a new detective, Lee Butters (CHRIS ROCK) who's curiously over friendly to Murtaugh, the two old partners discover that a crooked local businessman, Uncle Benny (KIM CHAN), is involved in illegally moving immigrants into the country as slave labor. When they discover that a member of the Asian Triad, Wah Sing Ku (JET LI), is also involved, they start to put the heat on the bad guys. If you enjoyed any or all of the previous entries in this long running series you'll love this one. The addition of comic Chris Rock (TV's Saturday Night Live) to the cast works quite well and adds a much needed additional layer of fresh humor to the proceedings. Given that talent of Richard Donner occasionally revs up the action to a point nearing that of legendary Hong Kong director John Woo (The Killer, Face/Off), including several fight sequences between Li and Gibson and Glover that were clearly the favorites with our audience. While some (actually many) of them push that credibility factor to the limits, the film still manages to get away with it. Lethal Weapon 4 is a big, loud, and often viciously violent experience that can't be accused of holding anything back. "},{"Title":"Two's Company, Three's a Crowd, Four just falls flat","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I suppose it had to happen sometime.  I was shocked when the first two LW sequels actually turned out to be enjoyable, and I guess I knew I was pressing my luck when I went to see number four.  This series is officially DEAD!  This movie is by far the worst showing from the Lethal Weapon team and is not nearly up to the standards of any of the previous three films. Number four is simply a campy re-hash of old jokes and old plot lines, attempting to milk the audience for their approval with dull in-jokes. Chris Rock is the best part of the movie and yet appears in only a few scenes.  If there is another LW movie, Chris Rock should be the only character who returns! "},{"Title":"A great end to much loved characters and the franchise as a whole","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 is the end in what has been a terrific overall buddy- buddy action franchise of the late 80s and 90s. Gibson, Glover and Pesci don the hat one more time to return as Riggs, Murtagh and Leo, with Rene Russo as Larna Cole in a considerably smaller role, but still makes the most of with the added member of the team of Lee Butters played terrifically by Chris Rock. The acting is great with a stronger story than the third of the Chinese Triad into money and selling slaves. Also on the side of Riggs is the issue of marriage as he tries to get past his wife's death as Larna wants to get married as she is pregnant and at the same time keeping from Murtagh that his daughter is married and pregnant by Lee Butter! Gibson gets some great moments of laughter when teasing Murtagh at why Butter is always so nice to him. Jet Li makes a truly lethal villain though he dosen't say much, it clears in his facial expression and fighting skills with a truly bloody showdown between him and Riggs and Murtagh.The comedy is really funny in this one with some real laugh out loud moments and it feels remarkably fresh again after the rustiness of it in the previous instalment. Chris Rock helps in this instance with some terrific banter particularly between him and Pesci, which had me crying with laughter, the action is exciting and choreographed well with a couple of excellent stunts. The ending is wonderful with a true tribute to the series with a photo taken in hospital when Larna has the baby and the end credits (with a superb soundtrack song) that pays a true tribute to the cast and crew by showing photos on set during the making of the films. Lethal Weapon 4 sends the family out in style as we have grown up with them. They will be missed. "},{"Title":"Really the expected action","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the opening scene, it is seen that Lethal Weapon 4 has progressed, I was very impressed when watched for the first time in 1998. It seems that technically and in terms of direction both, it was better somehow. It is one of the most enjoyable opening scenes, despite the things that Murtagh does are a little bit unrealistic. And this part is also very funny. As said, even if it is absurd, at the same time, it sounds brilliant. The tone or mood of the movie is exactly the same with the previous movies which is good news to me. Lethal Weapon movies feel yourself good I believe and this is another one. As for action, In this fourth film, there is Jet Li, as you know. It sounds great. I have not forgotten the moment Jet Li dodges the bullet still. In addition, the difference between this and the other recent action movies including Jet Li is that in the movie Jet Li fights! And the movie might be seen just to see the fight among Gibson, Glover and Li. Revenge is matter that makes that exciting. Not just fighting, it has a story. Donner guesses the expectations of Jet Li fans, martial art fans which is everything. The another important point is that Li is not one of the passive or paper tiger enemies. It means a lot of fun and adrenalin. Then, one of the best gags comes ''another day, we chase him with an anti-aircraft.'' The operation scene was superficial, pretty mild and besides, much humor (and sometimes over) rather than suspense, but not a big flaw. The car chase scene of the movie is the best in the series, it is one of the best action sequences of Lethal Weapon series. "},{"Title":"What more can I say!!!","Date":"29 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this film for the first time yesterday. I have been wanting to see it, but just haven't, but I was not disappointed with it, and enjoyed it. Now, there were some things I didn't care for. Now, why would they withold from Murtagh that his daughter is pregnant AND married to a cop? Why did Jet Li and his gang burn down Murtagh's house other than the fact of the Wongs? The whole crew was great. I love the part when Chris Rock jumps on the fellow who was an innocent bystander and tells him if he gets Johnny Cochran, he's going to kill him. And Joe Pesci, he is classic. And Danny Glover stripping down to his drawers to divert a shooter just for Mel Gibson's kicks was another great scene. All in all, a good movie. "},{"Title":"Starting To Become Predictable","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Once again we find two of Los Angeles' daring cops Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover)for another epic action romp complete with the car chases, witty dialogue, and death-defying stunts while keeping up the tradition from the other three instalments. In one of the rare moments where Riggs and Murtaugh spend a quiet moment fishing in the lake along with their sidekick Leo Getz (Joe Pesci, who is now a detective as well), realize that their tranquillity is about to come to a close as a rusty old ship happens to make its way and illegal Chinese civilians pass them by. Next thing you know, the we find the cops feuding with these Chinese thugs with old Uncle Bennie(Kim Chan) as their leader and a powerful violence-happy hoodlum (Jet Li) whose passive ways through danger is absolutely staggering. There is some subplot about Murtagh taking immigrants into custody and another family taken in by gangsters, but the action unlike the other three instalments doesn't have the same appeal as it starts to become predictable and at times loses its meaning.One of the more surreal scenes, we see Riggs dragging down the freeway, perched on top of a kitchen table in Murtaugh's car as though he was in a lake doing water-skiing while being attached on some kitchen foil. Of course he's still in one piece with no harm done, and successfully still manages to spew out a few wise-cracks on the way. With more illogical scenes, we find the car crashing through an office building and coming out the other side and the car still has enough composure to successfully make it to the freeway as the chase progresses. I hope no was hurt or killed while all this chaos was happening. I'm not trying to be arrogant here, if you still enjoy the same formula that made the Lethal Weapon franchise a hit I say the more power to you. I just think that at this point in time, the forth instalment offers nothing new and is starting to run low on batteries. The other three movies were very good and I liked how they flowed through the story, but in Lethal Weapon IV, there are no more new ideas and we can tell that Gibson and Glover are starting to get on in age here. "},{"Title":"Again I am shocked to see only 6.6?????","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really am more and more shocked when I see scores for classic and great films. This film is just an all round classic. Its fast, fun, exciting, loving and thrilling.This film is a 10/10 action film its just perfect.If you actually want to see a good film with fun fast action that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Watch this one!I hope they do a Lethal weapon 5, although I'm sure they won't. It's a great end to a fantastic set of films. This one in my opinion is the best of the lot.The lethal weapon series gave exciting and fun action to all who required it ). "},{"Title":"I'm Ready For Number 5!","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Once again, there is another great movie in the Lethal Weapon series. In fact, this is the final film. But, the ending leaves a possibility for a fifth one even though Gibson ruled it out.Riggs and Murtagh returns as butt-kicking sergeants. But, they are getting old and their butts are getting kicked. Their true challenge comes when they fight an evil superlord played by Jet Li.The acting is great as expected. Once again, the cast had great chemistry. Joe Pesci added more comedy even though he is somewhat annoying. Chris Rocks certainly adds more to this film. Jet Li is something else. There is something going on with all the recent Chinese actors(Chan, Lee, etc). I'm loving these actors.There is another superb blend of comedy and action. The comedy never gets bland and there are tons of great stunts.This movie has the weakest plot of the the four films. But, it doesn't really matter. This is a great film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Is it Really a Freedom of, or From, the Law?","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In fact, that choice of movie directors, from the previous segment, who needed the Moe Howard treatment, and a few corresponding lessons, in the most uncommonly respectful, humanly-dignifying of manners, minus an army of conveniently available cops, to rescue him from the more evenly, immediately, and constructively chivalrous consequences of an insolence only characteristic of the most deliberately, systematically, victimizingly ill-cultivated swine, even with relation to still other, equally, and solely, by nature, self-defining projections of the same, until he finally saw the light; had been about as cleverly, symbolically subtle, in its clearest implications, as, for instance, a never-seen look-alike, of Amanda Bearse, from right out of Fright Night; although even the nature of the error which provoked his, over-against the more understandably defensive indignance of his reaction, rests upon the flimsiest, most conveniently, sinisterly obscuring foundation, of one who, for his part, is merely acting, at acting, at not acting, to the overshadowing of a more urgently real and dangerously neglected problem, involving, to speak almost as obscuringly as synonymously, those who prove even more convincing, when it comes to the practice of not acting, at, one could only wish, the even finer art of merely acting. . . . Either way, though, Riggs remained just as impulsively, even innocently, refreshingly true-to-form, in his target, as well as method, when it came to upholding his image, or what was at least still salvageably left of it, even to behold at all, as had the vampire, referenced immediately above, with, by then, his own even more irresistibly compelling lack of choice; although one can only wonder why, for instance, Clint Eastwood had failed to be nearly as astutely on-cue, when, in The Gauntlet, his already so dangerously faltering intuition, on several almost terminally reckless occasions, had begun manifesting itself in the terminology of a preacher, with his answer, to Sondra Locke, about taking certain things on faith, rather than in the form of even a most dire warning, as to the kinds of answers which can only be acquired the Hard Way; but, merely assuming, of course, against all the real odds in the world, that they had made it nearly as far as city hall, let-alone actually prevailed, even then, out of the jaws of a legal system so efficiently infested with a predominance of henchmen who are paid, as Blakelock said, not to think, but only to react, to what is right, simply because it is the law, minus any neatly-quantifiable concept of the only real law being that which is already so debatably and, thus alone, insolubly right. . . . Contrarily, though, given the inherent need of interpreting even the most clearly unambiguous kind of language, for content as well as applicability, rather than leaving even the latter to be determined only by the most Pontifically Infallible kind of authority; even an Adlerian Slip or two, which Murtaugh employed, for the purpose of laying down the nature of the law, to Leo Getz, is about the only kind of improvement to be otherwise so indispensably, even urgently expected, perhaps even more often than not, even on a totally freelance basis; as well as being so harrowingly reminiscent, in intent as well as quality, of Broderick Crawford, to Stephen Boyd, in The Oscar, or Brian Dennehy, to Sylvester Stallone, in First Blood, or even the Honorable Henry T. Fleming, to Arthur Kirkland, in And Justice for All, as to almost have necessitated the greater desirability of even a reprisal of Joe Pesci's characterization, from Goodfellas! Moreover, were it not for the fact that, as an ambassador (II Corinthians 520) (Ephesians 620), minus any Diplomatic Immunity, my formal mandate authorizes nothing more than the attempt to peacefully, rationally persuade; I'd have been preparing a sequel, to The Patriot, single-handedly, if necessary, by now; over the issue, just for openers, of Tea&#151;and Taxes&#151;again! . . . Jet Li, unfortunately, had been far-too-correct, as well, in his understanding as to the real nature of the law; along with his frighteningly superlative proficiency at the kinds of skills intended to help Riggs save a bit more face, the kind he'd also so cleverly salvaged while exiting ringside; just in case, that is, of any possible errors in judgment, from his audience, that he'd actually regarded himself as the greatest master of all; over-against even a much more seriously sadistic streak, too, which just about rendered even his own almost as genuinely unamusing, especially to him, as well as to the department psychologist, not to mention Murtaugh, as an actual trip to Uranus (or should I say Neptune?) could also very easily have been! Also, had it been me, rather than Leo, who'd been the victim, of one-too-many pranks, such as that mean-spirited set-up, subsequent to all the unprovoked bad-mouthing and belittlement, at a certain traffic stop, even after the times I'd already been impulsively thrown to the ground, face down, for no good reason, with cocked guns aimed at the back of my neck; I might have been almost tempted to remember the words, of Glycon, to Demetrius, in the sequel to The Robe, when he said, Forget your religion, for just one day . . . Your God will thank you for it! In fact, that pipsqueak, in the back seat, really needed a Jocko DeParis, The Strange One, to have dispensed with him; before far-too-many, of the likes of both, even on this side of the Rubicon, had undoubtedly ever graduated from the academy! But, then, if six long years of such, even at the university, followed by the related drowning, of my Natalie Wood, from Splendor in the Grass, had not decisively broken me down, I've therefore already long proved myself to be among the safest prospects of all! But I'd better stop now, as I'm getting a bit too misty! Nice guys still finish last, but Payback is going to be a real bear, while not a bone of His Body was broken (John 1936)! "},{"Title":"The best Lethal Weapon in the series!!!!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think this is the best Lethal Weapon out of all of them. Its has everything that has ever been great about the Lethal Weapon films. I think the final showdown of the film where Riggs and Murtuagh fight Jet Li's character to the death. Its an explosive fight that really entertains you and sometimes makes you laugh the way Riggs and Murtaugh get their butts kicked. All the action in this film is great and entertaining, also the story is decent enough. In conclusion I recommend this film 100% and give a rating of 10/10. Here are my ratings for all 4 Lethal Weapon films. 1. Lethal Weapon - 9.5/10 2. Lethal Weapon 2 - 9.6/10 3. Lethal Weapon 3 - 9.8/10 4. Lethal Weapon 4 - 10/10 "}{"Title":"The fastest and the funniest in the series","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am only 16, so hadn't seen or heard of any of the Lethal Weapon films until I was about 12. Unfortunately I started watching them in the wrong order. I actually watched them in the order 2,1,4,3. Bizarre I know, but I did enjoy them still, and eventually managed to watch them in order and loved them even more. I can see why they're considered possibly the best buddy movies and are up there with the best action movies as well. I have watched them over and over again through the years and they never get boring. However, this one is definitely my favourite. I watched it today and felt I had to post my views here and highly recommend it to all you action fans out there, but I bet you've probably already seen it anyway.I don't want to get into the plot, although it is pretty interesting. I really want to talk about the action and humour, which is sensational throughout it and keeps the movie fast moving and it never gets boring. All the characters from the first 3 films are back, which is great as you very rarely see this today in franchises of this size and all of them do their part. These include Gibson, Glover, Pesci (who're all absolutely hilarious still and in this one they're definitely at their funniest), Russo, The Captain (not sure of the actor) and Glover's family, who're all still played by the same actors. A well done to bringing them all back to Director Richard Donner, who has helmed all 4 movies which has been a big key to it success. Another great character added here though is Chris Rock's who was the funniest in the movie. He has some great lines, but I won't spoil them for you though. Pesci in particular matches him though as his constant okay, okay, okay fast talking self.But the focal point here has to be the action and on an entertainment scale this movie blows it right out the window. When I commented on The Rock I said it was the best action movie ever, but I think today having watched this for the first time in a while, it may have overtaken it. The action is sensational and comes thick and fast from the opening scene to the climax. These are Gibson and Glover taking on an armoured guy with a flame thrower which ends in a bang, a fight on a huge ship followed by a great explosion, a chase on foot through Chinatown, A fight inside Glover's home which leads to the highlight of the movie- a terrific chase across a freeway, and finally a great shootout and showdown between Gibson, Glover and Jet Li whose also great as the villain.These action sequences are the best in the series, but the great thing about this movie is, it doesn't focus on action all the time and manages to fit in a decent plot, great humour and more importantly, the character development between the leads; Gibson and Glover. I also enjoyed the warm and friendly family scenes inside Glover's house involving the Chinese family and the relationship development between Gibson and Russo. I especially enjoyed the very end in the hospital. In fact there isun't one scene from this movie I would cut. Its perfect and is definitely the best in the series, which is a huge surprise and rarity because not only is it a sequel, its the third sequel! So, overall this movie is perfect and I'd be more than happy to see a Lethal Weapon 5 some day if it ever materialises because I love all 4 films, but this one especially. It is definitely one of my all time favourite action movies and up there with my favourite movies ever made. If your an action fan who hasn't seen this get out there and buy it now. Its one of the greatest.Pure entertainment 10/10 "},{"Title":"The gang go out on top!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It came as something of a surprise when it was announced that a fourth LETHAL film would be made, especially given the 6 year lay-off and the huge status of Mel Gibson since his Oscar winning direction and performance in BRAVEHEART pushed him right into the all time Hollywood 'A' list of super-super-stars, but any fears that Gibson's ego could be too big for the new production, or that things would be too unfamiliar after so long away, were to prove unfounded.LETHAL WEAPON 4 would probably go down as the best entry into the fine series, given the truly special nature of the stunts, action, and explosions that not only surpassed the lofty standards set during the series, but that also stands well in comparison with anything done since. Check out, for example, the scene in which Riggs and Murtagh take down the 'Exterminator' style killer in the opening moments &#150; I've never seen an oil tanker do anything like that! But the action is not the only huge plus. The introduction of Chris Rock into the formula was a real masterstroke from the casting department; especially taking in mind the 'special relationship' the plot throws up for him and Roger. Rock is also superlative in proving a match for Leo (Joe Pesci), and the reaction of Riggs and Murtagh when these two motor mouths get together is comedy gold! Rene Russo is back, along with all the characters we have come to know and love over four films come together, and with a twin pregnancy storyline intertwined with Riggs agonizing whether to marry Lorna, Roger angry his daughter is pregnant without being married (little does he know!), Leo working as the world's most conspicuous private detective, and on top of all that Lorna suspecting Roger being on the take, there is enough here for a small soap opera! Throw in a gang of Chinese Triads involved in human trafficking slaves with Jet Li's mobster, and what you have is one of the most explosive, stylish, hilarious action comedies of the 1990s! Jet Li deserves a special mention in his first major US film. He may have few lines, but he has genuine screen menace and when he swings into action he comes to the fore in a big way with some of the most impressive martial arts skills ever committed to celluloid. As already mentioned, the action scenes are imaginatively written enough already, with scenarios such as Roger's fishing boat sinking (leaving the shark Leo just caught free to get some payback!) or Gibson going fist to fist with mobsters in the rear of a moving caravan on a freeway, but with someone of Li's skill on board, the whole things goes to a whole new level.Only a couple of false notes are sounded, those being that Rene Russo looking a little too physically able when knocking out villains while nine months pregnant, and some of the crucial dialogue in key situations being inaudible due to other sound effects, somewhat lessening the potential impact of comedic scenarios. Also, if you haven't seen the other LETHAL films, there are a lot of in-jokes, such as the 1-2-3 routine and other features that any sequel would contain (check out the BACK TO THE FUTURE series for instance).If this represents the end of the LETHAL series, as implied by the ending and Mel's other projects subsequently, then LH4 certainly is a fitting way to end a fine franchise, and a great example of going above and beyond to finish on top! This has to rank as one of those films its hard to dislike and easy to love, and is a fine tribute to the work of everyone involved in the entire franchise over a decade or more! "},{"Title":"The French Connection + The Love Bug = LW4","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK, it's easy to dump on the Lethal Weapon films; they've always been all swagger, few brains. But hasn't that always been the point? Drop the pretense of being in any way logical or (groan) 'reality-based', and simply deliver a well-crafted, well-played rush. We applaud Jackie Chan's sense of silly fun as much as his physicality, and Lethal Weapon 4 has got both in spades.This installment finds the extended 'family' of Riggs (Gibson), Murtaugh (Glover), Leo (Pesci), and Lorna (Russo) joined by new faces Chris Rock and Jet Li, as a particularly nasty bad guy. The plot involves the smuggling of Chinese counterfeiters into the U.S. by a crime triad, but all that is really just a coathanger for the collection of action sequences and gags that director Richard Donner has skillfully assembled.Like a predecessors, LW4 is an odd hybrid of The French Connection and The Love Bug (imagine LW5 with Herbie as Riggs, Dean Jones as Murtaugh and the late Buddy Hackett as Leo, but I digress). The chemistry between Gibson and Glover continues and, in spite of the often trite dialogue that is written for them, they infuse their exchanges with an infectious energy and enthusiasm.What negative criticism I would level at LW4 regards the lack of darkness that so imbued the first two films. There were moments of real danger in those films that made the comedic elements seem astounding in their mere existence, let alone effectiveness. LW3 took a major step away from that, and towards a goofier, glossier, more (if you will) Love Bug-ier sheen, with lesser results. LW4 is an improvement on that film's formula, but someone should have remembered that Rigg's unhinged self-destructiveness was part of why the series was so compelling in the first place.  "},{"Title":"The gang's all here...again.","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A fourth addition to this franchise seems weird. Trilogies seem the farthest as you can go and be safe, but here we are, at Lethal weapon 4 and it's GOOD! Surprising still good. A new character, Butters, is thrown in along with the rest of the crew. Hilarity and action result. Plus Jet Li makes for an awesome bad guy who packs some serious punch (and kick!) to the whole mix. There are funny one liners like in the previous films Riggs You boinkin' her? Murtaugh NO! of course n- yeah I'm boinkin' her! LOL. There is a car chase which is flat out awesome with Riggs being dragged behind a truck, then our heroes drive THROUGH a building after JUMPING into it off of a highway ramp! Pretty ridiculous if you think about it (or try it!), but the resulting entertainment is worth it.  However if you were growing tired by the end of the third one you should pass on this. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Still entertaining","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A fourth installment that still comes close to the original is very rare. 'Lethal Weapon 4' is not very original anymore but the characters are still as much fun as in the first and the spectacular action is also still there. Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) face some Chinese people this time. The main villain is Jet Li who made his US debut here. He has some interesting moves.Lorna (Rene Russo), who is pregnant, is still there as Riggs his girl and Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) who is a private investigator in this installment is also present again. A new face is Detective Lee Butters (Chris Rock) who is secretly married to Murtaugh's daughter Rianne (Traci Wolfe). She is pregnant too. The fact that Murtaugh doesn't know this and Riggs does is a perfect point for some good laughs.With a lot of energy, great laughs, a silly but interesting plot, spectacular action you will definitely like this if you liked the other three movies. On its own it is a pretty good action comedy and although it is not as good as the other movies it is at least as entertaining and better than most other action comedies. "},{"Title":"Lethal Review 4","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's Saturday night and you go to the movie theater with your g/f and a bunch of your long time best friends. And you go see Lethal Weapon 4 with a group of characters you're not only familiar with but they're friendship reflects your own friendships. And then the opening scenes appear with Gibson telling Glover Take your cloth's off and run like a chicken! Which is probably like the funniest scene in the entire franchise!Now I'm going to be honest and say that Lethal Weapon 4 is my favorite one in the series. Sure Lethal Weapon was a great action film with a much better plot then LW4 but this is part four and it was released eleven years after the original! So the characters are so likeable and you're so familiar with them. That this films great action sequences and silly humor make this a very enjoyable and entertaining movie to watch. In fact the only reason why this movie is so great is because it's part four. If it would have been part 2 or 3, or even 1 it wouldn't have worked out. But we're so familiar with these characters that the movie is enjoyable and this is the one I enjoyed the most out of all the four. 4(****)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Third sequel to an action-classic.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon was the mother of all new school buddy-films and even today moviemakers all over the world copy it without a second thought. Everyone can witness it's influence by watching movies from Red heat to Rush hour.It's first sequel Lethal Weapon 2 was very convincing work too and as good, if not (because of Joe Pesci) even better than it's forerunner. Third episode maybe seemed like it was made just a little bit by force but the idea still worked, splendid role characters still appealed and actors were still eager to hang on, so end result was quite pleasing.Fact that they decided to make a third sequel came to me as a huge surprise. I think they squeezed all that's significant out of the subject in the first three films. Nevertheless in the end I got actually nothing bad to say about this movie. Lethal Weapon 4 is amusing, nicely rolling action-trash I willingly watch.Only clear disagreement comes between genial, harmless humor, sentimental scenes and downright dreadful violence. Of course it's been inseparable combination in the series since the very first Lethal Weapon but somehow it appears here more emphatically than ever before.Even though Riggs and Murtaugh appear in a four motion picture already, in principle I don't mind if Donner would suddenly decide to continue the series with a fifth episode. Well, It's all the same to me. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, laughing gas case closed","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)This may not be the best Lethal Weapon film of the series, but as action films go, it's still a lot of fun to watch.  Not because the plot is too interesting (another film with the cops chasing down the bad guy chinese people) but because the dialogue and the characters are interesting.  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover always work well together as Riggs and Murtaugh and Joe Pesci can never flaw as the lovable if a little nervy Leo Getz.  But we all know that from parts 2 and 3.  This time we get 2 new characters (1 if there is another sequel), Chris Rock who gets belly laughs as a exstatic (and new father) cop, and Jet Li (a very popular Chinese kung fu star) makes his US debut here as a certfiable villain.  Fun all about, as long as you don't plan to analyze the plot like a Lynch film or something.  It will leave a smile on your face if your a Weapon fan, other beware.  A- "},{"Title":"Bad sequel? You're soaking in it!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There's not much to say about Lethal Weapon 4. Glover, Gibson, Jet Li, and the rest do their best, but there's only so much you can do with such a terrible screenplay. It isn't funny, the two main characters are (at best) criminals who need to be in prison, and the tedious attempts at characterization would be funny if they weren't so painful. Even Jet Li couldn't save this one. It's simply a bad movie. "},{"Title":"History repeats itself","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One gets annoyed by Murtaugh's stupidity, only there to uplift Gibson's character. Like Joe Pesci's acting, in earlier episodes a welcome break, now really irritates you. Even the music played every time Gibson tries to crack a joke started annoying me. Overall judgement To be compared to Police Academy IV "}{"Title":"Unspeakable waste of effort","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The apocryphal description of sequels -- that they can only get weaker with age, is not necessarily true. What is true is that if the producers get lazy and just want to cash in w/some easy $$, they can make crapulent mindless vapid product and make some money on it. That's exactly what this crew chose to do. It has none of the character development of the original, wastes a good cast with trite, oversimplified 'characters' and substitutes explosions & car chases for plot. On the good side, there are some brilliantly choreographed martial arts sequences, if you like them, and an interesting sub-plot around Communist Chinese slave labor policies, as well as a small handful of good laugh lines. Jet Li is a great villain. Worth a $1.99 rental price if you have three people watching. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was bad on so many levels. First, the comment that the character  development was good could not possibly be farther from the truth. The  reason for this, of course, is the desire to put as much of Chris Rock's  stand-up routine, Riggs' and Murtough's infantile antics, Pesci's comic  relief, and a whole lot of things blowing up into the film. Rock is not an  actor, and his character was completely unnecessary and as one-dimensional  as they come. He served no real purpose in the film except to get a few  cheap laughs from his supposed homosexual attraction to Murtough. This  plotline, along with the entire scene in the dentist's office, have been  done hundreds of times in sitcoms, and with much better and funnier  results. It was also amazing how Jet Li, playing the role of cyborg robot  killer, was actually the most human character in the entire movie. He  actually showed some genuine emotion, although nothing more than furious  rage. The script (if in fact there was one) was also severely lacking. Plot  details were thrown in like an afterthought in between explosions. The  action scenes were extremely elaborate, but at the same time boring since  they, in almost every instance, had nothing to do with anything that had  transpired previously. If this movie is what you're looking for, save  yourself some money by watching the Chris Rock Show and a Fox special.  This was an awful movie in a summer of awful movies, and I have lost  respect for everyone who appeared in this fiasco for their association.  Here's hoping that Chris Rock and Danny Glover's film careers are over,  and Gibson, Russo, and Pesci distance themselves from this tanking franchise.  "},{"Title":"It's a family thing!","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The fourth and final sequel to the Lethal Weapon series is here! All the gang are here. Martin Riggs(Mel Gibson), Roger Murtaugh(Danny Glover), Leo Getz(Joe Pecsi), and Lorna Cole(Rene Russo). Now comes the funny part, here walks in Det. Lee Butters(Chris Rock) who ends up being Murtaugh's son-in-law, and he doesn't know about it. This time the crew go up against a smuggling/ counterfeiting ring led by Wah Sing Ku(Jet Li in his American debut). He is quick and lethal! Killing everyone in his path, whether they're Chinese or police. The Triads to be exact. Now for the family part; Lorna Cole is expecting, and Murtaugh's daughter is as well. Everyone needs someone. Leo is annoying, yet he realized that the two cops were his friends and they felt that were rotten to him. He shrugs off that, and confesses his feelings towards Riggs. For Riggs, he lost his wife to homicide, and when Lorna was about to give birth, Leo was made best man. He was quick and top-notched when she was going into labor. This movie still has the action, still have the comedy, and it still have heart. Don't feel left out, feel at home with this movie! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"I can actually tell the difference between this one and the other Lethal Weapon's","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can actually tell the difference between this one and the other Lethal Weapon's, all the other Lethal weapons are that same boring story and have the same look to them. I'm not a huge fan of the Lethal Weapon's but this one isn't to bad, there are hardly any special effects (looks more real), it's got a couple of new actors (Chris Rock and Jet Li) and it's got a much better look to it (90's look). In my opinion the fighting scene's in Lethal Weapon 4 are actually pretty damn good, especially the start and the end, it's as if the director has actually moved on from the other boring Lethal Weapons. The new actors (Chris Rock and Jet Li) make the film a lot better, especially Jet Li because he adds a lot of that really good Chinese fighting to the movie.The story is about Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh and how they find a bunch of Chinese slaves almost at America on a bout so Roger decided to let them stay at his house, little does he know that a Chinese gang The Triads want that the Chinese slave family , especially the Uncle. Once the gang gets the slaves Martin and Roger decide to team up with Leo Getz and Lorna Cole to hunt The Triads down.Lethal Weapon 4 is very entertaining, has a good look to it and the acting isn't bad. If you liked the other Lethal Weapons you'll like this, if you didn't like the other Lethal Weapons then you still might like it. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4 - the most lethal of them all...","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It seemed like things were inevitable, but if 1998's Lethal Weapon 4 truly is the last film in this incredible series, then it surely is the most lethal of them all.Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are back in the fourth film in the incendiary action series, which was originally kicked off way back in 1987 and each movie has gotten steadily more explosive in each subsequent installment.All four movies have been skillfully and masterfully directed by Richard Donner, who otherwise doesn't, even once, miss a beat in the fourth (and possibly final) outing in the series, and concludes the action with a poignant montage of still photographs from LW4 and the past Lethal Weapon films.This time out, it's baby fever and everybody's nuts. Riggs is being pressured by Murtaugh to marry the (very) pregnant Lorna Cole (Rene Russo), Murtaugh's daughter is expecting too but before the festivities can begin, the duo has to tackle one last important case. (THEY AREN'T TOO OLD FOR THIS SH**.)It turns out that the Hong Kong Triads, led by Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li, in his American debut), are attempting to smuggle Chinese immigrants into the country and are also trying to buy back the four heads of the organization. Joe Pesci is also returning as the annoyingly funny Leo Getz and comedian Chris Rock turns in a capable performance as Murtaugh's soon-to-be-dead son-in-law, Lee Butters.The action here is as lethal and brutal as it's ever been in with any Lethal Weapon movie. The acting and chemistry is flawless, as usual, and Donner's direction is sharp as a tack. Of course, as Roger Ebert noted, the characters have sort of become sitcom regulars who must casually contend with vicious criminals from time to time.Of course, the big story here is Jet Li, whose hardcore fanbase may be or may not be proud to see him in his first American performance and surprisingly, he's one cold and deft villain in this movie; Li's a lot more menacing than past villains such as Gary Busey, Joss Ackland, and Stuart Wilson. No wirework here (or at least none that is easily noticeable), but Riggs and Murtaugh are able to hold their own against him in the film's brutal climax that's drenched in rain and thunder.Lethal Weapon 4 is the best film in this otherwise lethal series and I honestly hope that if this is the last entry, then it's at least the biggest and baddest.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great sequel to a great movie!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After four installments they're still going strong! Riggs and Murtaugh join up with old pal Leo Getz and some other new cast members for one last showdown. I love how this wraps up all the loose ends- Riggs' ageing body, Murtaugh's daughter's love life (which he worries about all through the films), Murtaugh's marriage, Murtaugh's baby, etc. In fact, most of this is about Murtaugh, which in a way makes it the closest sequel to the original--since all the others turned into buddy movies and this is really back to the lethal weapon himself, martin riggs.one great movie! "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard that my hero, Jet Li was in Lethal Weapon 4 i thought YESSSSS!!!!! but the disappointment came almost straight away. The fact that Jet Li was given the role of the bad guy was fine...it was just that he didn't actually do anything. I mean, what's the point in getting the best martial artist in the movie industry if he doesn't do anything. They even made him slow down his punches and kicks so that Gibson and Glover could seem as though they could beat him. The plot itself was so so so rubbish. I quite liked the original lethal weapon series, but I think they went a bit far with 4, ruining the series.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst pieces of trash I've seen in a long time.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie tonight and watched about 10 minutes of it before I turned it off and started writing this comment. This was the most disgusting piece of trash acting I've seen in quite a long time. The acting was 3rd rate from all of the leading characters and the bantering back and forth was sickening. It was so bad I couldn't watch any more. "},{"Title":"One of the Coolest Action Movies ever","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love this Movie. There is a lot of action, lots of laughter.What I really like about this Movie, is that you see that the Characters are getting Old. Riggs is slower and can't take as much as in the earlier movies.With these facts, you can't blame Martin and Roger to use dirty tricks on the Villain, played by Jet Li. Even that it doesn't help as they would have liked it to...  "},{"Title":"Excellent franchise","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thank you God for Lethal Weapon 4. Why, because its everything that Lord of the Rings 3, Terminator 3 and Die Hard 4 are not......good! Thats right its not predictable and it doesn't bank on the old one liners from the previous 3 films. I believed that Lethal Weapon is one of the elite untouchable franchises left out there and guess what their not gonna make another yay! Don't fix it if it ain't broke. It really grinds my gears the way Die Hard and Terminator in particular sold out with there recent toned down comically poor releases.Mel Gibson is everyones favourite cop once again as Martin Riggs and Glover does what he usually does and plays more of a supporting role. He was too old for this s**t in the original Lethal Weapon and guess what he's still too old in Lethal Weapon 4. Jet Li is a menacing bad guy also, and I actually prefer him that way....he never looked like a good guy. Anyway check it out, its a very good film. "}{"Title":"Bad acting, bad plot, foul language","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Golver have embarrassed themselves by starring in this disaster.  There is no plot.  Acting is incredibly poor.  Chris Rock puts on a truly awful performance and uses the F-word in practically every sentence. In a movie that advertises violence, foul language, illegitimacy, and illegal immigration, they then have the nerve to preach Hollywood values. My dog leaves little piles of Hollywood values in yard ... if you know what I mean. "},{"Title":"A good fourth installment in the Lethal Weapon franchise!","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a buddy cop action movie the fourth installment in the Lethal Weapon series, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Lethal Weapon 4 (1998) is the fourth installment in the Lethal Weapon series. It is the last installment in the franchise and it is a good one. It is the last movie in the series and it ended perfectly. I am glad there wasn't a fifth movie. I heard they are planning to reboot the original movie. The same is with Die Hard and those reboots are stupid! This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, this is entertaining funny action film I've ever seen. Best part I wish I had a siren right about now Rog Really hilarious!! I could watch it over and over again! It is my at least favorite movie in the series but it is still a lot of fun. The gangs are all back Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci and Rene Russo, there are some new additions in the cast Chris Rock and Jet Li./ Jet Li is such a bad ass and in this movie you have Chinese Triads, I was disappointed with Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in this, I seriously think those two guys become a soft pussy's in this film. I think wife's and baby coming on their way making them a really wuss, don't get me wrong, Riggs and Murtaugh were both a bad ass in the whole trilogy. In this film they are fighting like a pussy's. But still I like this movie a lot, I still like Rene Russo I am happy that Riggs and Lorna get's married at the end of the movie and I also love that both Rianne Murtaugh and Lorna gives a birth to their baby's. The action sequences were not that great but Jet Li was a damn bad ass and that was his first American movie. It was one of the first roles I saw him as a villain, I was used more to see Jet Li been the good guy. I think it was hard to convince him to play the bad guy. Even for a villain he did a good job playing his character. This was the last movie in the Lethal Weapon series and I am glad the movie showed the different site of the characters. Especially the movie explained and made a perfect ending with what happened with all our favorite characters. The rest of the crew did a solid job and I like it a lot. I have all Lethal Weapon movies on Blu-ray and I also have 2 & 3 on DVD the director's cut. I couldn't got Lethal Weapon the directors Cut on DVD but I got Theatrical cut on Blu-ray. I also have the trilogy on VHS tape they are all Director's Cut. Seeing Director's Cut on DVD and VHS tape for 2 Hrs. 07 Mins the same running time is this film Lethal Weapon 4, I was really disappointed. I thought the movie was set too long than the theatrical cut I grew up with it. The theatrical cut was always my favorite of the first one. I am glad I own the original first movie on Blu-ray with theatrical cut. I am big fan of Lethal Weapon movies and I love all of them. The same is with Rambo franchise I love all four of them. Lethal Weapon 4 get's the same score by me as Lethal Weapon 2 did a 9. I am glad I know what happened with all the characters that I care for and the scenes in the hospital were beautiful, I love Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) in this movie as private detective. Who helped Martin Riggs when his wife is getting a baby. Lethal Weapon 4 was a by the numbers rehash of the franchise's formula, but the Martin Riggs character had lost his edge from the previous movies. A big disappointment. Tough I have enjoyed this movie considering its a 4th in the series, I thought Chris rock was funny especially his scenes with Joe Pesci = NO means NO..!, I'd agree in that I'd be hard pressed to choose between number 1 and number 3. Also like the idea of Chris Rock having his own movie. Perhaps in the same character he could take on a young partner and they become the next generation albeit different\their own characters within the Lethal weapon universe. Lethal Weapon 4 is the fourth installment in the Lethal Weapon film franchise. The 1998 sequel follows Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) as they uncover a smuggling ring involving Chinese immigrants. Rene Russo and Joe Pesci also return and the cast includes newcomer to the series Chris Rock and Jet Li, who made his American film debut. 9/10 Grade A- Studio Warner Bros. Pictures, Silver Pictures Starring Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Rene Russo, Chris Rock, Jet Li Director Richard Donner Producers Richard Donner, Joel Silver Screenplay Channing Gibson Story Jonathan Lemkin, Alfred Gough, Miles Millar Rated R Running Time 2 Hrs. 7 Mins. Budget $100.000.000 Box Office $285,444,603 "},{"Title":"A smashing sequel and a good close to the trilogy.","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the final, so far, action-packed cop sequel pairing up once again Mel Gibson as Martin Riggs and Danny Glover as Roger Murtaugh on a mission to stop a Chinese crime lord and his notorious triad from slave trafficking and releasing four dangerous criminals. Gibson and Glover continued their crazy but great-teamed partnership and delivered much humor to keep the film engaging enough to go along with the mad rush of all the action scenes. From the Riggs' daredevil freeway car chase with a triad member during rush hour traffic to Murtaugh's personal dilemma with his daughter marrying a cop, the story is fast-paced from start to finish. In his first appearance in a Hollywood movie, Jet Li proves he is one formidable villain to be reckoned with, showing off his awesome martial arts moves (it's particularly fun seeing him grapple around with Gibson and Glover) and delivering his quiet and serious, but sinister self. As an action hero star, it is an interesting seeing Li take on the role of the bad guy. There is also some added drama and suspense during the scenes where Murtaugh's takes in a band of smuggled Chinese refugees who are entangled in the triad's scheme. Joe Pesci appears again as fast-talking and sometimes annoying Leo Getz, but you actually get to see a more serious side to him this time, and Chris Rock appears as motor-mouth Detective Lee Butters. The constant rambling of his loudmouth personality can be excruciatingly irritating, but it was pretty funny seeing him drive Glover crazy. And, Kim Chan plays the crime lord and leader of the triads - an actually humorous performance and not so much sinister. I loved the line where he correct Gibson in pronouncing fried rice. Quite a few overzealous acting, but overall, it's a smashing sequel that closes out the Lethal Weapon trilogy pretty well.Grade B "},{"Title":"Not Lethal Enough.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 (1998) Dir Richard Donner / Cast Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Rene Russo, Chris Rock, Jet Li High powered action that attempts to broaden character yet evaporates into mindless action violence. Rene Russo is pregnant and Mel Gibson wrestles with the idea of marriage. Danny Glover's daughter is also pregnant but he is unaware that the father is fast talking rookie cop Chris Rock. Joe Pesci discovers the pains of being a detective. Plot regards the smuggling Chinese into America for illegal money making labour. Jet Li is the new villain and he is so swift that he can handle Gibson, Glover and Russo all at once in an ass kicking bout. Routine story that owes much to its spectacular stunts. Gibson and director Richard Donner collaborated on all three previous Lethal Weapon films as well as Conspiracy Theory. Glover is still the bunt of jokes but perhaps the biggest is the reality that his daughter is pregnant with Rock's kid. Russo wrestles with her future as a mother and wife. Rock is a nice edition with his usual psycho-babble that gets under Glover's skin. Jet Li plays off a fine villain who ends up warding off Gibson, Glover and Russo with near ease. The basic purpose of the film is to continue the series and big fans of the franchise will no doubt enjoy the action and stunts and all the other implausible hijinks performed throughout. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Lethal dentertainment pure dynamite","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jet li is in this what a great treat its brutal and bad but most of its great laughs and great action, this really makes most 90s action films rubbish but this its good every time . After a 3 great film of fun this was pleasant the characters thrill enjoyable dialoge is in and a fine character leo gets hes amazing . The opening said to me it was gonna be good and it was dynamite the fights are very well done mel and danny kill lots of bad guys but if you want more lethal fun buy its good . 8.0 out of 10.0 not brill but is good / packed with laughs , humour , acting and lethal dou entertainment this is for any person . This series really is a fine 4 films that is not the best but is one of the better films of the 80s and 90s . 18 certificate for graphic violence , fights , language / the 15 version is a censored version which contains more of strong violence and language . "},{"Title":"Lesser of the four, but not bad","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon concludes the series with old people acting like old people. This installment contains Chris Rock. What I found disturbing was that while some people may welcome his character, the film seems to have to let you know its Chris Rock by having him do some very annoying one liners. That I did not like. Another thing that goes against all logic- the characters have had their families held hostage/attacked in the same house at least 4 times, but they still don't move. It really bothers me that cops - who've angered some major criminals - and every major criminal uses their family to their advantage - still choose not to move to a less known place. This I do not like. Other than that, this was a fun, entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Better then the third but not the first and second.","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 6.5 This is the fourth and lets hope not last installment to the Lethal Weapon movies and I will first start off by saying I am a huge fan of this series ever since I was young. I did not much care for the third one but this one blew it out of the water with a much better cast and way higher production value. The acting was good and the good ol buddy buddy humor of Riggs and Murtaugh is back and better then ever.This movie is about Riggs and Murtaugh who under personal crises and old age are sent on a new case. They are sent to investigate a Chinese crimelord trying to get his brother out of prison.This movie was really good I really hope they make another Lethal Weapon. I know the guys will be really old but this was just too good of series to put away just like that. The comedy, the action and the great brotherly love of the two protaginists make this movie franchise really something special. "},{"Title":"I saw one major mistake during its filming.","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" During the scenes when the Chinese Triad started a fire at Sergeant Mortaugh's house and a young child removed the restraints from their wrists with a pair of scissors while the interior of the building was ablaze. In order to escape from the fire, Martin Riggs threw a chair or a piece of furniture through the front window of the building as an escape route. The MAJOR PROBLEM with this scene is/was that if and when fresh Oxygen is introduced to a fire, the fire would become even stronger and create a larger, a more ferocious Inferno from what it was before. Thus the escape route would have become a death trap instead of an escape route! Even though I am not a Fire Fighter, common sense dictated this message to me while I watched a rerun of this production. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I don't get it when people say that they enjoyed the first 2 or 3 Lethal Weapon pictures but hated the fourth. Basically, they are all the same!I thought that Lethal Weapon 4 was a refreshing action film (in a summer with Godzilla and Armageddon) about two LA cops rather than huge earth-shattering events. Gibson, Glover, Pesci and Russo have such a natural ease with their roles its impossible not to crack a smile when Gibson plays the joker or when him and Glover gang up on Leo Getz (Pesci). I thought that this was the funniest film in the series. It didn't mix the action with comedy (the toilet bomb in Lethal Weapon 2) as well as the others but Chris Rock and the screenplay were really humorous. Add on top of that a kung-fu villain (Jet Li) that more than makes up for the psycho in Lethal Weapon 3 and tons of the series' trademark spectacular stunts and pyrotechnics and what do you have?A movie that is not all that original but delivers the goods. After asteroids and dinosaurs, its great to see that after 11 years, Gibson, Glover and director Richard Donner can still outclass them all. "},{"Title":"Broody Marvelous you Plick","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After watching the first half hour of this i was begining to think how univentful this movie was , the dialogue was irritating because Gibson and Glover seemed to mumble their lines and the story seemed poor but i'm pleased to say this film got a lot better , the action was superb and Joe Pecci was his usual riviting self. The second half of the movie is non stop and actually very good . 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Kept me on the edge of my seat!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this continued in the series of the excellently done Lethal Weapon series.  It kept me on the edge of my seat watching the action scenes.  Jet Li was the best villain I've seen in the series yet.  He was relentless and so was the action and comedy.  This is the way action movies should be made.  Richard Donner, Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Rene Russo, Joe Pesci, Chris Rock, and Jet Li should be commended on a job well done. "},{"Title":"Good sequel...everybody stop bashing it!!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Loved it, laughed my butt off, so did my husband.  Everyone who didn't like it one question Why??? "},{"Title":"The best mixture of action and comedy of the series.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are some unforgettable action sequences in this film that ranks with the best of the series.  The one-liners are among the funniest I have ever heard.  I liked Chris Rock in this when, for a while, I found him pretty annoying.  This is, hopefully, the last of the series, judging from the closing credits.  This is the best action series in history and a great way to end it. "},{"Title":"Great action/comedy movie","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's a very funny and entertaining movie. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover were still a great team, Joe Pesci's still a funny guy. In fact, all the performers did a very good job(especially Jet Li, who was very cool and his kung-fu style was very fascinating in the movie).Actually, I saw the whole LW series. All 4 parts were very good and exciting. And also, the partner of Gibson/Glover could make  a chemistry effect absolutely.Anyway, don't miss it!!! "},{"Title":"Really a great movie.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the rare movies that keep getting better with each new sequel. It's really a good way to spend two hours or so. The best action film yet, from a great guy, who gives a LOT of personality in it, of course, Mel Gibson. Thank you Mel, we are waiting for Lethal Weapon 5! "},{"Title":"Deja Vu?","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Deja Vu? Been there? Seen this before? Thought so, it's a good action film, but is very similar to earlier Lethal Weapons. Keep an eye out for the Bad Guy(Jet Li) he adds some flames to the fire. "},{"Title":"Great enjoyment","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the Lethal Weapon films.  This one introduces Detective Lee Butters, who has made Murtaugh's daughter pregnant.  In this film, Riggs becomes a father and Murtaugh becomes a grandfather.  It is filled with great action, car chases, comedy, and lots of fun.  There isn't much plot, but here it is.  Jet Li (Hong Kong action star) is smuggling slaves into the US from China.  Riggs and Murtaugh land upon one of the ships carrying slaves and are drawn into the chase.  I was definitely not disappointed but rather surprised at how good it was.  I wasn't expecting quite an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"The 4th is the best! But is it last?","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was nearly shocked viewing the movie. The best Martin Riggs (where had that psycho cop from the Part One gone?) and Roger Murtaugh (so what about your retirement, huh?) ever being viewed are presented in the Part Four of that thrilling action/comedy movie. Mad driving, fiery blow-ups, the horror of The Triads, Bruce Lee-like style kung fu and the pregnancy - there're lots of fun, folks! "},{"Title":"More of the same...jeez it's great!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well I came into this movie after seeing the shorts shoved down my throat 1,000,000 times. I was laughing hysterically throughout the opening scene flamethrower and never stopped.Not any different in content to the other Lethal Weapons but, once again, comes up with the goods. I thought it couldn't do it again but it has. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover just are such a great team. Joe Peschi also made a big impact on the movie as did Chris Rock.Great one-liners which (unlike other movies I've been to recently) weren't just stolen from other movies. "},{"Title":"Paid $2.50 and still felt cheated","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If I had a time machine I would go back to UCLA circa 1985 and shoot Shane Black as he got in his car to go to CAA with his draft of Lethal Weapon. Or at least take away his word processor. "}{"Title":"crash boom bang, zoink.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 Richard Donner 1998Perhaps the most amazing thing about the fourth installment in the Lethal Weapon franchise is that it wasn't half bad.If you are looking for a solid plot or suburb acting then don't look here. However, if you are looking for mindless violence and lots of things that blow up real good, this maybe the summer movie for you.One of the things that made the first movie (Lethal Weapon) such a success was the relationship between Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover). Riggs'  oneliner comebacks to Murtaugh's conservative suburban ways make for a few chuckles between all the explosions and car chases. This movie upholds that tradition but Murtaugh has loosed up with few one-liners himself.The premise is simple, Riggs, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci, GoodFellas), and Murtaugh stumble onto a slave trade run by the Chinese Mafia. This is no good. So they will stop it. Simple eh? Toss in a couple subplot's, namely Murtaugh's daughter marring fellow cop Lee Butters (Chris Rock, HBO's Bring The Pain) behind his back. And of course the big question, will  Riggs ever marry pregnant cop girlfriend Lorna Cole (Rene Russo,  Get Shorty?The best part of the movie by far was it's villain Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li). Li preforms next to impossible feats of acrobatics and martial arts to give Mel and Danny a good licking. This was the first film in English for Li, and also marked the first in 25 films he plays the villain. Unlike many American action films, the camera was left with a wide angle and fewer cuts to show off Jet Li's martial arts abilities. Not the same for Mel and Danny's action scenes that are filled with jumpcuts and tracking cameras to hide their lack of raw talent. Perhaps they `are getting too old for this sh*t'.$5 (out of $8)  "},{"Title":"It's an excellent movie.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was a bit dodgy about spending 4 on seeing this film, after all, I can't say that I'm a fan of the last three, but I really enjoyed this one and would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Average Plot, Great Kung Fu","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The story plot is not that great compare to the previous. but JET LI is FANTASTIC!!! His martial art is really amazing. Hope we can see more of his films in future. "},{"Title":"Good Action, Non stop laughs.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the final movie of the Lethal Weapon series.  I don't think that they could have done a better job.  The action was slighlty toned down for LW, but the comedy was perfect. Joe Pesci and Chris Rock were fantastic together.  Those two as a comedy duo almost stole the whole movie. Overall I think the movie was a hit. "},{"Title":"round 4","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gibson and Glover's on screen charisma and Mind blowing action sequences make up for a thin plot.  The addition of Chris Rock was interesting although I thought he was a bit restrained.  The only part I thought was not needed was Joe Pesci's character change in the last 10 minutes from bumbling funny guy to guardian angel. Otherwise it was abolutely BEAUTIFUL!. "},{"Title":"the action is here... the magic is gone.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was pretty outraged at the racist jokes of Lethal Weapon 4. For the first time in the series, there are more racist remarks than bodies dead, so I don't know if that's good or what. The action is still here, even more than the last film actually. But the acting is somewhat average for one of the most talented ensembles of the 90s- except the villain (Li) of course. Danny Glover's o.k; Rene Russo's pretty dull but innocent; Chris Rock adds some humor; Joe Pesci saves the day as always. But ex-mad Mel Gibson looks as though he REALLY didn't want to do another one, but I applaud him for being human because he doesn't really do that big of a job for 25 Mill. I saw the first and second Weapon again just 2 or 3 days before I saw this in a theater, and I am very amazed at how the title character has changed in 10 years. His jokes are still very corny, unfunnny and mainly pointed at his only friends (Pesci and Glover) but his mad temper and unpredictability exciting strength of the first film has really died out. When I saw the previews, I thought Gibson would be quite a match for Hong Kong martial arts superstar Jet Li, but I was wrong. When the two eye each other during their first encounter, every one of my friends who saw it with me could tell Gibson has deep fear in his eyes, even though they are just acting. Maybe this was in the script- I doubt it though. Still, five years ago, ol' Riggs would have spat on his enemy's face. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson and company have created a genuine rarity in motion pictures the film series that gets better with every new sequel.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Director Richard Donner and his great cast should be proud of themselves. The Lethal Weapon franchise is the one film series that actually gets better as it gets older, and it also stays true to the fans. (Warner Bros is perfectly happy to replace Batman every time he asks for too much money. Fortunately, they don't do that to Mel Gibson.) Lethal 4 is the best yet simply because it tries harder than ever to be a crowd-pleaser. Gibson and Glover are so comfortable in they're mismatched cops roles now, that they don't seem very mismatched at all any more. And it works, because when they have fun, we have fun. Joe Pesci returns as the comic relief, only to square off with rookie Chris Rock for the most laughs. The result is an action movie that's more funny than most comedies. And just when the film is in danger of becoming too funny for its own good, Jet Li shows up as a bad guy for some intense action scenes. Li has some incredible parts, he's comparable to Bruce Lee, and he's one of the best things to ever happen to movie villains. Finally, anybody who sees this movie once will definitely have to see it again, because of the amazing car chase scene in the middle. This unbelievable, twenty-minute sequence just might be impossible to top if they do a Lethal 5. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson and company have created a genuine rarity in motion pictures the film series that gets better with every new sequel.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Director Richard Donner and his great cast should be proud of themsleves. The Lethal Weapon franchise is the one film series that actually gets better as it gets older, and it also stays true to the fans. (Warner Bros is perfectly happy to replace Batman every time he asks for too much money. Fortunately, they don't do that to Mel Gibson.) Lethal 4 is the best yet simply because it tries harder than ever to be a crowd-pleaser. Gibson and Glover are so comfortable in they're mismatched cops roles now, that they don't seem very mismatched at all any more. And it works, because when they have fun, we have fun. Joe Pesci returns as the comic relief, only to square off with rookie Chris Rock for the most laughs. The result is an action movie that's funny than most comedies. And just when the film is in danger of becoming too funny for its own good, Jet Li shows up as a bad guy for some intense action scenes. Li has some incredible parts, he's comparable to Bruce Lee, and he's one of the best things to ever happen to movie villains. Finally, anybody who sees this movie once will definitely have to see it again, because of the amazing car chase scene in the middle. This unbelievable, twenty-minute sequence just might be impossible to top if they do a Lethal 5. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li made this film so much more watchable... even if it was a stereotyped  'chinese villain'. It's like a bad tv show.... you just find yourself watching the series and leaving afterwards... numbed. Rene Russo deserved more time and a better role. Chris Rock should have remained an unknown. The chemistry is still there and Mel does have charisma. What can i say? If you liked one and two, this isn't bad. If you liked three..... it'll be perfect. "},{"Title":"I was shocked!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie to support the Lethal Weapon series, because I totally  loved the other three.  I was expecting a real let down for the whole  series, but I went anyway.  I was shocked!  About 10 minutes into the movie  I thought...'hang on, this is really, really good!'This was by far the most entertaining of the series.  No doubt this was the  funniest and I personally think the action scenes where the better also (I  loved the last fight scene and the car chase!)  However, I don't think it  flowed with the ease of the other three Lethal Weapon movies.  It was a bit  muddled, but it was full with so many great scenes.  As good as Li was as  the bad guy, I did not hate him nearly as much as Gary Busey in LW1 or the  South Africans in LW2 (mind you, he was a lot better than the evil cop in  LW3.)  Overall though, I loved it and will recommend it to all Lethal Weapon fans  (really, how could a fan of the series not like this movie!) and on fans as  well.  Praying for a 5th! "}{"Title":"This movie worth watching -- once.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, if viewed as entertainment,  is good. It made me laugh, it excited m. And that's all. If you see it once, you won't want to see it again. As I said,  this movie worth watching, but only once. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weappn Bore","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4  The original Lethal Weapon  was a terrific film, quite dark really, with Mel Gibson's character on the verge of suicide. We cared about the characters. Now however the franchise has developed into a repetitive, if exciting, set of action sequences; heartless, vapid and annoying. Lethal Weapon 4 sees the ageing Riggs and Murtaugh (Mel Gibson and Danny Glover) on the hunt for the importers of Chinese slave laborers, but really the plot has little to do with the essential character of the film. The story is about only tying together a series of shoot outs, car chases and fights. We're left with something like a good football match, but one where you're team isn't playing. Even the music is becoming annoying; David Sanborn and Eric Clapton (or their clones) provide the wailing musical score that has become the signature sound for the Lethal Weapon series. But even that great sound needs a change. Even Sanborn and Clapton are becoming cringe city these days; only a parody of what made a difference a few years ago. Loaded Gun, a hilarious spoof on the Lethal Weapon series, perhaps started the rot, but it's obvious that progressively the series has been making more and more fun of itself, to the extent that Lethal Weapon 4 is done almost completely for laughs. But still there are the action sequences.These have been crafted such that they will please the most avid car crash, big explosion and flying automobile buffs. The opening sequence is entertaining, even if we know nearly all about it from the trailers. This has a Ned Kelly character spouting flames and machine gun bullets at Murtaugh who is in his undies in the rain. Ned Kelly is completely unexplained and is inconsequential with regards to the rest of the film, but in the context of the no brainer that Lethal Weapon 4 is, that's no surprise. Gibson is the trump card actor in these films of course, and Rigg's cocky jibes at Murtaugh are still lively, but most of the bite is gone if you don 't think that Riggs has a death wish. Danny Glover, the black side kick, also does the same ol' thing. Rene Russo again is a waste of time and Joe Pesci gets the best laughs, but again it's all just little hats, guns and bad language.  But still there's an exciting freeway chase complete with Riggs being dragged along on a table behind a truck and an extended, James Bondish  (this one lacks credibility) final brawl to enjoy. But give me the original Lethal Weapon any day. "},{"Title":"Blatant Racism","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One line in the movie was out of character for the theme of the series. That line was when Danny Glover said that he hoped his daughter's baby's father was black. The whole series portrayed the closeness of Danny Glover and Mel Gibson. One being black and one being white. They saved each others lives many times and Mel was over Danny's house as a close friend and even family in the latest sequel. So what was the point of the line? It showed blatant racism. Is that what the producer, writer, or actors wanted to portray? I'd like to know who decided on that line, please respond. "},{"Title":"Definitely maybe","Date":"26 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It has it all, explosions, stunts, romance. Typical lethal weapon. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Character driven action festival","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you've liked the previous Lethal Weapon films, you must like this one. Although it's very loaded with character progression you still get a nice action movie with lots of jokes.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  hey, friends.this film really good.I went to this film to see Jet Li and he was really good.he fights fantastically.it is the best inside the series for me. I laughed very much. My score for film is 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Keep this book closed.","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Finally. This is definitely not the best Lethal Weapon movie ever, although  Joe Pesci as Leo Getz stars as the best character. I had this feeling that the writers were searching for a good start and end.  After the opening scene, the guy with the flame-thrower, it took too long  to see new action. Too less action, enough humor and too sentimental. When you love action, humor and a high grade, go see it. When you like  a good combination of those elements, skip it. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4 is definitely one of the summer's best weapons.","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 had all the elements of a good action\drama. The laughs just  kept coming as well as the action. Chris Rock did a fine job in this movie  for being a new comer to the group. The same old team that consisted of Mel,  Danny, Renee, and Joe come back to kick some more ass. Most critics said  that the previous Weapons were better, but I disagree. This is the  blockbuster of the summer. "},{"Title":"Funnier, more action-packed and ... well...cooler than the rest","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 leaves the rest for dead. This is no art movie. It does not  give you a deep insight into the mystery of human beings. It will not  surprise you and it will never win any awards for Best Movie. But as entertainment, pure entertainment; it's a night out! Jet Li is  incredible and he makes me wanna learn Martial Arts. Chris Rock is  brilliant; floors will actually be able to make me laugh after watching  this, and the rest of the gang? Well, you've seen it before. Probably the  best Lethal, and that says it all. Go see it if you're bored, or for any other reason. "},{"Title":"Just another Lethal Weapon?","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie makes a great addition to the Lethal Weapon series.  I was having  doubts about the movie going in, because hardly any movie after the third  passes it's prime.  But not this movie.  I would go see the next one if  they decide to make it. "}{"Title":"Jet Li made the movie.","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was amazed at Jet Li in the movie.  I think that Jet Li made the film, and  I was always waiting to see more of him.  He was a real bad guy, and could  fight like mad! I hope to see more of Jet Li in movies.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Lethal Weapon ever and very entertaining","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had never been a very big fan of the Lethal Weapon series.  I didn't really like 1 or 2, and 3 was not very good.  Four, however, really impressed me.  It was incredibly entertaining and often funny, as Chris Rock and Joe Pesci added a lot of comic relief.  In the beginning, it seemed like Rock was just doing a stand-up bit, but he really progressed throughout the film and the relationship/conflict between he and Glover was hilarious.  Jet Li is the most sinister villain I've ever seen, but his emotion over his family was nice to see.  Emotion in an action film is usually stupid (see Con Air) but here it works.This was a great summer movie and although it is not going to be looked at as a great movie for movies' sakes, it is a great action movie and well worth my money. "},{"Title":"More of the same...","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...and I mean that mostly in a positive sense. As light entertainment goes this is as good as it gets, but I must say that it all feels rehashed.=  Sure , the chemistry and action is still there, Pesci is hilarious as always and the Richard Pryor-wannabe Rock is a nice new addition, but as for the rest we've seen it all before. I may be getting to old for this, but in my opinion the enviromentalist director Donner might as well have entitled=  the film Lethal Weapon - Recycled. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 5??","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really have to say that I was going to this  movie and setting myself up for a disappointment.  When I left the theater...I was wrong. This movie  was fun, exciting, and one hell of a ride.I would have to say that these Lethal films  have to be the best set of Films made today.  When you look at the James Bond, Halloween,  Friday the 13th etc....these movies keep the  characters fresh and a pleasure to watch on the  big screen. One big PLUS in favor of the Lethal  films is that through-out the years...Richard  Donner has had the ability to bring back the  ENTIRE cast to do another movie. If you look at  all the sequels made yesterday and today....I  doubt anyone has the entire cast returning for  another film.....this series has 4 films and all  4 films with the same cast.Let us hope......that Richard Donner can bring  them back for a 5th Lethal movie...if so...I  will be first in line and will never doubt the  series again!!! "},{"Title":"Great Popcorn movie","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The summary says all. This is a great entertaiment movie, the kind of one you forget 10 minutes after leaving the theater or turing off you vcr, but that will probably entertain you for its duration.It has great action scenes, a lot of comedy (I think it is the funniest of the series) and some really good fight sequences (the final one is really great). If you like this type of popcorn kind of movies like me, then see this one!  "},{"Title":"","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After I saw number 4, I went and rented the first three and rewatched them. And although all of the movies are enjoyable, I liked 4 the best. It has great character development, and lots of laughs. And the final fight scene of the movie is amazing. That part kept me on the edge of my seat like no movie in my recent memory has. It's always impressive to see a sequel that surpasses the earlier movies. "},{"Title":"An incredibly funny and action packed movie","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 is a perfect mix of action and comedy. It is one of the most entertaining films of 1998. This is a movie you go see if you just want to be flat out entertained. Chris Rock helps adds new blood to this series. As usually, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are great together. Joe Pesci does another fantastic job and Jet Li makes amazing American film debut.  "},{"Title":"crazier, more explosive, jokier, more ridiculous with even more people in the gang","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are back fighting a crazy armored guy with a flamethrower. Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) is pregnant. Roger's daughter Rianne is pregnant and secretly married to young detective Lee Butters (Chris Rock). Riggs and Murtaugh is shark fishing with Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) when a Chinese ship almost run them over. They exchange fire and discover a Chinese people smuggling ring. Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li) is the high ranking Triad bad guy. Murtaugh finds a boat full of people and he takes them home with him. The city can't find insurance for the guys to be on the streets so they made them captains to hang out on desk duty. Instead they take Butters along on their investigation.I thought Murtaugh was retiring. Even Riggs is getting too old for this sh!t. That should be enough but this is crazier, more explosive, jokier, and more ridiculous. It is overloaded. What started as a fun duo has expanded each and every sequel into a whole gang. It overshoot its target and has become an unmitigated mess. There are way too much story and too many characters. It takes forever to get the story moving because the audience has to catch up with all the characters, both new and old. It's odd that the addition this time is an angry Chris Rock. He's probably the funniest guy in the cast but his character is more tiring than funny. Any time the movie starts to move, it gets bog down with jokey side stories and various diversions. Also there isn't any compelling about the investigation. The bad guy Jet Li is revealed right away. The only thing left is for him to do is some kung fu fighting. The rest about the bad guys is meaningless and a waste of time. This is simply a rambling tiresome end to a great franchise. "},{"Title":"Ranking The Fourth Film","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hello readers to my review on the fourth and last film of the Lethal Weapon series. In this review I will rank the film and tell you where it stands out of the 4 as I have with the previous films on their reviews written by myself. So lets start, Lethal Weapon 4 is very enjoyable but due to me liking the first installment a bit more I had to rank this one 3rd out of 4. I mean in actual fact I like the first and the last the same but there are just some things about the 1st which make it better than this one. Like number 3 this one has a really under rated score on this website, a 6.5 is way too low. But like I say films in the 6's usually are under rated. Anyway I like the fact that this film went all Chinese to give Martin/Mel Gibson and Roger/Danny Glover a new and greater challenge. Leo Getz played by Joe Pesci getz his best performance in any of the films with showing his true soft side at the end. The film ends perfectly and happily which is just what I like. So end my reviews on the Lethal Weapon films, be sure to check out further reviews or previous ones. See you soon... "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon Bore","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The longest of the sequels (and in the series, for that matter) is a labored mess of a log-jam of characters and uninvolving plot. To go from drug-runners to gun-runners in the first three films but now dump Chinese immigrants on us is more than a step-down. My theory is that it was more an excuse to go easy on the audience activity-wise so they could allow for the attention to all the new stars.To start, Rock is shoehorned into the proceedings to rant his way through an endless mire of blathering scenes that seem inspired by a stand-up act. It's as if Donner or the producers said, Hey, just riff on cell phones and racism. You're funny! Then you have Li, who utters maybe ten words and smiles creepily in between looking like a martial-arts video game sprite. Pesci is back to bark his way through F-bombs and excessive intrusion; Russo has maybe three scenes, already discarded for The New Kids.As far as our heroes, Gibson and Glover, they can't even manage to get into carried on their charms mode. It's highly apparent both seem to be too tired to participate. The line about Too old for this sh** is not just being spoken by Riggs and Murtaugh, it seems to be coming more from Gibson and Glover. Gibson, once so adept at ad-libbing, can only manage a few of his signature Riggs-isms to dig on others; Glover sticks to his usual perplexed screeches of Riggs!! Riggs!! Of course, these films have always been primarily built around its action montages, but they don't even get that right (for the most part) this go-round. Forty-five minutes between action scenes? No, no, no. After a cartoonishly inexplicable one centered around a flame-spraying wackjob, far too much rambling set-up goes on before Gibson finally breaks into a chase of a potential bad dude. They finally manage an impressive stunt featuring a mobile home roaring down a freeway, but when the lives of the characters have become so drab, it's hard to care.I must mention the one moment where they accurately reached back to the feel of the earlier films. Without going into huge spoiler territory, I'll just say it involves the guys familiar We go on three mantra toward the end of the movie. It almost brought tears because it both provided a valid emotional moment, and one of familiarity from the prior entries dealing with a partnership. But it's far too little to give this installment a pass.The end credits sequence is a sweet fourth-wall breaking to give not just the cast, but the producers (and even the casting director!) some screen time, in obvious anticipation that Riggs and Murtaugh have really turned in their badges for good. "}{"Title":"The Lethality has dulled slightly, but Lethal Weapon 4 still has all of the charm and wit that made the first three so enjoyable!","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner's Lethal Weapon 4 thankfully breaks the Hollywood rule of sequels, and follow-ups to trilogies. (Becuase let's face it, a lot of fourth films suck.) It is a fun, fast and furious entry that is filled with light-hearted humor and fantastic action. Although it's been 12 years since its release, it holds up well as a great surrogate conclusion to the Lethal Weapon saga, presuming the long-rumored part 5 will never actually happen.This time around, Riggs and Murtaugh (Mel Gibson and Danny Glover) tangle with the Triads and corrupt Chinese authorities whom plan on using counterfeit cash to pay for the release of the Four Fathers- four top members of the Triads. At the head of the nefarious plot is Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li), a lethal and deadly adversary whom may be too much for our aging heroes to defeat.The film's plot is slightly rushed, and it isn't until the last half hour or so that the pieces all fall into place (and this might be due to a rushed production- the movie was made, start to finish, in a matter of months, from what I understand with an incomplete script), but somehow it all comes together quite well.We are also treated to new subplots and characters, such as Chris Rock in a hilarious performance as Detective Butters, whom is having a baby with Murtaugh's daughter- yet Murtaugh himself is unaware Butters is the father, as it is being kept secret because he disapproves of his daughter marrying an officer of the law.Returning characters (such as Rene Russo and Joe Pesci) are also further developed. Leo Getz is now a PI, whom Riggs and Murtaugh exploit, and he has an unexpected and truly heartwarming scene that takes his character to a new level unseen in previous films. Lorna Cole is now pregnant with Rigg's child, and they are preparing for the arrival, and also contending with their mixed feelings regarding marriage.Love and family is a huge part of Lethal Weapon 4's storyline. The whole of Rigg's character is tested when it comes to family and loyalty, as he is still struggling with the death of his wife Victoria, while trying to make things work with Lorna. And Murtaugh has taken in a Chinese family (the Hongs), whom he discovers being smuggled into the country.The film is well-written (with a screen story co-written by future Hollywood big-shot writers Alfred Gough and Miles Milar, who went on to work on projects like Spider-Man 2, Shanghai Noon and Smallville) and Donner's direction is amazing. The action sequences are well-done, and the film does have a nice East meets West vibe with our gun-toting heroes taking on a villain that never once fires a gun, but relies on his martial arts and wit to defeat his enemies.The acting is also top-notch, with great performances by all involved.The film is a good conclusion to the series. It ties up almost all loose ends, and it has some of the best action out of the entire series. While it arguably the worst out of the four (although I did enjoy it more than part 3), that's not saying much as the first two films are classics, and the third film is still very well-done. This is a good movie, it just isn't perfect.I'll give this one a 7 out of 10- a great way to end the franchise. Unless they decide to make Lethal Weapon 5, in which case, I'll be first in line to see it. "},{"Title":"fORMULAIC BUT FUN!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The lethal weapon series has always been a mix of action and comedy. Producers must have seen the value of Gibson and glovers on-screen partnership and developed the comedic elements in the second and third films, because it is quite obvious that the first film is far grittier than its sequels.And so we come to the fourth installment of a very popular set of films. And whilst it does feel like each film has become more and more watered down, i cant help thinking how much fun they are to watch. number four is no different. The cast has grown and each has their moment in what is actually a very family friendly film. Snappy dialogue, great chases, likable characters and innovative action provide pretty much everything you would expect. These films aren't popular because they make you think, and Gibson an glover are no spring chickens, but they get away with it because we still love em and its awesome entertainment! "},{"Title":"The dialog makes this movie worth it","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK...it's not rocket science.  And it takes a far more comic direction than the other three films.  But, in my humble opinion, it is the best of the four films because it made me laugh.While short on plot and the action seeming a bit forced, the interaction between the characters makes this movie a lot of fun.Examples1. The dialog between Chris Rock and Joe Pesci about cell phones.2. Chris Rock's variation on reading a prisoner his rights.3. The laughing gas scene in the dentist's office.4. Uncle Benny correcting Riggs on how to say Fried Rice.These four and a few others make this DVD worth watching and maybe even owning.  Set aside your reality acceptance level and just have fun.    "},{"Title":"just as good as the others","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is another fantastic movie to watch. All 4 Lethal Weapon movies are fantastic. This one was made in 1998, a 6 year gap with the 3rd Lethal Weapon movie. I give this movie 10 out of 10. I hope in the future the actors/actresses will return with Lethal Weapon 5 sometime, i hope it will be soon. "},{"Title":"The honest truth about one of the most beloved action/comedy series in the movie industry.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES!!1 - was fresh, innovative, edgy and hard. It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful; excellent character development, imaginative direction, professional performances by the cast and crew, a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog, and action...lots of good fast-paced, well-delivered action. It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us. The comedy was educated, intelligent and expertly-delivered. The characters were lovable, and we got the feeling that we knew them, cared about them, wanted them to succeed. Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person, due to the high-level of development his character received. True, the gun handling left a lot to be desired, but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip. Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid. That aside, this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value. One of the best of its kind.2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character, Leo Getz. Because of Getz, I honestly found this film to be rather endearing. Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series. Unfortunately, the edge and freshness is toned down way too much, and the action is really rather predictable. I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh, and was not in the least bored with that aspect. It is still a good movie, even though its edge is shelved for a more marketable product.3 - is just as good as 2. Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well. It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover/Gibson signing for 4 & 5, so it seems the series has wound down, rather than up. The action is still quality, though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments. The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired. And while the performances are still professional, it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out.4 - is the perfect ending to this series. Honestly. The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct, Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring, and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore. (Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming Indiana Jones 4.) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old, and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line, I'm getting too old for this sh*t. It is far beyond that. And now, with Riggs's marriage to Lorna, Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters, the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending...enough is just enough.5 - should never happen. I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two. The characters we all loved are already gone. Like in Invasion of the Bodysnatchers, they've been stolen from us. The edge from Riggs's character is gone. He's a bit hapless now, and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character.The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character, the baby AND Butters. Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2, or don't bring him out of the moth balls. PLEASE. I loved these movies, but for the love of Mike! NO MORE!If you liked any of these movies, I highly recommend Tango & Cash, an excellent, much-overlooked, highly under-rated Buddy-Cop movie.1. 9.2/102. 8.8/103. 7.6/104. 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was my favorite out of the four movie series of Lethal Weapon. This movie has non-stop action with an excellent plot better than the others. It has everything a movie needs. I memorized almost all the lines to this movie. My favorite part of the movie was at the very end when that big battle scene with Mel Gibson and Danny Glover trying to fight Jet Li. It was a great scene. Joe Pesci was so funny with Chris Rock. I thought this was a great movie and I recommend it to all the Lethal Weapon fans. "},{"Title":"wowsers","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't have much to say about the movie, considering its almost 5 years old now, except for the fact that Mel Gibson is utterly the most good-looking man on this planet (well..him and Tom Cruise are tied, in my opinion). But unlike Tom Cruise Mel Gibson can actually act pretty well, and he's a family-man...now for my opinion on Lethal Weapon 4!!! I really did think that the movie was done pretty well for a movie thats a sequel times 2 (sorry..i dont kno wut a fourth sequel is called). I never even knew that there were 3 movies in the Lethal Weapon series, in any case it didn't matter because in my opinion the movie was funny, and action-packed...especially with Jet Li. But I do have to agree with one another person in the fact that there were WAYYY too many characters. I think in some ways the whole Chris Rock thing should've just been taken out of the movie...but..well that plot was pretty funny too..hopefully this will be the last lethal weapon movie, cuz i dont even WANT to know how many hundreds of characters there'll be in the next one..anywayz, i think out of 5 stars I would give this movie a 4.0 outta 5, cuz it was a good movie!!  "},{"Title":"A good way to end the series....","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Chris Rock, and Jet Li. ...if they're ended.  You never know.  The series has had some really high points (with the exception of Lethal Weapon 3) and this was one of them.  It's very underrated.  Critics don't like it (?) They should because its a good movie.  It's very funny, very action-filled, and very exciting.  Jet Li is good as the villain.  Too bad, he gets aggravating when he just smiles rather than saying something.  Come on, curse in Japanese or something.  The movie is about a Japanese counterfeit who Murtaugh and Riggs try to stop, but learn that its more harder to handle.  Pesci and Russo are back.  Russo ends up to be pregnant with Riggs baby.  Pesci's funnier than ever.  And the whole Murtaugh family's back.  I recommend this movie, second best in series.  "},{"Title":"A perfect finale to a Lethal set of films","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly if anything...Lethal Weapon 4 re-captures the series and disproves the action movies get worse with sequels myth. This series started out beautifully and ends as it started, wonderfully.  The best part of Lethal Weapon 4 is that this is a movie, that could stand on it's own as a great action movie.  That is not only very unusual for a third sequel but it's almost impossible to do.  But Richard Donner brings together the cast and crew for a finale that is action-packed, fun, and a little sad.  A lot of years have passed since the original and Riggs and Murtaugh are a little older and a little wiser and Donner is not afraid to show their weaknesses that have come with age.  Riggs has fallen in love finally with Lorna Cole (Rene Russo returns) and they are expecting a baby.  Murtaugh's daughter Rianne is also expecting.  The movie starts out with an explosive scene with Riggs and Murtaugh going up against some crazy nut with a flame thrower, a bullet resistant outfit, and a machine gun.  Of course that situation couldn't end without Riggs blowing up the city block.  The story line for Lethal 4 is a little more in depth but fortunately still makes sense and is fun to watch.  Chinese Triads are smuggling over immigrants to sell as slaves to Chinese factories.  Some of the slaves are used to make counterfeit money in order to buy four top Triad leaders back from a Chinese Ambassador.  Jet Li stars as the big bad guy and he is chilling and evil looking and an unbelievable martial artist.  I am not a huge fan of Jet Li but he was the ideal adversary for Riggs and Murtaugh.  Donner brings everything back from the first Lethal film and rolls it into this one smoothly.  Riggs is not quite as quick as he once was and although Lorna has managed to domesticate him...there are several scenes where Gibson is taking on Jet Li hand to hand and you see that flash of that loose cannon Riggs we all know and love.  That crazy look in his eyes that we all remember.  Joe Pesci is back and this time Leo Gettz is a Private Detective which means he finally has a gun of his own.  Fortunately again Leo is used in moderation and not only that but the character this time is given some depth and instead of being just constantly annoying he is a little more sympathetic and at the end of the film he has a very moving and touching conversation with Mel Gibson's character Riggs and he helps Riggs genuinely, with a very big situation in Riggs personal life...whether or not to marry Lorna Cole.  Rene Russo still manages to kick a little butt even being pregnant which sometimes makes you think about the poor baby.  Chris Rock joins the cast as a fresh new cop who reminds you a little of Riggs and a little of Murtaugh but also adds his own flavor to the group.  He is made out to be the new generation of cops, and kinda of a new generation of Lethal Weapon.  In one very cute scene which was bordering on un-necessary Chris Rock and Joe Pesci have a little back and forth squabble slash stand-up routine about cell phones.  What seems un-necessary is probably actually Donner's attempt at demonstrating the old and the new.  Pesci being an old comic, and Chris Rock being the fresh new face.  The cast...whether it be our old familliars from Lethal 1-3 or newcomes like Rock...fit together perfectly.  This is a family through and through and as they say in the end We're family.  The whole series of these films together are amazing achievements in the world of Action films where almost anything passes for entertainment.  Blow something up and it's an action film.  Instead Donner has given us a series with characters that are likeable and important, and deep, and relatable, and given us lives and stories that we love to watch.  On top of that he builds action films that are chock full of explosions, and laughs and guns, and martial arts and a world where reality has to be set aside and you get to ride shotgun with the two craziest cops in the business.  I hope that maybe someday Donner might bring the cast back for another one although I think I would be shocked and floored if he was able to pull off another part in this series.  It really would be milking the cash cow and Donner is not much for doing that.  Definately check out Lethal Weapon 4....but without a doubt check out the whole series...you can't miss these movies.  Lethal Weapon 4 I give a hearty 9/10 "},{"Title":"Wedding Bells, Ammo Shells. Riggs and Murtaugh Are In For Their Biggest Adventure Yet!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS         One night while Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh were driving through town, they witness a man dressed in armor and a flame gun, setting a big section of the city on fire. He even destroys Riggs and Murtaugh's car. While they duck down, Murtaugh reports that Lorna is pregnant and Riggs will be a father. Riggs reports that Rianne is pregnant and Murtaugh will be a grandfather. It comes as a shock to both of them. Riggs suggests Murtaugh draw the guy's fire by stripping down to his underwear and flapping like a chicken. It works and the guy blasts a tanker truck which blows him sky high.        Nine months later, Riggs, Murtaugh and Leo Getz are onMurtaugh's boat. Leo had caught a shark. Leo is also now a private investigator. They have a run-in with a cargo ship and it's crew are shooting at them, so Riggs get's aboard. Murtaugh's boat sinks and he and Leo have to swim--with the shark.         The ship runs aground and Riggs discovers a bunch of Chinese immigrants in the haul. When the police come, Murtaugh and Riggs run into Sgt. Lee Butters (Chris Rock). Butters is always especially nice to Murtaugh, whom thinks he's coming on to him. Murtaugh also discovers some more Chinese immigrants hiding in his life raft. They were the Hongs.        Murtaugh invites the Hongs to stay at his house. What Riggs and Murtaugh are soon to discover is that a crime lord, Uncle Benny, and his assistant, Wah Sing Ku, who is a master at martial arts. Pratically better than Jackie Chan.          Murtaugh, Riggs and Butters are driving around one day and run into Leo Getz. Leo and Butters don't really get along at first. Leo thinks he's a perp; Riggs, Butters and Murtaugh arrive in Chinatown and deal with crooks.                   Later, Murtaugh returns home to find the Hongs gone, and Wah Sing Ku there as well. He and his men tie up the Murtaughs,Riggs and Lorna and set the house on fire. They're rescued thanks to young Ping. Murtaugh and Riggs chase the baddies. They were driving a black Mercedes. Chaos and action packed moments ensue and soon their cars are wrecked and the baddies dead.         Murtaugh and Riggs learn of counterfeit operations, headed by Uncle Benny. Leo leads them to Uncle Benny at the dentist, where they use laughing gas to make Benny talk. But Murtaugh, Riggs and Butters become intoxicated also and they laugh their secrets out. Murtaugh finds out just why Butters was being so nice to him. Because he's the father of Murtaugh's grandson. Murtaugh is very mad at that.       Riggs and Murtaugh go to foil the counterfeit operations and soon engage in a lethal battle with Wah Sing Ku. There's even a daring rescue of Riggs underwater.         Next day, Riggs is in the cemetary visiting his wife's grave, when Leo shows up. He tells Riggs a very sad story about a pet frog he had as a boy. Riggs had no idea Leo had such a hard childhood.Suddenly, his pager goes off Lorna's at the hospital, so they race over there.         Lorna refuses to have the baby unless she and Riggs become married right there. So they get a priest and both say I do.Soon the kids are born, and the Riggs', the Murtaughs, Leo, and Captain Murphy all line up for a picture. After all, they're family, and amazingly enough, Riggs and Leo have been firm friends ever since.       This is a good Lethal movie. I wonder if there'll be a Lethal Weapon 5. That was a tragic story Leo told about his pet frog. Also, Leo Getz into another speech about something. This time it's cellphones. He and Butters both exchange comments. Which is funny. Pairing two funny men.       Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Rene Russo, Chris Rock, and Jet Li are a star-studded cast. I recommend this movie!! -         "}{"Title":"Action-Packed Thrill Ride","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've got Leathal Weapon 4 on DVD.  I had to get it after renting it.  The awsome action scenes with the fire guy, train, boat, trailor, truck, fighting.  They all rock.  I saw the first and second Lethal Weapon, (still haven't seen the third yet).  It's not just full of action, there's a small sad part at the end, and with Mel Gibson you always get comedy.  Then on the DVD, there are delected scences from the first 3 Leathals, Theatrical trailors to all of them, behind-the-scences of all of them, then you got interviews with Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Renee Russo, Chris Rock, Jet Li, Richard Donnor, and Joel Silver, talking about what the think of each other, the relationships, the movie it self, and their charter.  If you like a good action-packed thrill ride go and see Leathal Weapon 4! "},{"Title":"The Gang's All Here.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have loved the concept of every Lethal Weapon. The opening of Lethal Weapon 4 is typical Lethal Weapon and done to perfection. Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh have been called to a disruption in downtown L.A. Anyway this maniac is destroying things with a fire torch, yet the experienced cop partners are in deep and meaningful discussion about there personal life instead of getting the bad guy. So Riggs tells Murtaugh to take off his clothes down to his boxers and to flap his arms like a chicken. So Murtaugh does it, Riggs 'blows' the bad guy away and once again makes his partner look like an idiot. This start just made me ask for more, and my wish was to be granted.  Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh, each now feeling too old to be doing what they're doing, try to stop the Chinese Triads from doing their illegal business in the U.S. Uncle Benny, Chinatown's mob boss, has imported Chinese slaves to pay for an artist to create counterfeit Chinese currency which the Triads will use to buy the Four Fathers (heads of the Triads) back from the Chinese military. Lee Butters joins the team as a new cop and Leo Getz is back, now as a P.I. The cast of Lethal Weapon 4 was fantastic. I want to give praise to the performance of martial arts specialist Jet Li. His scenes in this movie were fantastic and left me dumb-founded at times. He is a talented man in his field, and was the correct choice for the role of the Chinese bad guy. His eyes make him look especially bad, and his movements are just amazing. I also liked his performance in the movie Romeo Must Die, where he continues his martial arts role even more, with the beautiful Aaliyah.Once again the main characters stand up for a final time. Glover and Gibson pair up superbly as the cop partners. One of the classics quotes from the whole film would have to be when, Uncle Benny tells Riggs in his Chinese shop that ` it's fried rice you Plick', a terrific line. Those two have gone through a lot together, and what a ride it had for their audiences. I have loved every bit of it. Yet the funniest role of the whole series belongs to funny man, Joe Pesci. Leo Getz is a crazy character and he had me in stitches again in Lethal Weapon 4. The scene where he talks about the mobile phones is hilarious,  They f#*k you with the cell phones' what a line! New man to this film is comedian, Chris Rock. His role was another funny one, especially the way he sucks up to Sargent Murtaugh. I am looking forward to seeing more movie roles of Rock's in the future.  Again the scenes in this are just incredible. The scene on the immigration boat was great action, plus watching poor old Murtaugh get the short end of the stick was very amusing, he seems to never have any luck. The scene through Chinatown was cleverly put together and one of my favourite in the whole film. The martial art scenes in lethal weapon 4 were first class. The scene at the Murtaugh's house was just exceptional, as was the conclusion of the film, were we get to see how peeved Jet Li really can be. Also the car chase on the highway was great, it was good change from the martial arts and certainly left hanging for sometimes. Plus the scene at the dentist was very funny and just shows how crazy this lethal weapon team can be. Yet the scene at the end of the film with Leo Getz and Riggs at his wife's grave site, was something I wasn't expecting, but I thought it was beautifully written and wonderfully acted. Ok, Ok, many people have said that this Lethal weapon is the best or the worst of the series. Look I found it breathtaking in some instances, and at times very very funny. The cast's through each film in the series has been great to watch (especially with the final credits of this film and the song &#145;Why can't we be friends'), and some of the crazy scenes and antics, have been hilarious. I think people who criticise this film completely really aren't a fan of the genre, because each film has been different and makes you feel better for the viewing experience.    Rating 4 Stars or 8/10 "},{"Title":"And When You Thought They Couldn't Get Any Better...","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  	An explosive beginning once again kicks off the action for our favorite team of Los Angeles Detectives, Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh, in Richard Donner's `Lethal Weapon 4,' starring Mel Gibson and Danny Glover.  In this fourth installment of the popular action/drama series, the pair are confronted with a murderous Chinese Triad with links to Hong Kong, that deals in counterfeiting and the smuggling of illegals into the country, where their new lives become nothing more than virtual slavery.  It's a subject that touches a nerve with Murtaugh (Glover), which brings about an irrational decision when he thinks he can help.  But not to worry; Riggs (Gibson) is there to back him up, and together they take on one of their most formidable opponents yet, Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li), head of the Triad, who happens to be in the process of discharging a personal agenda from which he will not be deterred.  And making matters all the more complicated, Riggs and Murtaugh each have personal issues of their own to deal with  Murtaugh with his daughter, Rianne (Traci Wolfe), and Riggs with Lorna Cole (Rene Russo), the first woman with whom he's had a long standing relationship since the death of his wife. 	With three highly successful `Lethal' outings under their belts, it would have been easy for director Donner and his stars to phone this one in, make a few bucks and move on.  But not these guys; Refusing to rest on their laurels, they deliver yet another exceptional, action-packed movie that maintains the quality and consistency of the first three.  Gibson and Glover manage to take their characters to yet another level, keeping it all fresh and refusing to cruise through the comfort zone on auto pilot.  Russo, as well, turns in another winning performance; she and Gibson really click together, rivaling the kind of chemistry Bogie and Bacall brought to the screen.  Their relationship is extremely well developed and handled with skill by Donner, as is the entire story; it all moves ahead quickly and is never allowed to slow down or meander, which keeps the emotional level and tension high throughout the film.  The action is possibly the best of any of the series, with some sequences so good they deserve comparison to John Woo's best.   	Jet Li is absolutely dynamic, and brings a real sense of menace to his character of Ku.  For the first time, you get the feeling that Riggs and Murtaugh may be up against more than they can handle by themselves.  And even with all this series has going for it already, in this one they manage to introduce yet another character that adds even more to their formula for success  Chris Rock joins the team as Lee Butters, the next generation of law enforcement, an officer with a degree in psychology.  He adds some humor to the proceedings, but more than that, he makes Butters likable and seems to have an immediate grasp of who he is and where he fits in.  And fit in well he does, essentially becoming the third member of the team.  Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) is back as well, this time as a private investigator still trying his best to ingratiate himself with his friends, Riggs and Murtaugh.  Interestingly enough, one of the more touching scenes in the film (near the end) develops during a conversation between Getz and Riggs, one that offers the audience (as well as Riggs) some insight into what makes Getz tick. 	The supporting cast includes Steve Kahan (Capt. Murphy), Darlene Love (Trish), Eddy Ko (Hong) and Mary Ellen Trainor, reprising her role of Police Psychiatrist Dr. Stephanie Woods for the fourth time.  Working from another exceptionally well written script (this time by Channing Gibson), Donner and Company have scored yet another triumph with `Lethal Weapon 4,' which can stand on it's own, or as a part of one of the best action/drama series ever made.  Which one of the four is the best?  Toss a coin; these are movies the way they ought to be made.  I rate this one 10/10.          	     "},{"Title":"Wonderful action movie, silly story, 7 of 10.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With my purchase of a player last year, one of my free DVDs was Lethal Weapon 4, and I finally got around to seeing it. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover have the formula down, and watching the two of them as a team is always fun.  This story included smuggling of Chinese familes, counterfitting, and lots of chase scenes and explosions.  For the story I rate it 4, and forthe action, 10, which yields my average rating of 7.  Chris Rock and the lady were also good here.I must recommend this to show off a good surround sound system.  With the chase scenes, gun fights, explosions, etc there is sound coming from everywhere!  The one chase scene, where Gibson crawls into the mobile home being towed, falls out and is dragged behind the truck on a table-top, gets back in the car, goes through a fully-occupied office, and finally lands back on the freeway next to the crooks is one of the most inventive there is.Also, the last fight scene, part of it underwater, including a last-ditch rescue of the partner, is just so gripping and tense.  Like I said, the sound and action make this DVD worth watching. "},{"Title":"You People that spend time, with a clipboard on their hand to jot down flaws of a movie make me sick","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay Okay Okay. Im tired of reading about people saying that this movie has many flaws. Get a life. I bet you actually DID infact sit down with a pen and paper and right down everything against this movie that you could possibly think of. Whats wrong with you, get a life. Who cares if its different than the other ones, its just a movie. It aint gonna haunt you for the rest of your life just because the characters are a little different. Dang, whats wrong with you people. This movie is one of my favorites of all time, and i give it a 10/10. I dont care if its got some flaws that dont mean sh1t. The movie is very funny and action packed and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"This film is the worst Lethal Weapon ever!!","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Really.  Even #2 was better. "},{"Title":"Even the cover art is stupid, are you looking at it, its like lined up morons, zero imagination","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An R rated sit-com, oh sorry, an R rated action sit-com. Clichd comedy, tired stunt scenes, everyone just mails it in from their trailers'. The only thing missing from this movie would be a ghost or a talking baby its so silly and hackneyed. Every moment telegraphed to the audience long in advance, joke coming up here your next left, two rights from now comes a fight scene. Let us lament the fortune spent so we might see this movie. Oh well we could have built a house, or a bridge, could have built a park maybe have some bike trails for that park, could have saved some inner city school from failure, could have provided quality dentistry to impoverished hillbillies-oh yeah could have spent that money on making a better movie. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Movie","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is simply perfect , this sequel in my opinion is better than the older ones. With Chris Rock , Joe Pesci its just hard comedy all the times , and with the best cop par of all times Gibson and Glover u cant go wrong , and the perfect villain with many style Jet Li. Don't mind people that vote bad this movie they are the kind of people that never believe in sequels and really hate it. They want all movies end up in the first or second movie more than that is all bad. This movie is perfect casting , perfect action / comedy , one of my favorite movies of all times , hope they do one more movie. This is kind of movie that makes me love go to the cinema and spend money its perfect in all kind of ways. "},{"Title":"lethal weapon 4","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh are sure getting old in this one,, neither one of em can seem to catch a bad guy,, Murtaugh has to pay a guy 200 dollars for a bicycle,, Riggs can't spar anymore, without getting his brains kicked, in,, gosh they look so horribly out of shape,, we see nothing really much out of Renee Russo fighting ability like the 3rd one,, although Joe Pesci,, was much better in this one,, the addition of Chris Rock,, so so i guess, i don't care too much for him, but he was funny.. Jet Li,, nice action there in the fighting scenes,, taking apart Riggs gone in one move. very nice. the plot,, smuggling Chineese Imigrants , interesting enough, but i think it goes overboard when Murtaugh tries to smuggle them and keep them in his house,, not bad, but weak in the series i think. "},{"Title":"Cash Cow","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" No one ever got fired for trying to milk a cash cow, but after a while the poor thing does get tired. The first one was OK; the second one with Joe Pesci and Patsy Kensit was even better the third with Rene Russo got really really good; but maybe enough is enough. It's still fun, but it feels like the screenwriters are running out of ink.This time you get Jet Li and Chris Rock (and the Rock subplot plays OK at least for a while) but you also get the same jokes, once fresh and original, now wearing out fast, over and over and over again. Oh brother. In many ways, as you'll see, this one reads like a family reunion. So good to see all these people again after all these years. Yawn. Mel's without his Samson locks too. He doesn't look at all as crazy as he used to in this series; now he's only playing crazy, and he seems to be acting by rote rather than inspiration.But it's good. If this is your 'cuppa' and you liked the first three, each and every one of them - let's say you won't be totally disappointed. But you will be longing for the genuine fun and action of the predecessors. And if you collect them on DVD, this will be the one of the lot you almost never play. "}{"Title":"The finale adventure still has the Magic","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh, each now feeling too old to be doing what they're doing, try to stop the Chinese Triads from doing their illegal business in the U.S. Uncle Benny, Chinatown's mob boss, has imported Chinese slaves to pay for an artist to create counterfeit Chinese currency which the Triads (led by Jet Li) will use to buy the Four Fathers (heads of the Triads) back from the Chinese military. Chris Rock joins the team as a new cop and Rianne's husband. Lorna is pregnant and considers marriage with Riggs, and Leo Getz is back, now as a private investigator.The Gang's All Here, including director Richard Donner stars Mel Gibson (Braveheart), Danny Glover (Saw), Joe Pesci (Goodfellas), Rene Russo (Get Shorty) and this time they are joined by Chris Rock (Dogma) and Jet Li (Unleashed). Though this is obviously the weakest in the saga, this is still a very fun and energetic film. "},{"Title":"This film is 100% quality","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I dont see how anyone can fault this movie, its perfection.  I was just watching it on Channel 5.  Which reminded me of its age, I mean 1998, phew.. thats a long time (I really love this movie, the ending is brilliant, brings a tear to the eye..I could do with another '( But it aint gonna happen ( "},{"Title":"Self-Parody","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning...Donner is a fickle director.  Part of me respects him for changing our perspective of genres (comedy, action, westerns, horror, etc.), but he also deserves disdain for not trying to push limits in a serious manner.  Consider how Spielberg pushed limits in his early work up until 'E.T.'  Oh, how I wish Donner did the same.  We would really have something to look into.  On the plus side, Donner usually gets decent tech crews and artists for his work.The original 'Lethal Weapon' trilogy is a trademark of the 80s.  Stylized flash overdose mixed with lame plots--drug dealers, Nazis, and crooked cops.  They parody what we consider serious in an Arnold or Seagal movie, but still try to be dramatic.  I find the original to be the best because it balances the different influences best.Now with '4', we have a parody of the first three.  The plot is less contrived this time--Triads and smuggling--but still simple.  I wasn't expecting 'Ronin', but considering the budget you'd think something more detailed could have been written.  Some interesting things to consider--The human tank opening is the most interesting set piece in the trilogy.  Notice how the characters don't go on three like before.--The chases are in the let's top the last big event like before.  I think '3' had the best chase, but that's only because of the way it was shot.--Pesci does his warp-speed routine again.  Rock doesn't play off it as well.So, sadly, we end the series on a downer.  Donner hasn't recovered.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Not nearly 'lethal' enough, for my liking... ! (SERIES SPOILERS!!)","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ... Over on the IMDb message boards, the general consensus seems to be that all four Lethal Weapon films are worthy efforts... I consider myself a fan, though, and this didn't do much for me. Most of the enjoyment I got from it was down to seeing those familiar characters again; but I felt the script was going through the motions in a really clichd fashion. Parts of it seemed more like a sitcom than an action film.By no means would I say it was all bad, - it was nice for Jet Li to appear (even if he was somewhat wasted) and the sight of Riggs sliding down the freeway on a table was certainly a fresh take on 'daredevil escapades' - but right down to the snapshots at the end, this just wasn't 'lethal' enough, anymore... (but then, I guess Cuddly Weapon wouldn't sell so well... )Lethal Weapon 2 was on the 'bitty' side; but at least they kept the 'edge' to Riggs' character. In the 3rd, he was more jovial; but the 'darkness' was preserved by the subplot of underage firearm use. By the time the fourth rolled around, it seemed like they were playing it safe because they didn't want to leave the audience on a 'bum note'... I think taking that route would have been appropriate though, and left the franchise with more integrity.... As it stands, my personal opinion is that the original is by far the best of them all, but that the third one was the most successful in combining action AND comedy; something LW4 strives for, and overbalances terribly as a result of. "},{"Title":"They are back, again.","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Lethal Weapon team return for a third sequel which sees them involved with Chinese gangsters running a people smuggling ring.Once again all those involved stick rigidly to the formula that made the Lethal Weapon franchise a much loved series. Tho the film's diminished in quality with each subsequent release, the paying public just wanted more of Mel Gibson & Danny Glover's buddy buddy cop shenanigans. With a budget of over $140 million making it the highest budgeted entry in the series, part 4 eventually made double that Worldwide. So with that you can't really blame those involved for trundling out another instalment. But you sense that the box office returns tellingly the profit was heavily reliant on takings outside of America came about more out of loyalty to the show it winds up feeling like a TV series we have been with for years, and a belief that this was indeed the last time we would see the coupling of Riggs and Murtaugh.Viewing it now, part 4 is pleasant enough without the heavy weight of expectation. Back then in the late 1990s it wasn't unreasonable to expect some pizazz from the latest entry. Part 3 had made a staggering profit Worldwide of over $285 million, but critics and many fans were unimpressed with the big bang for your buck approach they took. The story was, ultimately, shallow and really rather lazy. So with the monster budget in place and an expectation that the series would go out in a blaze of glory, we expected much. But got little. Chris Rock joins the cast as Murtaugh's detective son-in-law and Jet Li kicks his way into the franchise as a Triad hit-man with personal issues. And that's that really, where did the money go? Rene Russo as Riggs' honey has been reduced from a buttock kicking character of note to being nine months pregnant, while Joe Pesci as love him or hate him squeaker Leo Getz is now a PI serving only as a set up for some of Riggs and Murtaugh's scornful humour. There's some solid gags in there, delivered with the usual panache from Gibson, and director Richard Donner sets up some thrilling action sequences. Notably a thrilling freeway pursuit as Gibbo surfs a table! But the money isn't up there on the screen, it's in the pockets of those who finally hopefully are too old for this feces.It's not a fitting closure, but the love of the characters just about remains intact. RIP all, thanks for the memories, but please stay retired, our love goes only so far you know. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Poor movie","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 was as bad a movie as the first Lethal Weapon was great a movie -- and this is saying a lot!The original Lethal Weapon scores a Hollywood 10.  Lethal Weapon 4 must be a ONE.  It cannot pass the watching it alone at home test.  The plot and tone shame the original.  The only thing pretty cool about LW#4 was the ending credits... But how many times have you ever rated a movie using the ending credits as a factor?  "},{"Title":"skip it","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a contrived cast reunion movie. The action scenes in this movie were like sex scenes in a porn flick in between them, the silly dialogue and plot make you quickly grow impatient for the next action scene. Chris Rock was added for freshness, but it didn't help. The movie remains stale.  "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The magic is lost in this fourth and what is assumed from the end credits, final venture for director Donner and stars Gibson and Glover in a series that began back in 1987. This film carries over all the elements of action and comedy that have made this series so successful and entertaining. However, it's forced too much here with the addition of Rock, who does his unusual brand of comedy, although I read somewhere that if you do comedy, you're supposed to be funny! I may be wrong!   "},{"Title":"A now wearied weapon","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is it. Stop at this number, please. Yes, I guess the magic is still there, but I think this is a great example of another trying sequel, that's had it's time. In this latest wearied weapon, marking a six year absence, since it's predecessor, again the story isn't new, especially when you hear about asylum seekers today. Here they are used as guinea pigs, by a nasty triad group, where one abandoned family temporary become part of Murtaugh's family. I must say the start is originally fantastic with a guy suited up in a metal suit, looking like the Michellin man, armed with a flame thrower, who our most popular cop duo, must overthrow, the scene evolving in a successful, humorous resolution, Riggs busting his partners chops again. Getting back to the story, that again sees Riggs at war with another enemy, Jet Li, part of the triad group. Also we have Kim Chan who might of been reprising his role in The Corrupter, as having the same name here, Uncle Benny, who proves a bit of a hoot, especially with one abusive line, involving fried rice. A very much pregnant, Russo, is back, where for Riggs, the idea of a second marriage is a brick wall he can't get past. So too, thankfully is Pesci, and Rock too as a hot shot black cop, secretly in love with Murtaugh's daughter. Murtaugh's wife has a secret too, though I'm not gonna tell. Gibson and Glover still make a great team, that humour we love is still there, with so too the action, including one thrilling car chase sequence which is a bit of a hairy watch. As from Gibson's perspective, it had me asking how that shot was done, Gibson being dragged behind a truck, merely hanging onto some plastic sheeting, sliding zanily across the freeway, amidst dense traffic, one of the film's high points. So was Pesci's private moment with Riggs, where he shares a story about his pet turtle, that makes Riggs re examine his single status. We have some tragic and sad moments, that have you wanting our super duo, especially Riggs, to kick the crap out of the bad dudes. Some funny moments I loved, between Pesci and Rock, as well as Rock and Glover, who's made uncomfortable, as he seems kind of sweet on Rog, was priceless. Too that early incident, that had Glover going shirtless and flapping his arms like a chicken, is something the department won't let him forget, even nine months onwards, was one of the vivid memories of the movie. With everything that makes the 'Weapon' movies work, I just felt there was a tired point here. I just found it a bit of a stretching sequel, and a trite but duller, despite having all the right components, where to make another sequel would be unforgivable, if criminal. You must come a point and call it quits, and remember the 'Weapon' movies for what they were- one of the best buddy cop franchises ever made. Just don't look back. "},{"Title":"I think they stopped making them after this one","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The one thing that impresses me about the Lethal Weapon movies is that Richard Donner is always on the helm. I believe he made the last two and he has made this one as well, so when approaching a Lethal Weapon movie you know what to expect. The good thing is because the same person is in control of the movie, we know that we are not going to be that disappointed. As the Lethal Weapons were not my favourite movie, I was not looking towards this one with great anticipation. I did like it, but I think that it is a movie to wait for on video.The thing about the Lethal Weapon movies is they are action/comedies. The first movie was not that comical, but they have become more funnier as time goes on. This fourth one is probably the funniest of the lot of them, but the comedy is based on character relations rather than on anything else.While out fishing, Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Myrtle (Danny Glover) run into a ship full of illegal Asian immigrants. They run it aground and thus uncover an illegal smuggling ring which they plan to break open and the rest of the movie deals with them trying to bust the smugglers who happen to be triads. Some have said that this movie is racist I disagree. If it is then it is unintentional. The gangsters might be Asians, but they balance that out with good guy Asians as well, that is the Ho family. I think any racist comments in the movie is simply looking for ways to undermine it. Asians are not portrayed as being evil gangsters who seek to undermine American security, it is just the the gangsters are Asian.This makes me think about the actors, Jet Li was a Hong Kong actor and was a super star over there. There was another Asian, who played Grandfather Ho, who I recognised from some Hong Kong movie. One wonders what is happening to Hong Kong cinema now that it has been handed over to the Chinese, and it seems that some of the actors have moved to the US to start up careers there. As to Media Asia Distribution and Golden Harvest Films, well I don't know what has happened to them. Jet Li though has very few lines, which makes me wonder if he really can speak English that well. I have been told that Jackie Chan cannot speak English all that well, and most of Bruce Lee's movies were in Chinese, but I wonder about Jet Li. As to his role though, it is not like some of his other movies, such as High Risk or even The Master. Jet Li plays a very silent and deadly criminal in this movie, but it is very different from his other roles.For entertainment value, Lethal Weapon 4 is great. I really enjoyed it, and so did my sister who hates Mel Gibson. So it is not a movie to rush down to the cinema to see, but it is one that if fun and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Not as great as the others but not bad at all","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is more of comedy than it is action, and the makers went overboard with the comic aspect of the movie introducing Chris Rock to add more to the job that Joe Pesci already had a hand on. This will not stand as one of the best in all the series partly due to the fact that the plot here is a little lazy than the ones we saw in Lethal Weapon 1 and Lethal Weapon 2. Lethal Weapon 3 may have had the best intro scene but it too was just lazy in the aspect of its script, as it was more like let's get a girl for Riggs than it was let's make a buddy cop movie.Here the duo are up against the Kung Fu fighting Jet Li, his introduction added the Kung Fu genre in to this action comedy and Richard Donner the director just didn't have what it took to make this Lethal Weapon a master piece, but if this movie is to stand on its own it is a nice action comedy.Again the score is done by the trio of Michael Kamen, Eric Clapton & David Sanborn, although here the whole hip addition didn't make me enjoy the score as I did in the previous movies.In this flick our buddy cop duo is up against the Chinese Triads. Riggs, Murtaugh and Leo were fishing when they came across a smuggling ship, and as usual by accident they ended up crashing the ship.Now they are cut between human trafficking and the murder of three people on the ship. The Triads are in America with Jet Li as Wah Sing Ku being in charge of the operations, Riggs and Murtaugh are trying hard to be able to piece together what the Triads are up to, and the connection between their operations and the human smuggling.But as this was going on both Riggs and Murtaugh are expecting. Riggs girlfriend Lorna is pregnant with their first child and Murtaugh eldest daughter Rianne is pregnant with hers. Roger however doesn't know who Rianne's baby daddy is, but Riggs knows that it is Detective Lee Butters (Chris Rock) and he uses this to play tricks on Roger making him think Butters is gay.I do commend the producers in their ability to maintain the cast, right from the first to the forth The Murtaugh family of Husband, Wife and three kids have been the same cast from the first to the last. Riggs and his new found love Lorna from the third was also here in this last one, the captain has been the same all through the series, and Leo Getz that was introduced in the second was also maintained although the series.What can I say, I did enjoy watching the crazy duo again for the fourth time, and the DVD box set of all four movies is one you will like to own.Plans are there for a reboot or continuation of the Lethal Weapon franchise, I just hope they won't blow it.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Average (contains spoilers)","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After LW3 this is an improvement on the coherent script- and the bad guy- areas, but now there's just too many characters, too much joking, hence too little room for action. And, the main duo is really, I mean SERIOUSLY getting too old for this sh*t. Russo gets barely room at all, Pesci is only just a clown/punching bag and Rock is in the wrong movie.The opening is better than in LW3, after that things move SLOW, but the plot unravels nicely. The mood is lighter than in LW3, but near the end there has been too much slapstick comedy and bad jokes and too little action; BUT there's also been hints of the original chemistry between Riggs & Murtaugh AND this time a truly evil opponent played by Jet Li, so it all could be salvaged with a nice LW2-type MASSIVE shoot-out. But instead, suddenly we're just thrown into a (short) shoot-out and pretty soon after that mr. Li gets wasted in a (nicely) sadistic two-on-one. Verdict Average. All the minuses counterweight the plusses so you might end up feeling cheated.IF LW3 would have lost its appalling feeling and absorbed the best elements of LW4 onto its too-thin-plot so that it would have included bad guys from both parts (two separate cases), we'd had a HELLUVA trilogy back in the days... "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Almost 15 years later and Riggs and Murtaugh are still as appealing as ever thanks again to the magnetic on screen chemestry from Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. The film trying to take itself to new territory with the addition of Chris Rock as some comic relief who is really just there to bicker with the foul mouthed Joe Pesci but the 2 have many hilarious scenes together, also the addition of Asian martial arts superstar Jet Li, making his American Debut is very appealing as a villian smuggling illegal immaringts and is plenty evil looking but really as a villian we don't see Li's full talent as a marial artist. Director Richard Donner also tries his best to put in as much stunts and shoot-outs that he can and although sometimes becomes a little to over the top and beyond belief works nonetheless and is just as enjoyable as anything out there at the moment.   "},{"Title":"They should have stopped after the third one...","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 3 had good character development, with both Riggs and Murtaugh confronting some of their worst nightmares in some rather creative scenarios, but it lacked the one thing that made the first two episodes true action classics the main villian was an utter wuss. After Riggs' battles with Mister Joshua and Pieter Voordstet or however you spell it, I half expected him to chew Travis up and spit him out. So, in the rush to create a fourth Lethal, the makers reversed the formula. Now, they have an exceptional villian in the shape of Wah Sing Ku, a Chinese triad played to perfection by Jet Li, but they lost what made the other three films so great. The banter between action sequences has gone from hilarious to just plain annoying.Part of the blame for this can be laid fairly and squarely upon Chris Rock, who is such an annoying loudmouth that when I see him pull a gun on Leo Getz, I half expect Joe Pesci to revert to gangster mode and stab the moron to death with a pen. Then there is the treatment of Lorna Cole in this episode the addition of Rene Russo to Lethal Weapon 3 added a whole new edge of excitement in several action scenes, but here she is relegated to pregnant dead weight. Lorna and Martin versus Wah Sing Ku, now that's a three-way action scene I would pay good money for.The main story arc of our heroes inadvertently uncovering a Chinese people-smuggling operation was also clumsily handled. Whenever the destructive detectives need information enough to get to the next action set-piece, they consult detectives from the Asian Crime Unit. Here's an idea why not have Martin and Roger working closely with the ACU to crack the case together, rather than running off like loose cannons to destroy half the city in their typical fashion?That leads me to another serious problem with this film the cast was getting way too crowded. With Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Rene Russo, and Joe Pesci, it's crowded enough to detract a little from the banter, but what happens when you add in a thoroughly annoying man like Chris Rock? Well, you guessed it - the banter just gets confused and messy.All the action in the world can't hide a bad script, and the audio commentary on the Region 1 DVD reveals that the script for Lethal Weapon 4 was written about twelve months before principal photography began. This is not nearly enough time for rewrites, editing, and so forth before the cameras roll. I guess the desire to make more money simply overwhelmed the producers this time around. Oh well. "},{"Title":"The Not So Lethal Weapon","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge Lethal Weapon fan but I was disappointed with this effort. Although it was a good movie, it lacked some of the intensity that was found in the first three.  This movie did not meet the standards the other three created creating a bland movie for the die hard Lethal Weapon fan but a good movie for the average action flick fan.  Joe Pesci's in it, so it can't be THAT bad. "},{"Title":"suffers from 4th in series syndrome","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Alot of Lethal Weapon 4's flaws come that it's the fourth in the series. Superman 4, Batman and Robin, etc. What started out as a good action series turned itno a soap opera where Gibson and Glover both expect children and the angst that comes with that and relationships. Pesci returns as the annoying tagalong and Chris Rock shows up as the new loud rookie cop. There's some kind of subplot about Chinese immagrants. The movie has some good action scenes but the filler in between is cheesey. Jet Li brings a lot of coolness into this. ** "},{"Title":"Jet Li is amazing, the rest isn't it.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was nice of mega-star Mel Gibson to give Richard Donner, Danny Glover, and former Oscar winner Joe Pesci some work with the 4th Lethal Weapon movie. Riggs and Murtaugh are up against a Chinese Mafia that is into counterfeiting and human smuggling. Also, Riggs girlfriend, played by Rene Russo, is pregnant and Murtaugh's daughter is also pregnant and he tries to discover who did it, it turns out to be another detective, played by Chris Rock, who he doesn't like. The critics panned this one as by-the-numbers and I agree somewhat. However, the real reason to see this movie is Jet Li, who plays the leader of the Mafia. He was brilliant! One of the most sinister villains in movie history, he uses incredible martial arts and infliction of pain on his foes and plays a remorseless leader beautifully. There are some good action scenes as well, see the Jet's henchmen set fire to Murtaugh's house with his family, Riggs and Ms. Cole inside, see Riggs and Murtaugh go after them later in a great car chase through L.A., and the climax is good, too. Too bad there's too much family emphasis on characters we know too much about already. "},{"Title":"See it for Jet Li, don't expect much from anyone else.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie had such a great cast, but it was so completely underutilized. Other than the occasionally humorous utterance by Chris Rock, the dialogue was, well, mostly bad (the frog speech by Pesci was the only other exception). The political statements, telling us that guns are evil unless Mel or Danny have them, were understated and easy to miss but still pretty annoying. And the typical one-dimensional portrayal of Chinese characters is on full display here. I know they all look alike to a lot of Americans, but come on. Fly lice? So solly, but the honorable dilector does not know Chinese don't all have accent.The one part of this movie that held my attention was Wah Sing Ku, killer for the Chinese mafia (not, as a previous reviewer erroneously pointed out, Japanese Yakuza), played by the veteran Hong Kong action star, Li Lian Jie, aka, Jet Li. A world-class wushu practitioner, Li had a few opportunities to showcase his talents. Words like breath-taking and awe-inspiring do not begin to describe his skill. *SPOILER*The utterly maddening part of this movie is that it somehow wanted us to believe that a couple of out-of-shape, over-the-hill cops could beat in hand-to-hand combat a well-conditioned, young wushu master who has trained for his whole life and (the movie suggests) killed people much tougher than Riggs and Murtaugh. Yes, I realize it was their movie, they had to win, the bad guy had to lose, etc., etc., etc., but I'm afraid my suspension of disbelief isn't quite that pliable.*END SPOILER*Other than Li's portions, this movie deserves to be placed in that mountainous pile of mediocre, killing-time formula movies. See it if you're bored, or see it for Li's action sequences and fast-forward the rest. "},{"Title":"Descent sequel","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has a lot going for it although it feels as if it were a bit rushed.  After a rather pointless action sequence at the beginning that serves nothing to the story other than to inform us that a few babies are on the way (an Entertainment Tonight Where Are They Now? segment would have been more appropriate than this).  The film soon begins to take off after about 15 minutes or so when the plot begins to develop.  I must say, slavery is a very different subject for the LW series but it works well.  But if there's anything about the series we love most, it's the action and comedy.The action on one hand is very good this time around, however it dosen't live up to the top notch sequences in the 3rd installment.  The previous films always had a little bit of martial arts in them, this one has a lot.  This is where the film shines because it introduces the outstanding Jet Li to Hollywood.  They did such a good job with these fight sequences that many many many American have instantly became a Jet Li fan and looked for tons of his previous work from Hong Kong (may I suggest Fist of Legend and Once Upon A Time In China for starters).  The car chase is also a highlight of the film and it shows how lively Gibson's and Glover's chemistry is.The comedy is at it's best here, this is the funniest of the series.  Joe Pesci still has his character down great, he uses the F word an extra 100 times in this one.  Chris Rock also brings a whole lot of his talent into the film with parts he obviously wrote.  When Pesci and Rock are together it's hilarious.  Two great moments are the conversation about cell phones and the dentist office.This is better than the 2nd installment but not as good as the 3rd, nor does it come close to par with the original.  Still though, they did a good job with this one.   "},{"Title":"Good action scenes, mediocre movie","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Considering that the Lethal Weapon series has got better with every installment, reaching a peak with 1992's third installment, Lethal 4 is both a disapointment in some cases and not in others. For starters, it's simply not as good as the other entries. The action scenes may rank among the finest in the series (or indeed any series), but the rest of the movie feels, if not tired, then too comfortable. The family atmosphere both onset and off comes clear from the screen, overwhelming any sense of danger. There is endless friendly banter, joking and kidding around, and occasionally a bad guy pops up. But with an ever-growing roster of good guys, who always survive every movie, and no way near enough proper, nasty bad guys, there is little threat to our heroes. The essential status quo of an action movie is that the forces of good are overwhelmingly outnumbered by the forces of evil, but Lethal 4 presents the opposite. Riggs (sadly without his trademark haircut) and Rog, along with Rog's family, Leo Getz, Lorna Cole and the police guys, are this time joined by Butters (Chris Rock) and a huge Japanese family.    The bad guys....well, there are some Triad crimebosses, who we see little or nothing of, their lame henchmen, and Wa Sang Ku (Jet Li). And that's really about it. Perhaps really memorable bad guys have always been a problem with this series, but there should atleast be a lot of &#145;em. Ironically, Jet Li is one of the most sinister and memorable villains of the series, but with such a weak crew of associates behind him, he's virtually on his own against all the good guys.    Of course, the whole series revolves around Riggs and Rog. Danny Glover, to his immense credit, has given a great performance in each film, and does so again here. And he doesn't look any older than in 1987. But Mel Gibson's Riggs has matured too much, and although it's a fine performance, it's too static, almost tired character who has finally calmed down and settled down. It works in that conceivably, the influence of Rog and family has matured Riggs and made him happier, but it's less fun to watch. Let's not forget who the Lethal Weapon is of the title - it seems the makers of Lethal Weapon 4 did.  "}{"Title":"Insipid time burner","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film bears no resemblance to Lethal Weapon or Lethal Weapon 2. The script was written to accommodate anyone with the IQ of a pop rock. It is also devoid of any believability whatsoever. The acting was quite embarrassingly bad. Glover and Gibson are starting to look like geriatric cops, whose next assignment will likely be, The Case of The Missing Denture Paste.     This series has been milked dry, and has degenerated into self parody. To paraphrase the movie's constant slogan This stuff is getting old.  "},{"Title":"Not great, but not bad either","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is average. Plain and simple. I've never seen any of the other Lethal Weapon films so I can't really compare, but I still find this film entertaining. Much of the cast, most notably Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and Jet Li, give great performances. The action is non stop and so is the comedy. Compared to other movies I've seen, this movie is average. Not great and not bad. Just good. "},{"Title":"They should have stopped at #2","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although more entertaining than LW 3, this is still a movie that should not have been made. LW 1&2 were so original and fun that it's hard to believe that the same people made 3&4. The plot is weak, the characters are stale, and the humor isn't funny.I have to give the action its due, however. The chase with the manufactured home was nice as was the opening sequence. Despite the action, the best thing in this movie is Jet Li, who has a commanding presence even when he's not moving. "},{"Title":"One For The Money,Two For The Show,Three To Get Ready,But Four Is No Go.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   They should have quit while they were behind.How could this movie been two hours long?This movie may have been better if it was condensed.Maybe even better if it wasn't made at all.Mel Gibson is a great performer but he looked tired and old in this one.Danny Glover is even older.Too many characters in this movie to satisfy.Having Rene Russo fighting while nine months pregnant is showing us Hollywood's liberal feminist bias at its' worst.Joe Pesci and Chris Rock are there to supply the laughs but the violence overwhelms this film.The Kung Fu master Jet-Li is tough but the film should have not had their senior citizen warriors fight him in the final scene they just couldn't handle him.Better to get Steven Seagal or someone versed in martial arts.I thought old pregnant Rene Russo was going to come out and save the day.It just would have made more sense in a film that had very little of it.Too much violence all around.Please people no Lethal Weapon 5 please,let it die.You made your money now lets hang it up for good while people can remember the first Lethal Weapon with a sense of pride. "},{"Title":"Anti-gun movie?","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie to watch. I just have one problem, why all the anti-gun remarks and propaganda throughout the movie? Is this necessary? Two examples come to mind. One is when the flame thrower guy is going crazy with his fire and Gibson and Glover drive up and Gibson says this guy must be a spokesman for the NRA. The second is when the same two characters are at the station and a poster states one baby a day is killed by a handgun, ban the NRA. The NRA has nothing to do with a parents stupidity in not securing a firearm(if this statistic is accurate). If a baby a day were run over with cars, would cars be banned or only given to a select few? Probably not. This movie is nothing more than an anti-gun push toward movie viewers, yet there is plenty of violence IN the movie, including people getting killed with guns. If a movie could be two-faced like a person, this would be one of the worst. No matter what side of the issue you are on, you have to see my point. If you don't, then maybe you need to open your eyes more often to your environment. I am not a gun crazed maniac like some of you may believe by now. Many like me are just fed up with the way society stereotypes people and objects. I am just curious if IMDB will print this review. And it is a review on how a movie can influence the minds of people. "},{"Title":"This summer's gonna be lethal..? Highly unlikely!!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes! The long-awaited LETHAL WEAPON 4 finally comes out! Hooray! But unfortunately, when I went to see this film, I was disappointed. Boo!Well basically, this film didn't live up to its standard and didn't do well just like the last three.I think everyone will agree that the first LETHAL WEAPON was far more the best.. and it'll always will be..I mean what we have here is Riggs and Murtaugh are going up against a chinese triad who brings chinese immigrants to L.A. so that they work on their counterfeit money.Jet Li was superb as the villain and probably one of the most ruthless in this series.But I'm afraid this film was a bit of letdown. There is action but not enough action I should say. The characters are getting old and plus there were a lot of chit-chat, humourous jokes, funny one liners and bit and bobs..Although Richard Donner rushed so much to get this movie done in time for the summer release, he should've slowed down a bit or even so, spend more time.Although fans love the LETHAL WEAPON movies, it's a shame that this one didn't cheer me up!Oh well! Better luck next time. That's if there is going to be a LETHAL WEAPON 5! "},{"Title":"Best for last? NOT!","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  None of sequels had the edge that Lethal Weapon possessed but 2 and 3 were still quite entertaining. They should have stopped at LW3. The best thing about 4 is seeing the two of them together again. Chris Rock nearly ruins the film with his chipmunk on speed routine. If this is his take on acting he needs to stick to standup. Gibson has a been there, done that attitude throughout the film (and isn't quite as LEAN as he was in LW). Even Pesci looks bored. Glover, as always, is the consummate professional. This isn't a glowing recommendation but if you are a LW or Mel fan you really have to see it. "},{"Title":"Hopeless","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I guess it was too much to hope for. The movie is bad (not horrible) but as I was paying for it, I knew what I was in for. Lethal Weapon the original is still one of my all-time favorite action movies.For series-fans only. I think not. "},{"Title":"Overused formula killed by excess","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was a big fan of the original Lethal Weapons.  I enjoyed the next two (though they showed a tendency to pile on more and more, getting more and more excessive.)That trend, unfortunately, reaches disaster proportions in Lethal Weapon 4. As with each previous sequel, they've added one more major character, more one-liners, more action, more effects - resulting in a formless mishmash where the elements are all competing for attention leaving the viewer overwhelmed rather than entertained.  (Consider that the excellent Rene Russo is relegated to a minor role.)There is a plot somewhere in there, and some character issues, but all is obscured by the frantic pace - trying to fit in dialogue during a car chase scene, for example.Worth seeing, but turn off your brain and just enjoy the effects.  In the end, it's a demonstration of special effects and stunt work more than a coherent movie. "},{"Title":"Disgustingly violent action movie","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is like the other movies in the series very violent. I don't wonder why this film almost got K-18 in Finland. Well, the movie's plot is bad, acting ok, but the violence is appealing, especially in the end. Only good scene in the movie is the car chase. I give this movie * from ***** stars (3 out of 10). "}{"Title":"you are too old for this sh..","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely one film too many. Can't see the point in this series if every story ends up the same. Riggs and Murtaugh were great characters for this type of action movie in the late eighties but now they just look tired. Apart from Jet Li's impressive moves not much to say 4/10 "},{"Title":"They're getting to old for this s--t.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Taken for what this is, the latest in the Lethal Weapon series is an entertaining action film. However when compared to the earlier films in the series this one clearly ranks as no. 4.There are too many main characters now and the stunts, though well executed, are too many and and too unbelievable. How could, for example, Rene Russo's character who is supposed to be nine months pregnant, take part in a martial arts scrum. And by the way, wasn't Danny Glover's character turning 50 and about to retire in Lethal Weapon 1 in 1987?Riggs and Murtagh are definitely getting too old for this s--t. The first Lethal Weapon remains far and away the best of the series.  "},{"Title":"Action-packed and funny, but too violent.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was well-written, had a very good plot, and had some good action, as well as comic scenes.  Some of the action was a tad bit violent, beyond chiveness.  A good action movie to rent and watch.Chive out "},{"Title":"They really are too old...........","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, although I do agree 'They are too old for this'.  The star of this show is Jet Li.  His intensity, his style.  I thought the high-point of the whole show was the look on his face when Mel was talking to Benny and asking if Jet Li understood English.......if looks could kill.  This guy is Hot!!!!!!!Other than that, it was mindless comic entertainment. "},{"Title":"An exciting two-hour thrill ride, but nothing more.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that I never watched the time go by as I watched this movie. That should be an accomplishment in itself. Sure, Lethal Weapon 4 was supposed to never happen and a lot of people probably wished it would have stayed that way. However, how does that explain this movie being one of the highest grossing films of 1998?This movie is another action flick in the Lethal Weapon mode that contains many explosions, fights, humour, stereotypical villains and victory for good over evil, yet does it in a subtle, but interesting manner. Sure, Rene Russo's performance may make you gag at times and if Mel Gibson (Riggs) delivers another of his pathetic one-liners you will turn off the VCR, yet it never happens. If there was anything that I truly enjoyed during this movie, was the performance by Jet Li (the only one who played their role not their own personality) some exciting action sequences (where Riggs is being dragged behing a moving house on a sheet of plastic and is about to be run over by a crazy Chinese man) and the overall flow of the movie (all action sequences were in the right places).I found all of the main performances with the exception of Li to be fake and uninteresting. I really couldn't seriously picture Chris Rock as a police officer and Joe Pesci is overly annoying, even more than his character which was uneccessary in this movie. Some scenes in this movie were overindulgent (the laughing gas scene) and I felt that the viewer was being explained the plot all the time making one believe that the director thought the viewing audience was just plain stupid.I liked the way the movie was wrapped up in the last action sequence, but found that the last scene with the births taking place were totally unecessary and unconvincing (What was with the make-shift wedding and the Gibson-Pesci bonding). All I can hope for is no more sequels to this series because I know I will watch them and be let down again.5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Blitzed by Donner again!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 is a definite improvement on the third installment in this formidable franchise, but doesn't capture the magic of the first two films. The reason for this admittedly superficial accomplishment is because ALL action movies live and die by their villains, and LW4 offers a thrilling villain by the name of Jet Li, a martial arts expert out of Hong Kong. His presence immediately corkscrews the fear and loathing needed to really hate the bad guys, seeing as how, you know, its so hard to tell them apart from the good guys.The plot involves Asian ganglords who illegally import slave labor, are forging Chinese banknotes to buy back members of an Asian triad, yada yada yada, the plot is barely coherent and mostly unnecessary in a movie like this anyways. It's always been style over substance in this series, and by this point director Richard Donner (who's done all four pictures), could do this in his sleep. The secret to this series' longevity is the amazing repoire between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover, who have created one of the most dynamic cop pairings ever. Their incessant banter has the feel of genuine friendship and spontaneity - you can't tell me its all from the script. These characters are so woven into their being they don't even need to slip into them, they ARE them, and that ease of embellishment creates an audience empathy no script could ever do.Also aiding the effort is the return of Joe Pesci as Leo, Rene Russo as Gibson's love interest, plus a new member, Chris Rock, as another detective whose name Riggs and Murtaugh can never remember, and who is bound to have a complicated relationship with Murtaugh. There is enough human interest in this movie to flesh out these characters, along with the usual spectacular chase sequences and fights. The movie is funny, silly, and ridiculous, but if you don't mind being entertained on a strictly superficial level, you'll enjoy Letal Weapon 4. "},{"Title":"not much to see here","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had resisted seeing this movie for awhile.  But there were 5 of us, and 4 hadn't seen it.  How often does that happen?  So we rented it.Have you seen the other Lethal Weapons?  Then you've seen this one. They're all the same.  Which is why I didn't really want to see this film. But there's the added dimension of Chris Rock and Jet Li.  They were okay. I had heard a lot about Jet Li, but came away slightly underwhelmed.Some good action scenes in this film, but that's all.  And, hey, am I the only one who thinks Riggs' clowning around is getting a bit tiresome?  I was actually rooting for Jet Li to whoop his butt in the end. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lethal Weapon 4 has energy and it has Jet Li, but it's not a very good movie. I was perpetually bored watching this film and thought it was overlong. The scenes between Gibson and Glover were funny at times, but they also were boring sometimes. The direction by Richard Donner had energy and zeal, but there seemed to be no real story here. Jet Li was intimidating and it was nice to see him in an American feature. The fight scenes with Li were the real highlight of the film. It just seems like they made it for money. No more Lethal Weapon films, PLEASE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The '90s were not good to this series","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the movie that introduced Jet Li to American audiences, and I can still remember how cool those lightning fast reflexes were back in '98. There's no charisma to speak of, but the moves were pretty cool. But the rest of LETHAL WEAPON 4 is a disaster. They've turned this series into a sometimes-violent sitcom without any decent jokes. It's bloated with two many characters (but remember kids, it's all about family!), one-dimensional bad guys, and Riggs and Murtaugh are all about the dizzying banter. I winced a lot during this movie. And just to make sure there's some lighthearted fluff, we get Chris Rock. Nah, I'm good. Pesci gets it the worst; shoehorned into the movie as a P.I., spouting the same tired They f*ck you! joke and always there to shout, Whatever! Whatever! He's a bad '90s stereotype, his charm long since fled. If there's a case to be made that a LETHAL WEAPON 5 shouldn't exist, this is Exhibit A. Everything about this movie is forced, and it is awful.3/10 "},{"Title":"Getting too old for this S***","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  That line is a common refrain throughout the Lethal Weapon movies, but now it applies to the series itself. They've simply run out of freshness and new ideas, and are resorting to increasingly lamer plots and characters. Not to mention the endless political preachiness on various and sundry issues. Injecting one's personal politics into what is supposed to be entertainment is in poor form, whether it's Tom Clancy's later novels or this. That aside, Gibson and Glover continue to provide good on-screen chemistry, but that's pretty much it. The plot is eminently forgettable, the writing so-so, and there's a number of scenes, ranging from the opening one featuring a guy with a flamethrower to Joe Pesci's antics with a shark, that are more stupid than anything else. Quite honestly, I've gotten more enjoyment from watching Gilligan's Island reruns. 4/10  "}{"Title":"PLEASE END IT!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wartched this again recently both on tape and on TV, with cuts of course, and decided as much as I am entertained by 4, it should never have been made. Chris Rock in particular makes it very hard to bear. The series should have ended with 3, which was no great shakes but at least it was 3, the magic number 3. 4 is clearly proves Rioggs and Murtaugh are too old to keep doing this s***. The plot is threadbare. Too many characters to follow, too. Nevertheless I watch 4 occasionally out of some misguided sense of loyalty to Richard Donner and company. This was the franchise Donner could not have with SUPERMAN, after all. Essentially, Riggs is Superman (does that make Murtaugh Perry White?). Gibson certainly looked enough like Superman earlier in his career. 4 is for hardcore fans of the LETHAL WEAPON series only.  "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i would never review this if Jet Li werent in it. Because Hollywood acton movies tend to, well, suck. this on isnt that bad, but this was the only Lethal weapon i really liked. Jet Li was a good bad guy. but Jet makes a better hero than a villian. i was really hoping that jet would kick Mel Gibson's old butt out of this world, but, you know, its america, and Mel Gibson HAD to win. not too bad, but Jet is what this movies all about. "},{"Title":"Even the flying Jet can't save this turkey","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Godawful. The old hands are tired, the plot lame, the dialogue weak. Only the appearance of Chris Rock and Let Li manage to lift the sorry carcass off the canvas. Rock for comic effect and Li for out of this world martial antics.Get the DVD. Vip to the fight scenes. Savour Jet Li at his stunning best. Spare yourself the rest of the clichd tripe.  "},{"Title":"The Series Finally Hits a Wall","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 is an example of a film made just to profit off the success of its previous installments. The screenplay and direction are unimpressive, as usual. The characters, always the series' calling card, are finally beginning to show their age as well. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover do almost as well as usual, but everyone else is just going through the motions. Rene Russo, Joe Pesci, Chris Rock, and Jet Li are all just present in the venture. This time our heroes try to take down Asian mafia syndicates with uneven results that do not do the earlier installments in the series justice. Predictable and unsatisfying. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 4! Great sequel!","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars. There's Lethal Weapon 1, Lethal Weapon 2, Lethal Weapon 3, and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions! Steve Kahan, Paul Tuerpe, and Mary Ellen Trainor are in all four as well. Shane Black did a great job with the writing! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton, producer, Joel Silver, and director Richard Donner has directed all four! Lethal Weapon 4! It stars Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, Joe Pesci, Rene Russo, Chris Rock, and Jet Li! Look for James Lew, Dana Lee, Danny Wynands, and Frank McRae! Jet Li performed great as a tremendous villain! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson, Glover, Russo, Pesci, and Rock all put on excellent performances! Pesci and Rock are hilarious in the film! I think that Gibson and Russo make the perfect couple! Great music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton! I think Lethal Weapon 4 is great and is just as good as the first three. Looking for action and love Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and the rest of the cast? Watch Lethal Weapon 4 today! I strongly recommend it!Movie Nuttball's NOTE I really love the Lethal Weapon movies. I feel they are very special films and it is so good to see these great characters in more than one movie. I hope one day that they will make one last film and I would not mind another Lethal Weapon movie!  "},{"Title":"Chris Rock needs a bar of soap in his mouth!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a very entertaining installment of the Lethal Weapon series except for one thing, Chris Rock's potty mouth.  If Leo Butters hadn't been uttering F*** every fourth word, I would have found him amusing. As it is, he is disgusting and took away from my enjoyment of the movie. "},{"Title":"WHAT A CRAP!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  such a bad film, it made me wonder if any film could ever be worst(that was before i saw there's something about mary!)just a plain example of bad cinema, really annoying to watch, only jet li saves the day, while glover and gibson look so old(a shame for gibson, who likes to think of himself as a great director...).and these are the good parts!a shame..... "},{"Title":"Easy money and success win from a daring new concept","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I guess the most famous action / comedy movies are the Lethal Weapon films. There is probably no-one who can say that he or she has never heard of it before, which shows how successful these movies once were. But when has the time come to quit? After you've made already three movies that looked very similar to each other and didn't offer anything new, isn't a fourth one a bit too much then? That's the question that I was asking myself before watching Lethal Weapon 4. And after seeing it I knew the answer, yes it is a bit too much...Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh have made a career out of stopping criminals and surviving several explosions and other attacks on their lives, but now they are feeling too old to keep doing such crazy stunts and their superiors seem to think the same way, because they get promotion so they no longer have to go on the streets, blowing up some buildings or other stuff. But of course wherever they go, the action is always near and soon they try to stop the Chinese Triads from doing their illegal business in the United States. They are confronted with Uncle Benny, Chinatown's mafia boss, who has imported Chinese slaves to pay for an artist to create counterfeit Chinese currency. This money will then be used by the the Triads to buy the Four Fathers, the heads of the Triads, back from the Chinese military...All the movies in the series look pretty much the same. It's the same kind of story, the same jokes, the same actors ..., so you always know exactly what to expect. And in a way that is a good thing, because when it is all recognizable, once again you can be sure that it will work out fine. But in the end you get tired of it as well, because this movie doesn't give you any hope for some new and original features. The only thing that does change is the cast, when with each new movie one or two new characters are added. This time that is Chris Rock, who will be the newest detective in Riggs' and Murtaugh's team. And yes he is funny and interesting to watch in this movie, but it is never enough to save the entire film. He's never able to make you forget that he's the only new thing this movie has to offer. All the rest looks exactly the same as always and that really is a shame. I'm sure the makers must be able to come up with something better than this, but easy money and success win from a daring new concept.All in all this isn't a bad movie. If you liked the other three in the series, you'll like this one as well. But I just hoped for something new and that I didn't get. I loved the first one, liked the second one, was a bit disappointed by the third and the fourth didn't really do any better. That's why I give it a 6/10, perhaps a 6.5/10, but certainly nothing more than that. "},{"Title":"Familarity does breed contempt - 67%","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Buddy-cop action thrillers are released with alarming regularity from Hollywood and few have had the success of the Lethal Weapon series. It mixed high-octane, explosive action with great chemistry between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover and as the films wore on, a supporting cast was slowly added to keep things barrelling along. But by the time the fourth film was released, it appeared to prove that familiarity does indeed breed contempt. It couldn't stick to the formula any tighter and while the old ingredients are still there, they've not been mixed together with any love as though the chef was bored of making the same meal time and again.During a typically excessive shoot-out, Riggs (Gisbon) and Murtaugh (Glover) discover that there are changes in the future - Murtaugh's daughter (Traci Wolfe) is expecting while Rigg's partner Lorna (Rene Russo) is also with child. So does this bring any stability to their chaotic careers? Sadly for Captain Murphy (Steve Kahan), it appears not - the pair are thrown into a case involving a boatload of Chinese migrants, a local Triad boss (Kim Chan) and a martial-arts expert (Jet Li) who doesn't take kindly to any interference with his plans. But Riggs and Murtaugh are starting to feel their age, especially when eager upstart Lee Butters (Chris Rock) tags along.It's not a complete wash-out but Lethal Weapon 4 feels like a contractual obligation rather than a genuine attempt to thrill audiences. True, the action sequences (of which there are many) maintain the series' usual high standards and there is no signs that the relationship between the two leads is degrading. Dialogue still has that improvised feel to it, meaning that so many lines are spoken over that the film's plot (which is the weakest so far) is difficult to follow. Aside from Glover & Gibson, Russo's previous good work in Lethal Weapon 3 is overlooked as she is almost completely sidelined in favour of motor-mouth Rock and fellow hyperactive Jo Pesci who returns as the increasingly annoying Leo Getz. There is also a strong of sense of deja vu - when our heroes count up 1-2-3 again just before doing something stupid, it simply isn't as funny as it was before.In many respects, it's not that much different to the others but Lethal Weapon 4 isn't much more that a dumb action flick with some fairly decent comedy bits thrown in for good measure. But it just doesn't gel like the earlier movies and while it looks much like the others (except with a few more wrinkles this time), it doesn't feel the same. Whether that's because action movies are all much-of-a-muchness or whether Lethal Weapon has now become a parody of itself, I cannot say but as much as I wanted to switch off and enjoy it, I found myself wondering what Murtaugh was still doing on the force when he was due for retirement back in 1987 in the first film. Like Riggs and Murtaugh themselves, maybe I'm getting too old for this sh... "},{"Title":"Produced family","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first one was so good it spawned an entire world, one that had one leg in wacky action heroism, the other in weary detectives in a softer noir night. The question was what to do with this world now that it was a lucrative product. They went with a choice that made both narrative and financial sense I guess, family&#x97;we'd come, at this point, to see them grow and to feel part of that family, stay for a few impossible stunts. The idea in this particular one was that now they would be truly too old for this stuff and they could mine this for both comedy and drama.But like the other sequels it has no vision, it just wraps a product. Again one thing after another. We had Riggs girlfriend last time, now we get Murtaugh's son-in-law. Sons and granddaughters. The whole is slicker, feels even more produced, like a family Mission Impossible. It ends with a picture taken of the whole family as a last goodbye, cosy but tired.Surprisingly, we have here the least weak villains of the whole series. "}{"Title":"A slight improvement over part 3.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the first Lethal Weapon, it was just L.A. cops Riggs and Murtaugh (Mel Gibson and Danny Glover) against the bad guys. The second film saw the lawmen teaming up with irritating money launderer Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) to defeat the villains. Part three added beautiful but tough internal affairs cop Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) to the gang.This fourth chapter sees loud-mouthed comedian Chris Rock getting in on the action as Detective Lee Butters, as well as the return of series regulars Steve Kahan (as long-suffering Captain Ed Murphy), Darlene Love (as Trish Murtaugh), Traci Wolfe (Rianne Murtaugh), Damon Hines (Nick Murtaugh), Ebonie Smith (Carrie Murtaugh), and Mary Ellen Trainor (as police psychologist Stephanie Woods).Sadly, it's far from a case of 'the more the merrier' the film starts off promisingly enough with a well executed scene that pits Riggs and Murtaugh against a armour-suited loony armed with an assault rifle and a napalm thrower, but quickly settles for precisely the kind of drivel that made part 3 so abysmal, the incessant lame humour and insufferable schmaltz seriously getting in the way of the action.The inanity is briefly interrupted by an exciting car chase scene midway through the movie, but soon returns, continuing unabated until the admittedly fun final smack-down between our two brave cops and evil Chinese killer Wah Sing Ku (kung fu star Jet Li), after which we get even more excessive sentimentality as all the good guys get together to celebrate the births of Riggs' son and Roger's grandson. Gack!4.5 out of 10, rounded up to 5 for being the first Hollywood film to give the marvellous Li the exposure he deserves. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's debut in US film is only good part","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is clearly a movie that Mel Gibson and Danny Glover did to have fun and have an easy payday. It's pretty damn clear they were basically just going through the motions when making this movie. The movie just didn't really have the same spark between the two characters that the previous 3 installments provided. Chris Rock and Joe Pesci who are 2 guys I like in a lot of other things were nothing but annoying here.The best part of this movie was Jet Li as the villain(which is the only time he's ever played the bad guy). This is Jet Li's first time in an American made movie. The fight scenes with his character are just fantastic with him really being on his game, his kicks and punches are super fast here. "},{"Title":"A Decent Entertainer...","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The third sequel in the Lethal Weapon series of films, 'Lethal Weapon 4' is a decent entertainer, and a fairly satisfying sequel to it's legendary prequels. 'Lethal Weapon 4' Synopsis With personal crises and age weighing in on them, LAPD officers Riggs and Murtaugh must contend with a deadly Chinese crime-lord trying to get his brother out of prison.The 'Lethal Weapon' series have truly been legendary, especially the First Two Parts. I really loved them. 'Lethal Weapon 4' does work, but in terms of hardcore entertainment & content, it doesn't meet the humongous expectations. Yet, in all fairness & honesty, this 1998 box-office hit does entertain & manages some engaging moments. Channing Gibson's Screenplay is interesting in parts, but it definitely could've been tighter. Richard Donner's Direction, like always, is impressive. Cinematography & Editing, are nice. Action-Sequences are top-notch. Performance-Wise Mel Gibson & Danny Glover return as Riggs & Roger respectively, and they are in form, this time as well. Glover, especially, is terrific & stands out. Jet Li makes an energetic bad-guy, while Chris Rock is fair. Rene Russo does well. Joe Pesci is relegated to the back-seat. On the whole, 'Lethal Weapon 4' does work & it definitely passes off as a time-pass fare. "},{"Title":"Even this indulgent 'We all love each other so much' finale is worth watching.","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I don't think LW4 was ever really planned in any detail beyond the We'll get paid big one more time. This is immediately evident when after an unexplained and pointless - though admittedly action packed - intro that has nothing to do with the film (remember the starts of 1, 2 & 3 were all related to the plot line that followed) featuring a Ned Kelly styled psycho with a flamethrower, the imminent arrival of not one, but two babies is announced.Ahhh babies, the sure-fire signal that a franchise is bereft of new ideas.But for the most part in LW4 that doesn't even matter, why invent new ideas when the old ones still work just fine? The usual suspects are still around, Leo (Joe Pesci) is now a private eye, still irritable, yappy and profance. Riggs kept a woman alive for two films in a row, and now Lorna (Rene Russo) is one of the preggers chickies along with Roger's eldest daughter Rianne who ignored her own condom ad and got knocked up by a young loud mouthed cop named Butters (Chris Rock), who seems to be there to be a similarly abrasive counterpoint to Leo and to create a dumb running joke where Roger thinks he is gay for him.As always the case comes to them, this time it is a people smuggling operation lead by villainous Chinese criminals, after it is busted open the 400+ are sent back; but not a dozen or so that Roger decides to keep for himself in some kind of 'free the slaves' arrangement. This ludicrous turn of events only gets worse when he decides to keep them all in his home. What exactly did he plan to do with them?? Doesn't matter, because in a stroke of luck this one family is the main one the smugglers actually wanted to get into the country (why the other 400 odd then?), and they head to Roger's house to claim them. (I've said it before, everyone knows where Roger lives).After this the usual stuff happens, Roger and/or Riggs gets p*ssed and decide that's enough leading to the deaths of countless bad guys and many explosions.And really that's why Lethal Weapon 4 gets a pass mark from me, the action sequences are almost as solid as ever enough and the pace hectic enough to demand enjoyment, even if by comparison you know that they are merely going through the motions by now.The humour is there but you have to look a bit harder to sift the good jokes out of the flat and bland ones - the Leo / Butters dynamic was supposed to be hilarious... at least I think it was - there is one good freeway chase, one good hand to hand combat scene where Jet Li finally gets to show how much better he is than any of the good guys and the final shootout and fight is OK.I would've been happy if it had of ended when the bad guy died - but noooooo - they had to force in an indulgent 'everyone loves each other' montage that spilled over into the cast and crew. Maybe as a DVD extra guys, but a sappy way to close out a 4 film series where most of the fun was found in potty talk and head counts.Final Rating - 7 / 10. Lethal Weapon had a strong enough formula that even the duds were OK, this pales in comparison to 1 and 2, but if it's on late night TV I'd probably find myself hanging around till the end, at least the logical end before the mutual back-slapping parade. "},{"Title":"Yeah&#x85;They ARE Too Old for This","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Since I grew up and was thoroughly loyal to both Lethal Weapon 2 and 3, I pounced on the fourth installment to see them all back in action. And the result? I didn't like it.What didn't help was many things, but the majority stemmed from three bad areas #1 I loved Rene Russo's Lorna character who kicked butt in part 3, but &#x96; playing pregnant here &#x96; she was extremely limited. #2 The painfully obvious Mel Gibson stand-ins during the action sequences &#x96; oh, I bet he wish that guy was driving his car when he was pulled over for failure to yield to other religions. And #3 the long-winded MULTIPLE endings. Dang, the movie just went on and on and on&#x85;Upon seeing this again in order to review and finish off my four Lethal Weapon reviews, I have three additional complaints #4 It spent far too long at the precinct. #5 Chris Rock seemed like he was sooo thrilled to be in the dying, now-defunct series that he smiled throughout every screen shot &#x96; even when it was an either serious scene or didn't call for a grinning performance. And (#6) the never-ending subliminal messages about peace/love/harmony. But that's any of the Lethal Weapons.That all said&#x85;I actually enjoyed myself this time. I let it all go and enjoyed the sometimes few/far-between action segments. The comedy was still fun. The chase and fight scenes were well crafted (aside, again, from the stand-in fake-Mel) and entertaining.Sure, I got all the same feelings (I mentioned above) but, leaving my brain at the door, I could find fun in the group's final adventure. Absolutely, it's not the best one - #2 still holds that crown &#x96; but it's, surprisingly, slightly more entertaining than the third installment that I loved growing up.To sum up the weak plot (no one, including myself, watched these movies for that) the old gang investigates an illegal human-smuggling trade while they deal with getting outdated alongside two secondary characters are pregnant and two separate Asian families are trying to escape in America.Wow.. that took about 8 seconds to sum up the movie. Again, we watch these for the improvising dialogue, the humor and the non-stop action &#x96; when it finds its way on screen, that is.It was a good closing to the series &#x96; though you might want to literally turn off the film when Riggs (Mel Gibson) fights off Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li.) Quite frankly, you will have another 20+ minutes of fluff and additional and unnecessary endings following. Not to mention a horrid closing credits song written specifically for Rodney King. "},{"Title":"a bad end to a great film series","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The fourth time isn't the charm for the Lethal Weapon series. Lethal Weapon 4 is a disappointment, more disappointing than Lethal Weapon 3 but still in my mind a decent action flick.This time the story which is confusing has something to do with China bringing the four fathers of crime to the U.S. while other Chinese people are trying to buy them back with counterfeit money. Now that's the worst part of the movie. It seems so out of place for a Lethal Weapon movie.All the original characters are back. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are still in top shape as Riggs and Murtaugh. Joe Pesci plays Leo Getz again. I like that he does more than he did in Lethal Weapon 3. He's still a funny character. Rene Russo plays Lorna Cole who now has Gibson's baby and is thinking about marriage. They are all good. And it's really good to see them again.Here's the new. Every Lethal Weapon movie has its new character. This time it's comedian Chris Rock. He's a pretty good addition. My favorite scene with him is when he talks with Pesci about phones and how the companies screw with you. It's funny. Jet Li plays the villain. He's a better villain than the one from Lethal Weapon 3. They are pretty good additions.It's well done with the best part a freeway chase that involves a mobile home and a sheet of plastic that drags Gibson along the road. But the movie is too light. This is supposed to be an action movie, but it feels like a comedy with action scenes. The villains aren't that interesting. The ending where everybody is taking a picture and says we're family! is really cheesy and didn't fit.What's great is Richard Donner is also back. He's great at action scenes which make them work. But this movie feels like everything's there. The cast and crew must had a good time. But it's still not that great.2 1/2 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"The Black Sheep in the Bunch","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lethal Weapon 4 sucks! I'm sorry, but it does. I consider myself to be a fan of the Lethal Weapon franchise, too, sans the fourth installment. In my opinion, it just lost sight of what made the other movies good.The biggest problem I had with the movie is what they did to Mel Gibson's character, Martin Riggs. Martin Riggs was one of the cinema's biggest badasses, that is until this movie got a hold of him. I realize people get old, and maybe they were wanting to try to be realistic but to have Riggs not be able to hold his own in the police boxing ring against a younger opponent and to fake an injury to get out of fighting the guy was just sad. Combine that with him running out of breath while trying to catch the bad guy, etc. It was just too much! No one wants to see their heroes not be able to do what they did best anymore. They should've done what Stallone did in both Rocky Balboa and Rambo, be older and still be badasses. Granted, those movies came out after Lethal Weapon 4 but they could've done the same thing. I mean, even John McClane in Live Free or Die Hard was still a badass, why couldn't Martin Riggs have been? I also hated the Jet Li character. I think he was totally unrealistic, particularly at the end where he's fighting both Riggs and Murtaugh two-on-one and gets a rod shoved through his midsection and he's still putting up a fight. Yeah, right! I don't care how much of a Kung Fu master you are, you're not going to be packing much of a punch after you're stabbed through the stomach with a rod. That's not to say that other unrealistic stuff hasn't happened in the series, but I just thought to expect the audience to buy that was asking us to suspend our disbelief just a little too much!Chris Rock's character was also horribly annoying, as is Chris Rock himself. I hate that they tied him in with the franchise because if they ever decided to make another Lethal Weapon which probably isn't likely to happen, they'd have to tie him in, or otherwise make some excuse for his absence&#x85;it's just no good.I like to pretend as if the fourth film doesn't even exist. I won't watch it, I don't own it. I wouldn't recommend for anyone else to either. Do yourself a favor, stick with the first three films and you'll be just fine. They're actually good! "},{"Title":"Flied Lice?..you mean fried rice - you plick!Uncle Henry Chan","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Oh how I laughed at the Chinese stereotypes uber - liberal Mr R.Donner has paraded across the screen in Lethal Weapon 4. He shows us funny waiters,restauranteurs,martial arts experts,all the clichd characters you might expect to see in a Steven Seagal movie.At least Big Steve has no pretensions about making a statement on American Life. But Donner in the past has rubbed our noses in his liberal guilt and it does seem a little disturbing that in this movie not only does he make comic figures out of a large number of Chinese but he also extracts an appalling performance from Mr C.Rock - clearly the newest cool black dude on the block - who mugs and shrieks his way through the movie in a manner reminiscent of a foul - mouthed Eddie Rochester Anderson. Messrs Gibson and Glover go through their over - familiar schtick with the look of men condemned to repeat it for ever. They shout,roll their eyes and gabble so quickly I had difficulty in making out some of what they were saying. Their performances reek of sheer desperation as they can clearly see the series hitting the buffers just a little way down the line. And then there's the supremely irritating Mr J.Pesci reprising his supremely irritating character Leo Getz.........my cup runneth over. The original Lethal Weapon had a freshness and vitality that as engaging.No 4 in the series and it seems like the whole cast is just going through the motions. To Riggs and Murtagh I would say just this,sorry boys but you really are getting too old for this sh#t. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special (Chris Rock is. But in the Wrong Way!)","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First off, a decent question  How Sgt. Murtaugh hadn't been pensioned off yet ?! Especially after 6 years of the last movie where he was having days before leaving the force for good ! In fact the answer to this question, whatever silly it may be, is what this movie was based on! This is the same of the past. So nothing was special or new. To be fair, there was Mel Gibson's short hair, Jet Li's martial arts, and the one and only Mr. Chris Rock!! Don't cast Chris Rock in a Lethal Weapon movie, or rather any movie, again ! that was a remake I wrote about the movie right after watching it back in 1998. It's still the same by the way! He's unbearable, boring and I don't know how to cast him as a police officer in the first place ??!! I remember how the routine he did about the old telephone with (Joe Pecsi) was the lowest bottom the whole 4 movies hit. All of my friends, who watched it with me at the theater, agreed that at this point we all wanted to change the channel ! Notice well the way (Gibson) says Hi Gaaaang to the evil guys near the end to understand how nothing was taken seriously this round. This is the first LW movie where Murtaugh's hair is all black ?! Simply to make you forget about the unspoken matter of retirement! The action wasn't that good, maybe Li's fighting only. The whole sequence of the car chase was nothing compared to the action that these movies used to deliver, like for instance the chase of part 3, which I expected something better than it, or at least as good. Furthermore, the final battle began so clumsy, then ended up as extremely violent.. I hated both its parts.Anyhow, the plot was nice, as well as the theme of We're not getting' too old for this s**t!. The shot in which the leads' car jumps into a building to land safely without harming anybody or anything sure is the most cartoonish moment in the series, and I like it. I loved the music. However it made me reminisce about the last 3 movies more than expressing any memorable scene in this installment, except the what took you so long?! scene which I see it as the best one here. Well, overall there was fun. But not for long! At one TV interview, in 2004 I think, one interviewer asked Mel Gibson in Lethal Weapon 5 what would.. to have the last interrupting him to assure decisively There will not be Lethal Weapon 5!. To tell you the truth I felt happy. And I felt that they didn't like working in this one at all. The ending was still being written while the movie was in production (!). I didn't see anything they added in this one. And I didn't see something it added to anyone was in it! The musical finale, of the movie and the whole series, did give this one some necessity. It was a good goodbye. But it doesn't need a whole movie to say it though! "},{"Title":"Gotta jet...","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Riggs and Murtaugh(Mel Gibson and Danny Glover) return to this time take on Asian triads who are smuggling immigrants (to be used as slaves) in the country, of course our favorite duo take on the triads while Riggs has to deal with fatherhood and Murtaugh has to deal with grandfather-hood with a ridiculous subplot involving his daughter that is too silly to explain. The problem with Lethal Weapon 4 (Which is an improvement over Lethal Weapon 3) is that it is far too comic. Lethal Weapon and (especially) Lethal Weapon 2 had their share of humorous moments, but those were first and foremost action movies. Lethal Weapon 4 with its cast that includes Chris Rock and Joe Pesci, mainly stalls at the comedy sequences that seem forced. That being said the action sequences are very enjoyable and spectacular. Jet Li makes a great villain and there is still enough magic to make this enjoyable for fans of this series. However it's starting to wear thin and it was a wise decision to basically end it here. Still as part 4s go, it could've been worse.* *1/2 Out Of 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"One time too many.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" They should have stopped with LW3. Although it was good to see Mel and Danny together again, this one just didn't cut it. The plot was only so-so which exposed (moreso than usual) the unbelievable action stunts. Joe Pesci was back to help with the comic relief, but adding Chris Rock for the same thing was just excess baggage. One bright spot is the introduction of Jet Li to American (or English speaking) audiences. He could have been used a little better, but this is about normal for this kind of transition.This is not a bad movie, but if you are expecting a home run, all you are going to get is a single. It's time to end this series here. "},{"Title":"good cast elevates sloppy material","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Detectives Riggs and Murtaugh are back again in this fourth installment of the popular Lethal Weapon franchise. The story centers around the two wise but aging cops as they attempt to bring down an evil Chinese smuggling ring with the help of young, overzealous cop Rock, and ever-silly private eye Pesci. Meanwhile, they're both plagued by anxiety in their personal lives as they try to cope with pregnancy and marriage issues. Slapdash, to say the least, with action scenes that are downright preposterous, but made worthwhile by the enthusiasm of an excellent cast, especially bad guy Li who adds a burst of energy whenever he's on screen. Not very memorable, but still works for what it is. ** "},{"Title":"Average.","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh (Danny Glover) return for this apparently final instalment in the &#145;Lethal Weapon' series and find themselves taking on the Triads lead by the fearsome Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li).I was disappointed by this final &#145;Lethal Weapon' movie though this does seem the logical conclusion from the series beginnings back in 1987. &#145;Lethal Weapon 4' is a comic-action movie featuring some humorous jokes but unfortunately meagre action sequences. It was great to see Rene Russo return as Riggs' (now pregnant) girlfriend Lorna Cole and Joe Pesci is once again back as the loudmouthed Leo Getz who is now trying is hand at private investigations. Chris Rock is brought in to play Sgt. Butters and provides a comic element unsurpassed in the previous movies and his interactions with Leo Getz really shine out as the comic highlight of &#145;Lethal Weapon 4'. Generally the cast is as strong as any previous LW movie despite Russo now being no more than a bit-part actress and the script being of rather low quality.The action sequences are generally dull though there are a couple of good martial arts displays from Jet Li and a couple of good gun battles. The (now) obligatory car chase scene added nothing really different from the previous car chases of the series and, although entertaining in parts, fails to add any real excitement to the movie. &#145;Lethal Weapon 4' suffers badly from a feebly written screenplay which features numerous events that have no bearing on the story and seem tacked on just to make the movie last longer.&#145;Lethal Weapon 4' lacks the quality of the previous three movies and it's rather a shame that this great series is to end on such a bum note. The only real accomplishment is how the intricate character of Riggs is now fully developed from his roots in the first movie. The way Riggs has slowly calmed down and become less reckless over the four movies is a quite nice gradual contrast from the suicidal and possibly psychotic Riggs we met in the first movie. This movie is worth watching for &#145;Lethal Weapon' fans and maybe for general action fans but is certainly not the best of the series. The `magic' seems to have fizzled out as this movies adds little new to the series and we are left with a barely average action/comedy movie. My rating for &#145;Lethal Weapon 4' &#150; 6/10. "},{"Title":"Calm down Jet! Cause Gib and Glo are too old for this s***!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Funny action-buddy-movie that returns for the third time in high society with a lot of actions and the same good, old funny stories told by director Donner who again has made to co-operate with veterans like Glover and Gibson, good! Filled with some trying to be cool stuff, it's a worthy final chapter in the Lethal Weapon saga packed with certain goofs and bad things but all threw its funny and entertaining as jam-on-a-sandwich!This time Riggs and Murtaugh (who's both too old for this) has to handle up with some Chinese bad-guys who fakes money and are doing illegal human slavery. Leo Getz has got to be a private detective and Lorna is pregnent and so is Murtaugh's oldest child Rianne with the new, irritated and frustrated cop in the protect & serve colleges Butters! O no!  "},{"Title":"I'm getting too old for this sh**...","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I used to be a big-time Lethal Weapon fan. I watched the second one in awe; couldn't wait or the third one and when it sucked, I still appreciated it for the characters keeping it together. But now after seven years, other films, my deteriorating youth, comes ANOTHER sequel to make us forget about how the third one was such a debacle. So they put the over-obnoxious Chris Rock into it; give Mel Gibson a haircut; make a convuluted and familiar plot to it; give it some heart; usual perils/recycled jokes/recurring characters who serve no purpose to the story (Mary Ellen Trainor), and you've got Lethal Weapon 4!Now who the hell torches Hollywood boulevard in a metal suit?There's no way in hell one can take the slide off a 9mm with one hand (let alone 1.5 seconds)...Was this a recruiting commercial for the LAPD?If Gibson has a makeover, why can't others?They're obviously running out of ideas (since the third one)-- isn't Murtaugh supposed to retire soon? What about Riggs?Don't get me wrong this film had its moments, but it's time to put this series to bed! ...Or maybe I'm getting too old for this s***! "},{"Title":"Weakest of the series","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this is the least enjoyable LW film in the famed series.  The problem is that it has too many comedy bits that go on too long.  I like humorous action films but not when they dont take themselves at least a little seriously.  There were some solid action scene's, though.  The chase on the highway was cool, and the ending fight with Jet Li was cool.  If you enjoyed the first three than you have to see this, I bought a copy of this just because I own the others and wanted the entire collection, and Ill still watch this film, but see the other ones before you see this. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Kinda Sloppy To Be Honest With You","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" During a mindless shoot out with a flame throwing villain, Sgt. Martin Riggs (Gibson) learns that he is soon to be a father with his girlfriend Lorna Cole (Rene Russo, reprising her role from #3) while his long suffering partner Sgt. Roger Murtaugh (Glover) learns that he will be a grandfather, even though his oldest daughter is not married and he doesn't even know who the father is. Both men prepare for these impending ascensions while being promoted to Captains and battling an Asian villain (Jet Li), whose into some human slave trading (look fast and you'll see the older fat prison guard from The Fugitive spouting the most clich ultra conservative borderline racist white guy stuff you'll ever hear), with the aid of foul loud mouth Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) and an obnoxious younger cop named Lee Butters (Chris Rock), who's just about as loud & foul mouthed as Leo and, for some reason, is always trying to kiss up to Murtaugh. Later on, Murtaugh discovers the horrible truth Lee impregnated his daughter and is intending to make a life with her while Riggs must contend with the fact that he's getting older & is no longer the invincible super-cop he once was, as well as make peace with the memory of his late wife before he can really embrace the family that he is about to have with Lorna.Gibson & Glover have always played well off each other, but their chemistry cannot mask the inherent weakness of the script's story, despite some honest attempts to imbue Riggs with more human dimensions, nor can it mask the sloppy editing in certain action sequences (it doesn't take an eagle eye to spot an obvious stunt double for Mel Gibson in some of the scenes with Jet Li). Pesci's presence is always more of a hindrance than a help, despite the lame attempt to have him be semi-important to the plot, because outside of that he serves no real purpose other than to be loud & spew motor mouth profanity, same as Chris Rock, whose only real purpose is to be Chris Rock and to see if he can out-cuss Pesci. And does anyone really believe that Murtaugh's daughter, who once had a quiet crush on tough guy Riggs, would really fall in love with & have unprotected sexual intercourse with someone as obnoxious & immature as Chris Rock's character? Gets 5 stars just for the chemistry of Glover & Gibson, and a few decent action spots (when not messed up by sloppy editing). Hopefully, Riggs & Murtaugh will be allowed to rest in peace after this. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think I enjoyed this movie when I first saw it, but now looking back at it I find it quite mediocre. I still enjoy the other three Lethal Weapon movies. I even enjoyed Part 3 (most people seem to feel that the franchise began to decline at that particular sequel). To me, the previous three films had a good balance of action and comedy. The fourth installment is a good example of what happens when too much improvisation is allowed on set. There are times when the script seems virtually non-existent, as the actors play out these lame gags that go on way too long and truly take away from the story. Surely, the addition of Chris Rock to the cast helped ruin the film. I enjoy Rock as a comedian. His stand-up is incredible. In recent years, he's sharpened his acting skills a bit, knowing when to be Chris Rock the Comedian and Chris Rock the actor. That wasn't the case back when this movie came out. I didn't find him even partially convincing as a police detective, and found him to be much more annoying than funny. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover still had the great chemistry, but they seemed more concerned with being an Abbott-and-Costello-type comedy team than being Riggs and Murtaugh. There weren't really any poignant moments between the two characters, like in the previous three films. All in all, this movie is worth buying only if you hope to complete your Lethal Weapon collection. Otherwise, it's all pretty forgettable. "},{"Title":"Fun &#150; but loaded down with too much baggage that it doesn't use well","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Riggs and Glover combine again to investigate a Chinese mob that is running a counterfeit ring in the US.  Teaming up with Butters, Getz and the now pregnant Cole they face up the gang led by Benny Chan and import Wah Sing Ku.This come to the screen with the baggage of three film behind it - it then adds both Chris Rock and Jet Li to the equation.  The end result is a film with too much baggage to effectively move forward.  The story is OK and would work well if it didn't have tonnes of characters with their own stories to fill in - pregnancies et al.  The end result is that this feels like a family drama with an action film added on.  The action is still good - with plenty of fun set pieces and spectacle for everyone.  The big problem is that the host of stars are not used well - everyone is treated equally but everyone misses out as a result.Gibson and Glover are good but they are both very obviously too old for this s***!  Luckily the film uses this fact as a joke in the film - but they still make unlikely action heroes after all this time.  Pesci is yet again funny yet irritating and again his involvement is shoe-horned in to keep the series going.  Rock is the same - funny yet irritating and the film could have benefited from not having his character and could have just cut the film by 20 minutes.  Jet Li is criminally underused - he doesn't have much to say and his fight scenes are very tame by his standard.  It was a good US break for him to be in a huge blockbuster but I just can't believe that the producers didn't realise what a talent they had - couldn't they have made more of him?Overall this has plenty of fun action set-pieces but it just has too much baggage.  It drags on, heavy with characters and is far too long to be totally fun.  Lets just call it a day OK?  We don't need a number 5. "},{"Title":"a TERRIBLE action movie","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't believe that such a terrible movie would be made.Firstly, that movie contains much talking than action. The director tried to put as much comedy as possible in the film but unfortunately that was so lame.The only reason that I watched this movie was the appearance of Jet Li.He acts quite well but his martial arts does not express fully. I just wonder why Jet is defeated by two weak cops when he can kill about 10 strong guys at the same time without any lethal weapon.The fact that is Western directors always glorify Western heroes and put down Eastern people. My score  1/10 "}{"Title":"Not believable.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was all in all pathetic and hardly believable. If you can believe that two aging cops with inferior martial arts skills were able to defeat a master like Jet Li, then you could probably just believe anything. Anyone who watches the movie knows that Jet Li should and probably would have won had it not been for the fact the unwritten rule about cop movies is that the good guys have to win. I mean, he fought them with a metal thing struck through his stomach, and gave them a tough time. That in itself proves Jet Li is awesome, but diminishes the Lethal Weapon series completely. This movie was joke and the only good parts are the fight scenes. "},{"Title":"I wish they would let this series die!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Better than the last one, but not that much better.  I saw this one as the second of three features at the Drive Inn.  A lot of this film is by the numbers.  Sappy, PCish, and lame.  More like what one would see on some 70's TV cop show.  The few moments that make this film better than the last one is Freeway scene, and the beginning with the flame thrower guy.  The rest is just rehash.  Oh by the way, that Karate guy is quick.  Gibson should have ran away from him.   I'll give it a 4/10  PS Joe Peschi does not add any humor too this film, except the cell phone bit with Chris Rock.  4/10  "},{"Title":"Like Most Franchise Movies It Lacks Substance","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The problem I had about trailers in the late 1990s is that they seemed to show all the best bits of movies and LW4 is a great example where either Sgt Murtaugh is running around in his underwear clucking like a chicken or Sgt Riggs is zooming up the freeway hanging on for dear life . These two set pieces are memorable but they're also the best bits of the movie Okay the LETHAL WEAPON series was produced merely tom entertain but by the fourth instalment things have become rather stale . After the good opening sequence with Tank Man we're treated to another amusing action packed set piece but you find yourself laughing at it and not with it  Oh my god where's the shark ?  He seems to have disappeared or has turned into a giant rubber fin . Perhaps the producers should have spent less on napalm and invested on better model work ? We also have to wade through the characters domestic lives which if this is supposed to be character development doesn't convince and also interferes with the pace of the movie and you often find yourself forgetting that there's a plot involving ruthless triadsAs for the cast you do feel that both Gibson and Glover are getting a bit bored by the routine but Chris Rock is bearable simply because he has the best lines with the scene where he reads out a felon's rights  If you can't afford an attorney then ...  having me laughing out loud . One thing I hope LW4 won't be remembered for is that it's the last screen role for Joe Pesci who has appeared in some of the greatest American films of the last 25 years . Despite being entertaining no one can call this a great film "},{"Title":"Fun but shallow experience.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm almost embarrassed to say that I enjoyed this movie.  I know I shouldn't  have, that it was poor, shallow screen-writing and contained absolutely no  cinematic depth, but hey, what does that matter?  Go see it at a midnight  showing with a group of friends, get hopped up on caffeine, don't expect  much of a plot, and the laughs and action won't leave you disappointed.   Definitely worth a rent when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon 3","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first one is the best, the second one is very similar, and the third one is also very similar, and this fourth and presumably final film, is also very similar, from director Richard Donner (Superman, The Omen). Basically L.A.P.D. officer partners Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are still fighting crime, despite feeling a little old, and their friend Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) has become a private eye. Their new assignment is to stop the illegal business and dealings being carried out by the Chinese Triads, in particular with Chinatown mob boss Benny 'Uncle Benny' Chan (Kim Chan), although it is actually Wah Sing Ku (Jet Li) to worry about. Besides being promoted to the rank of Captains, Martin is looking forward to partner Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) giving birth to their child, and Roger is worrying about his daughter Rianne (Traci Wolfe) giving birth herself, and he doesn't know who the father is. Helping Martin and Roger in the investigation, and having little digs at Leo when they can, is Sergeant Lee Butters (Chris Rock), who is the father of Rianne's baby, oh, and some Chinese people are hiding in Roger's house. After many chases on the highway and stuff, some gun play and maybe an explosion or two, it all comes to a head in a warehouse, and a martial arts fight with Wah Sing Ku. In the end, Martin and Leo rush to see Lorna giving birth, and she does, and Lee and Roger go to see the other newborn as well, and they all pose for a group photo. Also starring Steve Kahan as Captain Murphy and Darlene Love as Trish Murtaugh. Just like the second and third films Gibson and Glover are still fun, Pesci still gets annoying but funny moments, rising stars Rock and Li stick out, and with the big chase it's not a bad action comedy thriller. Mel Gibson was number 17 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Worth watching! "}]