[{"Title":"Wit, depth and beauty - Will Wilde follow Shakespeare to Hollywood?","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I left this movie, someone said How nice to see an intelligent movie!The risk going in was that it would be ONLY an intelligent - or at least clever - piece, all period manners and costumes. In fact, with all the Oscar Wilde wit which sounds wonderfully fresh here, there are also rich moments of emotional depth throughout this amusing but also quite moving film.One theme here - touching in hindsight - is how little it can take to destroy a reputation - Wilde was later to have some of the most painful possible firsthand experience of this.  But the central question here, which anchors the humor and beauty that decorate it, is the cost of rigorous, even rigid, honesty. And the growth of the central characters on this point shines through, even through the dance of wit and farce.Underpinning this is a surprising faith in human nobility, quite in contrast to the ironic persona Wilde maintained.  It struck me while watching it both that Wilde had very French characteristics - a continental finesse, the love of repartee - and yet was profoundly an English writer by virtue of his faith in fair play and the bonds of (platonic) male friendship.In fact, Lord Goring, whose world-weary ways make him something of a surrogate for Wilde, is a distant cousin to Sidney Carton in coming to the defense of a 'nobler' friend even at great (possible) sacrifice to himself. His very lack of seriousness is what makes his efforts on behalf of his friends so moving.With this, the pure visual beauty of actors like Cate Blanchett and Rupert Everett, matched by sumptuous costumes and sets, adds a sensuous element which, in a lesser film, might have dominated the movie. They, with Minnie Driver in cheeky comic form and Julianne Moore sweetly evil and superbly English, make it a delight both to watch and to savor later as tart food for thought. "},{"Title":"Superb filmmaking","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To say that this film is a filmmaking tour de force would be a great injustice.  It is far better than that.  Oliver Parker's revitalizing of Oscar Wilde's classic play is filmmaking at its finest.Every element of this film is superlative.  Wilde's story as adapted to the screen by Parker is witty, intelligent and engaging from start to finish. Seldom can you find a story that attempts to be a romantic comedy, a tale of duplicity blackmail and betrayal, and a drama of political intrigue, and succeeds so well on all counts.The intricate weave of deception, manipulation and double entendre along with comic misperception, irony and rapier witted dialogue are delicious and classic Wilde.  This is a film you will want to see again and again, just to discover all the lines within the lines.I cannot say enough about the brilliance of Oliver Parker's direction in this film.  He has captured late 19th Century aristocratic England with vivid and rich images that put the viewer right into the period.  David Johnson's cinematography is fantastic, with every scene working well as to lighting and color.  The beautiful blend of colors in the costumes and the set always looked like they belonged together.  Parker also provides numerous interesting camera angles that help dramatize the scenes.  It serves to remind us that glorious films can still be made relying on the creative eye of the director rather than special effects.The acting was delightful.  Rupert Everett, as the self absorbed Lord Arthur Goring, delivers an exquisite performance as the unscrupulous rogue upon whom the mantle of truth and honor is laid.Julianne Moore was delightful as the evil and cunning Mrs. Cheveley.  As cold, manipulative and heartless as she is with Chiltern and Lady Chiltern, she is that vulnerable and helpless with Lord Goring, for whom she has long held a flame.  Moore handles this emotional juggling act with great skill and you find yourself simultaneously loving her ingeniousness and hating her treachery.Cate Blanchett turns in another wonderful performance as the oh-so-perfect, Lady Gertrud Chiltern.  Jeremy Northam is also excellent as Robert Chiltern, the man of untouchable character with a scandalous secret in his past.  Even Minnie Driver is charming as Robert's sister.This is a terrific film for the refined viewer who appreciates all aspects of filmmaking.  Even for those not into the art of filmmaking, it is simply great entertainment.  I can think of no negative criticism of it.  It is well written, directed, photographed and acted.  It is filmmaking the way it was meant to be.  A perfect 10.  "},{"Title":"Good, but it could have been great","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I weren't so lazy, I would have checked the original play to see if my favorite line from the movie was in itGoring's father I use nothing but my common sense. Goring So my mother tells me.Even if was concocted for the film, that line still contains the essence of Wilde and the essence of all modern British humor, for which, I should say, I'm a major sucker.  While watching An Ideal Husband, I didn't object to the lack of suspense as long as Rupert Everett was working his way around those Wilde lines, which he does as well as anyone I've ever heard.I used to think Stephen Fry was Wilde on earth, but Fry is something wonderfully different -- Everett is Wilde on earth, or at least the actor that Wilde should have had around to deliver those lines when he wrote them. I first saw Everett in The Madness of King George, for which he put on weight.  Every review of that film mentioned this; I thought the attention excessive,  but when I saw him lying shirtless in a sauna, I understood. The man is, shall we say, cut.  I can only imagine the effect of that scene on straight women or gay men -- probably something akin to the effect Greta Scacchi's I think we're alone now smile at the end of The Coca-Cola Kid has on me.An Ideal Husband is full of good performances, with one glaring exception the usually great Julianne Moore.  Her scenes are curiously leaden, and Parker -- whose fault this may be -- has the camera linger over her as though the exposure will convince us how evil she is.  The one exception is her scene with Everett, which has a real Will he sleep with the enemy? tension.  It may be that Moore was just outclassed by the Brits, who are born to this stuff.Cate Blanchett, whom I've seen in three movies, two of which were British period pieces, continues to amaze me with her range.The unsung hero of the movie is Jeremy Northam, who takes a thankless role -- the man in the play who isn't the Oscar Wilde figure -- and makes it emotionally compelling.  He is responsible for the play's only real suspense and emotion, since the rest is word games, more or less.All of which leads me to blame the production's shortcomings on its writer/director, Oliver Parker.  He seems to have squandered an outstanding cast.  The play's final scene is played as a series of French scenes -- a film term for a series of different scenes in the same location -- and this kills any momentum that scene might have had.Three out of four stars, I say, which makes it better than 90% of the movies out there.  "},{"Title":"See it twice.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An Ideal Husband - ****In 19th Century London, Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam,) is a successful member of parliament married to the virtuous, fabulously popular Lady Gertrud Chiltern (Cate Blanchett.)  Sir Robert's sister Mabel (Minnie Driver) is infatuated with Sir Robert's friend, Lord Arthur Goring (Rupert Everett.)  The dashing Lord Goring, the wealthy son of the Earl of Caversham, is an inveterate bachelor who lives a life of leisure.  Into this already crowded picture drops Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Julianne Moore,) an Austrian socialite with two ex-husbands and a convoluted past.  Not only was she briefly engaged to Lord Goring, but it seems that she possesses evidence that the noble Sir Robert once committed a terrible indiscretion.  Mrs. Cheveley uses this explosive evidence in her attempt to blackmail Sir Robert into voting against his conscience on the floor of Parliament.  What ensues is a fascinating examination of honor and idealism.  We learn that the noble Sir Robert is less than perfect, while the rakish bachelor Lord Goring possesses a surprising level of honor and insight.If Shakespeare in Love deserved an Oscar, this film deserves the Nobel Prize.  It is simply outstanding in every respect.  The first thing one notices is the dialogue.  It is a bit stiff and stilted, as was the custom in London at the time, but it also possesses a razor sharp wit and sly sense of humor.  Every last character speaks with intelligence and humor.  The verbal fireworks, particularly as provided by Lord Goring, illuminate character and motivation while simultaneously producing guffaws from the audience.  The plot structure is a marvel.   There are no explosions, fireballs, or car chases, but the picture achieves a certain breathlessness simply through its intricate layering of multiple characters, all with intertwining motivations, interests, and connections with one another.  A prime example of this is the scene in which poor Lord Goring receives multiple visitors at his home in a single night.  All of the visitors have conflicts with one another, so Lord Goring must segregate them and move from room to room, listening to their problems and providing insights.  The costumes and locations are all excellent.  I particularly liked the manner in which Sir Robert's bright home is contrasted with Lord Goring's dark and cavernous bachelor pad.  The one complaint I have is with the film's music; it seemed too light and frivolous, overplaying the madcap shenanigans element of the picture.  But this is a minor quibble indeed.The acting is first rate across the board.  Jeremy Northam (yes, he could play James Bond) is well suited to the role of Sir Robert.  He exudes intelligence, honor, and duty.  Julianne Moore, as Mrs. Cheveley, seems to relish the conniving and scheming of her character.  Cate Blanchett and Minnie Driver capably bring depth and intelligence to their limited roles. But the true star of the film is Rupert Everett as Lord Arthur Goring. Mr. Everett has had a promising career to this point, but An Ideal Husband is his breakout role.  In this film he is witty, charming, caring, wise, devilish, and childish all at once.  Lord Goring is the kind of man that makes women swoon and men flock around to hear funny stories.  He reminded me of Cary Grant - only better.  Someone give that man an Academy Award.  "},{"Title":"an interesting look at Victorian sensibilities","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As we prepare to enter the 21st Century, An Ideal Husband allows us to see the world, England in particular, as we enter the 20th Century, and who better to guide us than Oscar Wilde.  The story is not unfamiliar --- politics, blackmail, love, and friendship.  What is different however is how these are viewed thru the prism of the Victorian Era, the centerpiece of the film.  The cast was superb from Jeremy Northam, Sir Robert Chiltern the title character, to Cate Blanchett, Lady Gertrud Chiltern his wife, to Minnie Driver, Mabel Chiltern his sister, to Rupert Everett, Lord Arthur Goring his friend, and Julianne Moore, Mrs. Cheveley.  The minor characters of Lord Goring's father and butler were good as well.  Although all were very good, Rupert Everett stole the show.  His character is the one who connects all the others and does so with grace, charm, and wit.  Which brings me to my final point, the film is filmed filled with witty dialogue and double-entendre a la Oscar Wilde.  I went to see this movie twice.  It was that good and appreciated it more the second time. I can not see how this movie could have been better.  Four stars!!! "},{"Title":"Another 'modernisation' goes wrong.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the principal sources of humour in Wilde's plays comes from pricking at the inflated egos, pious humbug and ignorance of the upper classes. There is always a Wildean character to reverse a clicheed expression or invert conventional 'wisdom.' Unfortunately, by stripping most of his characters of their stiff formality and rigid social code, the writer and director have removed the butt of the joke and Wilde's comments on absurdity are left without a punchline. The attempt to work in anachronistic social relevance leaves us with a set of feeble characters who fall in love with each other for no obvious reason. Because Wilde's language has been sterilised the actors have to use mugging to express the personalities Wilde created. Result, a charmless and dated 'political' drama as credible as a Jeffery Archer novel. Gertrude is insecure and fretful where she should be smug and priggish- Mabel is arch where she should be caustic- Poor Oscar - gets no 'Oscar'! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good - surprisingly timely, terribly marketed","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw An Ideal Husband at the Old Vic theater in London, and was surprised at the time how timely a 100 year old play could be.When I saw the trailers, TV ads and posters for this version, it seemed like an entirely different story--will Rupert Everett get married off. That's certainly a thread in the movie, but in the marketing of this version, they made it appear as if it was the entire wardrobe.I didn't see the film when it was in theaters because these ads, with their very modern music and fast cutting, made the film look like a joke.But when it came out on video, I decided to try it, and am glad I did.The film itself is excellent. Beautifully shot and paced, with an expert cast. Wilde's humor shines through, and the writer-director has done a wonderful job opening up the play into a film, without changing anything important. It's a masterful job of translating from stage to screen.  It's really so crisply done, and very funny.In years to come people will realise that this is a fine movie version of this play. And by then, hopefully, they will have either forgotten about the marketing campaign, or hopefully learned from it.I recommend the film. "},{"Title":"Charming, clever, and contrived.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An Ideal Husband is a charming though contrived little 19th century English period comedy with the subtly sardonic sense of humor typical of Oscar Wilde. The film, which deals with the politics of society first, the politics of the heart second, and the politics of the state last, features all the trappings of the period, a solid cast, and a clever script. An amusing and enjoyable watch for those into 19th century English period films. "},{"Title":"Pretty, and pretty terrible","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Trite, precious, rote, hackneyed, tired, terrible. I can't summon enough pejoratives to disparage this period-piece mess. First off, I didn't appreciate the obvious digital trickery employed to make this moderately budgeted production handsome. Lots of mathematically blatant composites -- foreground too crisp, background too Gaussian-fuzzy -- and simulated crowd scenes. The whole film has this peculiar, hermetically sealed quality -- as if nothing contained within it has any causative relation to the world at large. Indeed, the forced drollery of the script made my eyes roll back into my head. It was painful to watch perfectly wonderful actors -- Julianne Moore, Cate Blanchette, Rupert Everett, Minnie Driver -- gesticulate their way through the wildly unfunny material, and even more painful to witness the usually insipid Jeremy Northam get way too much screen time. Pass. "},{"Title":"A delightful movie!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie! It is fast-paced, funny, moving in parts, entertaining.  Rupert Everett and Minnie Driver play their parts to perfection, and so do all the remaining actors.  Costumes, music, photography, everything was excellent! I've not yet read the original play, so I cannot judge how close it is to it, but it is certainly very close to Wilde's spirit.  Hilarious! "}{"Title":"A big disappointment...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting to like it-- after all, it got rave reviews, I love this type of film, and I'm a big fan of most of the stars.  Well, it was a big disappointment...Put simply, this film was very SLIGHT.  That's the best way to describe it-- not much content, not very funny, and only the excellent acting all around could save it.  Julianne Moore gives the breakthrough performance of the film.  I expect an Oscar nomination for her.During the film, I kept thinking (which is usually a sign of a bad movie) of other movies that did it better.  If you want to see a much better film set in approximately the same time period in England, go see THE WINSLOW BOY (though it's not a comedy).  If you are in the mood for laughs and wit, go see NOTTING HILL.  Both films did what An Ideal Husband attempted and failed to do.One last point to hammer home-- the close-ups of Rupert Everett's left ear revealed 2 earring holes (an anachronism or at least a reminder that THIS IS A MOVIE).  Seeing this in one scene would have been mildly acceptable.  But there were at least 3 scenes in which I noticed it.  Where were the makeup people?  Where was the director?  Couldn't they see it in the dailies?  There's no excuse.  "},{"Title":"Poor results from Wilde's brilliant matter","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie taken from a Wilde's play has to be pleasant by default. It's impossible not to enjoy the fire-works of wit so smoothly offered by the Irish writer. Yet An ideal husband almost succeeds to be a boring film.It should be observed that An ideal husband is Wilde's fourth play not only chronologically, but also with respect to the artistic level. In particular, the dramatic turns of the plot and the design of the moral scruples of the characters are decidedly weak. Therefore, to focus on these aspects of the play, as the movie does, is a major mistake. The Oliver Parker's script of the film presents several changes with respect to Wilde's original text. You easily recognize the added lines they are so flat compared with the true ones! One scene is so un-Wildean that it has to be remarked in the Turkish bath Lord Goring (the author's alter-ego) shows his gym-built muscles. Nothing could grate more with the spirit of Oscar Wilde, who always addressed his most ferocious sarcasm against the fashion/mania of sport, gymnastics and physical shape.The acting is surprisingly flat (save Peter Vaughan and John Wood in two minor roles). Actually, Rupert Everett as lord Goring makes an adequate job nothing memorable, though. To compare him with Cary Grant is sheer blasphemy. One can't believe how misfit Jeremy Northam is to play Robert Chiltern he really makes an awful performance. Minnie Driver as Mabel Chiltern is not much better, with her perpetual half-stunned, half-whining expression. Moreover she is ugly (sorry). Julianne Moore is generally considered a first-rate actress I don't know, but here she certainly doesn't show her talent. Needless to say, Moore is unattractive, too. Now let me ask is there a LAW AGAINST BEAUTIFUL ACTRESSES in current movies? Is such a law some form of political correctness? Let some Foundation for Endangered Species preserve Catherine Zeta-Jones for all us...  An ideal husband is a forgettable movie a routine work that produce poor results from Wilde's brilliant matter. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  actors play creates impression that they are hollywood actors brought to England but pretending they are englishmen mostly by wearing of corresponding kind of close. interpretation of Wilde play is absolutely commercial and destroys all classical charm. last five minutes i personally declare worst segment of the film ever made. especially the place where Lady Chiltren finally work out personal problems and lies. Awful!!! "},{"Title":"What's so funny?","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I consider comedies the hardest category to satisfy, since either I like them or I don't.  There seems no room for middle ground.  I can sit through any mediocre movie except for a comedy.Ideal Husband was not an ideal movie, far from it.  It was slow moving, boring and shallow.  And it was not funny, just stupid.  The movie reminds me of the junk on commercial TV.  Has TV lowered the expectations of the movie-going audience? "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett only the best of many reasons to see this movie.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this refreshingly unusual summer movie.  In the midst of blockbusters and bathroom humour, Oliver Parker decided to film a faithful version of an Oscar Wilde play, complete with authentic costumes, elaborate sets and witty, wonderful dialogue.  The actors, particularly Rupert Everett, Jeremy Northam, Cate Blanchett and Minnie Driver, are obviously having a lot of fun as they sink their teeth into this worthwhile material.  I saw the movie in a crowded theatre and people were hooked - they gasped, laughed and, at the conclusion, spontaneously applauded.  I plan to go again and take with me other friends who are some what jaded by the other possibilities out there. "},{"Title":"Writing Creates Reality","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is lovely. It is lovely if you are into acting the men involved superbly set a foundation for the two women Cate and Julianne who are among our greatest living actors. These women duel but not in the uninteresting way by butting heads. (For egregious examples of this see how Denzel works.) Instead, what they do is create ever high levels of annotation on the situation, each at a higher level of abstraction than before, all the while keeping the plate spinning form the prior effort. This is not a profound vehicle by any means, but it is profound acting.This project is also lovely if you love language. Wilde knew how to form the most succinct quips, much better than Shaw, his only competition. Most of this is framed as dialog that flies back and forth almost too fast. Wilde is where Capra found his notion of screwball, so in a sense almost everything we see on screen is influenced by Wilde's few plays.This project is also lovely if you are into self-reference as the basis of art, that kind of art that defines how we advance our ability to abstract, especially how to abstract cool soft stuff like love. Here, we have Wilde writing about the dangers of the written word; how one committed, words constrain every element of everything that follows. The best we can do in life (he seems to say) is to just begin writing it and adapt to the consequences. (We have a key scene with our friends attending a play, another Wilde one. We have another key scene with Northam `performing.')A fine man. An ideal author.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Less than sparkling","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Must admit that on balance I prefer my own reading of the play rather than this version.  Wilde's humour seemed less than sparkling.  Julianne Moore was OK as the scheming, obnoxious, red-haired Mrs Cheeveley but the rest of the cast seemed to have their minds elsewhere.  The incidental music was especially annoying as was the angle Rupert Everett kept carrying his hand, flaring his nostrils would have been enough. "},{"Title":"Pure pleasure and a good story","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has become one of my favorite films.  I can't get enough of Arthur, Lord Goring, or of Laura Chevely, who are both wonderful to look upon, and the script is full of funny dry wit, plus it's a good story.  In addition, the settings and costuming are beautiful.  For pure enjoyment of a movie with high quality on many levels, I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"civilized entertainment","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Based on the Oscar Wilde play of the same name, An Ideal Husband scores as a moderately entertaining drawing room comedy thanks to the elegance of its design and the performances of its first rate cast.  Although it contains many elements of a classic Feydeau farce - comic misunderstandings, delicately timed missteps, hairbreadth missed encounters - the film lacks the kinetic energy necessary to allow these elements to completely shine through.  Instead, we are treated to a more laid back, more traditionally British interpretation of the events.  Indeed, the real charm of the film lies in its sharp observation of British gentility thinly disguising the often honey-tongued brutality lying just below the placid surface of this society.  No one smiles more sincerely or maintains such immense social poise while slicing one's opponents to shreds than the elite of England - and this quality director Oliver Parker captures in complete fidelity to Wilde's overall vision.Jeremy Northam portrays a highly respected and happily married member of the House of Commons who is suddenly confronted with a moral dilemma  should he allow a blackmailer to expose an egregiously immoral action in his past, thereby ensuring the ruination of both his career and his marriage, or should he go along with the blackmailer's demands and publicly support a cause he knows to be highly unethical and injurious to both his people and his nation?  Julianne Moore portrays the woman who waltzes suddenly into his life and attempts to threaten him into supporting a doomed canal project to protect her own financial investment.  Rupert Everett also stars as a confirmed bachelor who manages to become intricately involved in everyone's affairs.The film succeeds most when it concentrates on the stuffiness of the stiff-upper-lipped British tradition juxtaposed to the single-minded viciousness of the Moore character.  She delivers a delightful interpretation of an amoral woman utilizing cruelty to achieve her desired ends, fitting perfectly into a morally topsy-turvy world which feasts on scandal and the ruination of its own members, yet where a mismatched tea set stands as the ultimate in moral turpitude.  Wilde, on the other end of the morality spectrum, also subtly jabs at the unrealistic obsession with virtue in the character of Northam's impossibly pure wife (Cate Blanchett);  she erects so high a moral pedestal for her husband to stand upon that it is only after she has been caught in a moral infraction herself that the world these characters inhabit can come back into any sort of balance.The film is probably least effective when trying to cope with the complex interweaving and overlapping of the characters and their situations. Packer simply does not provide the manic energy and chaotic pacing necessary to make such plot mechanics soar on screen.  As a result, An Ideal Husband is more likable as a genteel British comedy of manners than the unbridled drawing room farce it seems so often to want to be.  Still, this is a film to be savored and enjoyed on many levels. "},{"Title":"Talks more and says less as it goes on","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Comedy plays like those that Oscar Wilde are tough to do; go one way, and it's too smug and arch, go another and it's too labored and drawn out.  Adapter Oliver Parker avoids the first part but stumbles into the second.  Obviously, in this post-Lewinsky era,  he probably felt he could make a timely statement about politicians, and he handles that part without grandstanding.  But this is essentially a comedy, and while we start out brightly, the end slows it down to a crawl.  To be fair, it's hard work to appear effortless(as Cary Grant proved), but the comedy suffers because of it.  Certainly Rupert Everett is effortless enough, and he's not only good in of himself, but everyone else is at ease when acting with him(I particularly like his sparring with Minnie Driver).  But while the rest of the cast is good(though Northam looks uncomfortable at times), they get caught when the movie slows down.  It's too bad, because there are good things here, but as Wilde might say, it talks more and says less as it goes on. "}{"Title":"100 year old play not so funny to me","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's 1895 London. Lady Gertrude (Cate Blanchett) and Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) are examples of the perfect political couple. Miss Mabel Chiltern (Minnie Driver) is his sister. He is a rising star in the government. Mrs Cheveley (Julianne Moore) coming from Vienna claims to have damning evidence of the origins of Lord Chiltern's wealth and career. She wants him to present a favorable report on a canal scheme swindle in Argentina, which she had invested heavily, to parliament. In desperation, Sir Chiltern turns to his best friend Lord Goring (Rupert Everett) who is an idle perpetual bachelor and hounded by his father to get married. Only Chiltern doesn't know that Goring used to be engaged to Cheveley.I think comedy is one of the most personal genre of storytelling. This 100 year old Oscar Wilde play may be hilarious back at the time and even hilarious to some really smart people today. For me, most of the humor is lost to me. There are a couple of chuckle worthy moments but mostly this is more of a personal thriller. In fact, I would like to see this done as a tense drama. Chiltern could feel the paranoia and the intensity of the pressures closing in. As a comedy, I could find no laughs. "},{"Title":"well-paced Wilde adaptation","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'An Ideal Husband' comes to the big screen for the second time here as Jeremy Northam's Sir Robert Chiltern is blackmailed by Mrs Cheveley (Julianne Moore) because of a mistake in his past. Supported ably by Cate Blanchett as spotless Lady Gertrude, Rupert Everett as Lord Goring, John Wood as Goring's father, Lord Caversham, and Lindsay Duncan as Lady Markby, this version manages to be both entertaining and have a refreshing take on the play.Opened out from stage constraints as a film should be, this version is well-acted, energetic, but perhaps a little short on focus. 'An Ideal Husband' can be played seriously or as high farce; this film stumbles a bit before it decides which way to go. "},{"Title":"Subtle and sharp period rom-thriller (!)","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Parker's adaptation follows the tradition of source author Wilde the glamour, grace, charm and delight of moneyed society mask a viper's pit of self-interest, and personal and political manipulation. Rupert Everett is born into roles of this period and provenance with his chiselled charm and diverting ease with women and men alike. The trio of women with whom he consorts as if they were, alternately, courtesans and diplomats, are superb. Julianne Moore and Cate Blanchett might be relied on to be delicate but deadly damsels but I was pleased to see that Minnie Driver could not only hold her own but also create and occupy a different role from the other two.This is not a one-trick picture with people simply being suffocatingly courteous and then sticking in the knife but populated with real characters creating a real sense of a fragile surface patina to their behaviour, as at risk as the more substantial lives which it represents. Parker directs with a discreet hand and the production is beautifully designed. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A treat; Oscar would approve.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This screen version of the Oscar Wilde play is gorgeous to look at, has an all-star cast and opens out the action superbly. I'm still not quite sure what audience the producers hoped to attract but then who would ever have guessed a movie entitle Shakespeare in Love would win the Oscar as the year's best picture.Of course, Wilde's original play isn't quite in The Importance of Being Earnest class, (and in a nice touch the characters here attend a performance of that very play), but director Oliver Parker pulls out all the stops and the end result is very entertaining. The epigrammatic Wilde character is Lord Goring and Rupert Everett fits the part like a well-tailored glove but again it's the women who hold court and both Cate Blanchett, (Lady Chiltern), and Julianne Moore, (the very devious Mrs. Cheveley), are excellent while Jeremy Northam is a surprisingly effective Sir Robert. Indeed. it's hard to fault the piece. I'm sure and intelligent and grown-up audience will agree. "},{"Title":"Wit's the Word","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ain't no wit like Oscar Wilde's wit 'cause Oscar Wilde's wit don't stop! I wish I could carry on a conversation like the characters in An Ideal Husband or any of Wilde's other stories. The world he creates with his words is like a giant stage only built to give his characters an opportunity to have crackling dialogue and witty asides. This humor rarely got anything larger than a chuckle out of me, but it was so constant that my gut hurt at the end of the movie. Better to have a movie filled to the brim with quiet, downplayed jokes than a movie built around two or three big laughs like an Adam Sandler vehicle.But this isn't one of those - it's a vehicle for Oscar Wilde's witty writing. I hate to keep using the word witty, but that does seem the most appropriate term. The thesaurus tells me that good replacement words might be intelligent or whimsical, but those don't feel right, no no. Because the character of Lord Goring, whom you will find on the DVD cover played by Rupert Everett, is not bright or smart or even epigrammatic. He is witty, and that is that. He is spoiled and self-indulgent, but one cannot deny his gift of wit - his ability to go through life spinning any seriousness into a joke has given him an inherent superiority over the rest of his community. Life is never a drag, it's always a party. Until it isn't.One of his old flames comes into town to do some business with a close friend, Sir Robert Chiltern, who has much political power. This woman, Mrs. Chevely (a devilish Julianne Moore), happens to know some damaging information about Robert's past and blackmails him into publicly supporting a particular scheme she has invested in. It's really an unexpected turn for a story that starts so light and comical (unless you're already familiar with Wilde's work). The drama between Goring, Cheveley, Chiltern, and his wife is sometimes tense, sometimes funny, and sometimes bittersweet. The story operates not only as a romantic comedy, but also as a political drama and blackmail thriller. One scene that serendipitously brings all of the principals together at Goring's house manages every emotional low and high within the span of a single 10 or 15-minute scene.I must say, however, that much of this tale depends too heavily on coincidence and silence to create its drama. Every story contains some amount of coincidence, and this was originally a play - a cast of dozens wasn't possible, so all manner of problems had to exist between these certain people and those people alone. I can forgive that much even in an adaptation. But so much conflict could have been avoided if these characters simply talked to each other about the obstacles they faced. Too often a character will be about to say something, then stop, as if it would be rude to continue. These silences are not played well. It looks not like a character is so distraught he or she is unable to speak, but merely like they decided to say nothing further, and no one could change their minds. It feels arbitrary, not natural.That's all direction though, not only the actors. For the most part, the entire cast is wonderful. This movie makes me long for more like it, not in setting and subject matter necessarily, but in its wit. Hollywood makes movies based around a catchy concept instead of a cast of characters (unless the character IS the concept, like in Bubble Boy). This isn't anything new, but An Ideal Husband made me see it with new eyes. Maybe I should start up Stage Plays With Mark...http//www.movieswithmark.com "},{"Title":"The perfect wife finds she loves her ideal husband enough to forgive his ethical error thereby becoming the less than perfect wife.","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How refreshing to find a movie for grown-ups! Did anyone else notice that Minnie Driver, in the role of Mabel, was doing a wonderful Audrey Hepburn impression throughout the movie? I think she is so underrated. She has such amazing range, whether playing poignant, comic, vulgar/comic, delicate,or tragic, she's always believable and fun/fascinating to watch. I also loved Rupert Everett, who struck just the right note. The cast must all have relished being able to speak such delicious dialogue. Of course the lush costumes and sets were impeccable, and created the perfect setting. The intricacies of the plot make a reviewing advisable and would certainly reward the viewer with lines of dialog and character interplay missed the first time around. "},{"Title":"A merry collision of misunderstandings","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a lady blackmailing a respectable lord, causing many merry misunderstandings and mischiefs in the subsequent days.Oscar Wilde adaptations always lighten up my heart. They are witty, merry and brings a smile to your face. The secret to his plays is that the viewers know something the characters do not. It is the same in The Ideal Husband, where the viewers know quite many things more than Robert Chiltern does. The dialogs are witty and elegant. The sets are lavish and grand as I would expect from the nobles. The best of all is Cate Blanchett's acting, she is able to delivery a wide range of emotions throughout with relative ease. This film is certainly entertaining to watch. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett is great here!","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I watched this film adaptation of Oscar Wilde's an Ideal Husband to complement my study of it for a 19th century English drama course. Of course there were a few liberties here and there -- aren't there always in an adaptation? But I found most of the characters depicted in the right spirit. Julianne Moore portrayed the conniving blackmailer Mrs. Laura Chevely particularly well; her very pale skin helped to accentuate the character's coldness, in my opinion. But I thought Rupert Everett as Lord Goring stole the show. Everett seems to naturally have the charm, wit, charisma, and cynical pragmatism that the character conjures in my mind. All in all, this adaptation helped in my appreciation and understanding of the play. Recommended. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites now.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charming,  witty, clever.  This is a movie I find myself watching over and over again.  Each time anticipating  deliciously delivered line and witticism.   Incredible dialogue and delivery.  I am fascintated by the actors abilities to remember, much less deliver some of these lines.  If Romantic comedies are your cup of tea, this movie should be at the top of your list. "},{"Title":"Incredibly witty, skillfully plotted, intelligently directed, and attractively womaned.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a delightfully entertaining movie! British people are funny! What can I say about this movie? Incredibly witty, skillfully plotted, intelligently directed, and attractively womaned. And manned! Thoroughly enjoyable for those who are looking for comedy not of the gross-out variety. "}{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Film","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie; the costumes are gorgeous, the lighting, sets and directing wonderfully done, and the script--which is basically very simple--made witty and enjoyable by some very fine actors.  Rupert Everett is simply superb as the idle, eternal bachelor and witty charmer with a heart of gold.  He steals the show, as he does in every movie I've seen him in -- he is just such a joy to watch.  Julianne Moore does some of the finest acting I have ever seen from her.  I am not overly fond of her as an actor, but this is the first movie in which I have really appreciated her talents.  She plays the calculating, mysterious schemer/blackmailer to a T, and her British accent was quite impeccable.  I swear, Cate Blanchett is like a chameleon - she makes every part that she is in look like it was written just for her.  She is such a talented actress.Because the film is set in Victorian England, some might find its pace rather slow and dull, especially those who are action lovers.  But if you love a fine period piece, and wish to enjoy a lighthearted, witty romantic/comedy, then definitely see this movie.   "},{"Title":"Witty, lavishly set and well performed.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film carries all the wit that is expected from an Oscar Wilde play.  The centrepiece of the plot is a politician's past indiscretion, and this is well handled and credible.  The final plot twist depends on the compromising nature of a visit paid by a married woman to a bachelor's house.  The horror of this does not carry through to the present and we are left wondering why it is taken so seriously.  Rupert Everett and Cate Blanchett are both outstanding, their stage training shining through in the film.  Minnie Driver seems miscast, however.  Altogether, a clever and engaging film. "},{"Title":"Movie  B-  DVD B+","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An Ideal Husband	B-/B+					7.10.00	1.851/5.1 	First Viewing		169 EnhancedBased on an Oscar Wilde play, this witty piece stars Cate Blanchett, Minnie Driver, Julianne Moore and Rupert Everett.  So why hadn't you heard of it?  Because its overly simplistic and has a highly predictable ending.  The filming and subsequent video transfer are superb however and sound is adequate.  The DVD includes a production featurette.    "},{"Title":"Witty & civilised","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a rare film, it has a very talented cast and a story that although set in the late 1800's could easily have taken place now- the scandalous elements are still the same.  Rupertt Everert, as always, really steals the show, he is fantastic as the eternal bachelor who may, or may not be ready for a serious commitment. Most of the cast did a great job, particularly Moore, Blanchett and Northam. The cast deliver Wilde's play with zest and fantastic comic timing, and some of the scenes are spectacularly shot.  It's a wonderful film visually, from the locations down to the costumes.  What this film does best is providing the viewer with light civilised entertainment, that doesn't require much brain power. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good adaption of the Oscar Wilde play. Beautiful sets, music, and costumes are a great backdrop to the action. Rupert Everett is, as always, very good, and Julianne Moore almost single-handedly stole every scene she was in. The other actors, particularly Cate Blanchett, are also excellent. Another fine British comedy. "},{"Title":"Really Really Really Well Done","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow -- a fun, playfully barbed play by Oscar Wilde is magnificently translated to the screen.  This movie is a delight from beginning to end.  Rupert Everett -- who usually annoys the hell out of me with his constant mumbling -- is the perfect Lord Goring.  The rest of the cast is in top form.Of course, anyone who thinks AMERICAN PIE, WEEKEND AT BERNIES, and BOWFINGER are good movies will be pretty much in agony watching this one.  But for everyone with a full set of functioning brain cells -- AN IDEAL HUSBAND is perfect entertainment. "},{"Title":"Nearly Ideal","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   What drew me to this film was the appearance of Jeremy Northam, as well as a curiosity toward this wittingly charming production. Magnificent sets, hilarious dialog, a truly captivating plot, and lovable characters is what came to mind after viewing the film. Almost ideal, An Ideal Husband *could* have easily been a family flick. The appearance of a slightly-out-of-focus nude figure rising from a bed in the beginning credits takes several points off from what could have been the movie of the season. As now, it's a must-see and one to add to your collection, especially if you like Emma-style dramas. "},{"Title":"The all but perfect screen version of a sparkling play","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For some reason, whenever a film is set in Victorian England, it always looks dreadfully over-starched.  This sorry state of affairs is our fault, not Victorian England's.  Look at the works written and set in that age, by, and this is but a list of those I'm familiar with, Charles Dickens, Robert Louis Stevenson, Arthur Conan Doyle, Oscar Wilde, H.G. Wells, W.S. Gilbert, Lewis Carroll, Bram Stoker ... all manner of stories, and it's hard to believe that they're presenting portraits of the same society.  They certainly treat very different themes.  Yet when these authors' works are filmed, they come out identical to one another tedious studies in just how repressed and artificial the Victorians were.  We seem to have a collective one-track mind.This is the exception that gets things right.  Parker has simply, although it's a good deal less simple than it sounds, placed a good story in its proper setting and told it well.  He's also successfully made a movie out of the play (the photography is excellent), which is an added achievement.  He was fortunate in the play he began with.  I hadn't encountered Wilde's `An Ideal Husband' before seeing the movie; it's a much cleverer work than `The Importance of Being Ernest', just as funny when it wants to be, and yet more evidence that the nihilistic Wilde we think we know is a fabrication, dreamed up by people who have only read `Ernest' and the beginning, but not the end, of `The Picture of Dorian Gray'.  Wilde draws his moral clearly and elegantly, leaving us (if anything) delighted at having been so skilfully preached at.  In fact he draws his moral several times in succession, and each time it's better than the last.Even a film so good as this one is likely to have one error of judgement, but luckily we get it over with quickly when we first lay eyes on Lord Goring, as his butler enters his bedroom, we see an out-of-focus naked woman, presumably a prostitute, sneak out.  Presumably this lets us know that he leads a feckless life but we would have found out a few seconds later in any event; and it's not obviously in keeping with his character.  Nor is it really in keeping with Wilde's play.  (How can it be, since it's never referred to again?)  Indeed, this one lapse on Parker's part fails to injure the rest of the film only because we promptly forget about it. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett steals the show again","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just as he did in My Best Friend's Wedding with Julia Roberts, Rupert Everett again steals the show in this lovely comedy/romance.  The film is worth seeing if only to enjoy the charms of Rupert.The clever dialogue by Oscar Wilde is a delight and the commentary on the foibles of we humans is as current today as it was in Wilde's day.  All in all, a lovely story which anyone should surely enjoy. "},{"Title":"A pleasant trip to the theatrical museum","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oscar Wilde would no doubt be amused and delighted to see audiences enjoying his plays a hundred years later. Theatre is the most ephemeral of arts and few plays, divorced of their time and place, have real impact. There is also the problem of putting a play on film so that it does not look like a filmed play. The director, Oliver Parker here had an adequate budget and uses some gorgeous settings but sticks fairly closely to Wilde's (edited)script. This involves some remarkable timing coincidences which you can get away with in the theatre but often look a bit strange in the more naturalistic film medium.Rupert Everett is perfectly cast as Lord Goring, the idlest man in London, and the most Wilde-like of all the characters. Just in case we don't get the wrong idea about him (he has a pretty lush manner) we are shown a naked woman slipping from his bed as his manservant (Peter Vaughan) enters in the morning with a hangover cure and the Times. Goring becomes involved in the affairs of his friend Sir Richard Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) a rising young politician who has married an old flame of Goring's, the naive and high-principled Gertrude (Cate Blanchett.) Richard is being blackmailed by the dubious Mrs Cheveley (an old school acquaintance of Gertrude's) (Julianne Moore) over some equally dubious past financial dealings involving the Suez Canal. Goring, who has being dallying a little with Richard's sister Mable (Minnie Driver) (Richard's daughter in the play), is being pressured by his blimpish father Caversham (John Wood) to get married. Naturally after many twists and turns and several elegant events all is resolved but Wilde makes some serious points on the way including the very pertinent one; just where is this very elegant rich, powerful and money-mad society headed? A hundred years later we know - to a bloody end in the First World War. So is this just museum theatre, reverently done? The dialogue here is not as uniformly sparkling as The Importance of Being Earnest, a much frothier piece, though a few lines endure (to love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong relationship) and the pace slows down at the end. The acting is generally very fine, though Minnie Driver doesn't quite fit, and Rupert Everett clearly enjoys himself throughout. The rich decore is almost overpowering - everything seems to be on show - and there is even a fragment of a performance of Earnest with Wilde himself appearing at the end to take the curtain call. Well, perhaps that's the point. The original play was written to put bums on seats and amuse the paying customers. These days the customers are likely to be pretty elderly. The film is not likely to appeal to a younger audience in the way Shakespeare in Love did. As for the lust for money being the root of our evils, so what else is new? And who needs an ideal husband? These days we all need wives.  "}{"Title":"Wilde about Oscar","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This a wonderful piece of English Comedy Drama.  The Gentle humour and laser sharp wit make for an enjoyable film all round.  Oscar Wilde's masterful narrative is as funny today as it was in his time.  Rupert Everett is the character personified, elegant, charming and as sharp as a needle.  The whole cast work well together to bring this magnificant story to life.Mavellous ! "},{"Title":"A Delightful Treat","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed sitting through this delightful flick. The cast was absolutely astounding. Ms. Driver's and Mr. Everett's conversations were as wittingly enjoyable as was the constant mishaps experienced by Mr. Everett's character. Absolutely splendid and highly recommendable to anyone willing to watch a lovely time piece that is highly applicable to current standards.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful sets, good character acting, interesting plot","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a treat with its lush sets of amazing homes of the British aristocracy of the late 1800s, clever Oscar Wilde plot, and interesting characters.  I enjoyed the subtle romanticism and high brow diction.  The story is a typically reserved British comedy with a Comedy of Errors style.One of the main characters, idly rich and confirmed bachelor Lord Arthur Goring, reminded me of P.G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster, down to his manservant ala Jeeves.  The politician, Sir Robert Chiltern, and his wife, Lady Gertrud Chiltern, were beautifully and very realistically portrayed as charming and well-intentioned, Sir Robert the ideal husband - except for an impropriety from his past.  The story is very interesting and the ways the characters respond to an unfolding, complex puzzle is sometimes (pleasantly) surprising.  There are short beautiful sensual romantic scenes, which probably are what earn the film a PG-13 rating.  But these scenes are stylish and non-gratuitous, fitting right into the story, and even with them included, this might be considered a family movie by some.I enjoyed this lovely and fun film.  8 on a scale of 10!   --Dilip 12/20/1999 "},{"Title":"nonetheless enjoy British movies","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I personally like Rupert Everett. Too bad that he is an English actor because sometimes I have a hard time understanding British accents. For that reason, you'll need to pay close attention to the dialogue.   If anyone around you is yacking away, tell them to shut up!  Even though the dialogue can be a challenge for me to follow, I nonetheless enjoy British movies. The movie is essentially a romantic comedy.  There is a bit of brief nudity and a scene that will surely crack you up.  "},{"Title":"The reports of this movie have been greatly exaggerated","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having read other users' reports of this film, I must say that I don't share the almost complete Love it of hate it feel. Yes, there was too much plot and not enough witty Wildeness, which is, lets face it, what makes Wilde's plays such a joy to behold. I didn't think that is was too complicated or it was such a bore that you had to concentrate to the max all through the film (although the reviewer is a remarkably intelligent individual ) and I certainly didn't think it was too nice as has been described; Wilde tended to write stuff that was too weird to happen in real life, and lets face it, most of Hollywood would be guilty of the same crime, if indeed it is a crime.However, don't expect too much, and you'll get quite a bit. My Everett is fantastic in it, and as Wildean as your gonna get, and Minnie Driver, is as nice as a nice person could be as the standard strong woman that Wilde is compelled to introduce to all his plays.All in all, a decent 7 1/2 out of 10. Fine for a laugh, but don't expect a Victorian documentary or a brand new Wilde reading, because this film certainly is not.  "},{"Title":"A Witty Deal","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lord Goring... yes, the real hero of the play. A brilliant wit... most certainly. An ideal husband... perhaps. Although I enjoy the sparkling repartee in the film, the mischievous discourse about husbands and wives running through the original play seems to have gone astray. In the end, it was more a showcase for Wildean wit and Everett's abilities. 'Tis a shame really... Wilde had a lot of interesting things to say about men and women. (Better than some of the self-help literature we're so fond of reading) Perhaps some of which will not sit too well in our politically correct times. "},{"Title":"An Ideal Lair And Thief","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oscar Wilde penned his play An Ideal Husband in 1895, the same year he wrote and opened his famous opus The Importance Of Being Earnest. In 1895 Wilde was also sent to prison.	It's obvious that Wilde had a keen appreciation of the hypocritical and scandalously corrupt nature of the London society around which these plays were set. This was to large measure the grist for his mill. 	Wilde had a cutting wit and a profound appreciation of the value of secrecy, even if he didn't apply those principals sufficiently well to his own behaviour. Satire can be dangerous for the satirist.But it's also obvious that his personality, or was it his sexuality, precluded him being careful enough. He was doomed by his love of scandal, and of young boys.But was he fundamentally dishonest? How corrupt was Wilde? At least he worked for a living!There's no doubt that Wilde wasn't an ideal husband but it could be argued by the more liberal, by the lovers of his brilliance, that he was an ideal citizen.He was certainly one of the cleverest, one of the most entertaining. The Picture Of Dorian Grey and The Importance Of Being Earnest established that without a doubt.And he could well have been of better calibre, and possessed of nobler intentions, than The Ideal Husband he portrays in his play.By Wilde's thesis, An Ideal Husband was corrupt and rich, as is An Ideal Politician.In the film a politician called Sir Robert, (Jeremy Northern, fresh from The Winslow Boy) is a paragon of virtue.He's introduced to the film as a great orator and leader. He's Prime Ministerial material. He's a loving to his wife and utterly honest.His wife Gertrude (Australia's Cate Blanchett in another terrific performance) is sweetness and purity itself.  Unfortunately years before Robert had been a secretary for a government Minister and had sold secret  information for a huge sum of money. How else could he, a poor man, have got into a position of power? There were no seats in parliament for common men.Mrs Cheverley (American actress Julianne Moore) blackmails Robert with evidence of his sordid past. Will Sir Robert protect his career or give penance for his sins and confess all.All ends well when dear Gertrude in effect takes the money and runs, possibly to become a Prime Minister's wife. Everyone is delighted when even Gertrude joins the club and actually, giggling, confesses to telling a lie.And as for Sir Robert, well he's exposed to those who love him as corrupt and then exalted even higher. Everyone is relieved that he's been sullied. Now they know they can trust him.End of play.There's another subplot or two, cleverly written, as we would expect from Mr Wilde, (screenplay by the film's director Oliver Parker). These involve blossoming love between Robert's sister Mabel (Minnie Driver) and his best friend Goring (Rupert Everett?) but I find these Rule Britannia, London season films increasingly offensive.Australians are soon to vote on whether Australia should throw over England and become a Republic. Monarchists are likely to find An Ideal Husband to be ideal. Republicans I would hope  might find it a little disturbing. "},{"Title":"An excellent cast in an excellent film","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A really enjoyable and unforgetable film. Oliver Parker managed to create a wonderful movie from Oscar Wilde's witty play. His efforts really had a marvellous conclusion. The cast is marvelous. Every one of them shines in his/her role. Minnie Driver and Jeremy Northam deliver excellent performances. Julianne Moore becomes better movie by movie and is perfectly cast. Cate Blanchett proves those who regard her 'the next Meryl Streep right.  But this is Rupert Everett's show. He is PERFECT in his role and is a very strong candidate for an Academy Award nomination.  "},{"Title":"A truly enjoyable film.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this film. It was light entertainment with attractive colours and pleasant music, but at the same time there was just enough plot to keep my interest. I wasn't alive in Victorian England, so I cannot honestly say how accurately the setting was portrayed. My impression, however, was that the costumes and characters were very realistic. I am not familiar with the original Wilde play, but I am interested now to find out how closely the film followed it. This film is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Great acting, great play, could hardly be better","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An Ideal Husband came as a truly pleasant surprise.  The movie starts slowly and the humor requires attention, but the rewards are numerous.  Rupert Everett is fabulous--the part seems to have been written for him; he delivers his arrogantly bored and sarcastic lines with flawless timing. Likewise, Minnie Driver and Jeremy Northam are completely believable.  The movie does retain some of the feel of a play; at times, the camera even shows the action through the curtained entrance to a room.  See this one in a good, comfortable theater, where you can be assured of a good print--you'll get the feel of stage right away. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Victorian Romantic Comedy","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  AN IDEAL HUSBAND. Oliver Parker wrote and directed this consistently charming Victorian romantic comedy, based on the Oscar Wilde play, about a lazy bachelor (played by Rupert Everett) who juggles his friends (Jeremy Northam and Cate Blanchett as a politically-involved husband and wife) lives in one hand and a budding romance with Minnie Driver in the other. Julianne Moore, Hollywood's leading supporting actress, is terrific as the evil villainous. As far as laugh out-loud comedy goes, An Ideal Husband is often a tease, but this is one of the only movies so far this year where you'll come out of the theatre smiling. Rated PG-13. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"An ideal date movie","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An ideal date movie, at least if your SO is a romantic teetering on the verge of commitment.  Just enough edge remains from Oscar Wilde to keep the thing from being unbearably coy; and in the background is the cynical fact that someone could rise high after betraying his country for money and getting away with it.  But there are sweets enough to make your teeth hurt. Acting, sets, accents,and style are of uniform Masterpiece Theatre quality. "},{"Title":"I want to see it again","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance. I loved this movie! Rupert Everett is perfectly cast as Lord Goring, who, at 36, seems hopelessly adrift in the highest circles of 1895 London society.  Will he get married?  To whom? Who is cuter, Rupert or Jeremy Northam?  The questions go on and on.  (It's Jeremy, in my book.)  Great writing, courtesy of Oscar Wilde and director/screenwriter Oliver Parker; spirited, fun performances from everyone, especially Everett and Julianne Moore, and the splendid production design make this movie one of my favorites of '99 so far.  See it today! "},{"Title":"Typical Wilde Wit","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen this year.  The actors put forth excellent performances, the characters are deep, and the plot is intriguing with many twists and turns.  The humor is subtle and typically, Wildely, paradoxical.  The film is both humorous and deep at the same time, a most enjoyable way to spend a couple of hours.... "},{"Title":"Climb the crag, walk the mire","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Deception, intrigue, romance lost and found, political futures at stake.  Sound familiar.  In the post-Clinton wars, we have grown accustomed to truth and honor being the first casualties. It was not always that way.  The Ideal Husband reminds us that propriety used to be king, even if we have to go back to 1895.  Oscar Wilde's play with fitting homage to The Importance of Being Earnest has been faithfully put on film played by a bevy of the finest actors today.  Subtleties and nuances soon give way to the stark realities that characters are not what they presume to be.  Sir Robert Chiltern and Lady Gertrude may seem the perfect couple but their lives will be shattered by a past transgression.  Lord Arthur Goring may seem the debonair rogue but his past, too, will catch up with him and make marriage inevitable.  Mrs. Laura Cheveley has a large investment to protect and she seems to have all the cards in her hand if she would play it out.  Mabel Chiltern comes across as a lady in waiting who will never win her man, or will she?  This film, smartly, finds a way to resolve all the woes its characters inflict upon each other in a most honest and noble way.  Of all the fine acting, Julianne Moore's poker face, conniving self is the best.  She repeats what Lord Goring said earlier that to love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.  How well this film does in settling an obstinate and guilt-ridden mind with an open and forgiving heart. "},{"Title":"Fun fun fun.  Kudos to Driver.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a tremendous Cate Blanchett (and her performance was stellar, as per usual), but dear me, Driver absolutely stole every scene she was in...  See this movie - your money and time will have been well spent.   "},{"Title":"Wilde Wit","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must first apologize as I have not (yet) read the play.  I feel this movie did everything it could have done and more.  In the days when Mr. Bean, Keeping Up Appearances, and other such poppycock are popping up in main stream american public television, this dash of panache and true British wit was truly spectacular.Although a prerequisite for any period film of any genre, the cinematography and scene/set work were brilliant.  From the rugs to the chandeliers to the statues, all pieces fit together to create an atmosphere of aristocratic British society.  Beyond the visual effect, at one point Lord Gorring (Rupert Everett-A Midsummer Night's Dream), in a moment of confusion, delivers immaculately a monologue to a small statue.  The director not only used setting to create an atmosphere, but also for something with which the actors can interact.  On a director/cinematography note, the voyeuristic glance at British parliament under moonlight was stunning, possibly the best visual image all year, next to the Red Violin.As well as cinematography, the costuming for this movie could stand alone. It was like a witty fashion show, parading flowing gowns and Lord Goring's tedious flower decisions in style and elegance.  Oscars perhaps?The script, which I believed was edited/screenplayed by Oliver Parker (Othello), was marvelous.  I was taken back to high school English class and Pride and Prejudice, where double entendre and irony brought feelings of omniscience and joy.  The dueling words of Rupert Everett and Minnie Driver (Good Will Hunting) created a playful tension and very pleasant resolution at the end.The casting and acting, due to the majority of English actors, were enchanting.  Rupert Everett, Minnie Driver, and Jeremy Northam lit up the screen with thick, aristocratic accents coupled with the good vocal coaching (Bravo dialect coach) of Julianne Moore and Cate Blanchett not only created atmosphere but held their own, fighting dialect and quick wit.  I cared about the characters and thusly cared about their futures, which is necessary.  The public may be surprised that Oscar-caliber performances (Everett and Northam chiefly) have come so early this film year.This movie shone from start to finish.  Combining the elegance of British wit with a superb cast and miraculous technical work, Oliver Parker has redeemed himself for massacaring one of Shakespeare's greatest scripts into two hours of choppy nonsense (Othello).  This romantic period comedy should be indulged like a fine wine, or like one's self, for, as Lord Goring would say, To love one's self is the beginning of a life-long romance. "},{"Title":"Love the wit of it","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Finally I was able to see this delightful, charming period comedy. This is one of the more entertaining movies I have seen this year, as it is full of witty moment that leave you amuse.  I couldn't find more greater words to describe this movie other than that this is a great movie. Interesting satire of the society, great sense of humour within the movies. Super acting from everyone too, especially Julianne Moore-just perfect. I also enjoy watching the screen between Rupurt Everett and the actor who played his father in the movie-I couldn't contain myself from laughers each time the two appeared on screen together. Anyway this is an ideal movie to see for this summer, and even on video again later on!  "},{"Title":"Very funny manages to introduce a unique viewpoint, compared to other works that have covered the same basic theme.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What will you do when the world you know ends? Margaret Mitchell, as a child, was posed this rhetorical question by her mother, and eventually came to terms with its  disturbing possibilities by writing the pop classic Gone With the Wind; Wilde's An Ideal Husband proposes to answer a similar question by narrowing the scope to enclose a wife's disillusionment with the person she thought was her husband (the husband, Sir Robert Chiltern, she discovers early in the story, rose to wealth and political influence by peddling a state secret that would influence certain market investments). It appears to be an earlier (I'm  guessing) prototype of the more tightly written Lady  Windermere's Fan by the same author; the twist is that Lady Chiltern, unlike Lady Windermere, is not mistaken in her disillusionment, and, whether or not she'll decide to end the marriage, must pass through that membrane that divides her ideal life from the present reality of  marriage to someone she now finds to be utterly human, or worse. Don't be scared off by the darker implications, however this is very much a comedy.Lady Windermere was only halfway out the door when the situation resolved itself as a comic misunderstanding; the comedy at the heart of An Ideal Husband is the realization that one can survive real disillusionment, and, barring a trainwreck or certain  disastrous acts of God, inevitably will live beyond  one's honeymoon with life and get on with being married to reality.If these story elements sound a lot like Ibsen, I think it's that Ideal Husband is intended to lampoon A Doll's House, by confronting a tragic Nora type heroine with a more Coward-ly, Wilde entourage telling her to get over herself and perhaps serve martinis. One element the works have in common is that the conflict is brought to light by a blackmailer,  except that in this case the blackmailer, Mrs. Chevely, is a woman and  her victim, Chiltern, is a man, introducing the  possibility that the  victim's wife, also a woman, is closer to understanding the enemy's devices; also that perhaps society's  private and public  situations are more controlled  by women than the men would normally suppose.To what extent this film is rewritten from an actual Wilde script I can't say offhand. There are moments when the unmistakably Wilde ironic joke formula, a la The  Importance of Being Earnest, leaks through (Did you do something wrong? I certainly hope you did, because people who do right all the time are so stuffy and so on),  perhaps a bit threadbare to regular Wilde fans. At other times the dramatic and comedic pace slows to that of a more realistically-constructed contemporary movie. These latter devices, however, could also be Wilde, who was  certainly more than capable of portraying deeply felt, serious emotions and offsetting them with farcical humor.Cate Blanchett, as Lady Gertrude Chiltern, is effective as someone who makes a transition from bliss to less than bliss, with a careworn look about the eyes reminiscent of Emma Thompson. Julianne Moore is an appropriately chic blackmailer for comedy (take that, Nils Krogstad!). Minnie Driver, in an important supporting role, also suffers  admirably with the same offbeat, haunting beauty that made her a hit in The Governess. As Lord Arthur Goring, the friend to whom Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) turns to help resolve this crisis, Rupert Everett comes the closest to embodying the soul and wit of Wilde himself, as a dandy and a bored, perhaps even occasionally sneering socialite who is, nevertheless, not immune to human emotion nor  compassion toward others. These two men, like the  principal cast as a whole, are attractive, and one scene in a Turkish bath, where they recline perhaps a bit too close to each other, faintly suggests that, as in Wilde's own life, the secrets veiled within a supposedly ideal marriage may have even more levels than the audience has been shown. In general, I'd say this film is less entertaining than Lady Windermere, or some of the Shaw comedies (Heartbreak House; Fanny's First Play) that deal with similar  situations of people getting on with their lives after exposure to scandal or disillusionment. These comparisons are at a pretty high level, of course, and it's safe to say that anything worthy of being compared to Shaw is  worth seeing. Compared to the usual group of film comedies that are out there, this one is genuinely funny, and  therefore a rare experience not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Smart and Charming, with nice performances. *** out of ****","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An Ideal Husband is a wake up call to the sleepy genre of romantic comedies that have been based on screenplays written many, many years ago. The film is based on a story by Oscar Wilde who wrote it over one hundred years ago.  In its charming way, it proves to us that a story can be successful even with time as its enemy. The recent retelling of  William Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, certainly has been mistreated over the years resulting in a disastrous event Shakespeare would have been appalled with. With this movie, Oscar Wilde would have been generally proud.The film takes place in 1895 in London. It details a blackmail scheme between Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) his wife, Lady Gertrud Chiltern (Cate Blanchett) and Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Julianne Moore). Laura, a former classmate of Gertrud's who is visiting from Vienna, blackmails Robert into supporting an Argentine canal, a proposal he's ready to damn in Parliament, but that will bring her more riches. If he doesn't obey she will make a letter public containing secrets of Robert's past that did two things 1) made her former husband wealthy in the highest and 2) details the origins of his own fortune.There are other happenings going on at the same time that ultimately keep us intrigued. There is the social reception, Lord Arthur Goring, (Rupert Everett as the Ideal Husband, who was also in A Midsummer Night's Dream,) and his hidden love for Mabel Chiltern (Minnie Driver), his father's desire for Arthur to wed, and many other lesser blackmail gambles that keep the audience at a peek of tension.The movie's structure is generally effective as it brings to our attention a main problem, complications, character issues, gradually raising the tension level, and finally a pleasant solution that is needed for this type of entertainment. In other words the film ultimately works.I think a little more time could have been taken with the blackmail subject, for it was not completely sufficient. The character's lives, which are somewhat irrelevant, aren't really at stake here, although with some social aspects they are. I was not totally concerned of what the outcome was going to be. I knew that either of the two paths it could have followed weren't life threatening, nor were they all that drastic-in my opinion. Thank goodness for the side characters and sub-plots. The movie relayed on the blackmail a little too heavy for what it is worth.The performances were exquisite and appetizing. Rupert Everett recovers from his earlier catastrophe, Midsummer Night's Dream, and is charming and witty. Julianne Moore is a perfect villain as she is deceiving and slyly crafted to a type of hidden evil. Cate Blanchett is a nice looking and acting wife of a major public icon. Jeremy Northam handles his character with the appropriate stress and tension level. But Minnie Driver wasn't all that great, just something about her struck me as a smiling misfit without aim r direction in the movie.I am recommending An Ideal Husband because I think it is an intelligent and convincing period epic. However, I wouldn't choose this film over some of the recent competition. For instance, if The General's Daughter, Eyes Wide Shut or Instinct is playing nearly, chose wisely, because there are many out there that are much better than An Ideal Husband. "}{"Title":"Who cast Minnie Driver?","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie was great.  In fact,it so good that the complete miscasting and mis-acting of Minnie Driver could not ruin it, as hard as she may have tried.  In many scenes her hair is up in a double bun that makes her look like Minnie Mouse.  Moreover, she is completely unbelievable and unconvincing as an object of affection for Lord Goring. The lack of edginess makes her character come across as silly and not worthy of the other characters' interest or concern.   "},{"Title":"what a complete waste of time","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was forced against my will to see this movie.  It was terrible.  I was sitting there in the theater and I wanted to cry.  I did fall asleep intermittently.  There were so many big name actors but the movie crept along at a snail's pace and was so unbelievably boring!  Watching An Ideal Husband brings to mind the one episode of Friend's, where 'Monica' says, Those were two hours of my life that I can never get back, and that scared me.   "},{"Title":"An Exceptional Movie","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely marvelous.  The casting is perfect (and Julianne Moore, the only non-brit in the cast, holds her own with great success).  The artistic elements are stunning.  And the screenplay by takes Wilde even farther than he went in the play.  Oliver Parker manages to lose won far-fetched plot element and replace it with a subplot that is more worthy of the author than his original (and don't let Roger Ebert fool you in his review - this part of the plot wasn't in the play!).  All in all, a film with great style and wit.  A treat from beginning to end (additional Wilde references abound - have fun finding them!) "},{"Title":"Witty, urbane drama of a century ago","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the tradition of the earlier Mirimax dramas of England of a century ago (Howard's End, Sense & Sensibility, Remains of the Day) Oliver Parker has written and directed An Ideal Husband. The screenplay has been adapted from the Oscar Wilde play relating the tale of five handsome upper class folks of that era when men were still in charge, but women were barely emerging as a force.Sir Robert Chiltern ( Jeremy Northam) and Gertrude, his wife  (Cate Blanchett) are the perfect couple.                           He is a representative in the House of Commons and she the adoring and dutiful spouse. His best friend is the charming perennial bachelor, Lord Arthur Goring, cynically portrayed by Rupert Everett. Sir Robert's charming sister, Mabel (Minnie Driver), has her eye on Arthur.  Into their lives comes the wickedly beautiful Mrs. Laura Chevely (Julianne Moore) with information that may turn their neatly ordered world upside down. She blackmails Sir Robert with some dirt from his distant past.The performances are perfect and the language typically Wilde. Parker even goes so far to introduce Oscar Wilde (Michael Culkin) in a cameo after his play, The Importance of Being Ernest, debuts in London. The costumes and sets are sumptuous. The music (Charlie Mole) is lush. When you leave the theater you have visited with some attractive, intelligent denizens of a bygone era when manners and class were very much what life was all about, but love does slip in bringing the proceedings to a sweet and satisfying denouement.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, intelligent, entertaining film!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rupert Everett seems to have been BORN to play Lord Goring!  It's positive Oscar Wilde had Everett in mind.  I completely agree with other commentators that the parallels between Everett and Wilde are quite interesting.  The only negative I saw was some choppy editing, which had a couple of characters jump from one scene straight into another (at a different time and in a different location) without explanation or plausibility.  I was truly surprised at Minnie Driver, whose wit and personality sparkled across the screen.  The others were all perfectly cast, and even though the denounment was as expected, it was done so enthusiastically that it felt fresh and completely enjoyable.  It's wonderful to see a film with such excellent dialog! "},{"Title":"Got to Love Those English Actors","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to say I was a bit disappointed with AIH.  I am a total anglophile, but this movie seemed a little flat to me.  I couldn't hear/understand half the dialogue and the plot was straight out of a dime regency romance novel. I did think that the actors, for the most part, did an excellent job with what they had to work with.  Particularly Jeremy Northam (whom I've had a crush on ever since seeing him in London 6 years ago) and Cate Blanchett (Elizabeth).  This moving would be best on video where you can rewind to see what you've missed in dialogue. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett stole the show!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film with an absolutely superb cast of great talents.  There is the luminous Cate Blanchett who conveys so much with just one look playing a role she has now made her own.  She never fails to amaze as each role she undertakes can never be seen as being played differently or by another actor.  Jeremy Northam was strong and enigmatic with a showing of sensitivity I found endearing.  He has definitely proved himself as an incredible talent of worth.  Minnie Driver was exceptional in certain aspects of the movie but occasionally began to wan. While I consider her to be rather talented, she did not carry her role as strongly as the others. And what can be said of Rupert Everett?  Only that he is brilliant.  He played his role to perfection and there was no doubt he enjoyed himself. This is a man who is incredibly at ease and is a master of comedy without making it appear contrived.  Facial expressions, slight movements and tone of voice are his particular skill in this film and I laughed harder than anyone in the theatre.  He is to be commended highly for his undertaking of this role and playing it so brilliantly.  The movie on a whole was good, with excellent costuming(except for that despicable red dress Minnie wears toward the end)and flair.  Julianne Moore also did an incredible job as a scheming B**** and I was impressed with her performance.  BUT, Rupert Everett is the glue that held the whole movie together, the catalyst that kept things running and I loved him and the oscar worthy performance he gave. "},{"Title":"Oscar Wilde Lives!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an old-fashioned tale of love, lies, and the good old search for an honest man.  In the midst of witty dialogue and great characters, we hear timeless truths that connect a story set in 1895 with our own century. Rupert Everett is magnificent as Lord Goring and Jeremy Northam takes a character similar to the one he played in The Winslow Boy, and makes it even better!  An excellent film! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I considered this to be one of the best movies that I've seen in a long time. The script was full of the hysterically witty observations that Oscar Wilde is famous for. I generally abhor romantic comedies, but give this movie a 10.  "},{"Title":"Dry English Humor","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A good film with classic dry English humor. The film is quite engaging, the ladies look sensational and the plot takes some good twists and turns. Very different and better than what I expected. I give it a 9. "}{"Title":"WILDER AND MORE IDEAL THAN THE WINSLOW BOY","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oscar Wilde's century old An Ideal Husband holds up much better than most works half its age, notably Terence Rattigan's The Winslow Boy, and thus remains much more relevant to our times.  It is so fitting that it could be seen as a wry commentary on contemporary politics and the pundits who drive that machinery.  The self-deprecating humor and cynicism distinguish this middle class play from most others, and offers a far more perceptive and honest portrait of its class than those that merely provide lip service but without the fortitude and means to knock its audience off its pedestal. Wilde's sharp, acerbic wit takes centerstage and holds the mirror up to society, wreaking havoc on its unsuspecting occupants who are much too vain and self-conscious to notice the high drama unfolding daily amidst the pomp and circumstance.  It is Wilde's good fortune that wit is his greatest ally, a weapon he dispenses with ease and alacrity to both disarm and endear the very same class he so lovingly mocks and skewers.Oliver Parker's direction of the1999 film version is competent and serviceable, opening up the play in the beginning and the end while keeping the action brisk and fluid.  To his credit Mr. Parker knows better than to tamper too much with a classic that for better or worse will be remembered more as an Oscar Wilde film than Oliver Parker's. "},{"Title":"When wit was the only blunt instrument to fear...","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Going into this with my girlfriend, I feared a chick flick.  I was very happily surprised.  This entertaining film is a well-needed change from the violent, negative, simple-mindedly sarcastic fare that is the norm today.Jeremy Northam plays a similar role in another superbly crafted period piece, The Winslow Boy, recently remade by David Mamet.  "},{"Title":"What fun!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oliver Parker, director and adaptor of the recent Othello with Laurence Fishburne, has struck gold with his latest film, An Ideal Husband.  He has perfectly adapted Oscar Wilde's witty play for the screen, created a movie that is both successful cinematically and true to Wilde.  Minnie Driver, Cate Blanchett, Jeremy Northam and Rupert Everett are perfection.  This movie is terrifically funny, sumptuous, romantic, and (above all) intelligent.  What a treat! "},{"Title":"A well acted, witty period piece.  Don't miss it!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An Ideal Husband Lord Arthur Goring (Rupert Everett) epitomizes all that is wrong with the aristocracy  a mid 30's bachelor his only concerns are looking his best, avoiding all matters serious, bedding gorgeous women and annoying his father.  His best friend, Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam), is everything he is not working his way up from commoner roots Chiltern is a well respected politician with a beautiful home and wife, the picture of success in 1890's society.  However, Chiltern is not all that he seems -in order to get a break early in his career, he was involved in some unsavory dealings.  These facts will be brought to light by Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Julianne Moore) his wife's old nemesis, a fact that will be released if he does not agree to support her in a corrupt scheme to save her from bankruptcy.This movie was enjoyable on every level - a good script (courtesy of Oscar Wilde), a good cast, and wonderful acting.  There are many interconnecting webs in the plot, misunderstandings, and a few surprises, but none so contrived as to be unbelievable or difficult to follow. Everett, the only saving grace in My Best Friend's Wedding, was tailor made for this ole  - his delivery and demeanor were perfect.  The other stand out was Minnie Driver who did an excellent job as the woman seeking Goring's affections -cunning, deliberate and not to be underestimated.If you are looking for a witty period piece, you are asking for a lot. Luckily, this movie delivers.  "},{"Title":"Oscar Wilde at his best, supremely acted and filmed- a must","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Intelligent dialog stands as a pillar among the crude expressions of so many modern writers. Only for the discriminating viewer who appreciates quality writing. "},{"Title":"Is an ideal man out there for taking?  Think again...","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oscar Wilde's superb comedy of manners loses some of its immediacy in transition to the screen. Although brilliantly acted, with Julianne Moore as Mrs. Chevely, a consistent scene stealer (let's remember her come Oscar Season), and Rupert Everett as the narcissistic, unceasingly witty Lord Goring, the film should have no lags.  And yet it does.  Perhaps it's the direction.  Or maybe the one-line zingers become predictable by mid-film. In any case, it's a 96-minute feature which often feels much longer.Still, we don't hear dialogue like this very often.  It's like a flawlessly written symphony - spare, lyrical, and moving.  There's no doubt, were Oscar Wilde alive today, he would be Hollywood's highest paid and most in-demand screenwriter.  Bravo, Mr. Wilde, on yet another triumph.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Intelligent fun that you'd expect from Wilder, as long as you can stand Julianne Moore.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great Fun! The effervescent Cate Blanchette and Jeremy Northam once again show why they are the Bette Davis and Lawrence Olivier for the new millenium. Minnie Driver ALWAYS delivers (and grows more stunningly lovely film-by-film) and Rupert Everett's abilities shine (making this tinsel-townie forget about the on-going controversy over his private life). These four Brits are as fine a cast as one could desire. Unfortunately Julianne Moore, an American TRYING to be a Brit reaches her nominal height in acting. But ignore her strained performance and see this bright, timeless serio-comic tale of true heart-feelings over-coming dastardly nit-witage. I am biased- the directing adds this to the building library of the new British filmaking that I am scrambling to see more of. This one is not so Merchant-Ivoryish as just clearly, and joyfully executed entertainment that includes the audience as intelligences, not lemmings. Have fun here! "},{"Title":"WILDER AND MORE IDEAL THAN WINSLOW BOY","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oscar Wilde's century old An Ideal Husband holds up much better than most works half its age, notably Terence Rattigan's The Winslow Boy, and thus remains much more relevant to our times.  It is so fitting that it could be seen as a wry commentary on contemporary politics and the pundits who drive that machinery.  The self-deprecating humor and cynicism distinguish this middle class play from most others, and offers a far more perceptive and honest portrait of its class than those that merely provide lip service but without the fortitude and means to knock its audience off its pedestal. Wilde's sharp, acerbic wit takes centerstage and holds the mirror up to society, wrecking havoc on its unsuspecting occupants who are much too vain and self-conscious to notice the high drama unfolding daily amidst the pomp and circumstance.  It is Wilde's good fortune that wit is his greatest ally, a weapon he dispenses with ease and alacrity to both disarm and endear the very same class he so lovingly mocks and skewers.Oliver Parker's direction of the1999 film version of the same name is competent and serviceable, opening up the play in the beginning and the end while keeping the action brisk and fluid.  To his credit Mr. Parker knows better than to tamper with a classic that for better or worse will be remembered more as an Oscar Wilde film than Oliver Parker's. "},{"Title":"More cufflinks, more ball gowns, more milords, more chandeliers...","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gwyneth Paltrow must have had a lot of laundry to do--there's no other explanation for her absence from this broad, hamhandedly crowd-pleasing exemplar of the Miramax style. The studio's name was once synonymous with hipness, freshness, daring; now, it means cut-rate MGM, with high aristocratic gloss and clipped syllables at wholesale prices.This adaptation of Wilde's comic melodrama lacks the Louis B. Mayer high varnish of SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE; it's lush and overstuffed but looks a little tatty and quickly hurled together. Slowish and potboilerish, it details the moral crisis of a self-made MP (Jeremy Northam) agonizing over whether to compromise his principles to avoid the blackmail of his wife's diabolical classmate (Julianne Moore). IDEAL HUSBAND was twice filmed before, but this movie is an object lesson in why it is rarely revived for the stage. The director, Oliver Parker, gasps along from one blockish closeup to another as the exposition sputters out; the film resembles a very early, stagebound talkie. (One moment, when Julianne Moore is seen eavesdropping on a fateful conversation, is like a Gus Van Sant frame-by-frame rendering of a discarded, early George Cukor clinker.)As a hand-wringing wife and her eager-to-be-wed chum, Cate Blanchett and Minnie Driver are the very picture of inauthenticity, but Rupert Everett continues to pose the question why isn't this guy a major movie star? The handsome devil has only to gaze limpidly and emit a few words of dialogue, and the audience melts in a lava-burst of sheer, molten charm. And Julianne Moore continues to tie with Judy Davis for most underused major talent in movies. Earlier this year she was Glenn Close's idjit foil in COOKIE'S FORTUNE; here, she seems to be playing a wry parody of Close. Her sheer presentness is surfeiting; it seems to overflow the tinny, technical requirements of this wicked-grande-dame role, and damn near drowns this gray, clinking movie. "},{"Title":"Stage play made into stylish cinema with Everett superb","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good cinematic version of a stage play - all the staginess has been taken out, with cross-cutting from scene to scene and dialogue starting in one scene and crossing into another. Lots of new material to fill in the play's gaps, such as the scene in parliament where Robert speaks to condemn or support the 'swindle' at the heart of the play. Rupert Everett is superb - made for the part not a stagey Wilde mannered character, but perfectly understated, with langour and apparent carelessness. Cate Blanchett and Minnie Driver are nicely drawn - the one prim and idealistic, the other thoroughly 'modern'; Julianne Moore struggles to give real bite to the evil Mrs Cheevely - she should be of a different world, but somehow it seems accidental rather than intentional. Lavish photography and sets give a real end of the nineteenth century London feel. The film builds well, a little slowly at first but then pushes the tension along with some interesting characterisation. Then at the end it bottles out. Suddenly there's a story to be resolved, characters to be brought into line and it all falls away with some hysterical laughter and a set-piece wedding. Not the right style to finish the film at all. Good viewing though - it's a lot more than simple sentimental Wilde.  "}{"Title":"A very entertaining, witty film","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a really enjoyable film; with some wonderfully funny one liners and witticisms in true Oscar Wilde style.  The story about love and relationships manages to throw up some great situations and you really feel for the characters as they deal with the problems of relationships and morals that occur. Overall a very entertaining and witty film with a great performance by Rupert Everett. "},{"Title":"Essence of Wilde not realised. Costumes slovenly and horrible.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `An Ideal Husband` is one of Wilde`s lesser efforts but nevertheless, it requires an understanding of the comedy of manners to succeed in any medium. Unfortunately the director did not seem to grasp that the Wildean scene is very important to the truth of the piece. The costumes were dreadful. Look for Mrs. Cheveley`s left breast on her first appearance - it`s not there! Look at the puffing out of the waistcoat of Lord Goring when he is on the couch with Mrs. Cheveley. Look at the dreadful changes in Mrs. Chiltern`s hairdo and the hats were hideous throughout. Whoever cut the movie did so with a pinking shears. Little `ladies of the night` and glimpses of stocking are not Wildean - they are vulgar and Wilde HATED vulgarity. The whole character of the delightful Mabel was of course ruined by the knowing grimaces of Minnie Driver and I counted Rupert Everett`s pores several times.  His stove pipe hat did nothing for his allure nor did his crooked cravat. Then the blurbs - riotously funny - side splitting etc. Wilde was not written for belly laughs or amateur dressmakers who chose all the wrong colours for the characters and the period. The Ballygobackwards Amateur Dramatic Society in Ireland could have done better. When I went to see the movie in London there were 14 women and one man in the audience and he left half way through. And what was a Lord doing in the House of COMMONS????? Look at Glynis Johns to see the real Mabel Chiltern and weep for this version. "},{"Title":"Nice cast, shame about the crew!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a confirmed Wilde fan, I came to this film with some doubt - could the wit of Wilde survive. Some certainly did - but only some. The acting was good - not exceptional - they seemed as if they wanted to get the whole thing done as quickly as possible.Here is the bad bit though - the photography is really terrible - unnecessary hand-held not-very-steadycam on static shots is just plain lazy and shows a disregard for the audience.The editing sets a new standard for how not to do it. Should be compulsory viewing in all film schools.All in all this film looks as if it was put together as quickly as possible, to make as much money as possible.Try Tea With Mussolini to see good - really good photography and editing.  "},{"Title":"A superb witty romantic comedy","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Miramax have done it again and produced another winner. This adaption of Oscar Wilde's play is very classy. There are some brilliant, witty one liners, usually delivered by Rupert Everett on top form. Minnie Driver provides the romance and Julianne Moore is the perfect, scheming villain. The plot is nicely convoluted, involving blackmail, politics, an investment scam and romantic assignations. You know what the ending is going to be, but the twists and turns along the way keep you happily guessing as to how it is going to be arrived at.  "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly enjoyable film full of Wilde wit","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that An Ideal Husband would be just another costume drama, but I was pleasantly surprised when I went to see the film.The film centres on professional bachelor and tireless socialite Arthur Goring (Rupert Everett) who we first see the morning after. He is a man of elegant idleness, but he is forced to act when his friend Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) gets caught up in a delicate matter which threatens his rising political career, and marriage to Gertrude (Cate Blanchett).To complicate matters, two women are trying to change Arthur's single status the charmingly persistent Mabel (Minnie Driver), sister of Sir Robert; and the manipulative Mrs Cheveley (Julianne Moore). In amongst this tangled web of lies, temptations and misunderstanding, Arthur Goring must find a way of sorting out not only his friend's lives, but also his own.The reason this film succeeds is mostly due to its base material, a play by Oscar Wilde. Director Oliver Parker has thankfully done little to try and modernise Wilde's work and has thus kept the sparkling dialogue intact and indeed, it is still relevant in today's society. In addition, Parker and Wilde manage to create convincing characters, both male and female, who are beautifully portrayed by the starry cast - all uniformly excellent.The production design is of a very high standard so the film looks good, and the cinematography by David Johnson (who was perhaps the best thing about Hilary and Jackie) is outstanding too.The only flaw to the film is that, for all its charms, it never looks like falling into the bracket of a masterpiece. But, like the character of Arthur Goring, the film realises its limitations.So, to sum up, An Ideal Husband is a delightful film which, whilst not making any serious point, will certainly keep you entertained. "},{"Title":"Fabulous film, showing a fabulous era","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well worth watching! This film is very amusing and manages to involve the audience in the plot. Shows the British in their true form, when they were great! "},{"Title":"(or and ideal wife) is ... the Truth ! (DVD)","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's quite a long time that i haven't seen such a perfect movie a highly talented cast, a lavishing setting and a finely chiseled and powerful script.Here, you got an all-star team Driver as the eccentric but romantic young woman (unfortunately a falling star that hasn't shine for a long time), Moore as the Machiavellian lonely woman, Everett as the helpful friend, Sir Robert as the courageous man and ... Blanchet as the lovely wife whom characterization deeply moved me. In my tumultuous life, i was just wondering what's the special gift a woman can offer (me) to fall in love beauty, wit, sensuality, wealth, power? Gertrude has nothing of that but her kindness, her attention, her devotion left me under the spell. She could become easily my ideal wife.Then, the story happens in the Victorian time for which i have also a strong tie. I just really appreciate the British phlegm you can say the more vile things but always with class. Here, you find cupidity, blackmail, lies, ambition but there's nor a fight nor a shout! At last, the script is really well written you don't know if this is a romance, a buddy movie, a thriller or a tragedy. I really like the morals questions the movie asks can a bad action be redeemed? How can a true friend be helpful? Does love live with lies? The answers are not brought in a dull, academic patronizing way but playfully because all the characters seems to orbit around each other! In conclusion, it's a sort of lighter and happier Carlito's way thus a great movie that is maybe really unknown. "},{"Title":"Truly excellent filming of a classic","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Northam is An Ideal Husband who's about to get his clock cleaned by Julianne Moore in this gorgeous rendition of Oscar Wilde's play, also starring Rupert Everett, Cate Blanchett, and Minnie Driver.Northam is Sir Robert Chiltern, happily married to his lovely and adoring wife, Lady Gertrude (Blanchett) and guardian to his unmarried sister Mabel (Driver). He is in Parliament and opposed to an Argentine canal project. Then he is visited by Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Moore) who tries to blackmail him into approving the project. She knows how he gained his wealth and position. If his wife finds out, she'll be devastated. In desperation, he turns to his bachelor friend Lord Arthur Goring (Everett) for help. Goring attempts to help, and for a while, it looks like he made things worse.This witty comedy is given wonderful direction by Oliver Parker, and the production is sumptuous. The actors all underplay, letting the brilliance of the material come through. Especially funny is the scene where everyone is in a different room of Lord Goring's house, with no one aware that the other is present. Most times, you'd see a scene like this with the host a frazzled mess, running around, trying to keep everyone quiet and hidden. Here, Everett never changes his expression and is unflappable, making the situation funnier.Highly recommended as the way a classic play should be filmed. "},{"Title":"A Feast of Exquisite Language and Subtle Intrigues","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An Ideal Husband is a feast of exquisite language and subtle intrigues. If you have not seen this version of the play, you would be served well by a viewing.This comedy of manners by Oscar Wilde has been given its just due in the production starring Rupert Everett, Julianne Moore, Cate Blanchett, Minnie Driver, and Jeremy Northam. These actors are excellent in their parts, but Moore and Everett stand out in their roles of the blackmailer with the heart of gold and the shallow ne'er-do-well whose crafty brilliance saves the day.John Wood, who plays Everett's exasperated father, should also be mentioned. One might say that his performance is over the top, but that is exactly what is needed for the part.The film starts slowly, so you must have patience in order to be rewarded. If you are not familiar with the play you might be helped in your appreciation of the film by viewing the featurette included on the DVD. It serves as a worthy preface for the film.It is interesting to note that, about the time this play was being written, Wilde was about to become involved in his trial for being a homosexual the results of which would send him to prison and destroy much of his spirit.How ironic that the social conventions that Wilde so expertly and exquisitely barbed would have such a tragic influence upon his personal life. Enjoy the film as a look at history and as a reminder that social attitudes continue to exert considerable influence upon human behavior. "},{"Title":"Strictly for Anglophiles","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The acting is OK; the production values are fine - so, what's the problem? - You have to sit through a story about people you could hardly care less about just to hear an occasional bon mot. And it is a bit amusing - if you're a colonial reveling in the foibles of the English - maybe.Maybe Merchant-Ivory could've done something with this. My upper-lip gets stiffer just at the thought of viewing this again. I don't have the strength. A sturdy Anglophile could sit through this, though.Also, these period/costume pieces leave me searching for the context of the action and I can't help but think of the faded Glory which was the British Empire. "}{"Title":"No need for another comment here but I can't resist!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe I missed this when it came out but watching it for the first time last night was amazing. Pure brilliance, every character is like a little bubble of Oscar Wilde, delivering so many witty remarks that my head was spinning with pleasure and confusion with trying to remember them all.I think this is far superior to Importance of Being Earnest (the actual story not the films) which always seems unsatisfying to me at the end. I truly hated Chevely and everything had a happy ending without it seeming too easy or too crass.Wonderful! My only criticism would be of the music which was dull and not used to the great effect it could have been. "},{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've seen three video/film versions (the 1969 Jeremy Brett, the 1998 'contemporary', and this 1999 Blanchette/Everett), and read the original play. Each video/film version is good, with different strengths and weaknesses, but of the three I have the biggest problems with this one. First, Rupert Everett plays Lord Goring very low-key, like a man tired of life, which makes the early part of the film slow. Jeremy Brett in the 1969 version (categorized on IMDb under Play of the Month season 4, episode 9) was much better, full of life and wit and energy and imagination. Second, this version, unlike the other two, omits the business with Mrs. Cheveley's broach/ bracelet. I can understand why directors might want to cut it, since it can seem contrived, but cutting it requires coming up with an alternative method by which Goring gets Cheveley to surrender Sir Robert's incriminating letter, and it also costs Goring one of his character-defining lines. In Wilde's original, and in the 1969 and 1998 versions, during the scene between Goring and Cheveley in Goring's rooms, Goring condemns Cheveley most for what he saw as Cheveley's deliberate visit to Lady Chiltern to try to degrade her husband in her eyes, to try and kill her love for him, to put poison in her heart, and bitterness in her soul, and break her idol, and, it may be, spoil her soul. That I cannot forgive you. In the original, and in the other two versions, Cheverley did not in fact go to Lady Chiltern's to do this -- to the contrary, she explains, she went to find her lost broach, and it was Lady Chiltern's insults to Cheveley that caused Cheveley to expose Sir Robert to his wife. That admission clues in Goring that Cheveley was the one who had the broach, and this leads to his trapping her with it and extorting Sir Robert's letter from her. But in this version, Cheveley actually is guilty of going to Lady Chiltern for the purpose of destroying her love for her husband, yet Goring does NOT deliver the crucial denunciation of that act. Instead, Goring kisses and fondles Cheveley in an attempt to get the letter from her, and then engages in a bet whereby he agrees to marry her if Sir Robert supports the Argentine canal scheme. These changes transform Goring from a man who honors marriage to one who treats it as something to be wagered -- making him a fundamentally different character. Furthermore, this version changes the order in which characters enter Goring's apartment during these scenes, also in a way that changes Goring's character. In the original and in the 1969 and 1998 versions, Goring arrives; finds Lady Chiltern's letter that says she is coming; Goring's father shows up unexpectedly; Goring tells his butler a lady is coming who is to be shown into a particular room; Cheveley shows up, butler shows her in; Goring, who never saw her, thinks it is Lady Chiltern; then Sir Robert shows up just as Goring's father is leaving, and Sir Robert forces his way in against Goring's wishes. Thus Goring never intended that Sir Robert and his wife be there at the same time, in different rooms. In this version, by contrast, Sir Robert shows up before the lady, and thus, when Goring tells the butler to put the lady in the other room, he is planning that both Mr. and Mrs. Chiltern will be in his apartment simultaneously, only in different rooms. Thus Goring is taking a terrible risk with her reputation, if Sir Robert discovers her -- as apparently happens. The last major change is that Cheveley sends Sir Robert not only his wife's letter, but also the envelope it came in -- addressed to Goring. Moreover, this version adds a line to the letter -- that her love is destroyed -- which is not in Wilde's original or the other versions. Thus Sir Robert takes it as Cheveley intended, as a love-letter from his apparently unfaithful wife to Goring. Lady Chiltern, Goring, and Mabel then all engage in a series of quick-thinking lies to make Sir Robert think the letter was meant for him. This changes the characters of Goring and Mabel, and not for the better, in order to get a bit of farce into the show. Then, a little later, all three confess their lies to Sir Robert, and he apparently casually forgives and forgets it all. This is neither believable, nor does it show any real insight into human nature or the importance of love, which Wilde's original makes the most important point of the play. The 1998 version with James Wilby (Sir Robert) and Trevyn McDowell (Lady Chiltern) handles this more effectively and with more psychological insight. (The 1969 version avoids the whole issue by ending the play early, with Sir Robert under the impression the letter was meant for him, and with Sir Robert deciding to leave public life).In sum, this version is very entertaining, but it lacks the deeper emotional impact that Wilde's original and the 1998 version sought to attain, and it lacks the sparkling, witty Goring of the 1969 Jeremy Brett version. "},{"Title":"Wondrous in its entirety but one...","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Who can resist the charm of the European costume drama, no matter TV or movie?  Every minute of this movie is a high enjoyment to me, except one single painful twitch Minnie Driver.I don't have any clue why Celestia Fox would have chosen this actress.  There is not even a slight scintilla of antiquity on her look, hair, smile, voice, air blah blah blah... she is not English enough, besides, she lacks innocence.  Lord Goring may be crafty but a sense of innocence can be found from him, especially when he was trying so hard to help Gertrude out of the possible havoc that might wreaked in her husband's political career and her own reputation as a noble lady.  His match should be someone embodies both navet and cleverness.  Julia Sawalha, Kate Beckinsale, Liv Tyler, Keira Knightley, Helena Bonham Carter, Martine McCutcheon, Shirley Henderson will all possibly do the trick much better that MD can't hold a candle to.7.99/10, if MC (Mabel Chiltern) is not played by MD, 8 or even 8.5/10.  What a taint!  Misfit! "},{"Title":"Too slight a satire","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On the evidence of this film, Oscar Wilde's 19th century play is a slight comedy of manners, with some sharp lines but little real substance.  If I had been making this film, I would have been tempted to move it into a contemporary setting, to add some bite to the meal (and of course Wilde set the play in his present, not the past). Instead, director Oliver Parker goes the other route, in a lavishly costumed production whose weakness perhaps stems from the fact that it is hard to satirise a world, and wallow in it, at the same time. The ending is very self-congratulatory for a film ostensibly about hypocrisy and deceit, a little more anger wouldn't go amiss. "},{"Title":"The plot's the thing","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If only Oscar Wilde were still around to write more! Don't leave your mind at the door.Not just a love story, this is more than a romantic comedy, with even aspects of farce. An interplay of sometimes-devious characters, in a historical setting, full of intrigue sufficiently modern to be immediately understood. The plot has enough subtleties to engage and intrigue.The leading character (Goreing) keeps his balance, despite being continually wrong-footed by turns of events. If hereditary peers are that much more able than elected politicians, perhaps the House of Lords had better stay unreformed. Following his plans, actions and emotions as the story unfolds provides enough mental exercise to ensure entertainment, without being too much to hold in the head.I'll accept Goreing is in love with Mabel despite no apparent motivation beyond his father's instructions. (Not that she isn't beautiful!) I'll suspend my disbelief for the geography of the parliamentary scene. (Were all the non-MPs supposed to be in the Strangers' Gallery? Perhaps it was bigger then?) I'll accept Lord Chiltern wore his hat inside the House of Commons. For the sake of the plot I'll happily accept the contrived horseback and open-carriage meetings, and in fact almost anything. The plot is definitely the thing.I like having a puzzle weaved (How will he get out of it? We all know he must!) and then solved by sleight of hand before my very eyes. Reminiscent more of Dornford Yates than of Conan Doyle, this is ideal escapist stuff. No sleaze here the political intrigue is really just for fun.So what was wrong? I don't know, but this didn't quite hit greatness for me. Pretty costumes, good lines, strong actors, a corking plot, but something was missing. I'm not sure what. Perhaps the pace was slow - but I was gripped by the plot. Perhaps it is the origin of the piece as a stage play.AN IDEAL HUSBAND was merely very enjoyable. I wish we could have more great intelligent amusing movies, but - if we can't - let's have more good ones like this!  "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, but it wasn't a comedy","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is one thing that has bothered me more and more over the last few years about films.  And that is how they are marketed.  It seems that no how much the movie is not a comedy or how serious the film is, the execs behind it feel it is necessary to make the film look like it is a comedy.  There are some very serious issues in whatever film it is that they are marketing but instead of trying to market it as a drama or a period piece, they make you think it is a comedy.  They make you think that you are going to walk out with a smile on your face.  In the previews there is always some scene of someone dancing with a huge smile on their face.  It such common practice now that I am surprised that Goodfellas and Schindler's List wasn't marketed as a comedy.  Sorry, that is Scorsese and Spielberg, they actually have morals and values and won't let their films be falsely thought of like that. I say all this because An Ideal Husband really wasn't that funny.  In fact I laughed as much in this as I did in Titanic.  Both were fairly serious films with hints of comedy in them.  But when watching the commercials for An Ideal Husband you are expecting to see a Jim Carrey movie.  And that it wasn't.An Ideal Husband worked for me because I was intrigued by the characters for the most part.  But as the story goes, Robert has been in office in British Parliament for quite some time now.  He is comfortable there and he has a beautiful wife as well.  Suddenly, out of his past comes a mystery lady named Lady Cheveley.  She knows about his tainted past and threatens to expose him unless he supports a bill that is about to be debated upon in the House Of Commons.  She invested a hefty amount of money in some company that will be affected terribly by his speech in the House.  He now has to decide if he is going to do the right thing and stick to his guns or if he is going to acquiesce to the blackmail.The film is funny in some parts, that is for sure.  But the Ideal Husband part of it is really just a sub plot.  There is so much more to this film than women trying to find a suitable husband.  And I wish that was told to us going into the film, perhaps it would be more popular.  I'm not sure.The film is richly acted from all participants and it has some witty dialogue, one of new favourite movie lines now is  No amount of money can buy back a man's past.  Now that is powerful.  What's done is done.  A great line.  But the movie also suffers from people doing things that you know they would not do.  Namely, when life long friend Arthur tries to talk to Robert and explain some of his questionable actions, Robert just walks away and does not even give Arthur a chance to remedy the situation.  When all he had to do was say HEY very loudly,  let me finish dammit.  That would avoid some of the confusion that the friends were encountered with.I did enjoy the film despite my miscomings about it.  Cate Blanchet is a joy to watch.  She lights up the screen.  But on a whole I was disappointed in some areas and it kept me from really enjoying it immensely.  But ya know what?  I'm in my late 20's.  The crowd I saw it with was at least two generations older than me and they loved it.  They even cheered at the end of the film.  So maybe it is a film that is enjoyed better by someone that is not so caught up in the broohaha.  Maybe this is a film to just be enjoyed and that means just sitting in the theater with your detectors off. Just enjoy.  I guess that should be advice to myself.  And maybe I'll take it sometime and give this film another chance. "},{"Title":"A sheer delight","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I felt like I was watching an English Gigi.  What a pleasure to see beautiful people. exquisitely dressed in sumptuous surroundings, expressing themselves articulately with wit, grace and intelligence.  It dealt with the issues of honesty, morality, unconditional love and unrealistic expectations with charm and style.  I haven't enjoyed a film this much since Room With A view. "},{"Title":"If only we still talked like that","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't really have any comments on the photography because I was engrossed in the story line. This was a fantastic film, much better than the over-rated Shakespeare in Love. The story was well thought out with many twists and turns and although you know what happens in the end it is still fun getting there. I liked the little in joke when the characters were in the theatre watching The Importance of Being Earnest.Typically I enjoy films with lots of action & comedy one liners but every now and again it makes a change to see a film with a solid plot.All in all it was a gentle, funny, romantic comedy but not a typical chick flick, I think the guys will enjoy it too.The only bad thing about this film is that Mr Wilde is no longer with us to supply more treats such as this. "},{"Title":"I Can Resist Everything Except This Travesty","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Exceptionally dull adaptation of an Oscar Wilde play. I blame it on Miramax's poor casting. Big names do not make big successes. Cate (I only have one expression and let it be a half smile) Blanchett. Minnie (I only have one expression and let it be smug) Driver. Jeremy (I only look good) Northam...please! None of these people have the skill to pull off the complexity of a period comedy. It was not funny. It was pathetic! Perhaps some blame should go to the directing because it seemed as if the actors could not decide if they were participating in a comedy or a drama. If it weren't for Rupert Everett and Julianne Moore I would have bailed altogether. I kept wanting more of the real actors... Peter Vaughan, Lindsay Duncan, Nickolas Grace...they had such little parts...what a shame! They are so much more capable. Also, I kept thinking the music belonged to a different movie..it didn't add anything to the story. However, what I disliked the most about this movie was the voice overs during the performance of `The Importance Of Being Earnest'...especially during Oscar Wilde's on stage speech! Was this supposed to be a tribute? Insulting. Fortunately, Oscar Wilde will easily outlive this poor rendition of his play. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a predictable rendering of one of Oscar Wilde's fine plays.  Amazing cast, mixing and matching between screen favourites like Cate Blanchett (to whom I have an unswerving aversion), Minnie Driver (much better) and Julianne Moore, London stage supremos such as Lindsay Duncan, Simon Russell Beale and John Wood, plus bit-of-both-niks such as Rupert Everett and Jeremy Northam.Of course the acting is good (apart from the ever O.T.T. Blanchett), the costumes and sets delighted my old mum etc.etc.However, this lacks the spark that can be achieved with Wilde - this is Wilde the period piece, the costume drama, rather than Wilde the my goodness this was written 100 years ago yet still seems pertinent today.  Which is a pity.  the Argentinian Canal scam within the plot is a 19th century Enron.  It all adds up to 90 minutes of family entertainment that fails to do justice to its fine cast and the play upon which the film is based. "}{"Title":"Well structured, sophisticated, and an abundance of wit","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed!  All personalities are well described.  The chemistry between them is great.  I laughed a lot.  Every actor is quite lively. Full of humor, wit, sophistication and good plots.  Rupert Everett and Minnie Driver is excellent in particular. "},{"Title":"An Ideal Movie","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a delightful, civilized, intriguing, superbly performed motion picture. It sets a high standard for the comedy of manners genre. I only regret I watched it live and did not tape it because it's a film I want on my shelf. There are so many bad movies it is a refreshing delight to see a superb one!  "},{"Title":"Wildly entertaining! (No pun intended. Really.)","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite films for the year.  Wilde was truly one of the greatest wits ever to speak English.  Although previously derided as a chick flick by certain of my compatriots, by the end of the film they were as enthralled as I.  Rupert Everett is outstanding, as were Minnie Driver, Julianne Moore, Cate Blanchett and the poor man whose name I just can't remember right now... but Wilde was the star, with as many twists and turns as the audience could stand.  I loved it! "},{"Title":"Not Ideal Movie","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I once argued that Neil Simon would be remembered as America's greatest playwrite 100 years hence.  The people arguing with me made very good cases for Arthur Miller, etc., but I pointed out that there were lots of playwrites in the Victorian era, for that was their highest form of entertainment.  Yet whose plays are regularly performed -- and, if performed well, fresh?  Only Oscar Wilde's, the light-comedy writer.  A nod is given in An Ideal Husband to Wilde's masterpiece, The Importance of Being Earnest, and there's even a brief appearance by Wilde himself, a self-indulgent man whose most selfish act was to destroy himself so that we couldn't get more polished and shining plays from him.  All the fripperies of Wilde's ostentatious Victorian era are on view in An Ideal Husband.  The acting is uniformly good.  The production values are first-rate.  What's missing, oddly enough, is Wilde.  Now, this is understandable -- An Ideal Husband is bad enough for our era is that it's a movie you have to think about and give undivided attention to know what's going on. To have left all of Wilde intact -- for Wilde's plays are really cleverly machined plots hidden in a thin veneer of epigrams -- would have been impossible, given modern attention-spans.  A lot of the chatter of Wilde's characters has been cut, and some lines were added.  Still, this helps make the plot  more lucid.  The problem is, there is perhaps too much focus on the tragic elements of the plot;  and rather than playing them as dark comedy, they are played very seriously indeed;  and then there will be a sudden spurt of Wildean comedy.  The acting is uniformly good.  Veterans like Peter Vaughn and John Wood seem vastly more aware of what they're playing, and it would have been nice to see more old hands from the English theatre, who know exactly what they're doing, on hand.  The young actors, while turning in very fine performances, vary tremendously in their approach to the material and their success.  Only Rupert Everett comes across as thoroughly Wildean.  Every time there's a sag in the play, the makers have sense enough to trot Everett out, and suddenly all is well.  Everett is handed a plum role, the character Wilde possibly identified with -- in Dorian Gray it would be Lord Henry;  in Earnest, Algernon Moncrieff;  here, it is Lord Goring.  And Everett wears the role with a properly flippant seriousness, coming across as truly Wildean.  Occasionally, he appears determined to single-handedly keeping the whole show from sliding into George Gissing territory.  If an MVP award was given for movies, Everett would be on the short list for 1999. The faults that cause Ideal Husband ultimately tofall short of its intention -- to bring Wilde to a modern audience -- is not the production people or the actors, but whoever decided that Wilde's words should be presented (truncated and rearranged though they were) without Wilde's spirit.  Wilde's life was a tragedy, for he was a hero with tremendous tragic flaws that devoured him;  but his plays were funny.  To understand The Importance of being Wile is not to examine him in the Victorian era;  we all find it easy to make fun of Victorian conventions these days, and its code was far different from our's.  To think of Wilde properly we should see a comparable figure today poking public fun at our modern American conventional morality, making comic plays at the expense of practitioners of political correctness, multiculturalism, and other modern sacred cows that will look as bizarre a hundred years from now as the Victorians look to us.  Only, the p.c. crowd can't laugh at themselves the way the Victorians could, and a modern Wilde would be destroyed and fed to the vultures a more quickly.  Perhaps the tragedy was accented to underscore the importance of a proper character in those days;  but it makes the comedy, when it bursts out, more uncertain.  The most important lingering effect An Ideal Husband leaves is a wistful nostalgia for the days when people were willing to risk their lives or public reputations -- or their offices -- to do what's right. Perhaps the best reason to see this Ideal Husband is not to see how silly the Victorians could be (how we need a modern Wilde to hold up a mirror to our own silliness!) but to be reminded of Something that is singularly missing today, not only in politics, but in the arts, where no Wilde is willing to puncture the pompous mores of our culture;  Something that can be more important to a person than a position or popularity or success;  Something that should be revived for a new century and not just redefined by the cultural elites to suit what they are rather than to define who they are by its proper definition  that Something is integrity.  And despite An Ideal Husband's flaws, and also in spite of its character's gleeful underhandedness, the movie is ultimately a long-overdue celebration of Integrity.  "},{"Title":"This isn't Ideal","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `An Ideal Husband' Rupert Everett stars as Lord Arthur Goring, a bachelor who's ex-finance (Julianne Moore) comes strolling back into town with a secret.  The secret threatens to expose Lord Goring's friend Sir Robert (Jeremy Northham) and his wife (Cate Blanchett). Set in 1894 London, and adapted from the stage play by Oscar Wilde, `Husband' is the latest costume drama where `scandal' and `society' are the buzzwords and tedium is the audience's reaction. Oliver Parker directed the 1995 Shakespeare flick `Othello' with a burning pace and a slick cast led by Laurence Fishburne.  That film was deeply entertaining and showed that Parker was capable of making the most mundane work seem fresh again. With `Husband', Parker seems to have forgotten this gift.  Relying on the lame drama, the film utterly fails whenever the actors get serious.  These costume films are just all the same.  The plots seem to bleed into each other, the actors all give the identical interpretations.  I could easily predict how the score would sound, the lighting arranged, and each actor's enunciation.  I am losing my patience for this genre (the recent mega-disappointment `The Winslow Boy') and I pray this well has run dry. I am so used to Rupert Everett's 3 week old kitten purr of a voice,  I immediately thought he was all wrong for the part of a dashing leading man.  Rupert is a very handsome guy, but his acting up to this film has left a lot to be desired. In `Husband', it takes time, but he soon becomes the film's saving grace.  It's a funny performance stuffed with cynicism and wit.  Julianne Moore equals Everett with style and venom. She's in the middle of a real career defining period(`Boogie Nights', `Cookie's Fortune'), and this film adds to the list of smashing performances.  Minnie Driver and Cate Blanchett bring up the rear of actors here.  Ms. Driver looks just about as animated as I've seen her, and Ms. Blanchett looks lovely beyond words.  Both are given very little to do, thus a huge waste of talent occurs.  That is tough to watch. `Ideal Husband' isn't my idea of a good time.  The seniors in the audience that I watched it with disagreed.  I feel very open minded to most intelligent films, I mean, come on, I'm never picky.  It's just these repressed society-`they're just like us!'-corset and tea-'improper!' films have GOT TO GO.  I can't handle another 45 minute subplot about spilled tea again.  Don't we have a reserve of gay coming of age films ready to fill up the art houses? French films about the degradation of society?  Anything, please.---------- 3 "},{"Title":"Not what it could have been","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On paper, this would appear to have got everything right.  Script by Wilde; Minnie & Cate and the delicious Rupert Everett  and Jeremy Northam. But it doesn't quite work, because the actors don't seem able to have any fun with the text. They  should be serious at times, of course, or the story wouldn't  work, but the production lacks lightness, playfulness. If, for  instance, you compare Minnie's Miss Mabel with the Glynis Johns  performance in the earlier movie, you'll see where Minnie got it  wrong, behaving like a slightly desperate child, where Glynis's  Mabel was a charmingly faux-naive grown-up woman, who knew  exactly what was going to happen all along. For Glynis, the end  is yes, and what took you so long? For Minnie, it's Blimey!  Really? Not quite as chic. All the same, they're an awfully  attractive cast, and it's a nice film. But it could have been fun, and it could have been good "},{"Title":"So this is Oscar Wilde....Wow, what a writer!!  A visual treat, artfully delivered in every way!!","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although I've heard references to Oscar Wilde, I was not familiar with his work, much to my loss it is now decided. This movie, screenplay written based upon Mr. Wildes original work, is quintessentially English in every way, much like Downton Abbey of today's popularity. In fact it takes place in an earlier era, perhaps early 19th century, prior to electricity and horseless carriages, in a time when the English language used in discourse was employed in the highest articulation and most delicate insinuation, respectful of integrity, honor, and sensibility in personal interchanges, but fully pregnant with subtlety, deeper hidden meanings, and wileful if not guileful, wit. The story is not complex, but it is artfully constructed and beautifully played out by the highest quality acting that I have seen in a very long time. Rupert Everett, Cate Blanchett, Julianne Moore, Minnie Driver, John Wood, and even Peter Vaughn (as the butler) all contribute subtle but effective, and memorable performances in this wonderland of high British society. The comedic timing, the perfectly phrased and delivered lines all add to the impeccable artistry achieved in this film. The sets deliver the essence of sumptuously wealthy English domiciles imaginable, and rarely is a bare hand visible, as the ladies and gentlemen find the wearing of white gloves fashionable in the day. Ultimately, it is a story about love, affections, honor, human imperfection, friendship, wealthy aspirations and the ending of a bachelorhood, all woven together into a cloth of varying textures in a kaleidoscope of color, using the finest quality of threads (acting). This is simply a very lovely, very enjoyable, witty and visually stunning tale in a time long since left behind, that I found highly stimulating and fun to fall into for a while. "},{"Title":"A great satire and comedy for all time","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's been many years since I've read any Oscar Wilde, but I recall being regaled by his comedy and satire in the past. I haven't seen the 1947 movie of An Ideal Husband, but I did see the 1969 BBC production with Jeremy Brett. I can't imagine any production of this witty, clever and satirical story not being highly entertaining. At the same time, I can't think that any future version will top this 1999 film. The story spectacle is excellent &#x96; along the lines of the big splashy movies of Victorian England. All the technical and production values are first-rate. But it is the directing and acting that stand out most. It is in the dialog, with facial expressions, gestures and moves that one best appreciates Wilde. It is from the people that the author wrings out the great comedy and satire &#x96; amidst drama at times, and romance and suspense.This film has a substantial cast of wonderful actors. Every role is exquisitely played to perfection &#x96; um, make that NEAR-perfection. But Rupert Everett's Lord Goring is something else. To imitate a quip in the play penned by the witty Wilde, Everett's Goring is only slightly less than perfect. It's hard to imagine this egocentric, ego-maniacal character any funnier than in this film.A bonus featurette with my DVD intimates that An Ideal Husband is also a drama. I'll concede to the dramatic moments and undertone. But the comedy thread provided by Lord Goring throughout never lets those elements of drama take hold or last longer than to set up the next pun or witty line. This movie is a wonderful feast of quips, subtleties, face-offs and dismissals. It pokes fun at different aspects of society &#x96; the rich and idle, the wealthy and powerful, the prim and proper, the cunning and conniving, the perfect and the imperfect. It has messages and delivers them with good humor and subtlety. This 1999 version of An Ideal Husband is Oscar Wilde at his best. I highly recommend this film. It's suitable for the whole family &#x96; that opening scene with the blurred background passes quickly. But the young folks may not readily catch or enjoy the humor. The following are some lines of dialog to whet your appetite for watching An Ideal Husband.Lord Goring You see, Phipps, fashion is what one wears oneself. What is unfashionable is what other people wear.Other people are quite dreadful. The only possible society is oneself.To love one's self is the beginning of a lifelong romance.I enjoy talking about nothing, father. It's the only thing I know anything about.Lady Chiltern In the old days, we had the rack. Nowadays, we have the press.Mabel Chiltern Do you have anything you wish to say to me, Lord goring? Goring Um .. No, I don't think so. Mabel Chiltern Then I don't want to hear it.Lord Caversham Do you always understand what you say, sir? Lord Goring Yes! If I listen attentively.Mrs. Chevely And so, my dear Arthur, are you not just a little bit pleased to see me? Lord Goring Oh, my dear woman, possibly even less than that.Lord Goring Did you miss me? Mabel Chiltern Awfully! Lord Goring Then I'm sorry I did not stay away later. I like being missed.Lord Goring Yes, but the fact is, father, this is not my day for talking seriously. Lord Caversham What on earth do you mean? Lord Goring I mean that during the season I only talk seriously on the first Tuesday in every month, between noon and 300. "},{"Title":"An Ideal Husband","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oscar Wilde's exquisite comedy/play, which is also a remake (after the 1947 version from Alexander Korda). adapted by Oliver Parker (whose filmography is noteworthy for other play- turned films such as OTHELLO 1995 and another Wilde's masterpiece, the remake of THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST 2002). I'm quite aware of my personal inclination over the glittering cast (a combo with British, American and Australian) may overweigh the intricate screenplay and laudable wisecracks, which turns out to be that it can effortlessly appease my expectations. As I haven't read the original book, I assume it's Wilde himself who should take most of the credit. On the other hand, the dexterity of Mr. Parker's talent should not be overlooked. The satirical overtone of the British milieu is undeniably gratifying judging by the taste of a foreign audience, all the twists thoroughly converge into the pyramidical outburst and unleashes a feel-good sensibility which is smooth but hasty, running at a length of a meagre 97 minute, the sparks is penny-pinching.One sure thing is that the competent cast manipulates a wonderful rendition against the sketchy arrangement, the first time of two of my goddess Moore and Blanchett star in the same film (a second time is a sadly under-appreciated THE SHIPPING NEWS 2001, in which they are two parallel lines), the magnificent good Vs. evil collision alone worths the ticket, Moore unstoppably exudes her elegant malignancies in each frame, dominates the entire picture under her grip despite of her not-so-packed screen time. And Blanchett, on the contrary, hides her lioness prowess and accomplishes an easier job as the forthrightly guileless Lady Gerturde Chiltern. Another victory comes from Lord Arthur Goring, who is winningly played by a chiseled Rupert Everett, he is utterly suitable. But Jeremy Northam and Minnie Driver's roles are tedious and uncanny respectively, forgive my taste and frankness, the latter falls short of appeal from any respect in my humble opinion. I give the film an 8/10, a little bit overrated I must say, but I could not resist the pure charisma from the dynamic verbal battles, especially in a language which I am able to understand. "},{"Title":"This movie is wonderful","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the better romantic comedies. Julianna Moore steals the show as a beautiful but conniving woman who concocts an elaborate plot to snare a man, a confirmed bachelor, for marriage and in the process sets off a series of unanticipated but amusing events. Rupert Everett plays the target of Ms. Moore's intrigue; only one actor could have played the role better George Sanders. What makes this movie even more entertaining is that the Moore/Everett characters mirror one another as each one tries to outdo the other's cynicism, with amusing results. All kinds of embarrassing moments occur as miscommunication leads to havoc which one hopes will be sorted out. The movie is based on a story by Oscar Wilde, which means that it will contain a lot of wit and biting commentary on the pomposity and decadence of the upper of the upper classes. This movie is wonderful. "}{"Title":"Mannered humor","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Unlike other Victorian films of the '90s (Emma - Gwyneth Paltrow) An Ideal Husband holds up very nicely. Much of the appeal of a first viewing comes from watching a perfectly cast Rupert Everett traipse through Oscar Wilde effortlessly. Ensuing viewings reveal that both Blanchett and Northam assay their characters quite finely also; although their scenes together are really almost too much to bear without rolling ones eyes (Love me Gertrude! Love me! Hold me Robert..!). Blanchett, although plain, becomes increasingly beautiful as she inhabits Victorian trappings and mores, while trying to hold it all together. As she strives to accommodate all sorts of conflict she grows more and more winsome. The narrative lets her and Robert off the hook. In a bit of ethical dissonance, we're meant to feel that gluing the two back together (in upper class splendor) is more important than reckoning with the loathsome, traitorous source of Robert's wealth, and Gertrude's social standing. They're quite a pair of hypocrites. Ah well, it's the convention of light comedy to share their delusion, and devalue such things.Well past the resolution of the major conflict, the movie lingers over some glorious, goofy moments in the Chiltern mansion. You may wonder why the movie stays so long, but the scenes are there to resolve a secondary plot line. They're droll and underplayed wonderfully. Just about every scene of Minnie Driver and Rupert Everett bantering is a gem; with some subtle face work and reactions. This coda is also shot & pieced together nicely, with even the camera placement being thoughtful and funny (A vain Minnie Driver steams past the camera to await a proposal behind a palm tree. Everett and his disapproving father depart the screen symmetrically off either side. heh he he.. good stuff.) Whenever I think I bought this movie in a moment of weakness, I pop it in and it always makes me laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oscar Wilde's play has been made into movies many times. There was even one made one year before this version. I can't comment on the other versions, but Oliver Parker certainly adapted the play with and very good screenplay and excellent direction to give us a glimpse of 19th century British aristocracy with a magnificent cast to boot.Jeremy Northam (Gosford Park, Emma) was excellent as a man who had a terrible secret in his past that was to be brought to the light of day by Julianne Moore (The Hours, Boogie Nights), who was looking to get rich. He had thought that no one knew, and his political career, and even his marriage to Cate Blanchett (The Aviator, Notes on a Scandal) was to come to a crashing end.But, Sidney Carlton to the rescue, as his best friend, Rupert Everett (My Best Friend's Wedding) got himself another Golden Globe nomination as a friend that would risk all for another.The repartee in this film is what makes it so special, and you cannot help by laugh at all the great lines delivered by the principals, including the ever lovely Minnie Driver (Good Will Hunting).Outstanding costumes and makeup in the period piece that is worth watching more than once for the hilarious lines. "},{"Title":"Ideal, absolutely, for those who adore such films as Emma, A Room with a View, and A Merry War","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Gertrude (Cate Blanchett) is an English aristocrat in the Edwardian era. She is very much in love with her husband, Robert (Jeremy Northam), a rising star in the British Parliament. Yet, an old schoolmate of Gertrude's, the conniving Laura (Julianne Moore) arrives back in town with a mission. She knows a secret about Robert that would bring about his ruin and decides to pressure him to support a government bill that would invest heavily in a Argentine adventure, one she has staked her money on as well. What can Robert do? He turns to a close friend, Lord Arthur (Rupert Everett) for help. Arthur, a rich and witty bachelor, offers what support he can. But, with women chasing him around every corner, including Robert's sister, Mabel (Minnie Driver), can Arthur devote the time required to saving his friend? And, will Gertrude have to be told about the blackmailing, causing her to lose some faith in the husband she thinks is ideal? This film, based on a play by Oscar Wilde, is a sophisticated and charming movie of the highest order. As such, it is replete with clever and mirthful lines, lovely costumes, beautiful sets, and memorable characters. As the principal actors, Blanchett, Northam, Everett, Driver, and Moore are excellence itself, laying doubt that anyone else could have filled their roles in a better manner. Yes, it is a dialogue-driven film but it is never stuffy or boring. If you have enjoyed such movies as Emma or A Merry War, this one is an ideal choice for your next film engagement. But, even if you are channel surfing and stumble across the flick on some lonely night, you will be drawn to its universal humor and humanity. "},{"Title":"Scarce Entertainment for the Grown-Ups","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Here was a chance not just to see a movie aimed at grown-ups but to see CATE BLANCHETT as well. Truthfully, I enjoy more contemporary settings for English movies and Cate was certainly more appealing covered with western grit and grime in THE MISSING than covered from head to toe in formal clothes. This Oscar Wilde comedy did not yield so much as a chuckle, but as a story it was moderately interesting. I had to keep in mind their excesses and mannerisms were part of the alleged comedy.When my mind wandered away from the inadequate storyline, I was thinking that the England and the English upper class pictured herein were not much to my liking, but it was people like this that ran the Empire at the time when England ruled most of the world. Both Iran and Iraq, as well as Saudi Arabia and Egypt, were under British control --- and life was more peaceful for us all. "},{"Title":"Mr Oscar Wilde - a triumph of style over substance.","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mr Oscar Wilde was the Noel Coward of his day.A few entertaining plays full of bon mots,some fairly excruciating poetry (The Ballad of Reading Gaol?Come on,you're in prison - deal with it),some prose of varying quality and a personal life that scandalised the Society of the time. Fortunately for Sir Noel he lived in a slightly more tolerant age and ended up a British Institution,whereas the unfortunate Oscar ended up in a British Institution. Sometimes a talent to amuse just isn't enough. Mr Wilde was what was known in less enlightened times as a Raging Queen,and when he seduced the pretty son of a peer of the realm,the thin veneer of tolerance that surrounded his circle was strained to breaking point.Referred to publicly as a somdomite(sic) by the peer,Wilde, against the advice of his friends,sued in a moment of arrogance he was to live to regret. He is widely regarded as a martyr to Victorian hypocrisy and his posthumous reputation has grown with the acceptance of sexual diversity and now stands at its peak.Future literary critics may take a more cold -eyed view of this minor Victorian playwright with a penchant for borrowing other people's one-liners.Forty years ago Wilde stood a long way behind his near contemporary and fellow Irishman George Bernard Shaw a man of infinitely more depth,versatility and intellectual acuity. Today's sound-byte society is far more comfortable with Wilde's instantly accessible cellophane-wrapped drawing room jokiness. This reached its apotheosis in An ideal husband,which,along with Lady Windermere's fan and The importance of being earnest is surely in production somewhere in the world 24/7 - if not it certainly seems like it. So to the latest movie version,and the first question you have to ask yourself is why?I suppose it's rather like asking why Liz Taylor buys so much jewellery.....because she can.She doesn't need any more diamonds and the world doesn't need another An ideal husband,so go figure. It's not that the film's bad,it's just ....well...unnecessary really. No new ground is broken,none of the performances are more than party-pieces,the costumes are nice,you almost feel there should be a little notice Cigarettes by de Reszke down amongst the wines and spirits........ It's all very clever and highly polished,rather like the characters in the play itself,but just a tad shallow.In Shaw's work the characters speak their own words,Wilde's creations merely parrot his epigrams. With Wilde's star still in the ascendancy perhaps a re-assessment of GBS is overdue,I suggest a prestige production of Mrs Warren's profession might be more of a challenge for Mesdames Blanchett and co. instead of sleep-walking through overfamiliar fare. "},{"Title":"Not Wilde's Best Play but a Splendid Production","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" People who complain about the artificiality of the plot in An Ideal Husband obviously have no familiarity whatsoever with Oscar Wilde's plays. The plots are always artificial. The knock on An Ideal Husband has always been that it is not as funny as some of the other plays and that it is overly dependent on romantic love, not a characteristic Wildean pose. Nevertheless, as a film, this may be the best realized of Wilde's plays. The cast is top drawer, including not only the principals (Jeremy Northam, Cate Blanchette, Rupert Everett, Minnie Driver and Julianne Moore as the play's beautiful villainness) but also the wonderful John Wood as the father of Everett's character. Wood isn't especially well known for his movie roles but he is one of the great English stage actors and he steals every scene he's in -- against rather stiff competition. Among the lead actors, Everett and Moore are especially good but they also have the best material to work with. Go see The Importance of Being Earnest, of course, and Lady Windermere's Fan, which are superior dramas. But I don't think they've been done on film as well as this one has. "},{"Title":"The Wit, the Charm, the Convoluted Machinations of the Inimitable Wilde","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oliver Parker has done a fine job in adapting Oscar Wilde's play THE IDEAL HUSBAND for this 1999 screen version. The transition is seamless with all the jabs and foibles of high society and political shenanigans mixed together to a fare-thee-well by a superb cast of fine actors. Dress this all in the sumptuous sets by Michael Howells, Rod McLean and Katie Lee and elegant costumes by Caroline Harris and embroider with a musical score by Charlie Mole and the result is one of the more satisfying period comedies to come along in a long time.As the rising politician Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam) ascends in Parliament, secrets from his past are brought to bear from out-of-towner Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Julianne Moore) who in turn surfaces dalliances by Lady Chiltern (Cate Blanchett) and the Wildean man about town Lord Arthur Goring (Rupert Everett) under the ever-present eye of Sir Robert's sister Miss Mabel (Minnie Driver). Political promises are made as blackmail but in the end everyone's little lies and pacts are placed on the table and all's well that ends well.The visual pleasure of the film is matched by the witty lines delivered by the top-notch cast in perfect Victorian Oscar Wilde fashion. The supporting cast, especially John Wood and Lindsay Duncan, are excellent. At times the plays of Oscar Wilde can delight the intellect alone this version dazzles the other senses in every way. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"fabulous movie","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I hate it when a movie moves terribly far from an original score. This movie did not do that. It borrowed from Oscar Wilde in the most magnificent way...terribly wonderful adaptation. Humorous, fun, good spirited, lively acting and wonderful scenery. Costumes, speech, etc. all perfect. Rupert Everette was perfect as Lord Goring and Minnie Driver did a top notch job. Blanchette was, as expected, perfect for the time period piece and the other characters were strong as well...even the butler was perfect. A thoroughly enjoyable near two hours of entertainment. I highly recommend it. While I am a MAJOR fan of Oscar Wilde and have HATED many of the adaptations of his works...this one stands among those that I feel were stolen and refurbished in a brilliant fashion. "},{"Title":"Marvelous Reminder of Wilde's Timelessness","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After seeing An Ideal Husband I read the original Wilde play to be sure this wasn't just Primary Colors in costumes, as the original had even more politically pointed comments apropos the Clintons and Wilde is a much better writer than Joe Klein.The cast is wonderful. Rupert Everett of course is a terrific Oscar Wilde stand in, carrying the film from the serious to the farcical to make a very cynical point -- that we all have feet of clay and life is compromise. One can suspend belief that he would be attracted to Minnie Driver. Julianne Moore is a delicious villain. Jeremy Northram makes a nice politician. Cate Blanchett is a sweet idealist (OK not exactly Hilary - but she's on the road to becoming Hilary at the end).The only problem is director Oliver Parker who shifts too suddenly from serious drama to French bedroom farce complete with choreographed doors opening and closing and people hiding in various rooms and goes for some silly laughs like that then shifts to serious discussion.The movie is wonderful at making the point that the more things change the more they stay the same! Reading the play, the edits were interesting -- the women were taken off their pedestals and made less Madonna vs. whore to be more real, while some political speeches were cut that I thought could have been retained to make the contemporary comparisons resonate even more.(originally written 7/18/1999) "},{"Title":"Delicious","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Supremely cultured comedy of the highest order. I think this film simultaneously cherishes and pokes fun at the characteristics of English society 100 years ago. The settings are so lavish and the actors uniformly lovely, it is a feast for the eyes. It is also a feast for the mind, as you sort out the insults from the love scenes, almost all of them delivered in the same polite and cultured tones, which only adds to the hilarity. I particularly love the scripting and the acting of Miss Mabel and Lord Goring, they are absolutely delicious...! "}{"Title":"Great premise, good story but took too long to wind up","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is based on a bet. Not wanting to give too much away suffice it to say that a calculating affirmed bachelor bets an equally calculating female that someone else will do what he thinks... and that if he loses the bet he will marry her. (As to who wins, well you'll just have to wait and see.) I loved this as a premise, and it was a good story that unwound fast enough to maintain interest, but once the basic outcome was known it took too long to tie the loose ends up. This was probably inherent in the original play, but it was a pity. "},{"Title":"Yawn.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good acting and British accents a great movie does not make.  This film lacked originality and the only joy was in studying each character.  Thus, the plot suffered.  The script was written beautifully, but I kept asking myself, Is there anything in this film that will surprise me?  The answer is woefully, 'NO. "},{"Title":"If You Like Wilde, You Should Like This.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people sneak into movies that they haven't payed for in this neighborhood.  The most hilarious part of this movie for me was watching teenage couples sneak into the movie, sit for a couple minutes, and then sneak out.  This is a movie in which one has to pay attention and listen constantly, and many people of my generation sadly seem unable to do this.  I really think that it's a shame because this is a well acted funny movie.To those who are unfamiliar with Wilde, I would recommend picking up one of his plays and reading a couple pages (preferably the entire thing) to get a feel for the pace and style of the movie as it is definitely not something everyone will enjoy.  However, anyone who remotely enjoys Wilde will surely at least be entertained by the film.  The dialogue and plot remain surprisingly fresh after a century or so.  Rupert Everett is wonderful as the typical Wildean dandy, and although Minnie Driver is a bit blunt in her performance in comparison with the others, she's just so adorable only the harshest critic will moan about bad casting.  I laughed out loud in the scene when she falls in love with Lord Goring.  The setting and costumes are very bright and cheerful in fitting with the mood of the play, as is the music.  One can nitpick about authenticity of costumes and camera shots and the ethnicity of the music, but I've always viewed Wilde's plays as sort of witty soap operas with rather shallow moral lessons.  His novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray, is a little deeper.  Thus, I think a profound treatment of the plays would be kind of inappropriate.  English majors will be quick to disagree. The only scene in the movie which seemed a bit tacky was the play during which the characters were watching a performance of The Importance of Being Earnest, and Wilde himself makes a cameo.  It seems a bit redundant to me.  Oh well, to sum everything up, I went into the theater expecting Wilde, and Wilde was what I got.  "},{"Title":"Glad to be wrong!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having read all of Oscar Wilde and having been completely charmed by his wit I thought that a film would never successfully capture the tone. But I was wrong The cast was excellent and the whole film is funny, witty and well worth seeing!!! "},{"Title":"THIS was supposed to be an Oscar Wilde adaptation?!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Geez, I didn't realize that fact until I read other people's comments; I think that is a clue as to how badly this film failed. The only notable actors were Lord Goring's father and butler, Julianne Moore was okay as Mrs. Chevely, and Rupert Everett was easy on the eyes and not a *bad* Lord Goring, but I'm sure Oscar Wilde's original Lord Goring was much more playful.Minnie Driver as Miss Mabel was just awful; her costumes were remarkably ugly, she made goofy faces all the time, and had nothing to recommend herself to Lord Goring.Glad I didn't spend $8.50 at the theatre anyways. Would be interested to see it on stage however, now that I know it was supposed to be a Wilde farce. "},{"Title":"Less-Than-Ideal","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted Julianne Moore's conniving Mrs. Cheveley to triumph over the gaggle of dim-witted children she had to put up with. I was truly disappointed when she was packed off to Vienna while the goody-two-shoes celebrated. Moore's character was the only one of flesh-and-blood. Even the bad-boy, Rupert Everett's Lord Goring, was milk-toast. I  couldn't have cared less about the bland lot. Here was opportunity for biting commentary about the late-Victorian British ruling classes, but the movie didn't try that angle. An Ideal Husband wasn't sure whether it wanted to be a Merchant-Ivory glorification of the British Empire or Oscar Wilde-meets-Frank Capra.   Blanchett,  Everett, Northam and numerous British character actors did  excellent acting turns in spite of any of the film's limitations. But, egads,  cart Minnie Driver's Mabel off to the Continent with Mrs. Cheveley --- I hear they have some fine acting schools in Vienna. Of course, the film's production values were stellar.  About the DVD edition- I thought it was cheesy to have a picture of Mabel & Lord Goring in bridal regalia greeting me on the directory-screen of the DVD. Talk about a spoiler!!!! "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It takes a certain degree of incompetence to strip an Oscar Wilde play of wit and focus.  Every single line is read slowly and seriously, - even Gorings.  The story is unsuccessfully split over countless expensive 19th century locations, giving it the slow grandiosity of a costume drama, rather than the speed of a farce. "},{"Title":"Not quite, but thank God for Julianne Moore.","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie lacks the pace and verve required to make Oscar Wilde reallycome to life. It's a very reverent treatment of a play by the master ofirreverence, and therein lies the problem. The women all fare prettywell, my particular favorite is Julianne Moore. This is a beautifultalented woman who should be playing lead roles in movies all the time.The men come off less well, especially Jeremy Northam, who seems ill atease and a bit awkward in his role. All in all, not a great film, but anadequate adaption. Go and see the play instead, if you have a chance.      "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was looking forward to Rupert Everett's performance. He has the looks as does Ms Driver. However that's all it is. All for show and beautiful costumes and scenery. I didn't know whether this was suppossed to be a romantic comedy or just another episode of masterpiece theater . All the fancy talk of late 19th century English accents delivered with dull results.Halfway through this film it got even worse as the copy of the film developed a green line running right down the center. This just added to my boredom. Mr Everett and Ms Driver would do better to stick to roles better suited for them. They look pretty in this movie but their lines are boring. Go see My Best Friends Wedding and Good Will Hunting..they showcase Mr Everett and Ms Driver's talents a lot better... "},{"Title":"Witty, fresh but lacking substance for those looking for it","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sir Robert Chiltern is a member of parliament, a member of rich society and in a loving relationship with his beautiful wife.  All this comes under threat when Mrs Cheveley arrives to blackmail him with a letter from his past unless he change his stance on a motion passing through parliament. Chiltern turns to his friend, the idle and self obsessed Lord Goring for help, drawing him into a game of deception and love.The audience for this film is pretty easy to define.  I quite often see Wilde's plays as matters of you either like them or you don't.  If you are looking for something with a very engaging plot, deep characters and plenty of substance then this is not going to be the film to come to.  Instead the focus is on witty word play, confused love interests in a battle of the sexes and deception that spins away from the truth.  This works well as long as you know what to expect.  The film opens out the play and includes a few in-jokes for Wilde fans and it is effective in making for a slick product even if it takes the edge of the actual characters.The witty dialogue is good and it won't disappoint fans of the play.  The direction uses the locations and sets really well, giving the film a sense of period that it really needs.  I am a reverse snob (I know I shouldn't be!) and the spoilt romances of the well educated and privileged upper classes is of no interest to me - but in this setting it works!The cast is impressively heavy weight but the honours are stolen by two main actors.  Everett was born for this sort of whimsy and he does it exceedingly well, making his character playful and fun.  Driver is also great as his love interest and her scenes with Everett are the best of the film.  The rest of the cast are all excellent even if they don't have quite as much fun as these two.  Moore does well while Blanchett and Northam are both good despite not having a fair share of the wit.  Wood and Vaughan both have small roles but get laughs every time!Overall this is a sparky little movie that will appeal to those who love the cut and thrust of well written, witty dialogue and playful to's and fro's between the characters.  I need say no more - the audience for this film already know who they are and vice versa. "}{"Title":"An Ideal Husband","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Based on the Oscar Wilde play, this remake of the 1947 film is apparently better, particularly with the choice of casting. The story revolves around political figure Sir Robert Chiltern (Enigma's Jeremy Northam) and his charming friend Lord Arthur Goring (Golden Globe nominated Rupert Everett). Chiltern's life with brilliant wife Lady Gertrude (Cate Blanchett) and support from sister Mabel (Minnie Driver) is perfect. But his and Arthur's lives are turned upside down by the arrival of old acquaintance Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Golden Globe nominated Julianne Moore) with blackmail in mind. It is an incriminating letter that Laura has to ruin the men's lives. Also starring John Wood as Lord Caversham, Lindsay Duncan as Lady Markby, Peter Vaughan as Phipps and The Living Daylights' Jeroen Krabb as Baron Arnheim. The performances are good, and the visual part is good too, I admit I didn't pay full attention, maybe if I did I would rate it higher, but never mind. It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design, Best Make Up/Hair and Best Adapted Screenplay. Good! "},{"Title":"Not Really What I Expected","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I`ve got to be honest and say I know very little about Oscar Wilde . I just know he was an Irish born playwrite , was a master at the bitchy putdown and was imprisoned for homosexual activity which left me with the impression I was going to be watching a movie featuring a married man who is cheating on his loving trusting wife with another manThis isn`t the actual plot to AN IDEAL HUSBAND , but I could see a sort of hatred towards women . This of course isn`t a uniquely homosexual thing ( Consider the lyrics of hetrosexual song writers like Matt Johnson and Roger Waters for example ) but the women in this story seem to be portrayed as being a barrier towards men finding happiness with the idea that once a man marries he can kiss goodbye to carefree times . I`m actually having a problem believing that Wilde was ever gay since he sums up the male/female relationship perfectlyAs for the cast the non English actors do put on convincing English accents though the performances are a little stagey while the directing is rather flat and isn`t helped by the fact there`s several long fades to black between scenes giving this cinematic movie a made for television feel  "}]