[{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies for all ages.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"54 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a movie you will want to own. It is a story of inspiration and family love that appeals to all ages. The story, though seemingly impossible, aspires to divine intervention when a man looses his wife in a tragic accident and finds that love again in the woman who receives his wife's heart. David Duchovny and Minnie Driver give warm hearted performances as the designated to-be-lovers who meet by chance. But the real story lies in the friends and family around them who love and support them in times of trial. Carol O'Connor as Minnie Driver's grandfather, is authentic in every scene. Bonnie Hunt as the friend whose wit and encouragement underlines Minnie as a 'sister' is funny yet warm in the scenes especially with James Belushi as her husband.  Classic scenes and writing makes this story so enjoyable and touching to watch over and over again. Thank you for making a movie that demonstrates families and friends as close knit caring people who love each other through difficult times. "},{"Title":"Beyond Wonderful","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"51 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this move for the 5th or 6th time and am still in love with it. It still makes me cry and sing and worry and celebrate.I almost wrote Bonnie Hunt a letter to tell her how much I love it. David Duchovny's grief scene is so flippin real!!! Minnie Driver is so natural and honest. My favorite line is when Duchovny says I miss Elizabeth but I ache for Grace. Oh man! I'm crying just thinking about it. ALSO... Bonnie Hunt and Jim Belushi are sooooooooooooo the perfect Chicago area couple!! I know them I swear! I'm related to them I'm sure. This movie is in my three times a year rotation!!! I'd watch it once a week but I'm afraid I'd get too used to it!!! I always want to make it a special day when I watch it!! "},{"Title":"One of the most surprisingly well done films I have seen in quite some time.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this film, I said out loud to no one in particular this film is going to bomb.  I also said that about THE MATRIX and look at what happened there.  Now I am not a box office guru by any stretch but I usually have a pretty good gut about what is going to be good and what is going to really suck.  In this case I was blinded by my complete and utter apathy towards David Duchovney.  Let me put it to you a different way  I don't like his as a person ( from what I have read of him in interviews, he is unbelievably pre-madonna like and he is full of himself considering all he has done is X-Files ) or as an actor.  PLAYING GOD was a really poor film but he came off thinking that for some reason he deserved big bucks on the big screen.  But I am happy to say that even though those things may still be true about the man, Return To Me is delightful and has it's heart in the right place.  Bonnie Hunt has directed a beautiful story and she has told it with class and grace.  This is one of the most romantic films I have seen and even though it may seem to be a bit sad and maudlin in its premise, give it a chance and you will be hooked.It has to be said ( and this pains me to do so ) that the reason this film works so well is because of the story and the cast.  Duchovney and Driver are so wonderful and believable here that I honestly wanted to cry along with them.  There is one particularly powerful scene when Duchovney comes home after his wife has died and he slumps down on the floor of his house.  As it always does, the family dog looks to the door to wait for his wife to come walking in.  She doesn't and with his shirt collar still stained with blood, Rob ( Duchovney ) tells him that she is not coming home, ever.  He then calls the dog over to him and they seem to share a cry together.  The dog lets out a small moan and then Rob cries.  And this is one of the most realistic moments of pain I have ever seen in any character in any movie.  You can feel his pain and at that moment I forgot I was watching an actor that I generally don't like, and I felt that I was watching someone that I knew moarn the loss of his beloved.  This is powerful stuff.Another strength of the film is the supporting cast.  Bonnie Hunt has combined an ethnic melting pot of Irish and Italian characters that share a common bond.  They share a pub called O'Reilley's Italian Pub.  That is a delicious name all by itself.  And heading the diametric scale of clashing cultures is Carol O'Connor and Robert Loggia.  These are two proud old men that love their homeland but love their granddaughter and niece ( I think it is ) respectively.  And that is the character played by Minnie Driver.  This scenario is ripe for comedy and Hunt doesn't miss anything here.Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi also share some funny moments together as the middle aged married couple and Belushi gets top points as he accepts humility gracefully and shows off his ample keg of a stomach for laughs.  With his family consisting of three or four kids, there is very little time for him and the wife to have quality time.  And again Hunt handles this with perfect elegance.  This is a wonderful story of finding true love, knowing how lucky you are to have true love and the power of friendship and family.  Return To Me is a wonderful romance and even though I still don't have a great admiration for David Duchovney, I have to admit that he was perfect in this role and I could not picture anyone else playing his character.  He was sensitive and believable and the movie was good because of him, not just because of him, but he sure added to the flavour.If you are a sucker for a good romance and you want a good cry, then this is the film for you.  8.5 out of 10 I will see anything that Bonnie Hunt puts out with her in the director's chair. "},{"Title":"Delightfully entertaining","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My two daughters (ages 11 and 13) and I were lucky enough to see a screening of this movie last night.  We were all pleasantly surprised to see how entertaining and funny this movie was.  David Duchovny was very appealing as the male lead and Minnie Driver gave her usually competent performance. Some of the scenes are laugh out loud funny - especially one scene Minnie Driver has with a fellow transplant donee.  I liked the fact that it was a movie that I could watch with my children and I wasn't embarrassed by any scene whatsoever.  Everyone in the movie theater was laughing and enjoying themselves.  Thumbs up Bonnie Hunt! "},{"Title":"Still love this movie","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie again yesterday with a 20-year-old intern from my office (OK - it was the quiet day after Thanksgiving) and we both loved it. I love the unique plot, David Duchovny, David Allen Greer, and the way the dog keeps waiting at the door. Isn't part of each of us just like that dog after someone we love dies?I also love the old folks at the restaurant - they remind me of some of the older people around Southern New England, where your ethnic group is a very important topic of discussion. And I love the wedding at the end.Minnie Driver is great in this movie - and Bonnie Hunt should have won an award for everything. Bonnie - make more movies! "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Comedy!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! It has everything! Bonnie Hunt did a fantastic job co-writing, directing and co-starring in this film. David Duchovny is just plain hot. and Minnie Driver is as cute as ever. combine all that talent with David Allen Grier, Carol O'Connor, Robert Loggia, Joley Richardson, and Jim Belushi you have a Oscar worthy movie! I'm surprised they didn't get one. if you haven't seen it, go rent the DVD, watch it once then put directors commentary on...Bonnie Hunt is Fabulous!  "},{"Title":"Oh, Sweet mystery of life at last I've found thee...Destiny, that is.","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie with my mother, and I loved it! It was such a sweet story, (Not to mention funny because of the supporting cast!) They never make movies like this...ever! My favorite part is when Grace(Minnie Driver) finds out about her boyfriend's wife's death, and that she has the deceased wife's heart and she screams, WHAT WAS GOD THINKING? I do believe everyone(No matter who you believe in) has thoughts like that once in awhile. But while it's very sappy, it just might make you believe in true love and destiny for once and for all.(Sigh)The comedic timing between Bonnie Hunt and Jim Belushi will just make you crack up(especially in the aforementioned scene, it's terrible, and yet so funny!). They make a good pair, and I hope to see them again in something soon. 10/10 Stars  "},{"Title":"Wholesome and captivating!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!This beautiful, charming love story drew me in immediately with its lovable characters and heart-warming romance. I became so attached to the characters throughout the film that I felt as if I knew them personally. The storyline is very enchanting, and it brought me to tears in several touching moments. Duchovny and Driver have a very cute, chaste relationship that you can't help getting involved in. This one's worth watching more than once, and showing to all your friends. I'm just curious, why wasn't this a big hit?I give this a 10 out of 10! Spectacular film! (And this is coming from a guy who thinks that 9 out of 10 movies aren't even worth watching.) "},{"Title":"Sweet romantic comedy","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This comment contains **SPOILERS**David Duchovny in a romantic lead? Nah, don't think so, was what I thought before I saw the film. Well, I was wrong, Duchovny's performance in this movie is great. Minnie Driver also gives a likeable performance.Return to Me is a sweet romantic comedy and it seems different from other romcoms simply because of the premise (which most of you know all about already, so I won't bring it up here). But the movie isn't really different from other romcoms apart from the fact that it is sweeter, more interesting and generally better than most other films belonging to the genre. But let's face it from the moment you pop the cassette (disc) into the video (DVD-player) you know where this is going to end. The film is also about twenty minutes too long and some scenes are so obviously superfluous that you'll be asking yourself why they left them in the film. I'm thinking about the (boring) scenes with Grace's grandfather and his friends discussing music, in particular. Also, other scenes are ridiculous, e.g. Sydney responding to Grace the way he responded to Bob's wife. Too much, really.Overall, though, Return to Me is a good film with likeable performances by Duchovny and Driver. "},{"Title":"A warm, fuzzy romantic comedy with heart. ***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RETURN TO ME / (2000) ***1/2Starring David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Bonnie Hunt, David Alan Grier, Joely Richardson, James Belushi, Robert Loggia, Eddie Jones, and Carroll O'Connor.  Directed by Bonnie Hunt. Written by Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake. Running time 113 minutes. Rated PG (for language and thematic elements).	Return to Me is a warm and fuzzy romantic comedy with heart-in metamorphic and literal terms. Unlike a lot of recent romances, this film is not suggestive or sexy, but gentle and gradual. Director, writer and star Bonnie Hunt is descriptive in believable methods, detailing human emotions and the bitterness loneliness. This is one of the most effective, if somewhat formulaic, comedy-dramas this year. 	 David Duchovny stars as Bob Rueland, a modern day construction consultant. He and his wife, Elizabeth (Joely Richardson), are a happily married, offspring-free couple living a life of honesty and hard work. Elizabeth is in the process of founding a natural habitat for gorillas currently living in enclosed captivity. Bob's best friend, Charlie Johnson, (David Alan Grier) supports the Rueland's whenever need may be. 	Return to Me contains two separate story lines before narrative connection in the second act. The secondary story centers on a young woman named Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver), who requires a heart transplant in the very near future. Megan and Joe Dayton (Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi) support her. This family owns an Italian Restaurant in which Bob and Grace meet one night.  	This is an excellent setup containing thoroughly developed characters, a clear dramatic premise, emotional and physical conflicts, and an unusual structure. Although we do not witness some of the important narrative actions, (Grace's recovery from surgery, an automobile accident resulting in the death of a character), the film firmly paces itself with various plot elements and emotional qualities. 	Return to Me inhabits many enormously likable characters. Both central characters, Bob Rueland and Grace Briggs, empathetic and believable, are in a homespun situation. They both contain chemistry-rich elegance and gracefulness. There are very funny moments planted by Megan and Joe's comically dysfunctional family. This family appears somewhat unfocused but wisely portrayed as background characters developing Grace's lifestyle with more depth. The film's humor is handled with delicacy and knowledge. The filmmakers are careful not to travel over the top in hilarity; this is not a story about slapstick issues but about heartfelt secrets and personal fears. Comedy is not overabundant nor overwhelming and does not distract the story from developing its themes. Every funny moment in Return To Me is scattered throughout the context of the plot. David Duchovny and  Minnie Driver pair up for the perfect unlikely romantic couple. The inspirational performance by Driver induces lovable charm and imagination. Duchovny is also engagingly sweet, filling his character with polished humility. Likewise, the background performances are magically funny and heartwarming. The actors paint their characters beautifully.	Return to Me is the kind of date movie where the characters and the audience go home happy and warm. Bonnie Hunt is on target with this comedy straight from the heart, leaving viewers with a cuddly feeling of satisfaction.Return to Me is brought to you by MGM Productions.    "}{"Title":"David Duchovny shines!","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  David Duchovny shines in this movie! He refreshingly shows that he IS able to play other types of characters besides that of his trademark character, Fox Mulder.Don't get me wrong, he is great in the X-Files, but it is about time we saw him in something that highlights his talents! All we ever see of him is the monotone Fox Mulder, FBI.He had the best performance in this movie because it was greatly different from others he has done. He showed kindness, charm, and humor. A rare thing you see from the X-Files hottie.If you love David Duchovny and want to see him in something different than your usual alien hunting FBI agent, see this movie. He will take your breath away! "},{"Title":"Tender comedy-drama about family and friends, life and love","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Return to Me is a fine example of quality films that Hollywood can still produce for the whole family. The cast is excellent and includes top old-time actors, stars from intermediate years and newer actors. Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia head a quartet of old-time buddies that close O'Reilly's Italian Restaurant each night. O'Connor is Marty O'Reilly, the owner. Loggia is his friend and famous Italian chef, Angelo Pardipillo. James Belushi and Bonnie Hunt are Joe and Megan Dayton. They are family friends of Grace Briggs, played by Minnie Driver. Grace is Marty's granddaughter. She has an inherited heart problem. Across town (Chicago), David Duchovny is a builder, Bob Rueland. He's married to Dr. Elizabeth Rueland, a zoologist at the city zoo. David Grier is Charlie Johnson, a veterinarian at the zoo. He heads a list of friends of Elizabeth and Bob. That sets the stage for the movie. The opening scenes lay this much out, with more depth. Then the drama begins. This is a tender look at family and friends. It includes deep sorrow at loss of a beloved spouse at a young age. It includes the hope of a miracle for a young life that was born with a genetic disability. It is a film about friends and deep, lasting friendships. It is about loss of parents early in life. It is about a strong, loving relationship between a young woman and her grandfather. It is a film about strong faith and belief in God. It is a story about loss and recovery, illness and healing. It is film about joy, happiness and fun, and love of life. The whole family should enjoy this uplifting look at life, family, friendship and faith. "},{"Title":"An Extremely Warm Wonderful Light-Hearted Experience","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that has everything in it. I don't think I would get tired of seeing it. Hopefully more movies like this one will be made in the future. The casting was perfect in all respects. In a sense, the song sung by Engelbert Humperdink I Never Got to Say Goodbye, is the song come to life. You will most definitely laugh and cry throughout the entire scenario for sure. I'm just surprised that I had never seen it before this past weekend. I think that it's positively worth seeing, and your heart will be glowing. It would be nice to cuddle up with your honey; sip a cup of hot chocolate and enjoy being in the presence of each other. There is so much heart and emotion at times you honestly don't know where to turn. You will know exactly how the character feels. True family expression is available all the way through. In fact, at times you'll even think you are part of that family or they a part of yours. See it! "},{"Title":"A Truly Wonderful Film","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This particular film was one that I wanted to see in theaters, but never got around to it. When I finally rented it in the summer of 2001 I enjoyed it so much that I went out and bought the DVD soon after.  Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake did a wonderful job with the screenplay and are wonderful to listen to on the audio commentary that is included on the DVD. They did a great job in creating characters that you really care about. I really felt a whirlwind of emotions watching this film including sadness, anxiety and joy. The film also does a great job in showing the importance of family (a rarity in film today), which is a reflection of the director, Bonnie Hunt, based on the comments she made on the DVD.  David Duchovny showed me here that there is life beyond Fox Mulder giving a wonderful performance with some pretty poignant scenes. I highly recommend that you give this movie a viewing. I am really thankful to the creators of this film. They have given me a wonderful piece of cinematic viewing that I will recommend to all my friends. I have seen a lot of movies over the years and it is very rare that I come away with such a feeling of satisfaction after watching a film. I will watch this time and time again for years to come.  Return to Me reminds me that there are still moviemakers out there that know how to sincerely please their movie audiences. Thanks!!  "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best movies you could see!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I didn't get around to seeing this movie in the theater. As it was released at the beginning of a summer blockbuster season, this cute little film couldn't help but get a bit lost in the shadow of multi-million dollar special effects movies, could it?Return to Me has a lovely and simple story at its core, and is extremely well-directed and written by Bonnie Hunt (who has been in a number of major pictures as an actress herself....along with this one!)  The charming story is beautifully woven with clever comedy and brought to life with superb performances by veteran as well as younger actors.To those who say that David Duchovny hasn't really had a good shot at breaking out of his Fox Mulder mold, I agree.  I've seen his other film work, and is, by far, the best thing he could have done for himself. Minnie Driver is simply beautiful, charming, funny, and lively in her role as Grace.Outside of these two leads, however, you are surrounded by Grace's close-knit family and friends.  Jim Belushi is an absolute stitch, Bonnie Hunt is a stable and real-life force.  I cannot, however, go without mentioning the talents of Robert Loggia, and the dearly departed Carroll O'Connor.  Ironically, I watched this film again on DVD only the day before he passed away.  This was his last film, and he gave a performance that an actor of his calibre could certainly be proud to leave as the finale to a great career.Overall, Return To Me turned what would have still been just a fun love story, and grew it into a film that has become one of my favorites!  Take the time rent this one.....it's well worth the effort! "},{"Title":"A sitcom quality romantic/comedy from the old school.","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While not a big budget blockbuster, Return To Me pushes all the right buttons for those who enjoy this overworked genre. The film offers an interesting premise; doesn't take itself too seriously; showcases some okay acting talent; and serves up some refreshing creativity. More than your trite chick flick, those who just go with it will likely chuckle and weep. Home is where the heart is. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those rare movies that clicks, it just has every element in it so right , and it is funny, touching, and everything else you can think of at the same time. The plot is something I have not seen too much in the past, so it is original at least to me. David Duchovny plays a happily married man whose wife unexpectedly dies. He is depressed and down-hearted, but he meets a woman whose heart is actually his deceased's wife's, as she was an organ donor and the new woman in his life took her heart.The strength of this movie is the cast, and what a cast it is. The best in the cast is a personal favorite of mine, Carroll O'Connor, in his last film role. He plays the woman's uncle, and he is priceless, he is a character that is so funny, and has so much heart, he fits in this movie perfectly, he is such a master of entertainment by now. Minnie Driver and David Duchovny are so good together, they have a perfect chemistry, Duchovny is not your typical leading man, he is not so suave and debonair, and Driver, while she is cute, is not your typical bimbo, she is an actress with substance, and proves it here.The characters here are very engrossing, they bring you into the world, and all of the nuances, the sadness, the happiness, this movie has it all. the fascinating thing about a movie like this though is it is not a hardcore movie, it is not intense, it mostly is not violent, it is just a sweet lite as air movie, no cussing, nothing like that, and it it almost perfect. There is a minor clash of cultures movie, as Duchovny's character is fairly wealthy, while Dirver's character is more working class, working in her uncle's restaurant. The jokes in this movie are well thought out, not forced, and not over the top. The jokes come from situations and dialogue, and the movie is all acting, the movie would be nothing without the performances How many movies like this can you say are all acting, no gunplay, or car chases or anything like that? Sadly not many. And there is not a week cast member either. David Alan Grier another comedian/actor I like because he is such a different type of performer, does a fine job. Robert Loggia, James Belushi, and Bonnie Hunt, who was the brains behind this movie also do excellent jobs. And I can't say enough about Carroll O'Connor, I wish you would saw him more before his death. It was sad too, he could make any horrible movie or show excellent.The Chicago and Italy locations are excellent too. The cinematography is breathtaking. You gotta give kudos to Bonnie Huny for coming up with something so good, she just has a knack for this kinda thing, she should do more movies, if they are going to be this good. David Duchovny also does an excellent job, I wasn't a fan of the X-Files, but he really proved himself as an actor here. He is very funny while doing some very good acting too.I also liked this movie because it borough together all of these actors, and a lot of them are known, but they're not marquee stars, that brings a certain down to earth element to the movie. To add to that the movie works because nobody steals the spotlight the movie is a team effort, everyone gets good lines, everybody feeds off of everybody to make this movie so good. A lot of movies focus on one person, and this movie works so well because it doesn't, can you Imagine Tom Cruise, or even Tom Hanks in a movie where he isn't the focus of attention most of the time? Somehow this movie manages to be magical or whimsical, or something like that. I just got an incredible feeling watching this movie, it's too bad more people didn't watch it, it was phenomenal in it's own respect. In today's movie making climate it is amazing a studio would produce something so simple, and it turned out so good. But sometimes the most simple plots and concepts turnout to be the best movies other movies can learn something from a movie like this, maybe not in terms of ticket sales but in terms of quality. To me this is a movie for everyone, I think most people would enjoy watching, I might be wrong, but this is a very good movie, that doesn't have anything to offend anyone, I wouldn't think anyway. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delightful and wonderful film, which has entered my pantheon of great romantic comedies. IN many ways it's even better than When Harry met Sally. IT wears well on viewing and re-viewing. The cast is excellent, and both David Duchovny and Minnie Driver give us really believable characters. "},{"Title":"Good unconventional rom-com","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bob (David Duchovny) and Elizabeth Rueland (Joely Richardson) are happily married. After a fundraiser, they get into a car accident and she is killed. Meanwhile, sickly Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver) is in the hospital and she gets transplanted with Elizabeth's heart. About one year later, Grace is still self-conscious about the heart transplant. Her family (Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia) runs an Irish-Italian restaurant. Bob is heart broken and his best friend Charlie (David Alan Grier) keeps trying to set him up. Sparks fly when Grace meets Bob at the restaurant but they don't know their other connection.Duchovny and Driver have adorable chemistry together. That's why the movie needs to bring them together sooner. A much more tighter opening would be very helpful. Written by Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake, there are a lot little charming jokes from everybody especially the side characters. It's very much a comedy from many character actors. A lot of it is very funny. This is a very sweet comedic romance. "},{"Title":"They don't know how to make films like this anymore...but Bonnie does.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is about as perfect a romantic comedy as one could ever hope to see. It's the kind of romantic film that Hollywood has simply forgotten how to make. Thank heavens Bonnie Hunt still remembers how. Her gift for storytelling shines brightly in her big screen directorial debut, which she co-wrote with her long-time collaborator, Don Lake. Splendid cast, wonderful story, and genuine performances. In the hands of a lesser director this could have gone into treacly territory. But Miss Hunt has hit all the right buttons, using the experience she gained from Second City and producing and directing her own TV shows, and her own innate sense of what works and what doesn't, to craft a tale worth watching again and again. For a first-time movie director, Bonnie Hunt, you did better than good. "}{"Title":"We love this movie.  We watch it time and time again.","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somehow this movie has made it onto our watch it again and again list. Even though we know exactly what's going to happen, it's a sweet story, well told, well written, well casted, well acted. It's got everything if you like romatic comedies or romantic drama. They've done a good job weaving hints at things later revealed into the early parts of the movie. I won't give them away, but the more you watch it the more of them you see.Yeah, and it's quotable, tooyour ass is ringing I don't want Swiss water This is Bob. His wife is dead. No one is going to notice your chest "},{"Title":"An incredibly good romantic comedy...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" especially considering I can count on one hand the romantic comedy films I have ever enjoyed.Minnie Driver is very good as the heart transplant patient, who has a mysterious connection to Duchovny's recently deceased wife. (I can think of several awful films which have used this story line- I think there was an LMN movie with Jane Seymour) This film, however, is a keeper.Duchovny is sympathetic, and the scenes with his dog are cute and sad- the dog misses his deceased wife. All of his friends want him to find a replacement, and there is an amusing scene where he is on a blind date and Driver is the waitress. His date is horrible, and he finds himself intrigued by Minnie Driver.Caroll O'Connor is also good in one of his last roles, as the curmudgeonly grandfather. Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi (this is the only film I have liked him in) round out the comedy aspect of the film.This is a good film because the story works, it is not overly romantic, and does not insult the audience's intelligence. Highly recommended 9/10. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Awesome Movie! Great combination of talents! I'm a HUGE fan of David Duchovny and he is outstanding in this movie! I would love to see him in more movies of this nature. His talents are definitely under-used and has SO much more to offer besides Agent Mulder (although I'm a huge fan of that series too), Anyway, I want to see more of him. He is easily the Cary Grant of our generation. If you haven't seen this movie, you MUST! Great love story that shows love never dies... it's with you forever. Minnie Driver is great and how can you go wrong with a cast containing Mr. O'Connor and Mr. Loggia and Mr. Belushi? This movie didn't get any type of awards nod, but deserved one. Great job Bonnie Hunt! ** By the way... the soundtrack is great too! ** "},{"Title":"For the Romantic in Everyone!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie a fews years ago and was literally swept away by it. So charming and so very romantic. David Duchovny and Ms. Driver have chemistry that is so hot, you will need to take off a layer of clothing. The supporting cast is 100% top notch. Just watching Caroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia play off one another is pure poetry. Bonnie Hunt and Jim Bellushi and a wonderful team and some of the films most charming moments are when they are on the screen. Like Jim Belushi screaming at his children to go to sleep FOREVER! or him dancing in the kitchen. This film made we wish I knew people like that in my own life. Not to mention, what woman does not want David Duchovny for a boyfriend? "},{"Title":"You will return to it again and again and AGAIN!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gracie (Minnie Driver), a woman in her late twenties, is on a waiting list for a heart transplant. Bob (David Duchovny) has just had the tragedy of losing his wife in an automobile accident. One can guess the outcome. Gracie receives Bob's wife's heart, although they have no knowledge of each other....yet! A year later, Gracie is feeling like a new person while Bob is just beginning to think about his social life. When a friend sets him up on a blind date, Bob finds himself interested in the waitress, Gracie, at the restaurant where the date occurs. They begin to see each other. How long will it be before the truth materializes and what will be the consequences? This lovely, funny, and touching movie is one of the best romantic comedies ever constructed. The two stars dazzle as the couple only heaven could bring together and the supporting cast, of Bonnie Hunt, Jim Belushi, and Carroll O'Connor, are just marvelous as well. Taking place near Chicago, the neighborhood setting is likewise charming and beautiful. Let's make that dittos for the costumes and script. If you know someone who goes ga-ga over mirthful love stories, you will be in their good graces forever if you introduce him or her to this fine movie. "},{"Title":"Very heart warming, it touched my heart, it was incredibly heart felt... OK, you get the idea","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, my goodness, this was a sweet movie! I just absolutely fell in love with Return to me it's sickening. My friend lent this to me and told me that it was a very good movie and to give it a chance. I was very grateful for the recommendation because it is a very good flick to watch on an afternoon. David has just lost his wife to a car accident, but this gives another person, Minnie's character, the chance to live by having a heart transplant with David's late wife's heart. They happen to meet by chance at her restaurant and are instantly attracted to each other, but neither knows until later on that the heart that is beating inside her is David's late wife. Can their relationship survive with this crazy coincidence? I guess you'll have to see, and please do. It's a good movie that I think anyone can enjoy.8/10 "},{"Title":"Love this movie...","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the film to watch when you want to believe in people, believe in love, and most of all, believe that the Hollywood Machine can still churn out something worth watching.  Watching it makes me feel good.My general criteria for scoring a movie is how many times while I'm watching it I want to get up and do something to avoid a scene.  With this one, I stay for the whole thing.  Like Casablanca, there isn't one scene that I wont re-watch.Return to Me is well crafted, with a good story, good acting, good pacing, and brings tears to the eyes for both happy and sad things.  Hats off to Bonnie Hunt for fighting to keep the old guys in and the car crashes out!!!  "},{"Title":"Sweet movie!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is beautiful and sweet.  Simply done, yes, but sometimes that is the best way to do things.  The cast is brilliant and Bonnie Hunt wonderful directing.  These characters are all people that are easy to identify with. Whether it is the older crowd playing cards, the family (with Hunt and Belushi as parents), or Bob and Grace (the wonderfully talented Duchovny and Driver), it is easy to see a part of yourself in these characters.  You laugh with them, cry with them, and especially, you root for them.  It is very easy to get caught up in this movie and forget that it is just a movie, until the credits roll, of course!  A great job by everyone involved, I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Just watch this movie!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pure, simple & lovely..A faithful family life to envy...The scenario changing of hearts might not look interesting but remember nothing is as it seems! While you're watching, you feel that warm and sincere way of reflecting the scenario and it just makes you melt away! So natural, engrossing, no exaggeration, professional actors* actresses* and off course director* made all this happen and made us to feel happy and warm in our hearts. My family and I especially liked the dialogues between old servers and cooks in the restaurant and also between the major guy and girl! Soooo sweet... I truly congratulate you for what all you have done for this amazing movie and for how you have made us remember that somewhere, still, pure LOVE exist on this earth! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, unrealistic, sappy romance","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I tell people the basic plot, it sounds really dumb.  But somehow I still really liked the movie.I liked it because it's a movie I could take my mom and dad to, and we would all laugh.  It was very innocent, but quite funny.  And somehow, even though the plot was totally unrealistic, I bought it hook line and sinker while I was watching it.And my boyfriend actually cried when that dog kept waiting at the door...  CRIED, I tell you!It's sappy romance that somehow works, in my opinion.  I want to watch it again - Minnie Driver riding her bicycle is about the cutest thing since they invented puppies! "}{"Title":"One of the Best!!!!!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen.  All the actors did an outstanding job, I mean, when I was watching the movie, I actually forgot I was watching a movie, and it wasn't part of a real person's life.  Bonnie Hunt did and excellent job, along with Don Lake, in writing, and then her alone directing.  She made a great story about love, growth and family that came off even better on screen.  The Dayton family was family all over!  I loved Carroll O'Connor's character, he made an excellent Irish Grandpa.  I am a huge fan of David Duchovny, which is why I went to see it in the first place, and he made me proud in how well he acted.  On it's opening night me and my best friend saw it twice in a row, and then I ended up seeing the movie a total of fourteen times in the theater, and I still love it!  I know, you're saying to yourself this girl has no life, but I do!  Return to Me is just a really great movie and I am proud to be a huge fan of it!!!! "},{"Title":"The kind of film they don't make anymore","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to me is a wonderful throwback - it's funny, it has great songs, appealing leads,a cast of magnificent supporting actors and an excellent script.  Bonnie Hunt should have been Oscar-nominated for her performances in writing, directing and acting; James Belushi was actually funny! and altogether the film was life-enhancing.  Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Teriffic Piece of Work","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once in a while you come across a film in a video store and you select it by it's cover and when you get it home, you don't get your money's worth. Well, this is a film NOT one of those films.Bonnie Hunt  (Jerry McGuire, The Green Mile) directed this charming film about a widower, Bob Rueland (David Duchovny-The X Files) who loses his wife, Elizabeth (Joely Richardson-101 Dalmations) in a fatal accident. Elizabeth's heart goes to an ailing Grace (Minnie Driver-Good Will Hunting). If I told you more, it would spoil the movie. So rent it.  "},{"Title":"**** 1/2  Best romantic comedy since Moonstruck!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best romantic comedy of the year, and one of the very best since Moonstruck is this delectable little charmer directed with great skill by first-timer Bonnie Hunt (who also stars). Minnie Driver is the heart-transplant recipient who falls in love with David Duchovny only to find out that her heart was once his wife's before she died in a car accident. In between this entanglement is a supporting cast of characters on both of the stars' sides that are drawn with genuine affection and warmth, leaving you feeling good all the way home. Scenes with Hunt, Driver and funnyman Jim Belushi are among the film's best.  "},{"Title":"If you liked Sleepless in Seattle","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've seen Sleepless in Seattle, I predict your reaction to Return to Me is going to be about the same.The story is fairly predictable, so if you're looking for surprising twists you're looking at the wrong movie. However, sometimes the journey is more important than the destination, so the way to enjoy this movie is to enjoy the cast and the characters along the way.It's also a pleasant relief to watch a movie that's not built around people at their worst or people who hate each other, but that can still tell a story.The movie just touches on the notion that transplanted body parts also bring some aspect of the original owner to the recipient. It's just a bit hokey to suggest that one person is fated to be with a particular body part of another. However, the movie scored back a few points with me by not getting too heavy-handed with that idea, and ultimately even backing off from it.The cast does a good job. Between the acting and the screenplay the characters all come across as real people. I particularly want to note that Minnie Driver did a good job substituting an American accent for her Brit accent.  "},{"Title":"The only thing offensive about this film is how boring it is","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Bonnie Hunt decided to write and direct her first feature, she must have had it in mind to offend as few people as possible.  There is no violence in this film.  Nobody has sex who hasn't been married for years.  There is very little swearing.  And there is no conflict that might further the plot along without me falling asleep.The plot involves a recent widower (David Duchovny--boring as ever) who falls in love with a waitress who has had a heart transplant (Minnie Driver--what was she thinking?).  Since the only real problems these people have are solved in the first half-hour, there's no reason to watch any further.  But the film goes on for another hour and a half, which is devoted to Driver wondering if it's okay to tell Duchovny she's had an operation.  Don't get me wrong.  Imaginary problems can be used to make a great film, but only if Woody Allen's making the film.A quick footnote  Was I the only one who found it ironic that Carroll O'Connor--who became famous thirty years ago for saying incredibly offensive things--is stuck in this film where the furthest anyone will go out on a limb is to say Dean Martin was a better singer than Bing Crosby?  I gave this film a six out of ten. "},{"Title":"A positive and thoroughly enjoyable experience","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To preface this comment, I must say that our son's name appeared in the credits of the movie.  This might make us biased but I will try to be objective.  If you are tried of going to movies that are about action adventures, science fiction, or vulgar comedy, this is a movie you will enjoy.  Return to me is a mixture of love and comedy and it was a thoroughly enjoyable film to watch. When we left the theater we really felt as though we were entertained with something that was light and uplifting. The audience was in a state of constant laughter.  The acting was well done the lines were great.  Performances were exceptional by many of the performers especially James Belushi. He played is part perfectly.  I was bothered by only one thing and that was the sound tract.  At times it was difficult to hear the actors say their lines.  I was not sure if this was a problem with the film or the theater sound system.  Go see this movie if you are down and need an uplifting experience.  It is a feel-good movie. It reminded me of the comedies that were done in 40's and 50's.  "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Return To Me'","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE GOOD - A deep cast and no villains make this romantic comedy a nice movie. David Duchovny does a nice job in a low-key role. I've read in several reviews (not here) that James Belushi stole the movie with his supporting role but I thought if anyone did that it was Carroll O'Connor, not Belushi. O'Connor is just great as the kind, Godly Irish grandfather. He and all the older people, actually, are fun to watch in their matchmaking roles.THE BAD - For such a pleasing story, the language could have been toned down. Having a young kid blaspheme by saying GD was inexcusable, although it does point out the importance of parents being a better witness as their children often mimic them. Minnie Driver is okay but doesn't seem to fit the role and I wish Hollywood would come up with a different angle in these romance-comedies instead of the same lying routine all the time.All in all, a pleasant but unmemorable 'chick flick.' "},{"Title":"I loved it and I hated it","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Family members have been trying to get me to watch this movie for a while. I was reluctant because, by the way they described it, I was sure it would be just another chick flick filled with OH COME ON! moments.I finally relented and watched it. And I was partly right. There were moments when I was screaming OH COME ON! at the screen. It was almost enough to make me quit watching it. Almost.There was no believable reason for Grace's reluctance to mail the letter. It was anonymous. It was a thank you note, written in the sincerest possible words. It is conceivable that it might have been hard to write, difficult to find the right wording. But once it was written any normal minded person would have dropped it in the mail box. Now some will argue that there were some womanly, inexplicable, incomprehensible emotions tying her up inside. And that's just my point. Chick Flick. OH COME ON!The whole business of her reluctance to tell Bob about her heart surgery made no sense to me. Again, maybe it makes some sense in some womanly manner that no man can ever comprehend. Again - chick flick. But the worst part of all was Bob running away. WAD! This was the worst part of the movie. The whole time we're lead to believe that he's Mr. Wonderful, Mr. Perfect, Mr. Knight in Shining Armor. And at the first moment of any realism he runs away with the old cliché' I gotta go? Give me one big f***ing break!All of that was just contrived conflict pieces, totally implausible plot devices that exist for no purpose but to increase conflict in the story and to drag out the running time. I hate those. I knew they'd be there and I was right. It doesn't matter if it's a man directing or a woman, whether the writer was male or female, it's just pure lazy film making in my opinion. I get that conflict in a story is necessary. But to create conflict purely for its own sake is like being married to someone who starts fights just because she gets bored.And I f***ing hated the way that Joe and Megan yelled at each other, yelled at the kids, cussed in front of the kids, and treated each other. There was some attempt to show that they really loved each other. But sh*t, who could handle being yelled at like that all the time. Megan is standing in the kitchen doing nothing but yells at Joe to change a diaper. He's sitting there holding the boy. But because he's drinking a beer he's made to look like a dead beat dad who never helps out around the house. That part drove me nuts.The woman who played Sofie was really bad. I mean, like community theater bad.Carroll O'Conner's Irish accent was about the worst I've ever heard.Some of the editing was iffy. The scene when Bob breaks down crying on the floor, I felt, was cut away too quickly to the scene of grace in the garden. I felt it needed just a moment longer. At times the music was perfect and at others it was distracting. The opening song was perfect and it would have been nice to close with that too. I'm sure budget constraints played some part in that.However, all in all it was great story. It did have me in tears on more than one occasion. Duchovny and Driver have unmistakable chemistry and their respective talents make you wonder why we don't see more of them. The photography was great. The chemistry between the four old guys was also great. The priest was an unnecessary addition that made no sense to me and added nothing to the story. It was never mentioned why he was no longer a priest. It was just dropped...until he pops up obnoxiously again at the end.The Don Lake character (dude with the hair transplant) was also too much. It was necessary to show what Grace is subjected to with people trying to set her up. But it went on way too long.The biggest injustice was Bonnie Hunt, who did a fine job of directing, and the film grossed more than its budget, is relegated to doing TV, like so many other women directors. If she were a man she'd be doing features. Over all, if you like romance, if you like drama, comedy and tears, and if you're OK with chick flicks, then I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"This endearing romantic comedy knows where the heart belongs.","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was kinda heartwarming when it comes to the two main characters, Bob Rueland (David Duchovny) & Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver). I like, how although, the two main characters, are both unaware of the connection they have, with each other, due to a heart transplanted; yet they treat each other, with respect. It's nice to see both characters acts fairly normal. It's so unlike, the more recent romantic comedies that go way over-the-top, with its nearly unlikeable two leads. It's also really nice, not to hear dumb yelling, screaming, or any mean-spirited comments, before they hook up in the end. It makes the relationship seem, so much, more realistic. Director Bonnie Hunt really knows, how real relationship, honestly works. This is one of the main reasons, why I wanted to return to this film. I know, a lot of critics, have stated out that the film is somewhat tame, predictable, forgettable, bland, and full of clichés. I do kinda agree with them, yet, in my opinion, the film also shows the most realistic portrayal of what real-life 30 something dating is like. In many ways, most true love-effects in real-life, are often; this bland-looking. Yes, I know every love story needs a strong conflict, or it would be, alienating, too mushing or not that entertaining. However, I did like, this movie's unique concept, even if the idea wasn't that strong. The idea that the tragic death of one person can still save the life of another is very interesting. Though, I do agree with the critics, that movie's central conflict with the heart is really no reason, for somebody to have the third act, break up for. I do have to say, regardless of that, the two characters are very likable. David Duchovny is very lovely, as the over-depressed widow trying to get over the death of his wife. I like, how the movie doesn't really, go really overboard with his depression. Still, I would like to see, more signs of it. I was really hoping for a more, 'he stop truly living', kinda of a tone. Also, I think the character needed to be, a little more flesh out, because the whole perfect guy with a heart of gold, feel was a bit, much to take in. For Grace Briggs, Minnie Driver is a beautiful and charming actress. She really does, delivered that, girl next door innocent look, very well. I also love the idea that she suffers from Survivor Guilt. It makes her character, so much more complex. However, I never, really got to understand, if she truly loves Bob, or if that's just her heart, doing that. I know, what the heart wants, the heart gets, but the whole contrived coincidence was a bit impractical. I also didn't really like, the whole spiritualism metaphor side of that in this film. The film makes it seem like Minnie Driver's character was possession by a dead woman's ghost. That's just too creepy! Anyways, like other rom-coms, these characters are often, surrounded by a number of key characters, such as the best friends, Megan Dayton (Bonnie Hunt) & Charlie Johnson (David Allen Grier) who has nothing, better to do, then help their friends, get laid. I can understand, why Charlie would do that, but Megan? She already knew that Grace got her plane ticket to Italy in advance for her painting career. So why would, she help set up a date, here in the States if she knows that Grace will be leaving, soon? It doesn't make any sense. Still, the actors did OK with their limited roles. By far, the best supporting actors in the film are Carroll O'Connor & Robert Loggia. They have some of the best scenes in the film. I couldn't stop, smiling, whenever, they were on screen. Sad to see this, as Carroll O'Connor's final film before his death the following year. The music that this movie use, are pretty memorable as well. I have to say, that the montage set to Frank Sinatra's At Long Last Love, was wonderful. Overall While, Return to me might have an unbelievable premise. It's still sweet and romantic enough, not to pay too much attention on it. In my opinion, it's a lovely film that deserve, another look. Return to it. "}{"Title":"Return to Duchovny.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Return to Me (2000) Dir Bonnie Hunt / Cast David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Bonnie Hunt, James Belushi, Carroll O'Connor Romantic comedy with a title referring to the relationship between David Duchovny and Minnie Driver but also the fact that his late wife's heart beats inside her. Duchovny plays a construction worker whose wife dies in a car crash. Driver lives in an apartment attached to her grandfather's Italian restaurant and she dreads the scar on her chest from the surgery she underwent. Bonnie Hunt's directing seems unchallenged and conventional with a production that seems very stagy. Duchovny goes beyond The X-Files by delivering a heartfelt performance as he goes from mourning his wife's passing to embarking on a new relationship. Driver is loyal to her family in the restaurant but ultimately shares a connection to Duchovny's wife that result in a heartwarming ending. Unfortunately the film's amateur delivery hinder it from being more than it is. Supporting roles are cardboard with Hunt herself with James Belushi as her husband playing supportive friends of Driver's but despite the comic one-liners they come off merely as props. Finally we have Carroll O'Connor as Driver's father who owns a restaurant and who gives Duchovny the words he needs to heal. Its best asset is a theme regarding the presence of love in both giving and family. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bonnie Hunt- You Genius, You!!","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm one of those women who usually skips love stories; to be honest, I haven't found that many I can tolerate. These days they're all so cheesy and sappy and predictable, the acting leaves much to be desired... etc. I first saw this movie when I was an early teen, and I'm now in my 20's, and it's still probably my favorite movie. I don't even know where to begin praising this, but here I go. Bonnie Hunt, who also has a lead, directed this film, and I couldn't think more of her talent after seeing it. Her character is lovable; that family member who keeps everyone calm and in one piece. I LOVED the boisterous, comical Irish family- they make you want to be part of it. The acting by Minnie Driver and David Duchovny, alike were amazing, flawless performances. You can really feel all of Bob's pain, but also sincerity at finding love again when he finally realizes he's up to trying. Minnie's talent shows through as always; her accent was also flawless, didn't catch one English slip throughout the whole film, she's a pro at it by now! I ( and I'm sure many women) will be able to see a little of themselves in Grace. This movie makes you smile, laugh, cry, and if you're in any way religious, it really tugs at your heart, and tells you that sometimes, things aren't just coincidence. The best facet of this film is it's totally unique plot, how two people find each other in such an amazing, endearing and life altering way. And the best part is, when you watch it over and over, you notice things that are very heart-wrenching but also beautiful.This movie exemplifies the way love should happen, when you know, you know. And some people are just meant to be. "},{"Title":"A good love story...nothing more, nothing less","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I originally watched this flick because of the title song -- I'm a huge Dino fan -- and I wondered what they did with his million seller...and they did fine...although I prefer the original arrangement. And it was nice to hear several other Dino songs in the soundtrack.But after I heard his song as the opening, I stuck around and discovered a very nice romantic comedy, and one well worth watching.I'm not a David Duchovny fan at all, but he does very nicely here as the husband (though his crying looked a little silly). I think it was in this film that I discovered Minnie Driver, the recipient of the heart transplant...wow, what an actress, and the very picture of loveliness. It was nice to see Carroll O'Connor in what was his last film, as the father of Driver; be prepared...he seems very old here...deteriorating health had caught up with him...and he lived only another year. I have always enjoyed performances by Robert Loggia, and no less so here...as the family friend and chef. Bonnie Hunt, as always, lends something positive to any production. I was going to write that I never understood why David Alan Grier hadn't caught on, since I've always enjoyed him...but when I looked him up again I discovered he's very active and successful on Broadway. The rest of the cast is very pleasant and enjoyable...even Sidney! It's difficult to find much in this film that deserves criticism. There are a few places where they could have picked the pace up just a bit, but that's just about the only negative comment I have. It's a good love story. Nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"Good Rom Com - not an oxymoron","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most Rom Coms are witless drivel that even fans of frock films sometimes find hard to watch without curling their lips at key moments. But occasionally one comes along that appeals even to me.So I can report that I watched Return to Me on satellite TV and survived to tell the tale. As you will have guessed by now I positively liked it. The plot, brilliant in its simplicity, is that David Duchovny's wife dies and he falls in love with the woman who receives her heart as a transplant. Of course, no one except the viewer knows this until right at the end when we have the obligatory split up and will they/wont they get back together. Of course they will. Duh! Not only did I enjoy this film I learned something. I learned that David Duchovny can act. I would never have believed it.I always assumed from the X-Files that he was in fact entirely made of wood.So there you have it. Return to Me. A good Rom Com. "},{"Title":"An unexpected delight!","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll start by confessing that I generally regard romantic comedy as one of the most dishonest, cynical genres in Hollywood filmmaking, because so many of them follow the same precalculated formula set up some cockeyed premise and then employ a series of outlandish plot devices to manipulate the audience's emotions in precisely calibrated ways from first frame to last. I approached this one with especially low expectations because of the brazenly contrived gimmick at its core (a grieving young widower unwittingly falls in love with the recipient of his beloved wife's transplanted heart) and its male lead, David Duchovny. I enjoyed Duchovny's tongue-in-cheek performance in the X-Files despite the fact that I never thought he could act a lick. The idea of him as romantic lead in a situation like this had me dreading an afternoon wasted.Well, I couldn't have been more wrong. This is a terrific movie that deftly avoids over-exploiting its basic plot device, instead telling its story in honest, affectionately rendered details and relying on the team play of a marvelously unselfish cast, each of whom is given a turn to shine (even the bit players). Each actor takes full advantage of their opportunities without attempting to upstage the others. One of the things I enjoyed most was how comfortable and familiar the cast are with one another; the whole movie works because of it. The result is characters and a story line that draw you in and make you feel like you know the people involved - and better yet, that they really know and care for one another in the casually intimate way that only the closest-knit friends and families can. This is wonderful ensemble acting led by a director with a light but capable touch. Even Duchovny manages to hold his own among much better actors, delivering some surprisingly earnest scenes and painting his character with appealing honesty and humility.This isn't a perfect movie. It has a slightly TVish feel and there are predictable moments and flat notes here and there, but an ample supply of small delights make up for it (What was God thinking?). The strength of this movie is in its performances, and in the decision of the writers and director Bonnie Hunt to establish the initial premise, then let go of it and concentrate on fleshing out well-drawn relationships between engaging characters we can identify with and care about.If you liked 50 First Dates with Drew Barrymore and Adam Sandler, you'll love this. Much broader in its appeal than your standard romcom chick flick, this is a warm, satisfying story about the lifesaving power of love and family. "},{"Title":"Two hearts beat as one (DVD)","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's great to see a romance with those two great actors whom have marked the late 90's. Minnie is a unique woman, the living proof that sexy blonds aren't the ultimate dream! For Duchovny, if Pacino is the man i would like to be, well David is the man i am shy, silent, retired with a dry humor and basketball fan. Their reunion gleams and the story is deliciously written to bring as much as joy as sorrow. I admit that i was waiting to see David cry and he was memorable indeed. Another strong point of the movie is the elder club. They are wisdom alive with all their mileage and they are maybe more lively than the young. With the beginning, i was afraid that the father would pass away, above all it appears to be the last movie of this actor. At last, the choice of Chicago (instead of LA or NY) allows intimacy and the brief Italian interlude adds an exotic Romanticism. Ah, if love in real life could be as simple as in movies, well the world would be paradise! "},{"Title":"A sweet enjoyable old style romantic film.","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always like to read what the reviewers say that hated the film. Most who did not like it say it was predictable. In a thriller or mystery movie, that may be an issue, but for a romance or a romantic comedy, I say, So what? Some say it is too sweet, again, I'm not sure that being too sweet warrants condemning the film.This movie has much charm, very likable characters (Driver, Duchovny, and O'Conner), good supporting acting (Logia, Hunt, Belushi, Grier, etc.) a good pace and a happy ending. What more do you want? The characters in the back room of the restaurant provide the comedy, while the main characters bring the story (and the romance) home; you want them to get together and be happy. Some critics say that the predictability of the gorilla and the dog sensing Driver's uniqueness is mushy as well as predictable - I say, for the sensitive, it brings a tear of joy.Some attack the happy ending. All of Jane Austen has a happy ending and she wrote some of the most critically acclaimed novels of all time. I like happy endings. If I wanted to see sad endings, I would just watch the evening news.Lastly, although you really don't see Joely Richardson's long gorgeous legs and she has a small part, just seeing her for one minute and dreaming of those legs warrants the film to start at a rating of 5. "},{"Title":"Absolutely endearing!","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the nicest and most pleasant films I've ever watched. A throwback to an earlier cinematic era, Return to Me is a wonderful romantic comedy that is more about platonic than erotic love and never lets its somewhat maudlin concept spoil a mix of subtle and broad humor.As the story begins, Bob Rueland (David Duchovny) seems to have a perfect life. He has a successful business, a great dog and is married to a beautiful and good woman. Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver), however, seems to be at the end of hers. She's in the hospital and desperately needs a heart transplant. Grace does get her heart, but only after Bob's wife is killed in an auto accident. Over a year later, Bob is still mourning his loss while Grace is still struggling to reopen herself to a life she thought she'd never have.Bob finally lets a friend drag him out on a double date and they go to the Irish-Italian restaurant when Grace is a waitress. There's an instant attraction between Bob and Grace and the romance is on. But unlike almost every other romantic comedy ever made, this story isn't about a series of silly or contrived hurdles being thrown between our two lovebirds. It's about an extended family welcoming in a new member and a woman who isn't sure if she's ready or worthy to be loved. As Bob finds himself fitting in with Grace's grandpa Marty (Carroll O'Connor) and his band of senior citizen scalawags, Grace turns to her best friend Megan (Bonnie Hunt) to get over her fears of being rejected or pitied.And just when Grace is almost ready to let herself be loved by Bob, she finds a letter. It's the letter she wrote to the person who gave her a new heart. The transplant organization gave Grace's letter to Bob, without either of them every knowing the others name. Grace is finally ready to live, but now must face that she's only alive because Bob's wife died. Will this horrible irony destroy any chance they have with each other? You'll have to watch the movie to find out.One of the biggest reasons romantic comedies fail is that they're entirely dependent on the two lead actors. It's not enough for just the guy to be great or just the girl to be great. They both have to be great on their own and then they have to be great together. This film takes a lot of that pressure off David Duchovny and Minnie Driver by surrounding them with marvelously charming and heartfelt characters in their own right. Carroll O'Connor is the Irish grandpa every wishes they could have. Robert Loggia is Marty's extremely Italian best friend and perfect sidekick. Bonnie Hunt is exactly the sort of best friend every woman wants and Megan's husband Joe (Jim Belushi) is the ordinary slob who married up in life that every guy wishes he could be. These characters and the actors who portray them are so endearing and so entertaining that they could all be in their own little movies. And by making the story so much about them, it actually makes the romance of Bob and Grace all the sweeter. Instead of having to be this big thing, Bob and Grace's relationship is like the creamy center of a chocolate covered candy.It would be fair to say that Return to Me isn't much of a date movie and doesn't really want to be. It isn't interested in the ebb and flow of amore or the flaming hoops of desire we make each other jump through. This is the sort of film you watch with your loved one on your anniversary, whether it's 6 months or 60 years.I've seen a lot of films, good, bad and indifferent. Return to Me is one of the best and most joyful movies I've watched and it is definitely something I recommend most highly and without hesitation. "},{"Title":"It's a little Hollywood, but touches on some key issues!","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you can relate to Grace's insecurity about showing her scar and Bob finding out about her transplant - then you've probably had an open heart surgery and gone on a few dates! Personally I've had a few heart surgeries and - while I wouldn't wait THAT long to tell someone, I know the feeling of... I'm going on a first date, it's not quite time to reveal the heart issue... what to wear??... I thought this movie was a really sweet, if slightly too ironically perfect. Throwing in major heart surgery as a hitch in a romantic comedy plot is certainly not a twist that has been done in movies many times! Before this movie I had never seen a person in a movie with a sternotomy scar who wasn't in a hospital - it was really cool! While it's not an Oscar worthy film, I've always liked Minnie Driver as an actress, I love Chicago, and the content was close to my heart so that made the movie better.If you've struggled with the challenges of congenital heart disease - including but not limited to, Do I hide my scar? and How do I tell people who don't know?!, The Adult Congenital Heart Association is a great resource www.achaheart.org. Maybe if Grace had known about it she would have told Bob a little sooner, been more confident and not felt the need to always cover up! At least she would have realized that she - and her mother - were not alone! "},{"Title":"OMG!!!  Can you believe the chemistry?!?!?!?","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Call me sappy, if you'd like, but I was looking at the main page of yahoo.com (sorry, didn't mean to plug) today and they listed the top 10 of all time on-screen kisses, and, surprisingly, this did NOT make the cut!!!! Duchovny stars as a man who loses his wife, but, known only to us, is able to keep her heart and Driver is the recipient of that love. As they meet, fall in love...yah-dah-yah-dah-yah-dah (don't want to spoil it) the film proves that love is endless even in ways that you can't imagine.I didn't know who these two stars were at the time I first saw this film when it came out on DVD. I put it in the driver in the video store I was running at the time just to have it on for noise in the background, but, needless to say, I didn't get much work done that morning. This film pulls you in, holds you, and you can't help but hold your breath for these two all throughout...If you check my ratings in my voting history, you won't find very many films that get 10 stars from me, but this one does it. I'm really sad to say that I have yet to own it, but after seeing it again on AMC (tivo'd it from Valentine's Day), I can't wait to pick it up! Maybe there's some extras on the DVD I wouldn't mind seeing! "}{"Title":"Return to Compassion!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel that the beginning of the story sets you up to expect that such a great relationship that David had with his wife Elizabeth was going to end in tragedy. That was the dark side to this film, but it was necessary for his wife's heart to end up in Minnie Driver's body in order for David's character to come out from punishing himself for his wife's death and return to civilization. Minnie Driver gives an excellent performance as a somewhat strong willed, yet slightly shy, conscientious woman after her critical operation. One of the cutest lines in the movie is when she's applying some sort of make up to the scar on her chest after the operation, and Carroll O'Connor says to her,No one will be looking at your chest. She replies, Thanks, Grandpa! James Belushi and Bonnie Hunt are so funny in this film that it temporarily makes you forget that the plot is supposed to be on a more serious level. Now, I am impressed with Bonnie Hunt. She co-wrote, directed and starred in this movie, but she is not the sort of actress to be afraid to throw in a touch of class, unexpected characters, and humorous lines in a movie with a plot that could have been dark, depressing and predictable. She made that film work! "},{"Title":"Bonnie Hunt's career masterpiece","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie bursts with masterfully crafted humor. Writing, direction, acting, this is how it was all meant to be. From the old guys at the bar to the oversexed couple (Belushi & director Hunt), every character is vivid and lovable and supremely funny. Makes other comedies seem half-baked.Also works very well as a love story. If you don't fall in love with Minnie Driver you have no heart (insider joke). And I took special enjoyment in the Irish/Italian restaurant family. A life with such friendship and rewarding work is to be envied. Bonnie must understand this for a reason. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be much better known than it is!!!","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mention this film's title to most people and they won't have heard of it. Tell people the basic plot line (a man's wife dies and her heart is transplanted into another woman who the man promptly meets and falls in love with without realising that she has his wife's heart inside her) and it sounds bizarre. And yet for my money this has to be the most enjoyable romantic comedy I have ever seen, even if the emphasis is more on romance than comedy. Certainly this is one of the few films in my DVD collection that I never tire of seeing, even now that I know the plot inside out. But then surprise is never a big element of romantic comedies since the ending is never in doubt (and who would want it any other way?). The journey is the thing and the elements that make up this film are what make this so special.Kudos first to Bonnie Hunt for being able to take such a bizarre-sounding plot line and make it not only tasteful but moving. Even if you do not ascribe to the belief that the heart is the repository of physical feelings and that a transplanted heart would retain those feelings when placed in another person (and I'm not sure I do), the story still works. Bob and Grace still have a connection because of his wife's heart beating inside her and Minnie Driver plays Grace so delightfully that it is entirely believable that David Duchovny's Bob would fall in love with her anyway.The cast are great. Not only is Minnie Driver wonderful in this film (maybe finally with The Riches she is getting her due recognition) but David Duchovny is a revelation. Miles away from the character of Mulder in The X-Files, it turns out he can play light comedy (who knew). And the scene in which he breaks down after his wife's death is heart-breaking. He is another actor in this film who should have gone on to better things (perhaps it was because his character in this film is Bob the Builder). Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi give great support and are entertaining enough in their own right. Joely Richardson does very well given the inevitably short number of scenes she has as Bob's wife, managing to establish with economy why Bob would be in love with her to begin with.If I was to quibble, I'd say that perhaps Bonnie Hunt includes a little bit too much of the four old men talking, given that the film should really focus on Bob and Grace. However, I can forgive Bonnie Hunt's indulgence as the four old men are great characters on their own. Robert Loggia and Carroll O'Connor are especially colourful (O'Connor played the wonderfully gung-ho general in Kelly's Heroes).The music is great (not just the selection of songs but Nicholas Pike's score) and the last scenes in Italy (as shot by the late Laszlo Kovacs) are a welcome diversion (When writing the script with Don Lake, Bonnie Hunt clearly remembered her trip to Italy when she played the best friend role once before in Norman Jewison's Only You).A great film. If you haven't yet seen it, do yourself a favour and find out what you've been missing. "},{"Title":"An Everyday Type of  Modern  Fairy Tale. Also Living Proof That Hollywood Can Still Make Movies People Want and Will Pay To See!!","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With all the IMDb write-ups for this RETURN TO ME film, it surely seems doubtful that this will ever be read by any living soul! But hey, where did you come from? You really want to read this? Yes? Okay, please don't leave, please stay here. Thank you! Now as for this little RETURN TO ME film.......Some might come out and brand this as being a Women's Film. Perhaps they are right, but only to a point. Where there are some movies that would only and do have the vast, vast portion of their audiences classified as being of the Femenine Persuasion. Generally, these are made with that very purpose in mind, and prove to be the 3 handkerchief category.You want an example? How about Bette Midler and Barbara Hershey's co-starring vehicle BEACHES (1988). That to me represents about as Women's a picture as one can get. No more about that-for now. Let's get back to this RETURN TO ME movie.The story starts out with sort of ordinary people*. It makes use of a highly unlikely, but quite possible occurrences. Without getting into particulars, let's just say that it would take two (that's 2)sets of highly unlikely events to happen at close proximity in both time and space.All right now, these unlikely sets of conditions do happen. Then what do we do? Well, that's when so many other complications happen in real life and in the story. In short, without spoiling anything, Boy(one David Duchuvny) loses Wife(British Actres, Joely Richardson) in fatal car accident. Boy goes into long, extended mourning period. Finally, quite unexpectedly, Boy meets other Girl(lovely Minnie Driver, yet another Brit!). The two hit it off very well, but some deep dark secret keeps them apart! The Girl, Grace, goes to Italy ostensibly to study Art, but we all know that she really left to soothe a breaking heart.Boy, Bob, learns of the secret and pursues her in sunny, southern Italy. With help of some Italian Nuns, one riding a Vespa motor scooter, they are reunited and return to Chicago and Uncle's (Carroll O'Connor** in his final role) Restaurant & Bar. All live happily ever after, more or less.Kudos to our fellow native Chicagoan, Miss Bonnie Hunt. She not only Wrote and Directed this little Gem of a Film, but also played a supporting role, as Megan Dayton, wife of Chicago Fire Department Paramedic Joe Dayton(Jim Belushi). Her inclusion of multi talented David Alan Grier in important supporting role and the best gag in the story* added another dimension to the story.She also gathered up some local talent in Chicago Actors including Dick Cusack(Father of Joan And John)and fellow Second City Alumnus, Miss Holly Wortel, who gave a particularly pleasing performance as Bob's blind date on the night he met Grace.Does any story concerning Love, Relationships and (yes, even) S-E-X have to be a Women's Movie? Oh, you still think so, do you! Well, I guess you'd have to classify CASABLANCA and THE QUIET MAN the very same way! Good thing for you that Bogey and the Duke aren't around to read this! You'd be in a heap of trouble! * If one can call a successful, young architect, ordinary. Of course, perhaps that Miss Hunt used this Class Stratum Difference to give some further tension to the story. How 'bout it, Bonnie? ** In addition to old Archie Bunker(himself)in Carroll O'Connor's Swan Song, we have veteran Actors Robert Loggia Eddie Jones and William Brodner as an Irish/Italian/Polish Ethnic mix of family and friends at the Restaurant. "},{"Title":"Unique Film","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I say this is a unique film. It was decent and clean. It has the spirit of the fifties and sixties. It is a faith encourager. shows how God works through tragedy and sadness. The movie gets you involved and you feel for the characters. They portray real people not sex images. this shows the youth that there is more to complete the male and female relationship. The detail is great. The humor so real. I'm fussy about love stories today because of the content. This film tells a story.I loved it and recommend it. The music is a perfect fit. I also say they picked the perfect actors. I think however they should have showed the main characters actually getting married. Angela Tirone "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One great movie. The story is excellent, the acting is excellent and is romantic without being overly corny. The movie is poignant without being sentimental. David Duchovny is a big surprise. Mr. Duchovny demonstrates a style of acting that is highly engaging and Minnie Driver and Carroll O'Connor are also excellent. Mr. Duchovny carries the movie and is clearly the star. It is too bad that Hollywood does not produce more movies like this, but that might be asking too much from the potboiler factory. After all, to make a movie that deals with subjects such as personal loss and loneliness is a daunting task which takes a certain amount of discipline and respect for the audience's intelligence. This movie is really wonderful and is for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"Great romantic comedy","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From an absurd plot - Chicago architect David Duchovny falls in love with the woman who (unknown to him) has received the transplanted heart of his dead wife - first time director Bonnie Hunt (she has a good role in the movie, too) crafts a very fine romantic comedy. Minnie Driver, as the virginal and much younger Grace (this is a very catholic movie) has never been better as the object of Duchovny's chaste affection. The movie main suspense is about how Duchovny will react when he learns about Grace' history - and what will happen to their relationship. The movie is also a paean to a working class ethnic America that is disappearing fast, product of assimilation. "},{"Title":"!! WARNING!!   This totally gives away the Story.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nothing can break true love. If you truly love a heart that loves you back, nothing and no one can pierce it. Love is what gives people something to live for. In this movie a man loves this heart so much even if it's in another woman. His lover died and a woman needed a heart transplant. Then she received the heart of the man's lover. And they happen to meet. And they find love, and the man has a warm feeling that his love is still there with him through a wonderful woman. That she is still there for him. Loving him even though they're in separate worlds. Some people may say, Oh they just so happened to find each other. but it's called coincidence. Without it, life isn't as interesting as it is. I think it was a lovely story. And the poor dog loved that woman too. he waited by the door. But she would never come. Then the other woman came with the woman's heart pumping her blood. And the dog warmed up to her right away, because he knew it was her that came back through this woman. It's a tear in joy movie and I recommend it to girls 13 and over and boys 15 and over. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming  and touching romance","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" RETURN TO ME, in my opinion, is a heartwarming and touching romance. If you ask me, the way that Bob (David Duchovny) and Grace (Minnie Driver) met was pure magic. This was because fate intervened. Plus, it was love at first sight. Some people have said that this is one of the worst movies they've ever seen, but I strongly disagree. This is a great movie with terrific performances from very talented actors and actresses. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, This is a perfect movie to see with the one you love! Now, in conclusion, to all you David Duchovny or Minnie Driver fans that have not seen this heartwarming and touching romance, I highly recommend it! When you see it, prepare to be touched and have a good time. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful movie!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie! Bonnie Hunt made a great love story, just like the great Old Hollywood movies. David Duchoveny is charming and sweet as a widower who is finally starting to move on after his wife's death. He is completely believable as Bob Rueland and quite frankly every one of my female friends and family members who have seen this with me fell in love with him. Minnie Driver carries the character of Grace off beautifully, managing to convey both the happiness of being alive and the guilt that someone else had to die for her to receive a transplant. It was also Carroll O'Connor's last movie and he is wonderful as an overprotective grandfather and as a part of the four man peanut gallery that watches Grace and Bob fall in love. Those four old men are charming and fun to watch and add a depth to the movie beyond just the love story. The same goes for John Belushi and Bonnie Hunt as Grace's best friends (Megan and her husband, Joe). The wonderful supporting cast really strengthened the movie. A great love story...! "}{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a great chick flick which even the guys should enjoy. The entire cast is excellent and the story is timely and thought-provoking this COULD happen; and maybe actually has. David Duchovney, one of the finest actors in the business, turns in an outstanding performance. Maybe one of these years he will get the recognition he deserves. Minnie Driver is captivating -- perhaps one of her best performances. Bonnie Hunt does a splendid job directing and playing her sidekick girlfriend role with her usual expertise. She has one of the funniest and best-written lines in this film I have ever heard, which really sums up the whole plot -- all one syllable words Grace has Bob's dead wife's heart. I've seen the film a number of times and enjoyed it with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Finally!!","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent movie. Surely a date movie. Bonnie Hunt not only acts terrific, but directors a movie that will surely one day remain as an all time classic romantic movie. David Duchovny who plays the part of Bob Rueland makes the character of the movie more real and felt. Minner Driver who plays Grace Briggs really brings her character into a reality that just encompasses you. As beautiful as she is even dressed down she demands the attention and takes it. This is not a mushy unrealistic movie. But one of hope, pain, and life. Watching this movie you can tell the whole cast enjoyed the making of this movie. In that alone, its enough to tell you its a great movie! "},{"Title":"a highly underrated chick flick that guys will also enjoy","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never understood why this film wasn't more popular or why it's score on IMDb is so mediocre. There is so much going for this film, it's a wonder! While I will admit that the plot itself is a bit contrived, in most chick flicks you are expected to suspend disbelief, so this isn't a big problem. Just think about SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE--it has a GREAT reputation and is at least as contrived and was, to me, a less entertaining film.David Duchovney is very happily married when his wife unexpectedly dies. Her heart is transplanted into the sickly Minnie Driver who now has a new lease on life. Later, Driver and Duchovney meet and fall in love--and then find out about their odd connection! While of course the plot is odd, it is carried off so well and the romance is so sweet, it still works. PLUS, the best aspect of the movie that make it so precious and entertaining is the wonderful supporting cast. Carol O'Conner, Robert Logia and other old guys play Minnie's father and his friends and they are just too wonderful! Their lives and adventures as they spend all that time at Minnie's home is just so much fun to watch--you can't help but love the old guys and believe that their love for Minnie is deep and true.See it yourself with someone you love--you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"i love return to me........go Grace Briggs.......","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" hi everyone, i absolutely love return to me its the best movie ever and i would rate it 1 million.ha ha ha..... i like the scene when bob goes to Italy. ...... Minnie driver and David Duchovney are the best film couple ever and they should be together in real life you should go for it David....you'll both be perfect together and i hope that you will do another movie together..........i'm so glad that there was a good cast to it like bonnie hunt, James Belushi, Robert Loggia, David Alan Grier, Joely Richardson and Carroll o'Connor.also Minnie driver is a great actress/singer.........by Shanice "},{"Title":"Feel-good Movie In The Best Sense","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" RETURN TO ME ****1/2 Bonnie Hunt grandstands as director, co-writer, and co-star in this insightful tale of a widowed architect and an endearing waitress who meet and fall in love amidst trials in their lives. Competent stars David Duchovny and Minnie Driver play the two lovers who share both the contentedness and hardship that comes with all blossoming relationships. This wonderful entertainment is a feel-good movie in the best sense, with strong performances from all involved and a stroke of enticing charm in its every scene.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Gentle, Sweet, Sad, Funny","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was Carroll O'Connor's final performance.  It's worth it just to see him as such a sympathetic and gentle old man--such a far cry from his Archie Bunker days.  All of the main characters are fleshed out equally which is really a nice treat. None of this lopsided everybody exists only in relation to what they can do for the lead characters.  Two really funny scenes 1) When the ex-priest comes over to take out Minnie Driver's character out on a date 2) The old guys sitting around playing cards and talking about Sinatra.  Great stuff.  Not terribly edifying or enlightening but nice. It's great to see a guy (Duchovny's character)on film who actually really loves his wife and suffers her loss as you would expect--long and painfully. But in the end, he's rewarded for his loyalty.  Check it out--especially if you're a sappy chick like me.   "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, while dealing with some mature themes is an incredible and lighthearted movie that is almost without a flaw, it is quite funny and even touching in places.  I really enjoyed this movie and thought this was a true quality film.  David Duchovny is in a nice departure from his X-Files days.  There is little if any actual violent content or gore in this film and the writing is next to impeccable in this original movie that is all around excellent.Duchovny's part is an animal specialist at a zoo in Chicago whose wife recently died.  Duchovny obviously feels horrible and is very reluctant to start dating again.  His wife donated his heart to a person after her death.  A woman takes her donated heart which saves her life.  Duchovny falls in love with the woman who has his wife's heart unbeknownst to both.Although the subject matter is pretty intense the movie is hardly what you call intense, offensive or heavy handed.  The movie is almost lighthearted, and really does not have a week moment. The entire cast does a remarkable job, and is quite a diverse cast, including David Alan Grier, Robert Loggia, Bonnie Hunt, and the grandmaster of television Carroll O'Connor.  Here, as the grandfather of Minnie Driver, who plays the woman with the donated heart.  As you might expect O'Connor steals the show as does Robert loggia, who plays one of O'Connor's buddies.The movie is so good because there are so many different sub-plots or different angles to the movie.  There is Bonnie Hunt's family who are goo friends with Driver's family, then there is David Alan Grier who provides excellent support, then there are what might be the funniest scenes in the movie as we see O'Connor and Loggia running a restaurant called O'Reilly's Italian restaurant, and we watch the two banter back and forth with their poker buddies.The movie has some funny moments, but it is not entirely a comedy, the movie has some sad moments, but it is not a movie that will make you cry, it is just a nicely put-together little film that will definitely entertain you.  I am sad that this movie did not get more exposure than it did. This was a very good film with a lot of great moments and an acting movie, no violence, the movie's strengths in the writing and the dialogue.  Bonnie Hunt was the person mostly responsible for this movie and I think she did an excellent job as both director and writer.  I hope she does more work in film, if she makes more stuff like this I will almost watch any movie with her name on it.    "},{"Title":"Great ethnic stereotypes","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sweet, if somewhat predictable, movie.  Nonetheless, I think it's one for both guys and girls.  Mom and dad - grab some popcorn and a soda and snuggle in together for some fun.  Like the 1988 film starring Amy Irving, Crossing Delancey, this movie takes a nice plot and adds a wonderful edge through the use of classic ethnic supporting characters.You'll probably laugh and you might even cry. "},{"Title":"Surprising and touching","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As soon as I figured out what the gist of this movie was going to be (that is to say, as soon as I saw the blissfully happy couple and the woman needing a heart transplant), I thought I was going to dislike it.  I was so wrong!  It's funny, it's touching, it has a very interesting premise, and it's multi-faceted.  With so many romantic comedies, the two leads and their romance are the entire film and everything else is just filler, but the little side stories in this film are high-quality, aided by a collection of excellent veteran actors.  I enjoyed the grandfathers' poker nights, the bowling games, and especially the family life of Megan and Joe.  It's always refreshing to see a married-with-children life portrayed not just as a source of laughs (although that's obligatory, of course) but in a positive way, with the couple still enjoying each other and enjoying their life together.Overall this was a great way to spend an evening.  I'll have to watch it again, with my husband next time, before I return it. "},{"Title":" I didn't know-I swear to God I didn't know","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minnie Driver is delightful as Grace in this irresistible romance movie. The following cast is amazing. The costumes are lovely. One of the good films in the genre, Return To Me will encourage the viewer to listen to their heart. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delightful and wonderful film, which has entered my pantheon of great romantic comedies. IN many ways it's even better than When Harry met Sally. IT wears well on viewing and re-viewing. The cast is excellent, and Minnie Driver gives us a really believable heroine, as contrasted to the much-too-cute Meg Ryan in other romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Filled with warmth, details, fabulous character actors","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie takes me back to the warm, family films that I remember of my own childhood -- dealing with the pains and sorrows of life, but reminding you also of the joys and why it's all worthwhile.  The story is beautifully acted, filmed, directed and edited.  It provides a solid grounding in the details of the lives of an architect/builder, his zoologist wife, and the family and friends of a neighborhood Irish-Italian restaurant -- with real locations in Chicago.  The plot involves a heart transplant and the kind of coincidences that don't only happen in the movies.  It's got real heart, and you enjoy every little detail of the plot and characters that make the story so rich.   You could watch it several times, as each scene is a gem in its own right, and beyond that the sum is definitely greater than the parts.   "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Good Movie","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am the last person to watch a romance comedy and then have good things to say about it, but as I reflect back on this movie the only thing bad that I can say about it is that there wasn't enough Carroll O'Connor. This movie defiantly held its own as a romance comedy and was the only one I've ever seen that didn't bore the living heck out of me. The characters all had likeability to them and were easy to get attached to, especially the character portrayed by Robert Loggia and Carroll O'Connor.  I am not going to proceed to say that this movie was `a beautiful portrayal of the triumph of the human spirit and forbidden love', because I'm not that type of person and that's not how I view this film. I saw it as a very endearing and comedic story about tragically loosing a love and them finding her again in the form of another person. This is a great family movie and not at all a `chic flick'. What really pulled-me-in about this movie was the superb choice in the music played through the film. I mean Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin! Who could ask for more? The people who made this picture had great taste in music, which in my opinion adds a lot more class and distinguishably to the story. Defiantly 8/10! "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I was reluctant to see this movie basically because I thought that David Duchovny was a bit bland and that Minnie Driver was just downright annoying. However I was pleasantly surprised by this film, it was beautiful!Duchovny is convincing as a love struck widow Bob to Driver's innocent and thoughtful Grace, the chemistry is apparent onscreen which makes it all the more charming. The supporting cast of Bonnie Hunt, James Belushi, Caroll O'Connor etc supplies an overall great script and movie. "},{"Title":"Very nice.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film that you'll always remember. It's rich in characters (diversity and complexity), tells a charming story, and lets you spend a nice time from the beginning to the end. There's no place for boredom, pessimism, nor bad taste. Very nice.  "},{"Title":"Even more likable than I had hoped","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I'm not a raving Duchovny fan, but I do find him warm and charming as an actor... so his being the male lead was a big draw on this movie.Tho I've never been into Chick-Flicks, I was curious how Duchovny would be in a comic romance. Both my husband and I felt that Minnie Driver as the female lead helped to create a couple that was very good together.The movie did go a little heavily into romance and drama for my personal preference, but there was enough comedy in the film (and more importantly warmth in the relationship of the leads) to make it a very pleasant movie.The comedic skills of the actors portraying Grace's extended family also added greatly to our enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Hairy legs are your only link to reality","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for anyone who didn't have the good fortune of growing up in a real family. This group of Irish/American relatives and friends is so real that you feel included, connected by their love and humor. Carroll O'Connor is perfect, the film shows his depth and talent. Bonnie Hunt's character is the friend we all wish we had, the wise counsel who kept her virginity 'til whenever.Jim Belushi is made for this part. In fact, everyone in the film reminds you of someone you've run across, or wish you had. There is a natural quality to the characters and the actors who play them. The movie's premise seems possible based on this real quality.My favorite part is the blind date scene with the Water Lady. She is everyone's bad memory, no matter what your gender. Where was our Mike when we needed him?This is a perfect movie to buy and rewatch often. The flow of characters, plot, and music is warm and wonderful. Thank you, Bonnie. You have given us all a treasure.  "},{"Title":"great romantic comedy","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what made me go and see this movie in the theatre; it didn't get a lot of press.  But I was so glad I did!  Who knew that David Duchovny was so adorable?  I never knew he could even smile as Fox Mulder on the X files. The premise of this movie had the potential to be extremely cornball or cheesy, but Bonnie Hunt made the movie so funny and touching and sad and happy. Her and Jim Belushi were hilarious as always and the group of old guys headed up by the late Carroll O'Connor made the show. Oh yah, and Minnie Driver was good too. "},{"Title":"Touching, Hilarious, Sweet film....","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was so pleasantly surprised by, Return to Me.  I would reccommend this film to nearly anyone. Carroll O'Connor's performance was beautifully played.  And the rest of the cast all perform at top level. This film is a strong and promising debut for Bonnie Hunt, who should take the helm more often.  The world needs talented women like her to do more work.  I can't say enough about how well she handled this film.  Congrats! "},{"Title":"A predictable ride, but one well worth taking","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of us who are in love with love, Return to Me is a sweet reverie that fulfills it's promise to thoroughly delight.  The acting was engaging throughout and it was a pleasure to peek into the lives of this endearing group of family and friends.  David Duchovny was precious and charming, a nice long way from Red Shoe Diaries.  When Bob cried, I cried with him, wanted so much for him to have a forever kind of love.  So irresistibly lovable, Minnie Driver's character, Grace, had a warm sense of humor and appreciation for life that awakened in me the playful little girl that I would always like to be.  The skillfully directed relationships in the film, including the zany marriage between Megan and Joe and the friendship between the four old guys were hilarious and poignantly make the point that love -- when it is authentic -- endures, no matter what Charlie (David Alan Grier) thinks.  So what if I don't believe for a second the coincidence that Grace's used heart was extracted from Bob's late wife.  I may have been moved more deeply if the story line was more plausible, but as it is, this film lifted me up and carried me away.  Check it out. "}{"Title":"LOVE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am so not the sappy love story type girl. I really don't like those movies but I LOVE this movie. Minnie Driver (all biases about her being my favorite actress aside) does a wonderful job in this sweet story. I don't know, I think there's a part of almost every woman that fears that the man of her dreams won't love them if something is wrong with them. My favorite quote is from Carroll O'Connor...I hope I can say this without getting yelled at.... It's the character that's the strongest that God gives the most challenges. You can take that as a compliment. Oh yeah and Bonnie Hunt is great in whatever she does. She's so funny! And I generally am not a big David Duchovny fan, but he was so cute in this movie. He was a normal guy. He was sweet and thoughtful and he enunciated all of his words. I just love this movie and would suggest it to anyone even if you don't like sappy love stories...this one is worth your while. "},{"Title":"A touching and romantic movie.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonnie Hunt did a wonderful directing and acting in Return to Me. My parents loved the movie and recommend it. The video store I usually go to did not have on video but on DVD. It took me a while to find the movie on tape. All the performances are great especially David Duchovny and Minnie Driver. Well worth the effort to watch. "},{"Title":"Honest & Emotionally Accurate","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has helped me get through a difficult time because it accurately and convincingly portrayed what women go through when they have a transplant.  I recently had a transplant myself and every one of Grace's characteristics were poignant and honest. I was especially touched by the family's wait for the heart, the letter, her insecurity regarding the scar and other people's reactions to her condition.  This movie was realistic (aside from the horrible coincidence) and emotionally gripping.  Thank you Bonnie Hunt and the other person who wrote this movie (I'm sorry I can't remember your name).   "},{"Title":"Admirable and charming...","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have followed Duchovny extensively throughout his career as Fox Mulder and I am proud to say he carries his passion for acting extremely well over to a romance movie. The story was endearing and charming, especially the emotion developed by Duchovny for his wife. James Belushi, is hilarious, a definitely superior comedian. Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia are quite enjoyable as the two main old coots who want nothing more then happiness for the granddaughter, Minnie Driver. She is a talented actor with great promise. her character did come off a bit unusual, but overall it was quite a profound performance. I admire this movie, and rate it a definite 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful (but not everyone will like it).","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. I appreciate that not everyone will like this film. It's romantic, slushy and predictable (sorry, but its true). And there are some people who just don't like this kind of film.Personally, I love it. I love the romance of the plot, I love David Duchovny's performance. I love Minnie Driver's performance. I love everyones performance - even the children. I love the old men. I love the sound track. And, most of all, I love the writing. The screenplay is marvelous - there should have been an Oscar nomination. It is dramatic, serious, funny and touching all at the same time.If you have a romantic heart, you'll love this film. If you don't, you won't. Give it a go though, because you won't know until you try it. "},{"Title":"Simple yet luminous","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, what more can I say, in the world of cynical films sometimes we miss simple and sincere ones. This film is a relief. David Duchovny is amazing, I mean for you X Files fans, he really can be sincere and funny. Eclipse his fame personality as jaded Fox Mulder. The chemistry with Minnie Driver worked and again what a relief this is. Love it and hopefully Bonnie Hunt will make something like that again. Kudos!! "},{"Title":"One of the 10 best movies of the year","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a masterpiece. The writing, direction, acting, and background music (mainly songs from the late 50s and early 60s, featuring such as Dean Martin and Jackie Gleason's orchestra) are perfect. This film should have been nominated for multiple Academy Awards but, for reasons no doubt having to do with studio politics (I don't think the suits at MGM realized what they had!), was not.I won't go into the plot, since it's been aptly summarized by others in this space. Let me mention my favorite scene, however.Because of her heart condition, Grace, the heroine, has been unable ever to ride a bike. In an early scene (to the accompaniment of a Jackie Gleason time aptly called It's Great to be Alive), she rides her bike to the doctor's for her monthly checkup. Along the way she encounters two young boys, races them, and beats them. The joy on her face at the end of this scene is alone worth the price of admission. (I've seen this movie twice on the big screen and once -- so far -- on the small.)This is more than a feel-good movie. Observe, if you will, the functioning of the plot. The screenplay is brilliant, and it's matched by great performances, every one of them excellent. This picture gets better each time you see it, which is certainly a measure of its quality. This movie will last! (Compare to Field of Dreams 10 years or so ago.)  "},{"Title":"I thought this was a great movie...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was one of the nicest and most endearing romantic comedies that I have seen in a long time.  I liked the casting and, especially David Duchovny's heart-touching show of emotions as he #######SPOILER ALERT######## grieves the loss of his wife in the beginning of the movie.My husband thought the music was cheesy, but I thought it fit the feel of the movie.  I have watched it about four times, and enjoy it more every time.  I think it is definitely a movie that will make you think about how important it is to enjoy the time spent with your family, and what true friendship and love is all about.Anyone in the mood for a comedy/drama will be happy to watch this movie. Plus, it's not profane, or filled with sex and drugs, which is important.  "},{"Title":"Overall great movie-for men & women","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a great movie.  I've always liked Bonnie Hunt's work, and now I like her even more.  I remember seeing the ads for it when it was in the theaters and thinking, That looks pretty funny.  But I didn't see it until it was out on video, which is when I realized that it is not only funny, but is a great drama/love story as well.  I promptly went out and bought it. Even my husband, my dad, & my father-in-law loved it.  The only downside was it had a little too much profanity, but it wasn't overly crude and was tolerable b/c it fit so well with the characters (John Belushi was great as usual).  I've recommended this movie to several people and everyone has absolutely loved it. "},{"Title":"Romance at its best","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me brings you back to the golden days of romantic comedies. Although David Duchovny and Minnie Driver are endearing and spark a great chemistry, it is the supporting cast, lead by the late, great Carroll O'Connor, who make this a film I can promise you will go back to enjoy again and again.  Girls, your guys will love it.  Guys, your gal will think you the most romantic thing since Godiva chocolate if you buy her this DVD. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Return to Me is one of the best love stories I've ever seen.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to me is beautiful and sad.  The agony and the ecstasy.  You see Bob in agony while Grace's family are lighting candles. Then when they meet, beautiful, old fashioned  styled romance.  This is going to be me most favorite love story for all time.  My husband says I'm gong to wear out my DVD. There is so much trash in the movies, this is so refreshing, beautiful movie and well done.  I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"A great date movie!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!  I was already an X-Files Duchovny fan, now I'm hoping that since he's not doing that anymore, he will put extra effort into movies like this one.  It was an interesting premise, dealt with sensitively and with humor.  Very believable characters.  One of those make you laugh, make you cry movies. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a wonderful movie, I laughed and cried and laughed again.  This is an old-fashioned comedy/love story that makes you want to see it again and again.  After the watching it the first time I knew I had to own it. "},{"Title":"A Heartwarming Movie","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is truly a sweet movie that everyone can enjoy.  The core is a simple, pleasant romance between Grace and Bob's characters.  Around the central story are various colorful characters that make the movie come alive.  The old men in the story are hilarious and always add some more spice to each scene.  I especially enjoyed the scenes with Meghan (Bonnie Hunt), her husband (James Belushi) and their children.  That has got to be one of the oddest families ever!  A great movie for a rainy afternoon to lift your spirits.  Bring some Kleenex.9/10 "},{"Title":"All feel-good movies should be like this.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RTM is a lovely film. Sweet without being too sweet, funny without being too funny. Great acting from David Duchovny and Minnie Driver - great chemistry.Excellent supporting cast, also, James Belushi, David Alan Grier, Robert Loggia, Carrol O'Connor and Bonnie Hunt working as actress, director and co-writer. Nice romantic-comedy, go see it. "},{"Title":"A sweet, true to the heart romance...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An aspect of this movie that I truly enjoyed was that you got to know a little about so many of the other characters' personalities. All the characters came together to create a nice story, rather than focusing on a few and forgetting the rest. The characters working together made the movie itself come together well. "},{"Title":"sweet, sad, funny, heartwarming, charming, great characters, great movie!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this and I absolutely loved it!  Every single character was wonderful and each actor played their part as though they had lived the role.  The movie was sweet without being syrupy, it dealt with the sad moments with respect and restraint without being morbid or depressing, but mostly it was just lovely, and sensitive, and happy, and thoroughly enjoyable.  I would definitely watch this again and will recommend it to my daughter and girlfriends.  I am also convinced that my husband will like it too.  I am very tempted to write to Ms. Bonnie Hunt to thank her for this as it was an unexpected gift to me this evening.   "},{"Title":"Sweet, Sad, Funny, Charming, Excellent Characters, Excellent Movie","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this and I absolutely loved it!  Every single character was wonderful and each actor played their part as though they had lived the role.  The movie was sweet without being syrupy, it dealt with the sad moments with respect and restraint without being morbid or depressing, but mostly it was just lovely and thoroughly enjoyable.  I would definitely watch this again and will recommend it to my daughter and girlfriends.  I am very tempted to write to Ms. Bonnie Hunt to thank her for this as it was an unexpected gift to me this evening.  P.S. these comments come from Stephen's wife, but I'm sure he'll love it too when he watches it with me.   "},{"Title":"Irresistible Romantic Comedy","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a good film because it's a romantic-comedy without being sappy or mushy. It's a well-acted, well-directed, well-scripted film, that has a great musical score. Return to Me tells the story of Bob Rueland( David Duchovny), an architect whose wife( Joely Richardson) recently died in a car accident), whose heart is given to Grace( Minnie Driver), who is in desperate need of one. One night, Bob, still getting over his wife's death, decides to go out to O'Reilly Italian Restaurant where he meets Grace( a waitress at the restaurant, owned by her grandfathers), and starts thinking that he knows her. Later, the next day when he comes back for his cell-phone, he sees Grace again and asks if she wants to go out on a date. The film tells the romantic story that we all know of, but it's done in such a good style here that I call it an irresistible film. The film is almost perfectly timed. David Duchovny gives a good performance here, as well as Minnie Driver, while Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia both give quite enjoyable and funny performances. Finally, a film worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"The epitome of innocence","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was a movie that celebrated family, morality, wholesomeness, and true love.  Yes, it was formulamatic, and no, I did not care.  It was a sweet movie with a nice story that made me smile and that's why I like it.  Duchovny really showed his stuff, here.  I could feel genuine agony from him as he grieved for Elizabeth.  And Minnie Driver was just bursting with innocence in a role that demanded it.  She was a fine choice.  And Carroll O'Conner and friends were a riot.  They were such a blast to watch.  I'm just sorry I never saw this on the big screen.  I am definitely buying this for my collection.  It is just the thing to brighten my day. "}{"Title":"Working guy loses wife and interest in life till he meets a waitress who in a heart transplant received his deceased wife's heart.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully done romantic tale that is reminiscent of an old classic. It has the most interesting and delightful supporting cast and really takes the time to develop their characters.. and they are REAL characters! Music used is great old stuff in the style  of Sleepless in Seattle. "},{"Title":"Very nice film, sympathetic characters, funny and touching, a solid 7 of 10.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CAUTION -- WHOLE REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS --Return to Me gets its name from the fact that Bob's (David Duchovny) new love, Grace (Minnie Driver), has received the heart of Bob's deceased wife, so the heart has come back to him. It was very nicely done, Bob's life sorta becomes meaningless after his wife is mortally injured in a car accident while they were returning home from her presentation on the new habitat for the gorillas at the Chicago zoo. Brain-dead, she becomes a donor, and the recipient is Grace, who has inherited a weak heart from her mother who died very young of heart disease. A year later, Bob is a mess but Grace is doing great. Bob's friend invites him to this Italian Restaurant, meets the blind date from hell, excuses himself, Grace gives him a to-go package, he leaves his cell phone, next day retrieves it, Grace, budding artist and gardener, lives upstairs, her grandpa (Carroll O'Connor) runs the restaurant, she meets Bob again, he senses something special about her, they date, she is afraid to tell him about her scar on her chest. She still has no idea of the connection.At his apartment she finds the thank-you letter she had sent to the donor foundation, realizes who's heart she has, Bob is shocked, doesn't know how to handle it, she goes to Rome to study painting, after a few days he goes, finds her by following the bicycle he had given her, being test-ridden by a nun, they both go back to the States together, presumably to live happily ever after.I could feel for both characters. Grace was a good girl, had been sickly most of her life, was not very experienced, was nice but also smart. Bob was an architect, kind and gentle, honest, always did a good job. So, we the audience wanted to see both of them happy.Bonnie Hunt who wrote and directed was only 36, Duchovny 40, Driver 30, Belushi 46.  My favorite scene, before Bob knew about the scar, he reached to adjust Grace's blouse and she hauled off and slapped him so hard it almost knocked him over. Then she felt bad, kissed him on the lips, then said goodnight and went in. Her and his reactions during that scene were great.The writing, acting, directing while good, were not without problems. However, it is a very enjoyable film, and my rating of 7 puts it in the company of such romantic films as Hope Floats, Forces of Nature, An Ideal Husband, Mansfield Park, and Notting Hill. "},{"Title":"The actors in the movie made it seem less like all the other love stories.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though the movie had a story line like most other romance movies I still found it to be very good.  David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, and Bonnie Hunt all gave the movie a side which made you laugh, in the classic love story which, this movie is, you don't expect to go into the movie and laugh half way through it.  All the actors made the movie into something great when you could have just seen it as a another love story.  I recommend seeing this movie if not to see a real love story but to have a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Sweet story!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonnie Hunt did a wonderful job with this movie!  It's very sweet and funny. The cast did a great job - it's always nice to see David Duchovy as someone other than Fox Mulder.  Using Chicago as a setting was a good idea too - it's a great city.  Definitely a feel good movie in the best sense. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but very touching, funny and entertaining","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I been seeing a fairly formulaic film that makes me bored, but this film is definitely formulaic, but a good formulaic film. We all know that a film is like an air travel from A to Z, but between A and Z have great in flight entertainment. Despite of these formula, the performance by (David Dachovny and Minnie Driver) and supporting cast (the old guys a good comic relief) give a delightful performance. The film is fairly similar to Notting Hill, formulaic, but charming. This film will give you an old fashioned delight.8 out of 10.. "},{"Title":"Very Sweet","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this on video, and it's one of the most sweetest love stories I've seen in awhile.  Minnie Driver and David Duchovny had great chemistry together, and I really wanted their characters to get together.  What I was most impressed with was the senior citizens that Grace's (Driver) character interacted with--her grandpa, uncle and their friends.  Bonnie Hunt did a great job of capturing the comraderie and closeness of that group of characters, as well as the relationship between Hunt's character and her husband.  Ms. Hunt had the same talent with showing slices of life on her short-lived TV series.  I hope she gets another chance to direct again.  This was a job well done. "},{"Title":"Refreshing, adorable comedy that is way better than most of the movies in 2000.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh please, how can you not like this movie? Wonderful cast, good script, and good one-liners from Jim Belushi make this a must-see for most women. Unfortunately, most men would probably not like the cuteness of it. This is a chick flick. But, it is still very good and fun to watch. I love Minnie Driver, and she and David Duchonvy have great chemistry together. It has touching moments as well. Bravo to Bonnie Hunt on her directorial debut! "},{"Title":"Generally Good Film","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't have any pretense at being great art, which is good. But it is a well written script with well developed characters and solid acting. I think if I wrote it I could do without the drama surrounding the wife, but it wasn't distracting enough to detract from the main story concerning Minnie Driver's character. I think that all too often Hollywood abandons an attempt at real quality writing to try and inject more visual drama when, with an adult themed movie such as this, the emotional type of drama is all that's really needed - and probably more believable too. Overall, it's a very well done offering and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Charming Movie","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a charming gem of a movie. With an absolutely star studded cast, who can go wrong with this modern day fairy tale? It also includes many, many jokes written by the funny girl herself Bonnie Hunt, who wrote and directed this film. David Duchovny is also very good, showing a different approach then from his everday alter-ego mulder on my favourite show the x-files. a great date movie! "},{"Title":"Film with a heart","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a true feel-good movie, full of genuine sweetness and admirable people.  Although the premise requires a significant suspension of disbelief, it is worth the trouble to do so.  The director, writers, and actors truly convey what it feels like to be in love. "}{"Title":"Part of my Top 10 List","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. At first, I didn't expect much of this movie since I didn't hear anyone talk about it and it seemed like it went on video soon after it had just opened in the theatres. I also didn't think David and Minnie would make a good on-screen couple. (I've expected a lot out of on-screen couples since I saw You've Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.) Personally, I think Joely Richardson should've played Minnie's part and vice versa. I don't know, I just think Joely should've stayed in the movie longer with David. They seemed perfect for each other. But it just figures that in a movie, the girl next door always gets the guy. ) (Like in While You Were Sleeping.) I was very wrong though. This movie was fantastic!!! Everything was done brilliantly. Bonnie Hunt did a great job of directing. The lines were perfect with the wise cracks everywhere.***WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD!!!***I love how everything intertwined with each other. For example, in the beginning, Elizabeth and Bob were talking about going to Italy, and in the end, Bob meets Grace in Italy. Sydney (the ape) doing the hand thing with Grace like he had done with Elizabeth is an example too.***NOTICE SPOILERS END NOW!!!***One thing I didn't like about the movie was it was a little unrealisitic. Well, I just don't think a man could get over his wife in a year when she was the only woman he had ever been with his entire life. You'd think he'd isolate himself from the world for years before even coming out of his house to talk someone. Instead, he goes on a blind date a year later and falls *instantly* in love with a woman he's never seen in his life but feels a connection with.Over all, it was a splendid movie. It had me crying two or three times, and it had me laughing countless times (the scene in the restaurant with Bob's picky date for bottled water was hilarious!). It is definitely up there with great romantic-comedies like You've Got Mail, Sliding Doors, and While You Were Sleeping.GO RENT IT TODAY!! "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I know there isn't much substance to this movie. How many romantic comedies do? This gem of a film sets out to sweep you off your feet and does so winsomely. But you don't just fall in love with David Duchovny and Minnie Driver's sweet romance. You fall in love with her entire family!Many have bashed Bonnie Hunt's abilities and called this movie mindless froth. That it didn't keep their attention. Well, yeah, there were no guns blasting, no airplane crashes or scenes of naked people thrashing around in bed in the throes of passion. Instead you get to see things rarely viewed in movies any longer. Like people over the age of 40 who haven't had a face lift!I loved Grace's (Minnie Driver's) family. Especially Carroll O'Connor and Robert Logia, who clearly love her. Their concern for her is evident. I loved watching them fight over which dead singer is the best. And when they all went bowling together. You rarely see this kind of family interaction in movies. And James Belushi's priceless parenting is hilarious.I also was thrilled that the two main characters didn't fall into bed on the first date. True, Grace's scar from her surgery is probably the main reason for this. But it was a welcome relief to most movies where the protagonists always end up in bed.This is one of the very, very few movies I can recommend to my parents. Thank you, Bonnie Hunt! "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so cool. It told me to enjoy every moment in life to its fulness. I think that Bonnie Hunt (Jerry Maguire) writes well and I am so happy that she gave aging actors opportunity to have such big roles in the movie. That is really neat, in a society that worships wealth, health and youth, it was nice to see a movie about normal people. The movie reminded me a lot of While you were Sleeping which I really love. If you don't like this movie you should work on your sensitivity skills.Favorite Quotes Megan Dayton I'm just saying, for safety, don't shave your legs,because then you definitely won't let it go too far. Grace Briggs Megan, it's a first date. Megan Dayton I married a first date. I'm sure you plan on being level-headed, but once you're in the moment, the male brain seems, I don't know, everything they say suddenly seems brilliant.  Hairy legs are your only link to reality. Favorite Scenes Megan (Good Will Hunting) riding her bike. All the scenes in the garden. The conversation and comradery among the grandpa and friends in the restaurant.  Please do not miss this movie it will warm up your heart!  "},{"Title":"A unique movie ...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are so many positive reviews on Return to Me that my opinion is not necessary to encourage you to watch this movie. However, I feel the need to express my admiration for this unique movie.  Bonnie Hunt has proved that she is not only an exceptional actress but also a marvelous director and script writer.  This movie has everything and is full of humanity, tenderness, sense of humor ...  Don't miss it, don't wait any longer.  And, regarding the poor reviews don't pay any attention.  Some viewers forget that this type of movies have to be watched with your heart, not only with your eyes.  If some viewers prefer Notting Hill or You've got Mail that's their mistake.  For me, Return to Me is a true gem, an unforgettable movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic couples movie","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is great - well written and very entertaining.  David Duchovny shows, once again, that he is much more than Fox Mulder, and the performances by the old men are funny as can be.  Old married folks (like me) will appreciate the connection between two hearts. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and just a Good Movie","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will start by saying I have always been a Bonnie Hunt fan.... She always adds life to any character she plays, and she did a wonderful job in her directorial debut.I have to admit this is a chick flick... But keeping that in mind, it is a wonderful story, it touches on many emotions and elicits all sorts of reactions.This film depicts real life like people with real life like situations. (Tho I have to exclude the coincidence that is the major part of the film)It's a love story.. not just of a man and a woman, but the love of family, friends, and loved ones past. (Even pets).I really enjoyed it. Well worth the rental or the purchase.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great.  I laughed, I cried, it moved me.  But no, I'm serious.  I was really moved.  The cast is great, the script is wonderful....in a few words this movie rocks. Wiley's sis  "},{"Title":"This movie helps build marriages","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the romance of this movie helps couples develop a deeper appreciation for each other.  Although I saw one goof in the early part of the movie, it was fairly well done.  The plot can make you cry if you think about the situation enough.  I loved it..watched it twice already and highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Note to the director!  (A winning review)","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonnie - You pulled it off! Congratulations on both your script, which is as strong as any I have seen translated to film, and your direction - which is as sure footed as Capra's. (High praise, I know... but hey. You made a terrific movie!!!)The sense of realism (family and emotion) mixed with the storytellers usual bag of tricks (fantasy and romance), worked so well that this movie trancended the 'romantic comedy' genre for me. It became more. It became a GREAT MOVIE! For a genre that rarely produces anything but trite gushers, I applaud you for giving us such a personal view of what makes our dangerous world bearable and ever so charming.In short - thank you! And congratulations on your first film! It will be remembered.Now go do more!Point of reference Male, 33, single, filmmaker / writer - who generaly stays away from genres such as 'romantic comedy', because like 'horror', not many good 'movies' are made within them.   "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sweet - not cloying, just warm-spirited and kind.  I found it only mildly funny, and the premise *is* wildly improbable, but the characters are so charming (especially Minnie Driver's) that they had my full attention right from the beginning, and soon had my affection too.Bonnie Hunt has done a great job in her directing debut, and a good job with the writing as well.  I highly recommend this movie and will see it again, I'm sure. "}{"Title":"Meandering Comedy Fatally Misses","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The trailer for this movie was great.  It used the best (and, it turns out, the very few) punchlines from the film in a way that was tight, a little irreverent and perfectly punctuated by cuts and music. The film is a completely different story.  Departing from a very interesting premise, it sort of collapses under the weight of a weak script and the director's failure to calibrate and measure each scene.  I sat through it redoing the film in my mind, constantly imagining how it could have been improved, and this is not something I do deliberately or with all movies.Bonnie Hunt allows the individual scenes to go on and on forever, pointlessly.  She doesn't let the zingers zing.  Instead, after each funny line, all the characters seem to stick around commenting on it and, in the process, taking all the laughs out. At one point, she starts out inside the restaurant with the old men and the young couple, follows the young one outside for a romantic scene, then returns to the kitchen for some completely unrelated business and stays there for what seems like hours.  And this is not the only such scene.I could go on and on, but why bother.  This movie will fade from memory before I finish writing this.  Too bad now nobody will be redoing the story for awhile, because it has a great premise and someone should! "},{"Title":"Very well written and acted.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very well done although the ending is given away too early in the film.  The four elderly men in the restaurant are what makes this film fun to watch.  Minnie Driver is a very talented actress and comes across wonderfully on screen. "},{"Title":"Schmaltzy, Sweet, Improbable, and Wonderful","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonny Hunt scores a coup with her directorial debut.  Minnie Driver and David Duchovny have that indescribable something called chemistry.  Sure the plot is unlikely, but that doesn't stop one from enjoying this film.  Carroll O'Conner does a great job as Grace's grandfather.  Other great character actors play his card buddies.  Jim Belushi is hilarious as the down-to-earth husband of Megan, part of the extended family.Faith, family, and marriage are respected.  A few sexual references and salty words are used but in context and with gentle humor. And in the background that wonderful Dean Martin tune--Return to Me.Recommended. "},{"Title":"This is what I call romantic/comedy.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this film because in some point, we can really laugh at the joke in the movie, which is funny.I like David Duchovny in this film, but still in some scene he looks like Agent Fox Mulder in The X-Files.If you like a good romantic/comedy, just head out to your video rental shop and rent this one. You'll like it.   "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Makes-You-Feel-Great Film","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't normally go out of my way to watch romantic comedy, and maybe I will in the future after seeing Return to Me. The plot was simple and no secret after the publicity. You don't have to be Einstein to guess what will happen after the first 15 minutes. What you can do is relax and let the cast take you into a world where the chemistry abounds and the good guys win and you can just laugh and have a good time. I LOVE this movie....and have the DVD on order! "},{"Title":"DAVID DUCHOVNY IS PERFECT!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is the most romantic in years. David Duchovny is superb. He´ll make you cry, smile and dream. Minnie driver and James Belushi are very good too. But, David is astonish. Don´t miss the opportunity to see this little film and fall in love with Bob and Grace. Run, don´t walk! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found out that most romantic comedies are not only funnier, but also more intelligent than most normal comedies. Regarding the generally good reviews(especially in the States!) this film got, I expected a lot of it. I know, the story of these films is generally of minor importance. I read the story and knew this was gonna be predictable. So what? YOU'VE GOT MAIL was very predictable too and still was one of the sweetest and funniest films of the year. This film however scored very low on laughs.It was very disappointing to see how director Bonnie Hunt missed several opportunities to make people laugh. For example, there is a scene where Grace(Minnie Driver,very charming by the way) is on the phone with her friend Megan(Hunt herself). Megan is telling something and you see Grace laugh out loud. The problem was that no one in the theatre was laughing too, which made up for an embarrassing scene.  The old men at the restaurant too could have been much funnier. The only character I thought was funny enough was James Belushi's. However, his part is a mere cameo-role. Another problem was that, for a romantic comedy, there was too much drama in it. The film just isn't hitting the right notes. I think this worked best as a romantic film, not as a comedy or as a drama.  The leads are both very charming and attractive. A nice surprise to see David Duchovny come off as well as he did.  If you want a good romantic comedy, rent NOTING HILL, check out YOU'VE GOT MAIL. They're as predictable as this one, but way funnier and very well-written. 6/10 "},{"Title":"surprisingly good.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a movie I would normally watch, I watched it on a plane, because only one channel was working. It is actually  surprisingly good, The plot is made up of outrageous coincidences but the characters are very believable and you empathize with them the whole way through. Of course there is a happy ending and surprisingly for a Holliwood romance there is a tiny little twist on the standard ending.  "},{"Title":"What a sweet movie","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I chuckled all through this movie and left it smiling. You'd expect that, since it is a romantic comedy.What you wouldn't expect, however, is how innocent this movie is. There is very little swearing, no violence, and no nudity at all.  This is a movie you could see with every generation of your family and a good time would be had by all. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is perfect!  Everything including acting, music, story, balance of humor and drama, and casting are all right on target.  It is clean, fun, inspirational and romantic.  If you enjoyed While You Were Sleeping you will, in my opinion, enjoy this film as well. "}{"Title":"reminiscent of old hollywood romantic comedies","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kept hearing those involved with the film describe it as unlike any film you will have seen in the last ten years. I thought, yeah right! but they were right. This film is reminiscent of old hollywood romantic comedies with no foul language and the two main characters do not sleep together in the first five minutes and then fall in love. It is a great movie that will make you laugh and cry! I highly recommend to all! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Delightful!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie mainly because I'm a die-hard x-files fan and because David Duchovny makes my heart skip a beat. I also figured Minnie Driver is a stupendous actress so how bad could it be???It was WONDERFUL! It was heartwarming, sweet without being sickening. It was also very, very funny. I was so impressed and enjoyed it so much that I thought of finding where I could write to Bonnie Hunt and thanking her for it.I give it a 9 and would recommend it to anyone...and I'm not even a love story fan! "},{"Title":"A must-see for romantics and all other people who like to be caught between a laugh and tear at the same time.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't go so far as to say that anyone who's not enchanted by this movie does not have his/her heart in the right place (no pun intended) but, let's face it When was there a film in the last years that was more of an uplifting, refreshing and cheerful night at the movies?Tell me and I'll prove u wrong!The most wonderful thing about it -apart from the amazingly natural cast - is that it does what most romantic comedies fail to do It goes for the comedy in Romantic Comedy rather than for the romantic, and by doing so, it's Sammy Sosa's 200th home run, if you get my meanings.For those of us, who believe in the idea that seeing the funny extant in everything is the only way to live on this godforsaken planet, Return to me is the ultimate tears-of-joy-film.One expects the worst (the first 20 minutes!) and gets the best. Minnie, my main woman, is heartbreaking (there we go again) as always and Duchovny delivers one of the most sensible performances a male actor delivered in a long time. They are great as a couple, you can nearly feel the slowly growing love between them.It's a sparkling, shimmering tale of the little things in love, the gestures, the shy words, the heart-pounding when you fall in love, the what-do-I-say-to-her when it comes to the bye bye after the first rendezvous.It's so close to real life and at the same time such a breathtaking typical screen fairy tale that it actually gives you back the beliefs in the big love which some of us lost on the way to where we are now. It's romance like we want it to be.After watching this movie, my steps were as light as the dancing feet of Astaire and I'm even more certain than before that it's vital to forget all the bull about how cool and slick one has to be in order to get the attention of a member of the other sex. I gotta be me, like it or not. Just like Bob and GracieGee, that nearly sounded like a college lecture but it's how I feel now as I'm sitting here, writing this down. I wouldn't have wanted to miss this jewel of a film for the world.Steve Earle once sang Hopeless romantics are usually hopelessly true. That's what this movie is saying, in a nutshell. And for my fellow males See it. It's not just a chic flick. Go figure!  "},{"Title":"has all the predictability of a Romantic Comedy, but is still enjoyable","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  romantic comedies; I don't like 'm. Why not? Well, because the films are hardly ever original, terribly predictable, have overly clear symbolism and most of the time young actors, who don't care too much about their acting skills, as long their name is on the screen. 'Return to me' is a romantic comedy, and as with most romantic comedies, it's not a comedy. It's more to be taken as 'a sad start working towards a happy ending'. Veterinarian Elizabeth (Joely Richardson) and architect Bob (David Duchovny) are a happy couple. After an accident, Bob loses his wife. Almost at the same moment, waitress Grace (Minnie Driver) has a heart transplant. Somewhat a year after Bob and Grace meet and fall in love. Until they find out whose heart is beating in Graces' chest...Well, this film has indeed above named elements; it's storming when the happy couple has the accident, there are a lot of coincidences, and the happy ending shows up in what other country then romantic Italy. And ofcourse a nun on a bike and jokes about a gorilla are always funny. On the other side, perhaps without those elements it would never have been a romantic comedy.  Director Bonnie Hunt is linear in telling the tale (?..) and doesn't fall into the trap of silly, unconvincing dialogues or into exaggerated tearjerking (since when is that a verb?). She knows to avoid that through the characters, they don't accept the story right away and are actually a bit surprised by it. The actors are doing ok, Duchovny, basically known of his role in the X-files hasn't had much success as film actor and Driver, 'girl-next-door', 'till now mostly seen in films as the love interest, are together convincing as a  nice, somewhat dull couple.  Entertaining about the film is not so much the love story, but the other subplots. Grace best friend Megan  (played by the director herself) and her chaotic household of five children and husband (James Belushi) and Grace caring Irish grandfather (Caroll O'Connor, better known as Archie Bunker, yes it's him!) and his Italo-American friends.  well, there is actually not much to say about this film, in spite of its' dim romantic storyline, the film is well made. Absolutely nothing special, but not bad. WITHIN it's genre I'd give it *** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Best Romantic Comedy Ever Made.  Ever.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS**	 	Director and co-writer Bonnie Hunt delivers the goods in `Return To Me,' a touching story of two deserving people who are afforded a second chance at love and happiness.  When we meet Grace (Minnie Driver), she is suffering with heart disease and awaiting a donor for a transplant.  Architect-builder Bob Rueland (David Duchovny) is happily married to Elizabeth (Joely Richardson), they are deeply in love, and Hunt quickly establishes just how perfect their lives are together; so perfect, in fact, it becomes somewhat unsettling because you know that tragedy of some kind or other is imminent.  When it comes, the transition is handled succinctly and with the skill of a seasoned professional.  When Elizabeth dies, Grace receives her heart.  A year later, Bob, still mourning the loss of his wife, meets Grace at the Irish-Italian restaurant owned by her grandfather (Carroll O'Connor), where she works as a waitress.  Neither are aware of the intimate link they share to the heart that has given Grace her life. 	In the hands of a less savvy director, the story at this point could easily go astray and become mired in coincidence and cliche.  Hunt never comes close to allowing this to happen, however, and instead hits every note squarely on the head so that the plot fairly resonates with precision and timing.  A veteran character actress herself (she plays Grace's closest friend, Meg, here), she seems to know instinctively just when to add the right light touch to offset the drama, then fleshes it all out with an array of great characters,especially Robert Loggia, as Angelo, the `Greatest Italian chef in Chicago,' and James Belushi as Meg's husband, Joe.  There are no wasted moments in this film; the story moves right along and takes you with it.  The dialogue is often witty and always real; in a scene between Grace and Meg that takes place in the hospital (prior to their notification that a donor has been located), in which Grace can barely draw a breath, she looks up at Meg and says one word, `Rosebud.'  After Elizabeth dies, when Bob finds himself alone at home and finally breaks down, Hunt gives the scene time to build and play out, so that it rings true instead of being glossed over and simply used as a tool to move the story along.  When it happens we, as an audience, are also afforded that time to realize the suffering he's experiencing, and it allows us to feel it as well.  The scene in which Grace, Meg and Joe are at home awaiting a dinner guest (a former priest), is beyond hilarious.   Highlighting an exceptional cast, David Duchovny and Minnie Driver are unforgettable as Bob and Grace; and the multi-talented Bonnie Hunt rises to a whole new level of artistic merit for giving us a truly memorable and heart-warming movie that is a joy to experience.  Written by Hunt and Don Lake, `Return To Me' is a delight from beginning to end, the kind of film one waits for to come along.  Hopefully, in the future Hunt will treat us to even more movies of this caliber.    I rate this one 10/10. "},{"Title":"Smart, Funny, Wonderful Cast, and all-around great movie","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see RETURN TO ME because the plot sounded pretty cute but mainly because it had a great-looking guy (David Duchovny) as the lead.  I went BACK to see the movie 2 more times and plan to buy it because it was spectacular.  Bonnie Hunt's wonderful sense of humor really shines with this awesome cast.  I found the characters of Robert Loggia and Jim Belushi to be especially funny.  It was filled with hilarious one-liners among all of the members of the cast however.  Of course, the movie also touched base on some very serious and (of course)romantic plot parts.  The movie may fall into the category of chick flick, but I believe any guy would enjoy the film, and everyone who sees it will be guaranteed laughs.  Best romantic comedy I've seen in years... would also recommend WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING with Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman, and another excellent cast. "},{"Title":"What is your problem? (Spoilers)","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand some people.  This movie wasn't made to be an action movie, it wasn't made to make people get out of bed in the morning, it was made to make people laugh, cry, and be reminded of important stuff.  People are saying, Finally, a sweet movie without the  sex.  That wasn't all it was missing.  There were really no bad guys because we don't know how or what caused the accident.  There is also no murder or violence.  One of the best things about this movie is what it's missing.  I loved it!  I went to see it eight times, now before you laugh because you think I'm pathetic and have no life let me tell you, it was with different people each time.  I went because of our beloved David Duchovny and went back for the movie.  I loved it because I saw everyday things in it, and okay so what if the plot was unplausible.  Do you think anything that happened in the Matrix could really happen or anything that happened in Runaway Bride really happened. The whole point of watching a movie is to escape reality, be taken to a different world where people like Bob Rueland, (David Duchovny), and Gracie, (Minnie Driver) exist.  There is too much sex, violence, murder and bad guys today.  David does in this movie what he doesn't need to.  He proves he's an actor, a very good one at that.  All you have to do is see his paycheck to know that he's an actor.  There was no trace of Mulder because there is no Mulder.  He's a character written on paper that David brings to life through his profession, not a second personality!  Back to the movie, I loved it and give it a 10 out of 10!!!  "},{"Title":"Heart Wrenching Movie","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie.  Good, clean movie filled with love, passion, romance, heartache, joy, - everything under the sun.  The saddest part of the movie was in the beginning, where the couples dog was waiting for her to come home (only she had been killed)  The look on his face said it all.  That dog belonged to her.  He reluctantly did things for David Duchovney.  So sad when he broke down at the doorway and told the dog that she wasn't coming home - EVER. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a beautiful gem that sparkles brightly amid the violent and sex driven films of our day.  Hollywood has made enough of that genre to take us into the next 2 centuries.  We're sick of it already!  When I see a movie, I want to feel inspired afterwards.  Certainly, there is enough violence all around us in our everyday existence that we don't need to pay to be entertained by it!The film takes us on a wonderful, interesting journey of sadness, hope, joy, and faith in God.  Not enough stories depict how others pray and believe in our creator.  The interaction of the families is so real, you feel as though you know them or met them at some point in your life.The screenplay is solidly written and the performances are warm and believable.  During intense, sad moments of the film, Bonnie Hunt creatively took the edge off with a bit of humor.  In fact, humor was expressed throughout most of the scenes, which made for a wonderful sense of balance.I applaud Bonnie Hunt for bravely making a sweet, caring movie and for sharing her unique talent with us.  Hopefully, she will continue to make films that benefit and uplift the human spirit. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me marks the directorial debut of Chicago native Bonnie Hunt, the actress who starred in the two Beethoven movies. She does a terrific job on her first time out as a director. Return to Me is a sweet romantic comedy-drama about love and family. There are lots of laughs in this film, but there's also some moments that make you want to cry. David Duchovny and Minnie Driver are wonderful in the leads, and they're surrounded by a great supporting cast that includes Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia, David Alan Grier, Jim Belushi, and Hunt. It's nice to see this kind of movie come out once in a while. It deserved to be a bigger hit at the box office than it has turned out to be. This film attrached mostly older moviegoers (when I saw this film in the theater two months ago, three-fourths of the people in the theater were older adults). I really do believe younger audiences would like this film, and they should be ashamed of themselves for not going to see Return to Me. Some of these young moviegoers make ridiculous movies aimed at the teen market like The Skulls, Road Trip, and more recently Big Momma's House box office hits (which they don't deserve to be), and they avoid terrific movies like Return to Me which hasn't done that bad but has made less money than those three movies that I've mentioned. It's a real shame. When they rent Return to Me after it comes out on home video, they'll see that this movie is alot better than they think it is.***1/2 (out of four)    "}{"Title":"Cardio-Soap Heart to Heart","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Main Thing by nicardo@bigfoot.com Review of Return to MeWas this movie even advertised? I was the only one at the 430 matinee. I caught it at a one-screen theater the week after it left the multi-plex cinema, and probably ten minutes before it goes to video, destined for the `New and Recommended Chick Flicks' shelf. That's a shame, because it's not a bad little `heart-centered' romantic drama, and deserves a bigger audience. Yes, it's rather maudlin, but, worth a look anyway. Bob's wife, Elizabeth, passed away. Later on, he hesitantly starts dating. Thing is, the girl he likes, Grace, `has Bob's dead wife's heart' from the transplant. `What was God thinking?' Grace asks. Really. It's the kind of thing we know could probably happen these days.David Duchovny plays Bob exactly the way he plays `Mulder' on The X-files, except that he's in construction and cries on his dog's shoulder after the tragedy. If he ever cried on TV, he'd have to come up with a second facial expression, which I don't think is in his contract.Minnie Driver plays Grace very self-conscious because she's `had some work done.' She does want to live life to the fullest, but even has trouble finding the courage to mail a thank you note ...a year later. She's got the most supportive extended family in Chicago. They run an Irish-Italian restaurant where she waits tables. Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia, James Belushi, David Alan Grier, and Bonnie Hunt are among the supporting cast, and are the most fun to watch.Bonnie Hunt, who I last saw play Tom Hanks' wife in The Green Mile, is the talent behind this project. She plays Grace's best friend, Megan, but she also co-wrote and directed the movie, and didn't even look that tired. She proves what Meryl Streep has said for years, that actresses in Hollywood should stop complaining about the lack of good women's roles and write their own scripts. I think it was Meryl who said that. When they do, the result will be less profit-oriented, and more of a personal story that doesn't rely on special effects, various weapons and car chases. It will also show other talented women that they can make movies, too. That's the main thing. E-mail and comments are welcome. "},{"Title":"Sweet and timeless, a refreshingly funny film.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this film on holiday last week.  It doesn't open in Ireland for another week and I'm honestly looking forward to going again.Return to Me is a perfect date movie.  It's sweet, romantic and surprisingly funny!  David Duchovny moves beyond his Fox Mulder persona pairing up with Minnie Driver who has always made interesting choices in her work (Big Night, Circle of Friends.). Yes, it's predictable, but this isn't an episode of The X-Files, it's a romantic comedy and they tend not to have twists and cliffhangers!Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake have come up with a sparkling script, and the supporting cast play it wonderfully to the hilt.  As an Irish person, I'm ever critical of bad Irish accents.  Thankfully, Carroll O'Connor's passes muster.  Had it been a bad stage Oirish effort, I would have run a mile!Return to Me could have been made in the 1950's.  It has a timeless feel to it, lacking cynicism and refreshingly free from big stunts, gimmicks or having teenage protagonists to sell it.  It's a timeless film for all ages and I reccomend you go as soon as possible.  It made me laugh and cry, but best of all, it made me smile.Caroline "},{"Title":"Overlong but sweet.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One is tempted to review of this movie by saying it's heart is in the right place. Well, don't, because that would be an excruciatingly bad pun. You see, the story here concerns Bob (David I Am Not Mulder Duchovny), whose wife dies in a car accident. Her heart is transplanted to the likable Grace (Minnie Driver), and the two feel drawn to each other for unknown reasons- but will the secret of Bob's wife's heart ruin their budding romance?That's the set up, and it's a pretty good idea, but the movie is kind of flawed. It's good as far as romantic comedies go (it's better than, say Nine Months or Runaway Bride, or Notting Hill- pretty much anything with Hugh Grant and/or Julia Roberts). One flaw is that the movie is a little too long. It takes forever for Bob and Grace to hook up. Way too much time is spent with Grace's cherubic grandfather (Carroll I Am Not Archie Bunker O'Conner) and his whimsical senior citizen pals. These guys are just too cute. Really, they are TOO cute. No old people I've ever met are this lovable or adorable. It's sweet at first, but these guys really get annoying. By the time they're all dancing together to Sinatra you'll be vomiting in the aisle.There are other bizarre things in this movie Why was the annoying comic relief zoo contributor guy given such a long scene? Why would Grace go to such great lengths to hide the fact that she had a heart transplant (other than to advance the story)? Why would they go to the expense to film in Italy and then only be there for five minutes before shifting the story back to the states? Why the bike riding nun? Why the odd drugged-up woman who was David Alan Grier's date at the ape-house fund raiser? Why did the scene where Grace is fixed up with an ex-priest end as soon as the guy showed up? Why did we have to see James Belushi topless? Why would Bonnie Hunt, who wrote and directed the movie, write herself yet another best friend supporting role?But despite it's length and odd occurrences, you could do a lot worse as far as romantic comedies go. The movie is very sweet and has a lot of nice moments. It's heart is in the right place, I guess.D'oh!! "},{"Title":"Cool, lays like a fifties movie.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this on a class trip to the movie theather as a reward.  I heard of it and thought I was going to sleep through it. I was wrong, this movie is so sweet, and smart, that it shows that you don't need globs of profanity and sex to make a good movie.  A definate sleeper, see it if you can. "},{"Title":"Nothing new but very enjoyable just the same","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know much about this movie except the premise about the heart and that Minnie Driver and David Duchovny were in it.The supporting cast is terrific, Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia, Bonnie Hunt, among others.  Even James Belushi is fun in this movie.This is a movie with heart and Bonnie Hunt does very nice job directing this movie she co-wrote. "},{"Title":"Romantic, cute and sweet","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Congrats to Bonnie Hunt for an excellent script and directorial debut. Return to Me is a great romantic movie along the lines of While You Were Sleeping (my all-time favorite movie) and Sleepless In Seattle. The story is unusual, yet gripping and compelling. David Duchovney and Minnie Driver are magic together and light up the screen with their chemistry. The supporting cast is colorful and engaging (especially the four old guys).If you want to see a terrific romantic movie, see Return to Me. I work in a theater, and saw a lot of couples come in to see the movie together. Quite a few males looked less than thrilled to be seeing it, but a lot of those same men came out of the film smiling and happy. Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"A wonderful celebration of life","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return To Me is, simply put, the best romantic comedy at least since Sleepless In Seattle, and it's better. take out the slow start, the fact that the movie should have been 10 minutes shorter and some editing faults, and you'll get almost a perfect movie. With all the great performances, from David Duchovny all the was to the valet guy, this movie is the victory of Bonnie Hunt. her ability to have her legs on the breaks all the time, to prevent the movie from becoming too sappy even with the scary promise, is what makes this movie so special. it's schmaltzy and sentimental, and of course you know what's going to happen, but it's done with so much taste and talent, that it just take a strong grip on you and you're happy to get carried away with this beautiful world that Hunt created.  I can't say enough good words about the performances of everyone in this movie. David Duchovny can break your heart and make you laugh with such ease, that it must be a gift from heaven, and i didn't think of Mulder not even for a second. Minnie Driver was sweet, the four oldies stole every scene, as did Hunt and James Belushi in his best performance on years.  In this era when the more violence, sex and bad language in a movie, the better art it consider, it was so refreshing to see a sweet, naive, sincere and heart warming (sorry, it's a cliché pan),that it's taste will stay with me for a long long time. two thumbs, 10 fingers and hats off to Bonnie and her brilliant cast. thank you.  "},{"Title":"Finally a clean romantic comedy","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt so good after leaving the film Return to Me.   Usually I don't enjoy romance movies because they are filled with hot and heavy love scenes.This film was an excellent romance film that I will definitely add to our collection of favorite videos.  Although the whole idea of him falling in love with the woman who received his dead wife's heart was rather silly, I loved the movie.  It was like a breath of fresh air.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Dramady","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RETURN TO ME is a genuine surprise from writer/comedianne/actress and first time director Bonnie Hunt. Hunt has cobbled together a tabloid-style tale with surprising warm and effectiveness.  Hunt generously showcases all the talent here, relegating herself to a fairly small (but effective role) as Minnie Driver's best friend.  As Megan Dayton, Hunt also demonstrates the underlying lustiness she suggested previously in ONLY YOU.Minnie Driver portrays Grace Briggs, a young attractive woman suffering from hereditary heart disease.  Near death, driver receives the heart of Dr. Elizabeth Rueland (Joely Richardson), a gifted animal psychologist.  Dr. Rueland's grieving husband Bob (David Duchovny) meets Grace, whom works for her grandfather (Carroll O'Connor) at his restaurant.  Grace has become gun shy because of the reaction of her dates when learning she's had a transplant.  When meeting Bob, she isimmediately smitten, not knowing she carries the heart of his wife.   To his credit, Duchovny doesn't mind playing Bob as a flawed person.  His understated warmth and sense of irony here is most welcome.Hunt has taken an almost preposterous situation and filled it with such warm, likeable characters, you WANT to believe in it.  Hunt, the director, however, demonstrates her inexperience with some awkward camera setups, and scenes that run too long.  The whole film seems alternately rushed and too long.  Still, Hunt displays great promise as an actors' director.  She'll eventually settle down with the camera techniques and become one of the best. Special note should be mad of Carroll O'Connor; this is Carroll O'Connor's most endearing role since Archie Bunker. The movie would be worth seeing if only for the interplay between Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi.  Hunt, though overly made up in a few scenes, is one of Hollywood's sexiest actresses.  She reminds me of the late, great Eve Arden (the principal in GREASE).  Now, Bonnie, why don't you write a movie to showcase yourself? I'll take you over Julia or Sondra anytime...  "},{"Title":"A wonderful celebration of life","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return To Me is, simply put, the best romantic comedy at least since Sleepless In Seattle, and it's much better. take out the slow start, the fact that the movie should have been 10 minutes shorter and some editing faults, and you'll get almost a perfect movie.With all the great performances, from David Duchovny all the way to the valet guy, this movie is first of all the victory of Bonnie Hunt. her ability to have her legs on the breaks all the time, to prevent the movie from becoming too sappy even with the scary promise, is what makes this movie so special. it's schmaltzy and sentimental, and of course you know what's going to happen, but it's done with so much taste and talent, that it just take a strong grip on you and you're happy to get carried away with this beautiful world that Hunt created.I can't say enough good words about the performances of everyone in this movie. David Duchovny can break your heart and make you laugh with such ease, that it must be a gift from heaven, and i didn't think of Mulder not even for a second. Minnie Driver was sweet, the four oldies stole every scene, as did Hunt and James Belushi in his best performance in years.In this era when the more violence, sex and bad language in a movie, the better art it consider, it was so refreshing to see a sweet, naive, sincere and heart warming (sorry, it's a cliché pan), that it's taste will stay with me for a long long time. two thumbs, 10 fingers and hats off to Bonnie and her brilliant cast. thank you. "}{"Title":"Actress Bonnie Hunt shows off her writing and directing skills in this enjoyable love story that recalls classic films from the Forties.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In many ways Return To Me is a tribute to the old-fashioned romantic comdies of the 1940s. The film was directed by actress Bonnie Hunt who also co-stars as Grace's best friend.  When Duchovny's wife dies, his best friend (David Alan Grier) tries to set him up with a string of women. But no matter who it is, Duchovny fights it, because he can't let go of his wife's memory. This was a good role for Duchovny. He shows off depth and real growth as an actor.Minnie Driver is a wonderful actress who seems to be headed to bigger and better things. She plays a good girl who has led a sheltered life surrounded by a loving family. Driver's family are an odd bunch, including Carroll O'Connor as her Irish Grampa and Robert Loggia as the Italian uncle. Together they get some of the best comic lines in the film.This is Ms. Hunt's directorial debut, and she does an excellent job of creating a story reminiscent of the old Irene Dunne-Cary Grant romantic comedies. Return To Me is an enjoyable mixture of fantasy and humor and warm-hearted fun, the main message of which would seem to be, life's too short.  "},{"Title":"a movie with a good heart and fine actors","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyed this gentle comedy by Bonnie Hunt. The film is an old fashion romantic comedy. The film is a tribute to the city of Chicago (the ideal all races and nationalities get along with one another). The film may be the first Catholic romantic comedy. Love conquers all. Carroll O'Connor still has it . . . . All-in-all an entertaining film with no pretense to be anything other. Three cheers for Bonnie Hunt! "},{"Title":"supporting characters shine in touching, funny Return to Me","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few things about Return to Me (a) it's a sappy romantic comedy (b) the story is extremely far-fetched (c) it's not a ground-breaking, highly original film.  Oh, one other thing....... (d) I LOVED IT!!I'll admit right off the bat that I enjoy a good sappy romantic comedy. Unfortunately, they make plenty of bad romantic comedies and very few that I really enjoy.  So I was very pleasantly surprised with Return to Me.  It is touching and funny, and doesn't feel forced or (too) cheesy.Bob Rueland (David Duchovny from The X-Files) has a good job, a nice house, a faithful dog, and a great wife.  Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver) is lying in a hospital bed needing a heart transplant to stay alive.  Flash forward; Bob is a widower and Grace has a new heart.  Bob's best friend Charlie (David Alan Grier) tries to cheer him up by setting him up.  Grace has many people trying the 'cheer up by setting up' method her grandfather (Carroll O'Connor) and his elderly buddies (Robert Loggia, Eddie Jones, William Bronder, & Marianne Muellerleile), her best friend Megan (Bonnie Hunt), and Megan's husband Joe (James Belushi).  Bob isn't ready to move on, and Grace is afraid to tell people about the transplant (they treat me like I'm broken, she complains).  But one day Bob finds himself at O'Reilly's Italian restaurant, run by Grace and her grandpa.  It won't ruin the movie to reveal that they begin a relationship.  But questions remain Is Bob ready to love again?  Can Grace trust a man to know her secret and love her as she is?  That's where the sappy part comes in..........This film is the writing and directorial debut of Bonnie Hunt (best know as Tom Hanks' wife in The Green Mile and Tom Cruise's sister-in-law in Jerry Maguire), and she's hit a home run the first time at bat.  Return to Me is close in tone to Sleepless in Seattle.  Widowed man, sweet woman, etc. But Sleepless only featured 1 scene with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.  RtM has several scenes with Bob and Grace, but they also give a lot of screen time to the excellent supporting characters (a real flaw in the Sleepless follow-up You've Got Mail).  The scenes of the 'old folks' at the restaurant are excellent, as are the scenes at Megan and Joe's house.  And the film contains one of the best on-screen first date 'goodnights'.Duchovny's film career hasn't been stellar (Beethoven 2 and Playing God didn't move him to the A-List of leading men), but he's good in this film. Any X-File fans know that he has a flair for comedy--he just doesn't get to show it too often as FBI Agent Fox Mulder.  But he definitely gets to display it here.  Hopefully he'll find continued success in non-Mulder roles and not suffer from 'David Caruso Syndrome'.  (He left NYPD Blue to be a movie star--have you heard of him recently?  Neither have I.)  Here's where I stop being objective for a second I am a BIG Minnie Driver fan.  I've loved her in good films (Good Will Hunting, Big Night, An Ideal Husband, Grosse Pointe Blank) and bad (Hard Rain).  The only real downside to her performance in RtM is that she doesn't get to use her glorious accent.  While both the leads are good, the supporting cast is excellent.  Grier (the second-funniest guy on In Living Color behind Jim Carrey), Hunt (good as always), Belushi (has many of the funniest lines--and also all the PG language), O'Connor (best know as Archie Bunker, he hadn't done a film in 20 years but loved this script), Loggia (best know from Independence Day and Big), Jones (Clark Kent's dad on the TV series Lois & Clark), Bronder, and Muellerleile are all excellent.Don't get me wrong--this film is not going to win Best Picture at next year's Oscars.  It only seeks to be a sweet romantic comedy with an admittedly far-fetched story.  And it succeeds on all levels.  An added bonus I promise you'll be surprised by the powerful first 20 minutes--the sappiness doesn't start until much later.  With the exception of some profanity from Belushi, there is no reason for me not to recommend this film to everyone.  You will laugh a lot, you will hear some great music (thumbs up for the soundtrack), and you will watch a sweet romance between 2 characters (with lots of help from family and friends) that you want to root for. "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows its true intentions when Bob(David Duchovny) arrives home after his wife's death. His tuxedo shirt is covered with her blood, splattered on him like action painting!! The movie is covered with these insane details and contrivances. Grace works at a Irish/Italian resturant! Businessman with cream cheese mustaches and Bob and Grace's screamingly obnoxious blind dates. Potty mouthed children and old, kind hearted, wise looking grandfathers, who speak nothing but banalities. The 6,8, marked cooking bibs. And don't miss how so many beer bottles and cell phones are placed near and point away from (David Duchovny)'s special place. But whatever you do, don't let the profound symbolism of the caged gorilla fly over your head. The gorilla is truely the symbolic heart of the movie. Well, asides from the still beating heart of Bob's dead wife. Don't let the movie's title, so sentimental, irrelevant, and cliche, mislead you. Don't let the blended volume of dialogue and background noise make you think its incompetent. Definitely don't let its formula and shallowness make you think its idiotic. The movie is so absurdly contrived that it has to be either a huge joke or a god awful mess. I saw the former, This movie was made to be made fun of, or at least to enjoy the sillyness. "},{"Title":"Acting and Atmosphere makes this movie.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This thoroughly charming unassuming film succeeds because of superb casting and sensitive direction, including the evocation of an endearing atmosphere of uncomplicated but enduring love.  There is not a single casting error in a very large cast.  I would single out Minnie Driver, not because her role is deep or profound, but because she makes it all seem to easy...and one should not forget that Ms. Driver is British, yet has developed an American accent of idiomatic perfection. 	The setting of O'Reilly's Italian Restaurant is splendidly authentic, every detail set to perfection, which radiates the warmth and love that is the hallmark of this film.  As another reviewer observed, the actors who inhabit the restaurant seem as if they had been together as a family forever.  What a splendid job Bonnie Hunt has done in producing this little unpretentious gem of a film! "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch...romance without sleaze","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sexy, entertaining romance. No nude scenes, no hot and heavy sex.  Just humor, attractively drawn characters. Heartwarming ) Highly recommended as a date movie....that is not boring. Duchovny is believable....Driver is sweet but not saccharine and Carol O'Connor is suitably crusty.   "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen in about 10 years","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was beginning to feel that I would never again see a good movie.  This is one of the best and most enjoyable movies that I have seen in approximately ten years.I have and will continue to recommend it to my friends who feel as I do that there are not longer any good movies out there to see.There is, just see Return to me. "},{"Title":"Short take on a wonderful film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The commercials for this movie did not make me want to see it, but I'm very glad I did. This movie immediately made it into a list of my favorites, including _While You Were Sleeping_. Rarely is a movie so wonderfully cast, sweet, and (fairly) clean. (Besides, I can tell you from personal experience, the scar is realistic!) The promos did not prepare me for the movie, bc I didn't even know the premise, other than it was a romantic movie, so don't necessarily judge the movie based on the previews. If it were out on video, I would have already bought it, and watched it every night. I've never watched David Duchovny, until this time, so I could not compare him to Mulder, but he gave an *excellent* performance (he's so sweet!!!). It's the little things in the movie that hold it together--you could almost swear that the ppl in Grace's life had truly been together all their lives--very realistic family and hospital scenes. Just perfect! -) In addition, it's wonderful that there are still movies being made that do not require ppl jumping in and out of each other's beds every five minutes. (That alone would have made the movie worth watching.) Check your cynicism, etc., at the door, go w/your girlfriends and a Kleenex, and have a wonderful time. I'm buying this the day it's available on video, and will probably go see it in the theater for the third time in a few weeks. -) At least 9/10! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly great movie!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on the trailers out for this movie, I wasn't prepared for how good it was.  I went to see it to watch David Duchovny in an emoting role, and he did a fine job.  Minnie Driver was wonderful in a soft and romantic way. My favorite was Carol O'Connor as the doting Irish grandfather.  Bonnie Hunt is masterful at dialogue.  This movie made me laugh and cry (haven't cried like that since I saw My Life as A Dog).  I left the theater feeling warm and happy, and knowing that I would definitely add this one to my collection of alltime favorites. "},{"Title":"Just more proof that you don't need trash to make a good movie...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  EXCELLENT movie.  I'm not a fan of romantic comedies, per se, but Return to Me was great.  It was funny, touching (without being sappy), had a top-notch cast and a tight script.  Bonnie Hunt did a great job in scripting, directing and acting.  Minnie Driver was as engaging as always, and David Duchovney can actually act (who would've thunk it?).  Carol O'Connor and Jim Belushi were perfectly cast as well.  Did I mention it was funny?  Most of all, this movie was relatively *clean*.  Unlike almost every other date movie released in the past decade, this didn't have the lead characters hopping in bed seconds after they meet.  There was some profanity, but it was used mostly for comedic effect (think the little kid in Jerry Maguire, and you get the idea).Overall, I give it an 8.  I'll definitely pick this up on video. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was just wonderful!  There are not many movies these days where the characters fall in love, simply for the sake of being in love.  I will buy this move the minute it comes out on DVD.  It was one of those movies that made you leave the theater with such a warm, happy feeling.  Go see it right away! "},{"Title":"Very refreshing!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know at the beginning that Minnie Driver needs a heart.  But the movie doesn't belabor the tragedy that provides the heart.  The donor's husband's grief is told in the details of his life, not in long drawn-out discussions. His grief is so much more believable as a result.  The end is predictable but the road to the end is so enjoyable it doesn't matter. "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I went to see this movie with absolutely no expectations.  We totally enjoyed the movie.  It moved at a nice pace, held your attention, made you laugh, made you cry, and most of all made you feel good.The characters were real.  Nothing Hollywood.  A neighborhood bar with a bunch of people hanging out is like thousands of similar bars throughout the country.The picture will not probably not be an Academy Award winner, but it did what I wanted it to -- made me feel I like I spent my ticket and concession money wisely.Go and Enjoy! "},{"Title":"endearing, funny, genuine","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So...are you an X-Files fan? Have you ever sat there and watched that X-Files episode where this guy who could change his appearance made himself to look like Mulder and he basically lived the day and the life of an FBI agent...except he knows nothing about being an FBI agent. That particular episode (and occasionally others) allowed us to see David Duchovny's comedic side and I have to say, it's a talent that shouldn't be hidden.Return to Me is a wonderful little romantic comedy about Bob Rueland (played by David Duchovny) who lost his wife in a car accident and after a couple years, tries to get back into the dating scene. With the help of his friends, he gets numerous offers for blind dates but they never workout until he accidentally meets a waitress (played by Minnie Driver), on one of his blind dates, that for some reason he feels inexplicably drawn to. There's more to this story than what I'm letting on but I don't want to tell you or it will ruin the movie but trust me, the story is a cute one.So what's so different about this movie from all the other romantic comedies? Well, the story for one is a bit more interesting but I think a lot of it has to do with the cast. Beyond Duchovny and Driver, the supporting cast is fantastic. As I sat there watching this movie, it dawned on me that I had not seen one actor there that gave a poor performance. James Belushi played the rough around the edges husband of the best friend of Driver's character absolutely hilariously. Bonnie Hunt who plays the best friend is just wonderful in her portrayal of a protective yet slightly neurotic friend to Driver. And then there was the gang that played cards every night after the restaurant closes. There's too many to name off but they were all good...and quite often they drew the loudest laughs. As I hinted earlier, David Duchovny has a comedic side that is usually hidden on his TV series. You occasionally see it but in this movie you get to see a lot more of it and it's very refreshing. Any X-Files fans will definitely appreciate seeing this side of him and those who are not X-Files fans, you'll still enjoy the movie. Minnie Driver is just as good. Her character is endearing yet slightly paranoid of her situation but she seems to fit with Duchovny perfectly.The only flaw that I could see in this movie was that the director occasionally wrapped up or glossed over some situations a bit too quickly but that may have been due more to time restrictions than anything. But these plot glossovers weren't integral to the movie so it wasn't that big of a deal.You can probably tell by now but I really liked this movie. The story was interesting, the acting was excellent and the laughs were frequent and genuine. I liked it and I'm sure you will too.A "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT ! ! !","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie that I have seen in a long, long, long time.  It even surpasses NOTTING HILL.  Carroll O'Connor gives a heart-warming performance as 'Grandpa', and David Duchovny gives the most perfect performance that I have seen in a long while of a good-natured, yet, career-wise, highly successful hero.  The other performances are stellar, too. I plan to see it again next week; and, I can hardly wait to own this movie for it is endearing in every way.   "},{"Title":"It's Predictable,Unlikely and Soupy But I loved It!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great comedy mainly because of some great actors. Minnie Driver is sweet and loveable and believable. David Duchovny is better than I had thought, and Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia were simply great pros doing their thing. The script was smart, the characters will endear themselves to you and you will come away from the theatre uplifted. What more can we ask of a film?  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Completely unbelievable, but charming movie","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is one of those sweet movies that only us hopeless romantics can love.  The plot is unrealistic, but novel.  A man's wife dies in a car crash and her heart is transplanted into a young woman with whom the man falls in love.  I think this must be the first romantic comedy that involves a heart transplant.  The moment when the two leads, brilliantly played by David Duchovony (I honestly never knew that he could do anything besides Mulder the monotone) and Minnie Driver (one of my favorite actresses because she can play such a great range of characters), meet is rather amusing. Being a waitress myself, I could completely relate to Grace's situation. There actually are quite a few people out there who act like Bob's blind date. Reading through some of the other comments on this movie, I found that people were surprised at how some key scenes were left out.  The actual car crash is never shown which I think adds to the movie.  Does anyone really need to see yet another bloody car crash?  After the transplant, the movie skips ahead a year.  Grace's recovery from the operation is not included. Instead of watching her go through a long, very painful recovery, we see her as healthy and able to live her life.  Return to Me is a very sweet and enjoyable romantic comedy.  Though it does have a few faults, it is a great movie.   "},{"Title":"Completely unbelievable, but charming movie","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is one of those sweet movies that only us hopeless romantics can love.  The plot is unrealistic, but novel.  A man's wife dies in a car crash and her heart is transplanted into a young woman with whom the man falls in love.  I think this must be the first romantic comedy that involves a heart transplant.  The moment when the two leads, brilliantly played by David Duchovony (I honestly never knew that he could do anything besides Mulder the monotone) and Minnie Driver (one of my favorite actresses because she can play such a great range of characters), meet is rather amusing. Being a waitress myself, I could completely relate to Grace's situation. There actually are quite a few people out there who act like Bob's blind date. Reading through some of the other comments on this movie, I found that people were surprised at how some key scenes were left out.  The actual car crash is never shown which I think adds to the movie.  Does anyone really need to see yet another bloody car crash?  After the transplant, the movie skips ahead a year.  Grace's recovery from the operation is not included. Instead of watching her go through a long, very painful recovery, we see her as healthy and able to live her life.  Return to Me is a very sweet and enjoyable romantic comedy.  Though it does have a few faults, it is a great movie.   "},{"Title":"Extremely Entertaining, Great Cast","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RETURN TO ME   * * *   David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Carroll O'Connor.  Extremely entertaining romantic comedy with great chemistry between the two leads and very funny supporting roles for O'Connor, Jim Bellushi, and director Bonnie Hunt.  Most surprising is the number of laugh out loud scenes. The audience was roaring and quite often. Not just a chick flick, and also highly recommended for a date. "},{"Title":"Sweet and surprisingly original.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this film a couple hours after I got my acceptance call from film school, so I was feeling high as a kite and incredibly (and self-importantly) critical.  And then suddenly, about five minutes in, I forgot all about the rest of my day.  I cried and laughed and cried again and laughed again.  Bonnie Hunt did a great job of avoiding the cliche scenes that might be expected and giving the film a great deal of heart.  I've already added this one to My Movies so I can get it as soon as it goes to video.  I definitely recommend it. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing, but no great shakes","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot is ridiculous (widowed man unknowingly falls in love with woman who has his dead wives heart) and the stars are not suited to do romantic comedy (Driver looks miserable, Duchovney(sp?) looks REAL uncomfortable).  Still the movie works.  The whole supporting cast is wonderful (O'Connor, Loggia, Grier, Belushi and especially Hunt), Chicago looks stunning, and the whole movie is very sweet-toned and friendly.  It's never as romantic or as funny as you might hope, but it's a very pleasant movie.  There are worse ways to spend $8.00!! "},{"Title":"Good, old fashioned romantic comedy","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a solid, good old-fashioned romantic comedy.  The concept (a widower falls in love with the recipient of his dead wife's heart) is an obvious one, but is so hokey and schmaltzy that no one could figure out how to do it and keep a straight face.  Writer/director Bonnie Hunt makes a lot of little decisions that make it work, including the rather daring decision to actually introduce the soon-to-be-deceased wife to the audience (most scripts would have started with the wife safely dead).  The screenplay avoids most of the obvious sitcom-like jokes while heading for its predictable plot complications and resolutions.  David Duchovney and Minnie driver are appealing and have chemistry, and both create likable characters we want to see end up together.  It's not great art, but it is a workmanlike piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, sad, and GOOD","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A bit draggy at first, (I mean Joely Richardson's name isn't above the credits, get to Minnie already!) but gets better and better as it goes along.  David Duchovny was wonderful, Minnie was charming as always, and let's hear it for the Old Guys Brigade (Robert Loggia, Carroll O'Connor and Pals).  Good date movie, good chick flick, good to see with your parents or grandparents. "},{"Title":"Can anyone say Moonstruck?","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is wonderful!  It's refreshing to see a romantic comedy without people living together or having sex before marriage!  Reminded me in many ways of the 1987 hit Moonstruck with one major difference being that both Irish and Italian culture are celebrated here rather than Italian only.  Minnie Driver could just be a threat to Meg Ryan's dominance of the romantic comedy category with her winning smile.  Speaking of Moonstruck - how about a film with Minnie playing Cher's daughter?  Somehow they would seem better matched, I think, than Cher was with Winona Ryder in 1990's Mermaids.  David Duchovny's emoting after his wife's untimely death would encourage many men that you can be masculine yet grieve with heart.  I took my girlfriend and we both came out crying.  A 10 all around - don't miss it!   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable light comedy","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's an old school romance-comedy-drama.  For what it's worth, I'm a 28 year old male who saw it alone in a theater of mostly women.  It was nice hearing all the sobbing even though it's not that heavy.  It's just sweet. Duchovny is the man.  His deadpan acting is right on with me.  Driver is sincere.  See it on a Sunday afternoon.  No gags, no catch, just honest romance.   "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in preview also and I really really liked it.  I helped to conduct an interview with Bonnie Hunt in the Special Events forum and she is as funny talking in real life as she is in her writing and directing.  This is a really textured and layered movie.  From the veteran actors that play Driver's family all the way to Duchovney's dog. This movie had me going from crying (having to control the sobs type of crying) to laughing really loud.The directing was hilarious and the humor coming through the directing was really well timed.  The writing was superb.  When Duchovney went to tell his dog that his wife would not be returning the writing was touching. His performance was gut wrenching.  When Duchovney was directed to tap into that well of sadness that we all carry that just made me sob.  The acting was great.  Minnie continues to be a very natural actress.I loved that whole thing.  Bonnie Hunt is very very talented as an actress, writer, and director.  All of the actors were wonderful.  It is well worth the money for the tickets. "},{"Title":"Nothing but good things to say","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonnie Hunt is to be congratulated for this wonderfully effecting film. The ensemble was fantastic, and the love story gentle and moving.  I didn't realize going in that the movie was rated PG, and nothing about the movie made me think that this was a kids' or family movie.  I recommend this to anyone who likes a love story.  It's romantic comedy at its very best "},{"Title":"Lovely and funny; bring your Kleenex.","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hate to say anything negative about this movie because I enjoyed it so much (characters, dialog, story--cast), but I have to say I thought the ending a little wooden, and it didn't seem true that Bob would react the way he did to Grace's secret. But I laughed & cried and wanted to be part of Grace's family, if not Grace herself.  Kudos to Bonnie Hunt (you go, girl!), and may she write & direct more movies. "},{"Title":"A great story....","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great story, a stupendous script, incredible casting and real chemistry between David Duchovny and Minnie Driver make for a warm, touching movie that will probably be the best romantic comedy of the summer.Who knew that David Duchovny had such a flair and adept touch at light comedy?Bonnie Hunt's incredible script is a tightly woven work of art.There are many 'throw-away' lines that are gems of comedic timing and writing.  Not only that, but she turns in a great performance as Megan Dayton, Gracie's (Minnie Driver) best friend and confidant.It is wonderful that she was able to direct her own script -- she is able to bring out all the best nuances and subtleties of the very complex characters she created on paper.This excellent film works on so many different levels  There is comedy, pathos, love, grief and healing -- all wrapped up into a beautiful package.Carroll O'Connor and his cronies are a delight acting as a Greek Chorus to facilitate the story.I cannot recommend this film highly enough. "},{"Title":"heart and soul to spare","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If a person dies, but their heart is preserved, does their soul live on as well?  Further, can the heart (as in the Soul) choose who it will inhabit next? These metaphysical questions are what's under the skin of the feature film debut of actress/producer Bonnie Hunt, Return To Me.The story is quite simple A woman, Grace (Minnie Driver), is in imminent need of a new heart and gets it in the nick of time from a car accident victim named Elizabeth (Joely Richardson). Elizabeth died the night of a big fund-raiser for her ape exhibit at a Chicago zoo; basically the culmination of her life's work. In a touching sequence, Grace's family celebrates the success of the heart transplant while Elizabeth's husband, Bob (David Duchovny), grieves from his sudden, crushing loss. A year later both Bob and Grace have resumed living normal lives. Of course, they meet and fall for each other almost instantly. The way this coincidence is presented makes it seem like no coincidence, but rather, fate. The supporting characters are well-cast and include James Belushi, the director herself, David Alan Grier, Robert Loggia, and Carroll O'Connor, as Grace's loving grandpa, Marty. He and his card game pals (William Bronder, Eddie Jones, and Loggia), form a sort of club whos only requirement is being a widower. Their antics provide most of the laughs, and there are plenty in this film. There's also plenty of charm, almost too much. The film's creators skimp on drama, making the thing one long high point with a few emotional dips here and there. The story unravels rather anti-climactically and predictably.  I guess I just like my movies to be a bit more challenging.  But that's about my only complaint with this otherwise solid romantic comedy. It's good, clean fun too. Feel free to bring the whole family.Grade  B-  "}{"Title":"As close to a good old-fashioned flick as you can get","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good movie...great performances all around (especially by Belushi and Hunt)... Also, the BEST thing about this flick is that it takes an old-fashioned approach to romance where there is an actual courtship between the leads, not bed-hopping. It was refreshing to actually enjoy a movie without people getting naked all over the screen and blowing each other away with guns. Parents, the only things you might find objectionable is a little salty language from Belushi's character and some semi-intense aftermath from a car crash. On the whole, though, I applaud Hunt for making a great comedy that isn't crass or trashy!  "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Return to Me this past weekend and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Hat's off to Bonnie Hunt for making a movie that is not stereotypical of todays romantic comedies.I was quite surprised at the variety of ages who went to see this movie and laughed.  Thus the appeal to the crowd of ages young and old.Watching this movie the first time, makes me want to go back and watch it again.  When it goes to video/DVD, I want my own personal copy. "},{"Title":"It really does make you laugh and cry throughout!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a heartwarming movie that does make you laugh and cry throughout!  When I saw the trailer, I was a little apprehensive to see the movie; however, I wouldn't miss a movie written by Bonnie Hunt!  The movie is excellent.  You truly get emotionally involved with all of the characters.  You feel sorry for David Duchovny's character, yet at the same time, you long for Minnie Driver's character to feel better, and ache for how her grandfather must feel (Carol O'Connor).  Jim Belushi and Bonnie Hunt really make you laugh as a married couple with several children.  I know I really felt where they were coming from.  I would definitely recommend this movie because it really is a touching, loving story about two very different lives and how they changed, and how they have changed those around them. "},{"Title":"A cute little matinee movie","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie only because I had seen everything else that was playing, but I was pleasantly surprised after it was over. I didn't think it would be as entertaining as it was. Granted, it probably won't win any awards, but David Duchovny and Minnie Driver come together for this story that follows the romantic comedy formula exactly, but in a good way. Both Gracie's great-uncle and grandfather reminded me of relatives in my own family. My only complaint is that there wasn't enough Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi -- every scene they were in got the biggest laughs of the movie in the theater I saw this in. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air!!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was so nice to go to a movie where a relationship developed over time and they didn't jump into bed on the first date.  I felt the characters were all genuine and I loved the supporting characters, the older cast was very funny.  This movie hit all the emotions and I left wanting to go back and see the movie again.  What a world it would be if guys asked questions like Can I hold your hand? Thanks Bonnie for writing such a great movie.  The music was excellent too, does anyone have a list of the music played in the movie, I haven't seen a soundtrack? "},{"Title":"Engaging and well observed","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is something of a surprise; I expected an attempt at a breakout vehicle for Fox Mulder. Instead I found an utterly charming and well observed comedy with a terrific cast - including Duchovny's performance. He and Driver have a terrific on-screen chemistry and are utterly believable. What's also excellent is the older cast which will remind anyone with a drop of Irish or Italian blood of their own families. The characters are drawn sympathetically but the movie never descends into treacly sentimentality; for example, showing the raw pain of loss without wallowing in pity. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, funny movie","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a guy, I was pleasantly surprised by how warm and funny this movie turned out to be.  Three cheers for a romantic comedy that has soul as well as heart, and dares to leave out the obligatory bedroom scene!  The company of actors was excellent, especially Carroll O'Connor (of Archie Bunker fame) in his supporting role as an over-protective Irish grandfather.  I laughed particularly hard during the scenes with Jim Belushi as the stereotypical beer-guzzling middle class husband.  My wife loved it too!  This is a great date movie, and is safe for teens/adolescents. "},{"Title":"Corny but it works","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with this movie (flat cinematography, stilted script, uneven editing, painfully predictable) that it's hard to believe you end up liking it anyway.  Minnie Driver, the go-to gal of romantic comedy pulls another rabbit out of her hat by somehow conjuring chemistry with David Duchovny (who is always too low key for his own good).  Credit director Hunt for putting together a winning cast and making this kitchen sink type of movie work. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. It is very much a romantic movie with tinges of sadness but I loved it. I highly recommend it for those who like romantic comedies. The movie pulls you in almost immediately and you never want it to end. That to me is a mark of a good movie. I also want to see it again -another good sign.David Duchovny is very good as the romantic lead and Minnie does a very good job too - in fact I loved the cast - it was excellent.If this movie is an example of what Bonnie Hunt can do if she writes, directs, and stars - I say more !!!! She has done an excellent job with this movie and I'd love to see more like it.I loved everything about this movie, the cast, the story, the characters, the music - it is a new classic for me - now when does it come out on video? "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, and romantic","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delightful surprise this movie turned out to be!  Not only is it quite funny, but it's practically G-rated.  And here is my highest praise I didn't look at my watch a single time while in the theater (once the previews started, anyway).  I'm sure most reviewers will pan this movie because they are generally cynical and jaded, but I give it two thumbs up and wish more movies like this would be made.  Oh yeah--Carroll O'Connor is a hoot as the Irish grandpa. "}{"Title":"Truly magical movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return To Me is a product of the Bonnie Hunt I've seen interviewed on shows like Letterman; funny, joyous and sweet.  In directing Return To Me, I believe Bonnie Hunt has found her ultimate talent as a natural movie director.  I don't want to get too wordy.  I'll just say; there are scenes that will make you break out laughing, scenes that will make you tear up, and scenes that put a feeling of warmth in your heart.  All add up to a movie the viewer doesn't want to leave when the ending credits roll.Additional credit must be given to the casting. You really believe and enjoy the actors in their roles.10 STARS OUT OF 10    "},{"Title":"Heart Murmur","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The problem with this frothy ethnic love story/medical triumph, isn't its fairy tale formula. It's that the heroine (Minnie Driver) with the heart transplant from the dead wife of the hero (David Duchovny) has so much less sparkle than the heroine's stalwart best friend (Bonnie Hunt, who also directs.) Five minutes of goofing around between Hunt and the marvelous James Belushi as her husband is more fun than two hours of Driver and Duchovny in their separate orbits. "},{"Title":"Bravo, Ms Bonnie Hunt - you've proven a credit to your craft.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After several weeks of local movie critics expounding on other films that I thought horrible, what a blessed relief to finally see an outstanding, hilarious, emotional flick. This is one to see, to rent later, and to perhaps purchase. The friendly atmosphere of three generations was refreshing to peek into their lives for a short time. I believe David Duchovny can be our next Richard Gere, if he plays his cards right. Belushi was outstanding, and the senior gentlemen of the movie added such professionalism and class. Its a must see - and again, it probably needs to be seen once more, to catch the funny lines that are missed when laughing and poking your partner in the elbow. "},{"Title":"A great movie about adjustments and support.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it displayed perfect casting, excellent story line, and did not dwell on details that are usually the undoing of romantic comedies. It let just plain feelings and emotions move the story along. I believe that Bonnie Hunt hit with a story that plays just at the right time and she knows just what the audience that this film is targeted for is going to buy into. All cylinders fire just great! In addition to casting herself in the right spot, the music was right, the setting, even the food and the bowling alley make this a movie I will see again and again and recomend to anybody. "},{"Title":"Leave your cynicism at the door","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that people either love or gag at.  Willing suspension of belief on the viewer's part is absolutely essential for one to enjoy this film, and thanks goodness I was in the right frame of mind.  I was thoroughly charmed, despite cliches that fell thick as snow, hammy secondary characters (especially Carroll O'Connor who way over-does the The Irish Granddad) and impossible situations.  Minnie Driver and David Duchovny are instantly likeable, and they have that indefinable something called chemistry together that makes everyone fervently wish things will turn out well for them at the end.  And things do turn out all right; it's a romantic comedy after all.  Although the script is funny and the setting of old Chicago neighborhood nicely quaint, the main element that makes this work is the appeal of the two leads.  Driver's expressive face lends credibility to the vulnerability and longing in Grace, and Duchovny's effortless charm is sure to set many a female heart amongst the audience aflutter.  Of the supporting characters, I really enjoyed the director Bonnie Hunt in her patented best friend role, as well as James Belushi, who plays her lovable slob of a husband to a tee.So my advice is this; Don't look for shattering realism, leave the jaded world view outside and put on your rose-tinted glasses when you enter the theater.  If you let it, Return to Me might just charm the socks off you.  "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like romantic comedies. Along with Sci-Fi, these two genre's are my favorite. I can forgive a lot if the payoff is there. This is a movie that somewhat fits that mold.I like David Duchovny and Mini Driver. I thought they had good chemistry - an essential ingredient. They ARE NOT Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan, mind you, but they were fine. I also thought the supporting characters - especially David Allen Grier (a fantastic talent) were very good. And, the premise of the story was nice.But, I felt that the movie deserved some criticism. I have two main objections. 1) The first half the movie seemed to move VERY slowly for me. This is not uncommon for this type of movie as the scene has to be set. In one sense, the longer it takes to set it, the more anxiety we get and thus, the payoff is greater. But, there are romantic comedies that are great start to finish - most notably When Harry Met Sally.2) Without spoiling anything (though very early in the movie the remaining hour plus is extremely predictable), there is a moment that we are building up to. We all know it is coming at some point. As it turns out, I was somewhat disappointed that it wasn't done with more drama and magnitude. I actually felt a little let-down by the simplicity of the moment.Other than those two things, there isn't much to criticize. While waiting in line to go in, EVERYONE coming out had a smile on their face. I don't recall ever seeing such a happy movie crowd exiting a theater. Though the group of reviewers at Entertainment Weekly had given it a B- (which I knew) before I went, I started to think maybe this would be an awesome movie, you know.. a 9 or even a 10. Maybe that last minute presumption contributed to my yawning reaction for the first half the movie.Worth going to and a good teen movie as well. Cryers, beware. "},{"Title":"Just amazing!!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably my absolute favorite romantic comedy of all time.  I sobbed, I laughed out loud . . . just *wonderful*.  I know I'll buy it as soon as it comes out.  David Duchovny is adorable, Minnie Driver is FABULOUS as always, and the supporting cast is absolutely perfect.  Bonnie Hunt deserves some major recognition for this.  She did a fantastic job.  The chemistry between Minnie and David is surprisingly wonderful, which I was no expecting being a huge X-Files fan.  Wonderful movie!! "},{"Title":"A Four Star Tear-Jerker Movie","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return To Me is one of the best movies that I have seen or cried at in a long time.  From the very beginning, you are captivated by the characters, and their story.  This movie simply had it all, it was funny, sad, heart-warming, and educational, in that it teaches us that things do happen for a reason.  It has been three hours since I left the theatre, and I can't stop thinking about this movie.  I am definetly ready to see it again.  So, stop reading these reviews and go see the movie, and take a box of kleenex with you.   "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows its true intentions when Bob(David Duchovny) arrives home after his wife's death.  His tuxedo shirt is covered with her blood, splattered on him like action painting!!  The movie is covered with these insane details and contrivances.  Grace works at a Irish/Italian resturant!  Businessman with cream cheese mustaches and Bob and Grace's screamingly obnoxious blind dates.  Potty mouthed children and old, kind hearted, wise looking grandfathers, who speak nothing but banalities.  The 6,8, marked cooking bibs.  And don't miss how so many beer bottles and cell phones are placed near and point away from (David Duchovny)'s special place.  But whatever you do, don't let the profound symbolism of the caged gorilla fly over your head.  The gorilla is truely the symbolic heart of the movie.  Well, asides from the still beating heart of Bob's dead wife.  Don't let the movie's title, so sentimental, irrelevant, and cliche, mislead you.  Don't let the blended volume of dialogue and background noise make you think its incompetent.  Definitely don't let its formula and shallowness make you think its idiotic.  The movie is so absurdly contrived that it has to be either a huge joke or a god awful mess.  I saw the former, This movie was made to be made fun of.  "},{"Title":"Fun chick flick","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My 11 year old daughter and I really enjoyed this film.  There is an awkward bit of editing at the beginning but then everything thereafter goes very smoothly.  Jim Belushi cracked me up completely and seemed just perfect in his role.  David Duchovny was a surprise--no brooding or darkened rooms, just good solid romantic comedy acting.  It was also an excellent ensemble piece with lots of good supporting characters moving the story along.  I'm not sure my husband would get into this movie as much as we did but we definitely enjoyed it.  We also had a serious conversation on the way home about transplants and the meaning of life--pretty heavy stuff for a preadolescent but it got her thinking and talking!  "}{"Title":"They really don't make movies like this anymore.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on opening night with my friend and, I must say we both enjoyed it immensely. We found both Minnie Driver and David Duchovny very entertaining and very good actors. I think Bonnie Hunt did a great job directing, especially for a directorial debut. I also enjoyed James Belushi as her husband in the film. Definitely a well done date movie! It will probably be the sleeper hit of the spring, if not an all-out hit! "},{"Title":"Great! And note that Mulder here becomes a STAR!","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful all around; and I'm a guy. A dood. Loved it all-- even the old men shtick in the restaurant. Carrol O'Conner was spectacular; Robert Loggia was very good; The other two old guy characters were a bit corny and tedious, but even so, it was fine. The movie has a sweetness and a truth overall that cancels out any of the minor imperfections one might find with a first time director. It's all enjoyable, and a first rate job of acting, writing, and directing.And--- David Duchovny, if I've spelled his name right, was amazingly gifted in this role. He is no mere sulking male model type. He can ACT! Boy-- I was impressed, and I think this role is the announcement to the world that he is a genuine movie star. I gave this movie a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Syrupy, predictable and incredibly wonderful","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never before have I seen a movie so saccharine and predictable, and at the same time so moving and wonderful.  If you don't like this one, you're probably one of those mean people.  Ironists and cynics, stay home. Driver and Duchovny have real chemistry; supporting roles are wonderfully stereotypical; sweet touches abound, and the timing is excellent.  A 10. "},{"Title":"Unapologetically romantic","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a nice movie!  I had no idea what I was getting into when I saw this, but I was absolutely surprised by it!  I was completely skeptical about David Duchovny in a non-Mulder role, but both he and Minnie Driver are wonderful, and Bonnie Hunt has the gift of a good director in addition to being a fun second banana.  Check your cynicism at the door, pamper yourself and have a good time! "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I saw the Movie and Thought It was one of the funniest movies that we've seen in a long time. David Duchovny showed a lot of Versatility in his character Bob. There were certain moments with Jim Belushi that were hysterical. We loved the part where the Valet put the seat up too close to the steering wheel. Also loved the interaction between Bonnie Hunt and Jim Belushi and Kids and loved the O'Reilly's card gang. They were a hoot. The movie also touched us with sentiments of Love and Loss. It was enjoyable and light and left out the sex,drugs & violence. One thumb and 5 fingers. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, wonderful movie","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed seeing David Duchovny as a warm, funny, sensitive man and not one speck of the aloof Fox Mulder appearing. Duchovny and Driver had a great chemistry on-screen, not unlike Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in Sleepless.This movie made me laugh and cry and I'd pay full price to see it again. "},{"Title":"the method makes up for the story","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me, as expected, follows the cheesy romantic storyline to a 'T'. The plot and theme are as predictable as every other date movie, of course makes you laugh and cry (each in abundance), and like every other Sleepless Harry was Addicted to Love(ing) Sally One Fine Day in Seattle makes you wish you had your own silver screen fate-filled romance. Despite its predictability, however, Bonnie Hunt has created some wonderfully loveable characters. Each character and scene is truly enjoyable (even though the filmstrip fell off the projector; long story short we got free beverages on our next trip to the theater). The comedy is funny, the drama is moving. Definitely worth the date or movie rental. "},{"Title":"Almost impossibly sweet, you expect it to go over the edge into treacle any moment and it never does.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie, pretty much expected nothing but crap. I took my mother. I wasn't pleasantly surprised, more like astounded. I can't remember the last time I saw a movie that was so perfectly sweet. I laughed, I cried, I thought I saw that real moment of real people with that first light of love in their eyes. And I expected any moment that the whole thing was about to fall apart into treacle any second, yet it never did. To call this a feel good romantic comedy is an understatement on par with calling The Phantom Menace a special effects movie. "},{"Title":"A good light-hearted movie (8.5/10)","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  David Duchovny and Minnie Driver are excellent. Will they be nominated for an Oscar? No, but this is a feel good movie that lends itself to laughter/clapping and I would have to agree with another reviewer that children can be taken to the movie (no need for a babysitter).David Duchovny is David Duchovny and not Mulder(from X Files) and his role is completely different than anything I have ever seen.  Good Stuff.It's worth the $10.Enjoy "},{"Title":"Bonnie Hunt has treated audiences to a sweet movie","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this movie in a packed theater, and the verdict was unanimous  This a great romantic comedy with Bonnie Hunt written all over it.  You may notice some familiar Second City faces from Bonnie's sitcom, The Building, and the rest of the cast is also made up of old pros (Carrol O'Connor, Robert Loggia).  It's nice (and a little strange) to see David Duchovny smiling and turning on the charm, instead of brooding as Fox Mulder.  Heck, it's even nice just to see him in daylight for once!  Minnie Driver also does a nice job of playing fragile without being whiny.  Kudos to the cast and crew, and especially to Bonnie.  I've been a big fan of hers for years, and I hope she has more surprises like this one up her sleeve. "}{"Title":"so good I'm going again","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a delight!  Although the first few minutes of the movie  seemed awkward...too many short scenes to set up the viewers for the real story...what followed was completely entertaining and refreshing.  Duchovny was very believable and charming and  Minnie Driver was wonderful again (Circle of Friends won me over as a Minnie Driver fan). Although we all knew the lead  characters were going to end up together (yes, predictable) the  trip was absolutely enjoyable.  The secondary characters are  hilarious and play as big a part in the movie as the lead  actors.  It was so good, my friend and I are going back for the  second sneak preview tonight.  I hope to catch some of the funny lines I missed last week when I was laughing  "},{"Title":"pleasant 2 hours' entertainment","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so some of the dialogue doesn't seem exactly realistic, and it's a bit sentimental at times, but overall this was a pretty good flick. The supporting characters in particular were excellent (thanks to actors David Alan Grier, Bonnie Hunt, Carroll O'Connor, and Jim Belushi) and there were a few moments that were absolutely hilarious. The blind date scene in the restaurant, where Bob and Grace first meet, was great. My only major complaint about this movie is that the trailer uses most of the film's funniest moments! Why, oh WHY, do trailers do that?!? "},{"Title":"&#147;Return to Me&#148; is one of those romantic comedies that suffer a lot from the cliché of the formula but as we watch we really just don&#146;t care.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me By Dean KishCan David Duchovny overcome the type-cast of Agent Fox Mulder? This is a wonderful beginning. MGM&#146;s &#147;Return to Me&#148; stars David Duchovny and Minnie Driver in a light-hearted comedy that is tender and romantic. The center of the plot to this film is a &#147;heart&#148;. Sure we have the blooming hearts of our main leads but we also have the magic of a real beating heart. You see these star-crossed lovers have a connection to this heart. Driver needs the beating heart to heal her from a heart defect and Duchovny&#146;s wife is the donor after she is tragically killed in an auto accident.&#147;Return to Me&#148; is one of those romantic comedies that suffer a lot from the cliché of the formula but as we watch we really just don&#146;t care. What makes this film a notch or two higher than the average comedy is its beautiful honesty and tender characters. Minnie Driver has a lot to do with why this film is so successful in this aspiration. Like her film credits behind her, Minnie has nailed the &#147;insecure girl next door&#148; image down to a science. And its that science that makes &#147;Return to Me&#148; so passionate and gentle. Building off that strong of a center you have a beautiful set of characters around her that accent her inner magic. As the film opened, I was worried about the &#147;stiff&#148; acting of David Duchovny and wondered if he had what it takes to be a romantic lead. In some ways I found myself surprised by his talent. One scene that really grabbed me was when he fell down in front of the front door. Overwhelmed with tears, he stretches out for his dog which loved his wife as much as he. These scenes with the dog brought out a side of Duchovny which was wonderful, passionate and honest. They brought out a depth Duchovny really has never touched on. There were a lot of stiff scenes Duchovny seemed to be lost in but from just seeing those dog scenes I think in time Duchovny may open up. Some of my favorites moments in the film are in the brilliant chemistry of the four patriarchs who look out for Minnie. Carroll O&#146;Connor and Robert Loggia are two of Minnie&#146;s guardians. Its great to see these veteran actors doing something so light hearted. This is a group we won&#146;t soon forget because they were hiliarious. Other stand-outs were Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi who had a lot of great lines and chemistry. Their family scenes were warm and fuzzy and made you smile a lot. Bonnie Hunt also directed and co-wrote this film and in these tender funny scenes you could see her magic touch. Way to go, Bonnie.Even though Duchovny&#146;s wife, played by Joely Richardson, wasn&#146;t in the film very long I have to mention her. This actress is one of the ones who is always great but is never the lead. Come on casting agents give Joely a chance. So go grab your wife or your girlfriend and see this perfect date movie. Guys, you&#146;ll get lots of points taking her to this. (3.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer (Opens April 7th) "},{"Title":"a wonderful, multi-generational romantic comedy","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a completely enjoyable film.  It has several you are laughing so loud you miss the next line scenes, and I found myself helplessly grinning throughout most of the movie.  I am a confessed David Duchovney lover, but he should win over even non-fans with his touching, understated performance here.  Minnie Driver is excellent as usual, saying as much with her wide-open face and eyes as with her dialogue.  The movie is stolen, however, by the supporting cast  the elderly quartet of gentlemen led by Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia, and the couple played by James Belushi and Bonnie Hunt (the co-writer/director of the film).  The entire cast sparkles and each group of characters interacts in a way far too rare in movies of late.  This is a movie for everyone  bring your spouse, your date, your sister, your mother, your children, or anyone who simply needs two hours of pure enjoyment at the movies!  The sneak preview audience I saw it with burst into applause as the end credits rolled ... how often does that happen??   "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is a really good movie and a great romantic comedy. Unlike most movies today, it is not crude and does not have any sex scenes. That was very refreshing because other movies have way too much sex in them. Return to Me was in many ways similar to an old 40's movie, and I loved that. I am a big fan of David Duchovny and Minnie Driver, and they were both great in this movie. James Belushi has a role and it suited him perfectly, I never liked him as much as i do in this film. Return to Me starts out a little slow but makes up for it with hilarious dialogue later. I definitely recommend this for anyone.  "},{"Title":"We would recommend this movie to our friends.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was better than we thought it would be.  We won a free movie pass to the advanced showing but didn't know much about the movie.  The first 10 to 15 minutes were a bit canned, but the movie pulled you into the characters as it progressed and you got into the story.  Overall an enjoyable movie.  We loved the dog.> "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet, lighthearted -- great date movie","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Return To Me on the first weekend of sneak previews, and I have to say I was enchanted. The premise may seem cliched at first glance, but the delivery was fresh and original. This movie is very good overall and has some really terrific moments -- both funny and touching. Think Nora Ephron-esque; I compare it to things like When Harry Met Sally and, especially, While You Were Sleeping. It's a great date movie.The cast is outstanding; David Duchovny and Minnie Driver may get top billing, but it's really more of an ensemble, and Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia, James Belushi and Bonnie Hunt steal scenes all over the place. All the performances are good -- in case you wonder, if you're an X-Files fan like me, you'll quit seeing Mulder in Duchovny within the first few minutes. Hunt has done a good job directing, too; I hope to see much more behind-the-camera work from her in the future. "},{"Title":"Guys, you'll get lots of points taking her to this.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Can David Duchovny overcome the type-cast of Agent Fox Mulder? This is a wonderful beginning. MGM's Return to Me stars David Duchovny and Minnie Driver in a light-hearted comedy that is tender and romantic. The center of the plot to this film is a heart. Sure we have the blooming hearts of our main leads but we also have the magic of a real beating heart. You see these star-crossed lovers have a connection to this heart. Driver needs the beating heart to heal her from a heart defect and Duchovny's wife is the donor after she is tragically killed in an auto accident.Return to Me is one of those romantic comedies that suffer a lot from the cliché of the formula but as we watch we really just don't care. What makes this film a notch or two higher than the average comedy is its beautiful honesty and tender characters. Minnie Driver has a lot to do with why this film is so successful in this aspiration. Like her film credits behind her, Minnie has nailed the insecure girl next door image down to a science. And its that science that makes Return to Me so passionate and gentle. Building off that strong of a center you have a beautiful set of characters around her that accent her inner magic.As the film opened, I was worried about the stiff acting of David Duchovny and wondered if he had what it takes to be a romantic lead. In some ways I found myself surprised by his talent. One scene that really grabbed me was when he fell down in front of the front door. Overwhelmed with tears, he stretches out for his dog which loved his wife as much as he. These scenes with the dog brought out a side of Duchovny which was wonderful, passionate and honest. They brought out a depth Duchovny really has never touched on. There were a lot of stiff scenes Duchovny seemed to be lost in but from just seeing those dog scenes I think in time Duchovny may open up. Some of my favorites moments in the film are in the brilliant chemistry of the four patriarchs who look out for Minnie. Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia are two of Minnie's guardians. Its great to see these veteran actors doing something so light hearted. This is a group we won't soon forget because they were hiliarious. Other stand-outs were Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi who had a lot of great lines and chemistry. Their family scenes were warm and fuzzy and made you smile a lot. Bonnie Hunt also directed and co-wrote this film and in these tender funny scenes you could see her magic touch. Way to go, Bonnie.Even though Duchovny's wife, played by Joely Richardson, wasn't in the film very long I have to mention her. This actress is one of the ones who is always great but is never the lead. Come on casting agents give Joely a chance. So go grab your wife or your girlfriend and see this perfect date movie. Guys, you'll get lots of points taking her to this. (3.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer  "},{"Title":"Screen out Duchovny and you'll probably enjoy this.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me After losing his wife in an accident, Bob Rueland sinks into a deep depression and tries to escape reality by immersing himself in a project devoted to his wife. He is jolted back into humanity when he meets Grace, a kindred spirit who has many of the qualities of his dear departed wife.  In fact, that's not all she has. The first twenty minutes of the movie are tortuous - slow moving, depressing, and melodramatic -  and I actually contemplated walking out.  Although the pace starts to pick up after the main characters finally cross paths (consciously), the plot continues to lag.  Yet again David Duchovny proves that he can't act (he should really rethink his plans to leave the X-files &#133;) and neither a lovable dog, nor lovable woman can change that.   Minnie Driver fares better (I'm a sucker for a beautiful smile) but has little to work with.  It is left to the supporting cast to carry the ball.James Belushi is hilarious as the foul-mouthed-big-bellied-husband-of-the-best-friend.  Every single woman's nightmare, he is a nice guy with a good heart, but a tad misguided.  Even funnier is the group of senior delinquents led by Carol O'Connor, and Robert Loggia, who split their time between matchmaking, being mother hens and composing best of lists of dead guys. Show up twenty minutes late and this makes a good matinee date flick. "},{"Title":"Funny and Poignant a movie you must see.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From beginning to end this is a movie that is packed with everything you would want in a romantic comedy. David and Minnie are at there best in this touching romantic comedy. The supporting cast adds all the humor and then some. A movie you must see. I can't say enough about it. Some may say it's predictable, but predictably nice. "}{"Title":"You're in for a real old-fashioned treat/wonderful characters","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I'd like it, but in fact I loved it.  Not only is the acting wonderful, the story heartfelt (no pun intended), but the tapestry of characters was wonderful.  Even those who thought they were going to a chick flick enjoyed the humor very much.  I thought there was wonderful chemistry between Duchovny & Driver, and each of the secondary actors had a wonderful presence in the story.  I would recommend this movie highly.  I have been a critic of Duchovny's acting in the past but I stand corrected. He was wonderful.   "},{"Title":"Dreams can come true","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful movie for almost everyone (except for some adult language). Good comedy/love story that will leave you warm and happy and with no doubts that you have spent a worthwhile 2 hours at the movies. Even a few tears of joy thrown in for good measure. Minnie Driver sparkles along with good performances by Frank Loggia, Carrol O'Connor, Jim Belushy and Bonne Hunt. This film was done in our neighborhood last summer and it was worth the interuption. It was a wonderful evening at the movies. "},{"Title":"A Sparkling Romantic Comedy!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very very happy to see the sneak preview of Return to Me, a very well done romantic comedy with Minnie Driver and David Duchovny. I couldn't stop laughing. I also dragged my mom to see it, and she didn't want to see it at all. And she ended up loving it as much as I did. I left the theater feeling upbeat. I can't wait to see it again.  "},{"Title":"You're in for a real old-fashioned treat/wonderful characters","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I'd like it, but in fact I loved it.  Not only is the acting wonderful, the story heartfelt (no pun intended), but the tapestry of characters was wonderful.  Even those who thought they were going to a chick flick enjoyed the humor very much.  I thought there was wonderful chemistry between Duchovny & Driver, and each of the secondary actors had a wonderful presence in the story.  I would recommend this movie highly.  I have been a critic of Duchovny's acting in the past but I stand corrected. He was wonderful.   "},{"Title":"Funny and tender with real emotion","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night and I was really surprised. This movie was wonderful. Most romantic comedies lose emotional substance, lost in plot machination. This movie, while sentimental, maintains a tender comedic edge. The use of such veteran actors as Robert Loggia and Carol O'Connor and funny actors like Bonnie Hunt,David Alan Grier,and James Belushi  enrich the film greatly. The tone is gentle wit. The comedy does not overwhelm the basic story. Minnie Driver and David Duchovny give truthful performances with emotional resonance. However, the star of the movie is the grace of the assemble cast. "},{"Title":"Excellent Romantic Comedy","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Duchovny and Driver were a perfect match in this wonderful uplifting romantic comedy.  My wife and I had more outright laughs than I can recall in a long time.  I particularly liked the realism of working up enough courage to ask her to hold your hand and flubbing up trying to sound intelligent and then wincing when you realize just how dumb what you said sounded.  We liked it so well that we went to Chicago and made an outing of the Lincoln Park Zoo and even went to Twin Anchors Restaurant a few blocks away where 6 weeks of the filming was done. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh so hard you'll cry, you'll cry so hard you'll laugh","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am so happy that I chose to see a sneak preview of this movie rather than wait for it to come out or come to video.  Return To Me has a lot of heart (sorry about the pun) but refuses to be maudlin, and has a lot of humor that will leave you guffawing in the aisles.  It's also a tearjerker, so I suggest bringing a few tissues.  David Duchovny proves he's no one trick pony.  Minnie Driver is impressive.  The secondary and tertiary characters aren't just there to fill up the background, either.  This is a purely enjoyable film, through and through, and I recommend it highly to anyone. "},{"Title":"A Heart-Warming Love Story","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bob loses his wife the same night Grace receives a new heart.  Was it fate that her heart is from Bob's wife?Although the plot is forseeable in the first 10 mins, it is still thoroughly entertaining.Another one of those fate movies... done well.  Background props not to miss, Carroll O'Connor and company are hysterical!  David Duchovny is a natural as the romantic lead. Why do they always make Minnie Drive lose her accent?Don't miss it!  Tears and laughs all in one. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the funniest, most heartwarming movie I've seen in a long time. I admit, I went just to see David Duchovny in the first place, but I just loved the whole thing!  I was laughing so hard, my side hurt.  Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Driver is terrific","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minnie Driver's greatest ability as an actress is to find chemistry with her on-screen partners. She was brilliant, for example, with Matt Damon in Good Will Hunting and John Cusack in Grosse Pointe Blank.Even those performances, however, do not evoke the tremendous amount of charm Driver has in Return to Me.In this heart-warming movie, Driver plays Grace, a woman who has been given a heart transplant and is self-conscious about dating. However, sparks fly when she meets Bob (David Duchovny), whose wife died a year prior. Tension builds, however, because of Grace's reluctance to tell Bob about the heart transplant and because - unbeknownst to either of them - her new heart came from Bob's wife.Driver and Duchovny have chemistry that melts the screen. Then again, whoever is on the screen with Driver seems perfectly matched, including Carroll O'Connor who plays her grandfather and Bonnie Hunt who plays her best friend.Hunt also makes her directoral debut with the film, which actually does not seem put together very well. She makes some odd choices in developing the story, especially in the beginning when the wife of Duchovny's character dies. Instead of some build up to the fatal car accident, the scene shifts from the husband and wife dancing to the husband walking by her as she is wheeled to an emergency room.Indeed, the scene splitting in the film seems awkward and haphazard. The storyline is obvious to the viewer within minutes of the movie, but is still treated as a surprise when actually spelled out. But what Hunt lacks in a directing effort, she more than makes up for in her performance and in co-writing a wonderfully personable script. So much of the character in this film is created by cute little one-line jokes that seem almost out-of-place in a movie. In fact, those jokes make the dialogue seem as if it could actually be delivered in real life.Similarly, other small details give the film a credibility uncommon with most Hollywood productions. The timing with which actors deliver lines is realistic - people talk over each other and there are missing beats after humorous lines. The result is often some missed dialogue - either because too many characters are talking or because the audience is laughing - but there's also a feeling as if you're listening to someone's conversation instead of watching a movie.This is obviously an actor's movie. While the film might have benefited from a more standard line of direction, Hunt should be applauded for putting the strong script in the hands of the actors for interpretation. Many directors would have streamlined the movie to the degree that it would lose its personal feel.It's arguable that the movie is predictable and the story doesn't move much. However, anyone going to this movie simply with the intention of having a good time is sure to do so. "}{"Title":"A sweet surprise","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bonnie Hunt has written and directed a sweet movie in RETURN TO ME.  The main story is somewhat formulaic, but still enjoyable.  The casting of Duchovny and Driver over more obvious seen-them-do-this-before love story players lends to the film's watchability.  The supporting characters, though, make this movie succeed.  Carroll O'Connor, Robert Loggia, David Alan Grier, Jim Belushi, and Hunt herself are wonderful and provide comic relief at all the right moments.  Another nice touch Hunt avoids many of the obvious cliches and takes the high road, choosing to not show things like a slo-mo car crash, or one character's racing through the airport at a critical juncture.  These are scenes that we've all seen too many times; it's refreshing to fill in the blanks for ourselves. "},{"Title":"wonderful flick!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What the movie's about is pretty much told in the trailer--no big reveal in the movie itself--it's the way in which it unfolds that's so great! Duchovny has found his niche as an ensemble actor--he will do fabulously on the big screen in this genre; because he has not done well as the action-adventure lead, viewers believed he did not have a film future.  yet he more than held his own with the more seasoned actors in the film, and came out as the breakthrough star of it--oh, except for the four elderly gentlemen.  I think the best thing about this movie, though, is that I went to see it with my teenaged daughter and several of her young friends, and there were no embarassing moments or aspects of the movie that I wish hadn't been there; indeed, the movie deserves extra points for pulling that off and still being enjoyable to the teen age group, not boring or preachy or too old for them.  Just Great! "},{"Title":"Romantic *and* humorous","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow.  Although rather predictable, I do believe that both David Duchovny and Minnie Driver should be commended for their outstanding portrayals of Bob Rueland and Grace Briggs.  It was such a change to see Duchovny in a role other the Fox Mulder, which he is best known for.  The humour in this movie is perfect and so real.  Kudos to all who participated in the creation of this heartfelt romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but still worth seeing","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The beginning and end of this movie are completely predictable and both seem to be appendages to the real story that takes place in a neighborhood Irish-Italian restaurant in Chicago.  Carroll O'Conner as a doting Irish grandfather leads an excellent supporting cast that provides lots of warm and funny moments throughout the middle and winning section of this movie. If you are a fan of ethnic, foreign art films, then go see this one.  You will enjoy it - and no subtitles! "},{"Title":"David Duchovny finally moves past Mulder!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to me is a charming, funny film.  Yes, I was surprised by my reaction, since I attended a preview of the film expecting not to like it very much.  Let's face it, the premise is at best farfetched (widower falls in love with a woman who had a heart transplant, and coincidentally, received the heart of his dead wife).  I don't normally like Minnie Driver (I think her best work was in Circle of Friends), but I liked her here. She's a good match for David Duchovny, who finally moves past his Mulder role on The X-Files.  I was crossing my fingers for him after Playing God tanked so badly (and deservedly so) a couple of years ago.  He acquits himself quite well here in this romantic comedy.  It was fun to see Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia enjoying themselves in supporting roles. Bonnie Hunt directed and also has a supporting role in the film.  Her touches are all over this movie, which is a good thing.  She manages to have a few poignant moments balanced out by a good number of laugh-out-loud scenes. I always liked her and I'm looking forward to more of her output. "},{"Title":"One Chic Flick that the husbands enjoy","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one film that I can watch again and again... and my husband can too. We both enjoy this sweet, funny, and sentimental movie. My husband loves the Belushi touch as do I. David Duchovny is precious and leaves me wishing all men were created with his character's sensitivity and sincerity. Minnie Driver was a good compliment to him throughout. Bonnie Hunt was very realistic in a hilarious way. The whole cast is perfect... and a special kudos goes to the widowed gentlemen headed up by Carroll OConnor and Robert Loggia. I couldn't get enough of them! Settle in for a good time - and buy it now else you will be stuck renting it again and again. "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!!!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so sweet, it will make you wish you were a part of it!!!! The story line is very sentimental and the love story is the cutest one that I have seen in a long time!! Not only are the actors incredible in this movie, but their dialog is so great!!!! I definitely suggest this movie to anyone with a gentle heart!Minnie Driver does an incredible job displaying her character, and David Duchovny seems to have a real compassion for this character, you can honestly feel what he is feeling in this movie.Bonnie Hunt and Jim Beluchi could not be a funnier pair in this movie, their comedic relief is so well timed, they are amazing! "},{"Title":"this best movie I have ever watched!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the story line was so good! I've watched over a dozen times. I just wish that you could let Bonnie Hunt know that she is a gifted writer,actress&director. I've bought the movie and can now watch it a dozen more times! Thanks for making such a great love story for ALL ages to see. I look forward to more movies like this. Thanks again, Beverly from Mo. "},{"Title":"A fun rent. Great laughs plus romance.(1/2 kleenex)","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Put this film on your must rent for a rainy evening list. Bonnie Hunt gets great comedy out of seniors Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia and then dresses it with the likes of handsome David Duchovny and Minnie Driver. Take it all to Chicago, throw in a couple of apes (Jim Belushi and Lincoln Park Zoo's Kwan) and you have an outstanding evening of solid entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Date movie","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK so this isn't Oscar worthy or an all time flick, but it had its good moments and for those of us that love Mini Driver and think that David is hot, well what more can you ask for? Anyway, in all seriousness, it really is an OK movie. I personally thought that the best part of the movie was all the comments made by the older generation. All the jokes were sad, but true in so many ways. They way they took care and loved Grace and supported and overprotected her was just so cute and real in many ways. True there wasn't much thought in the plot, and it was very predictable, but it is interesting to think about someone getting a new heart and how it affects them and the person that they are. Oh and the Aquafina scene was funny as were some other ones.So even though the characters are typical and the plot is predictable, it is a nice, easy going movie. A feel-good movie category is probably appropriate. I would recommend it especially if you are a guy and want to prove to a girl that you can watch sappy movies.  "}{"Title":"Sweet but insubstantial","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually I'm a sap for romantic comedies and I give them a lot of latitude.  It is hard to come up with much that is fresh in a genre that has been so thoroughly plowed.  However, this charming and schmaltzy film was too corny even for me.  Romantic films are normally pretty predictable, but this was ridiculous.  Writer/director Bonnie Hunt gives these characters the depth of a rain puddle.  The plot was so scant that she had to employ excessive filler with farcical skits involving Jim Belushi, and the seniors led by Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia.  The fact that the filler was the most entertaining part of the film speaks volumes about the weakness of the main storyline.Bonnie Hunt's directorial debut was a mixed bag.  She captured some endearing moments and her choice for Chicago locations was wonderful.  However, the film's pacing was poor, with numerous dull scenes and a bumpy flow.  The character development of Bob (David Duchovny) and Grace (Minnie Driver) was good, and the romance was enchanting, but there really wasn't that much of an impediment to the relationship.  A truly great romance requires an insurmountable obstacle or irreconcilable differences to be overcome to test the awesome power of love.  The heart transplant device, while novel, really wasn't much of a reason for them to break up.  Hunt also should have made greater use of the device examining its implications more explicitly with Duchovny's character.  She was content to dance around the fact that the two loves of his life had the same heart, a wonderful metaphor that she left in the background rather than developing it. The acting was excellent.  David Duchovny proved to be quite affable in this retreat from the heavy-handed X-Files roles.  This may be the most he has been allowed to smile in any project he has ever taken.  It was enjoyable to see another side of him.  Minnie Driver gave a marvelous performance, probably her best to date.  She was very human; she was insecure about her surgery, but warm and full of hope.  Carroll O'Connor was priceless as Grace's grandfather.  He and Robert Loggia delivered some of the funniest moments in the film.  James Belushi was also hilarious as the overwrought dad and middle class stud muffin.Though it proved to be a crowd pleaser, this film was a sweet but lightweight addition to an overcrowded genre.  I rated it a 6/10.  It's a good date movie but not much more. "},{"Title":"Formula, yes...  But laughed and cried anyway.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  About five minutes into the movie I leaned over to my brother and whispered, I've figured out the plot already.  However, even though this movie follows a fairly standard (and obviously predictable) formula, it still had its moments.  Minnie Driver is always fabulous and does not disappoint again.  David Duchovny shows a surprising wide range of emotion.  The best scenes by far were with the four older bar patrons.  Not first a first date movie, but definitely bring someone you care about. "},{"Title":"She also needs spine and brain transplants.","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As someone who has had multiple organ transplants, and also has a longtime boyfriend whom I met after the surgeries, may I saw that Minnie Driver's character bears no resemblance to any of the organ recipients I've shared hospital quarters with. The wit and poise her character displays when she's with friends and family, as well as at work, disappear when it comes to potential lovers. As soon as they know, she says, they think of me as broken. Well, honey, it's up to you to prove you're not broken.Unfortunately, the filmmakers wanted to make a tearjerker, not a good, vigorous movie about survival. If they had given it real thought, they'd have realized that the time to worry about scars is when a lover thinks they're kinky-- but that's a bit of reality this gooey fiction can't handle. What's more, a healed surgical scar is minor compared to things like the regimen of immune-suppressing drugs (including steroids), and the fact that transplants don't last forever, so your clock ticks so loud that your loved ones hear it too. And how a potential partner may handle all of that-- from scars to a shortened life span-- is something you want to know early. There is no point hiding scars from lovers, as anyone with scars could have told Bonnie Hunt. Unfortunately, of course, it's sentimental plots that jerk tears.Duchovny and Driver both deserve better, as do those of us who have had transplants, and the wonderful people who love us. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot worse than this","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" June seems to be an excellent time for romantic comedies on television. I've already seen several in a couple of weeks time and I'm sure that many more will follow. That doesn't always make it easy to give a movie a good chance of course. After a while they all start to look a bit the same and then it can be good for this movies to be somewhat more original in their approach to the subject of love.Return to Me certainly succeeds in that department because it doesn't start with being all happy and great. When Bob Rueland's wife, with who he has a very good time, gets killed in a tragic car accident, her heart is used to save the life of Grace Briggs, a waitress at a local Italian restaurant. Both try to make the best of their lives after this tragic event, until they meet each other in the restaurant. Bob doesn't know that his wife's heart saved Grace's life, but immediately feels some kind of attraction to her. They fall in love with each other, but when Grace finds out the truth, she doesn't know whether she should tell him that she got the heart from his wife or not, whether she should stay or leave...As a story this certainly works, although you need some imagination to believe that all the things happening in this movie could actually be true. (Normally they don't tell where the heart comes from and that it stays in the same city is far from certain as it goes to the first person with the correct blood type on the waiting list). But I want to see past that for once and than I must say that it certainly isn't bad. What also worked for me was the acting. Especially Minnie Driver did a nice job. Personally I found David Duchovny a bit miscasted, although I don't really have another name to play the role.Overall this isn't a bad example of a romantic comedy / drama, although it isn't always perfect. In my opinion the best thing in this movie were the old men in the restaurant (the friends of Grace's father), they were very funny and made me forget about most flaws in the story. I give this movie a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Awful! (spoilers ahead)","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot believe the glowing reviews this film is receiving!(spoilers ahead)From the second minute of the film, my wife and I were successfully predicting dialogue and plot point from later in the film (ooh, I bet Driver will put her hand against the glass and the gorilla will love her, too... oooh, I bet the dog will like her... oh, I bet the last scene's in Italy).This was *potentially* a good premise... but man, this film blows...Were all these reviews written by F-O-B (Friends of Bonnie) who worked on the film?  "},{"Title":"How stupid do they think we are? (spoilers ahead)","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For this, Bonnie Hunt secures a multi-picture deal? I weep for the future of American film. (spoilers ahead)The number of scenes (and lines of dialogue) that rise above cliche can be counted on one hand,  someone on the production staff must have consulted his grade-school, zoo-obsessed son for the gorilla angle, and Bonnie Hunt (usually so sharp as an actress) for some reason decided to pummel her audiences over the head with relentlessly gooey music.Does she think we'd miss her point, that this is a fuzzy-wuzzy, cutsey-pootsey romantic comedy? How could we, when in the very first scene she rolls out that most annoying of movie cliches, the saint-on-Earth-and-therefore-about-to-leave-it wife? Show us a happy marriage, fine, but don't make it so idealized that it loses all reality.I could just imagine these two in the mornings Well hello there, my sweetie, cutie, honey, angel-baby little love. Would you like some sugar in your coffee-woffee? "},{"Title":"They *can* make 'em like they used to!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My parents frequently state that there are no romantic comedies as good as the ones made when they were young.  Hah!  Here's one, which is a tremendous credit to the entire cast and crew.The context of the plot is preposterous, which is true of most good romantic comedies David Duchovny's dearly beloved wife is killed in a car accident; her heart is given to Minnie Driver in a transplant operation; the two fall in love at first sight.  Complications ensue.This plot isn't much more ridiculous than those of Astaire and Rogers movies, but 50 years ago the concept of a heart transplant didn't exist.  If it had, I'm willing to bet Fred and Ginger or Tracy and Hepburn would have been in a film with a similar script!This film worked because the characters are real, despite the plot. Amazingly, David Duchovny actually emotes in this film!  I especially appreciated the supporting characters.  It was great to see Carroll O'Connor and Robert Loggia acting like real elderly people.  I suspect we all know senior citizens who are just as loving and nosy as they are!  Also, the team of Bonnie Hunt (who also directed) and James Belushi as Minnie Driver's best friends worked well.  Their family acts a lot like most families, down to the messiness of the house and kids repeating things they shouldn't.If you're looking for a deep, meaningful film, this isn't it. If you want a film where you don't completely check out your brain but still want entertainment, this is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"This movie shines.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RETURN TO ME is a film that aims to touch your heart. And that is probably an inside-joke with the crew or something since the movie is about heart transplant and stuff. David Duchovney (yes, the same guy from The X- Files) brings star power to this film along with Minnie Driver, Robert Loggia, Bonnie Hunt and the late Carroll O' Connor (who I was impressed the most by). The film is touching and hilariously funny and it aims to make you feel all touched inside. Well, it didn't really do that for me, but it did make me laugh several times. While I can't help feeling that somehow if Bonnie Hunt had maybe consulted another writer to help her, the film might have been a little more memorable. But, take it as it is, or don't take it at all. RETURN TO ME gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"What was God thinking?!","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fully-fabricated modern romance gets by on sincere performances and handling. Construction engineer in NYC (the understated David Duchovny) loses his wife in a car accident, though her heart lives on via an organ transplant. The recipient (Minnie Driver) is a sweet-natured waitress working in her grandfather's Irish-Italian restaurant; she chances to meet the widower, but how long will it take for them both to realize the miraculous turn of events which has occurred? Director Bonnie Hunt (who also co-wrote the screenplay and co-stars as Driver's girlfriend) pushes too hard in making the supporting characters (a colorful gaggle of family and friends) wonderful and wacky, yet the lovestruck twosome at the center of the story are nicely grounded. The picture has a fresh, glossy look, though it ambles about in search of warm and fuzzy moments and never quite takes off. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"I Left My Heart in Chicago","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On a rainy night, Chicago architect David Duchovny (as Bob Rueland) loses his beloved wife to a car accident. Meanwhile, bedridden artist Minnie Driver (as Grace Briggs) hovers near death, desperately needing a heart transplant. As you might imagine, Ms. Driver receives the heart belonging to Mr. Duchovny's dying wife. After a period of mourning, veterinarian pal David Alan Grier (as Charlie Johnson) tries to get Mr. Duchovny to date shallow, mouthy women. While on a funny double date (thanks to Holly Wortell), Duchovny meets Driver. The two have an instant, magical attraction...Driver is a waitress at the Italian bar/restaurant run by Irish grandfather Carroll O'Connor (as Marty O'Reilly) and Italian brother-in-law Robert Loggia (as Angelo Pardipillo). With elderly pals Eddie Jones and Wally Jatczak, they discuss how singers Bing Crosby and Frank Sinatra differed in beating others; the former took a more hands on approach. This was notably the last appearance for Mr. O'Connor, best known for his long-running TV role as lovable bigot Archie Bunker. Writer/director Bonnie Hunt (as Megan) and loud-mouthed James Belushi (as Joe Dayton) provide additional support.This is what they call a chick flick, with Ms. Hunt and The X-Files star Duchovny offering distaff viewers a dreamy leading man; he's handsome, well-built, romantic, masculine, sensitive, straight and sexy......and his hair is Perfect.***** Return to Me (4/7/00) Bonnie Hunt ~ David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Carroll O' Connor, Bonnie Hunt "}{"Title":"Pretty Decent, definitely a chick flick","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A girl I am friends with recommended this film, and it's definitely in the romantic comedy genre. I thought it was a decent film, Minnie Driver proves to be the most interesting of the bunch. The film doesn't dig too deeply into the characters, it shows them only on a superficial level but for the tone of the film which is light that is appropriate I suppose. It was good to see David Alan Grier in a nice movie. Duchovny is somewhat stiff in his part, and not entirely believable. Minnie Driver does pretty well considering she wasn't given that much to work with.Its light fluff, but its not bad.Belushi sort of overplays his part as the oaf of a father, certain parts were excessively cutesy, overly cute.I give it a fair rating. "},{"Title":"Audience Pleasing Romance","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Return to Me was a real crowd-pleaser for the audience (except for the penultimate scene which was so predictable that the audience didn't cheer as I think we were supposed to). The advance PR compared it to Moonstruck and that's apt, though every character plays it completely straight, without the magic realism. The hamish family, if one can use Yiddish to describe an Italian/Irish mix was so warm and comfortable that they won the audience over even more than the central couple.Duchovny does get to smile, though the middle third he's in mourning so he gets to be in Mulder Mode for then.Minnie Driver has less annoying mannerisms than she did in Ideal Husband and the match-up works. The Dean Martin and ilk music really works, especially in the context of the constant discussions about crooners.(originally written 4/8/2000) "},{"Title":"#1 film of all time","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When one thinks of the list of all time great films the invariable classics come to mind. Casablanca, The Godfather, Rocky but one film is better than all others. Creator Bonnie Hunt has crafted the greatest piece of golden cinema of all time. The story appears simplistic and prehaps that's one of it's hidden joys. The supporting cast brings warmth to the story of two people who fall in love. I love this film and urge all to rent or buy Return To Me. Bob is a widower, who after years of grieving falls in love again. At first nothing more than an innocent crush, Grace a quick witted waitress. As there relationship progresses it spins scene after scene of joyful interaction we all hope to retain. A secert not known by either of them threatens their love bringing about the climax. I cannot say enough good things about it. "},{"Title":"Drivers CV tainted....","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a fan of Driver's work,I'm drawn to watch pretty much anything she does. The best examples of her work are seen in the Governess and The circle of friends that helped launch her into the hearts of the American audience across the pond. But trading on that affection has meant selling your soul it would seem. At the time of filming,Duchovny himself was at his hottest property moment in his career.Not wishing to short sight his possible career path,but the massive reception for the X-files had also bought him some film leeway. So here we have the base for an excruciating indulgence. What we have in this film is basically smulchtz.Its a sickly sweet affair,playfully insulting your lighter side in the name of romantic comedy. Duchovny's wife has sadly departed but,..no wait!!..it turns out Driver needs a new heart..and ..er..yes she receives Duchovnys wife's's used thumper. Bring on the first plucked heart string at this point. Now as you well know,nothing in Hollywood romantic comedy comes easy. Theirs got to be the mechanism of a joke that propels us though this charade. You would clearly need to be gagged and bound in a box not to see where this is going.Its a case of how will she tell him...how will he react..oh i wonder.. The supporting cast is tastefully sublime,simmering away in the background.Belushi serves as a side comedic role as the best friends husband.In 1 or 2 scenes he could have taken the film himself and ordered everyone off the set i dare say!!!!. The quirky off beat manner that makes Driver so alluring and attractive to watch,is at least,present. Duchnoy however,seems to be as hollow as ever and rivalling Keanu Reeves in the wooden furniture impressions. It will appeal to a soft female audience who thrive on these heart warming,slightly too sickly for consumption films,but the average male will have hanged himself by the first 20 minutes(optimistic prediction). "},{"Title":"More than it seems chic flic.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 111 min.Best movie I've seen with David Duchovny and Minnie Driver is pretty good too. The unusual device of giving the heart of one love to a new love adds legs to this otherwise pretty standard boy-meets-girl movie.Both leads are in top form and the supporting case is very good - one gripe why do aged 60+ Irish Americans sound like they just walked off a coffin ship? The Quiet Man casts a long shadow.6/10 worth watching. "},{"Title":"Touching, Charming and Heart Warming","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A small but charming movie which was largely overlooked at the box office, but which has gained notoriety through pay-per-views and video. This film harks back to a more romantic time of film-making, helped by a wonderful Brat Pack soundtrack.It's biggest problem is that it appears unsure of what it wishes to be. A good script from Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake, gives us a touching romance between Duchovny's recently widowed architect and the women who received his wife's heart from a transplant, played wonderfully as ever by Minnie Driver. This touching romance in the veign of Bounce, is very true to life despite the situation, but it is almost derailed by the great comic bickering between the other character's. First time director Hunt, gets great performances from veterans Loggia, Jones, O'Connor and Bronder, and from James Belushi as her husband. But the comedy pulls the film more towards being a romantic comedy than the real-life romance that the central relationship wants to be.The idea of a widow's wife's heart being transplanted to his future love would appear to suite a Rom-Com, but with the other characters getting the best lines, it makes the Rom-Com style ending of separation and reunion sit awkwardly with the characters. It is not helped by Duchovny's performance, appearing ill at ease with comedy when it comes his way.Having said this though, the romance coming from Hunt and Lake's script will still steal you heart, making this an essential addition to any old-romantic's video collection. "},{"Title":"the surgery failed","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i have to say that 'return to me'  was much better than any of the romantic comedies i have ever seen. but there were quite a few flaws. the main one was that there wasn't enough oomph! between the lovers, not enough passion. mind you, david and minnie were great, but when together they couldn't keep the mood. the idea was great, the writing was great, it just didn't have enough oomph! and pizzaz. "},{"Title":"Minnie Driver deserved a better leading man","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I picked this film up for my wife and me to watch because of Minnie Driver.  From that perspective, I was not disappointed.  I also thought Bonnie Hunt's writing and acting increased the enjoyment of this film.  Also, Carroll O'Connor was excellent as the Irish-Catholic father.  However, I was very disappointed in the selection of David Duchovny as the leading man.  I have never seen him in any film, so I have no expectations.  What I found was that he is not a very good actor as demonstrated in this film.  He tends to present a one-dimensional character on screen and never developed a chemistry with Minnie Driver.  I don't watch the X-Files, but I suspect that David's acting works well with that type of show.  I'm really disappointed that they didn't find someone better because Minnie Driver deserves better. "},{"Title":"likability doesn't trump contrivance","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess that, by definition, romantic comedies do not exist in the world of reality.  They are fantasies &#150; a vision of life as it SHOULD be, not as it really is.  Therefore, I understand that we should not expect such films to follow the laws of dull everyday logic that so often guide our own humdrum existences.  Yet, I find myself much preferring romantic films that attempt to adhere as closely as possible to the realities of real world relationships (a movie like `Two For the Road,' for example) than to those that ask us to stretch our suspension of disbelief almost to the breaking point     `Return to Me' is clearly in the latter category.  Although it is not a bad film as modern movie romances go, it seems more concerned with coming up with a clever plot gimmick than with actually exploring the multitudinous complexities that make up romantic relationships.  Not wanting to spoil the film for those unfamiliar with its concept, I will only state that David Duchovny stars as Bob, a happily married man who is devastated by the sudden death of his beautiful zoologist wife in a car accident.  Minnie Driver also stars as Grace, a heart patient who just happens to receive Bob's wife's heart the night of the accident.  A year later, Bob and Grace, in the dark as to the tie that binds them, meet and fall in love.  The rest of the story I will let you check out for yourself.Much of the film is spent trying to bring these two characters together in a way that won't unduly strain credibility.  It doesn't succeed.  At every plot turn in that direction, we find ourselves shaking our heads in amusement and disbelief.   This over reliance on plot mechanics actually serves as a distancing device between the characters and the audience.  Rather than getting to know the two principal figures as fully fleshed out, complex human beings, we see them more as pawns to keep the story going.  In a way they are even upstaged by a large assortment of far more colorful secondary characters including Carroll O'Connor as Grace's overprotective grandfather and his crusty poker-playing cronies.  Duchovny and Driver are both extremely likable young performers, but their characters' unrelenting niceness becomes almost oppressive after awhile.  Sweetness may be tolerable in real life, but in drama, it often makes for tedious going.  In short, for all their likeability, Bob and Grace turn out to be rather bland, uninteresting people (even their names sound ideal for a dull couple). Where Return to Me DOES work well is in the scene crosscutting between life and death - between Bob's grief at the sudden loss of his wife and Grace's family's joy at the renewal of life this very same death is bringing to their loved one.  The movie does a beautiful job demonstrating how life, death and fate are all amazingly interrelated.  The complexity of emotion that is generated in that scene far surpasses any that comes later in the film.  Despite its contrivance, `Return to Me' does have moments of charm, tenderness and humor and it features a truly impressive ensemble cast.  But for those of us in the audience who like our romantic tales a bit more believable and edgy, we could do with a trifle less plot and a trifle more character.  "},{"Title":"If you like sappy movies, this one's for you!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very schizophrenic movie.  It is far too sappy (i.e., if you do not like sappy films, stay away!), yet funny in many spots.David Duchovny&#145;s wife dies in a car accident and her heart is given to Minnie Driver, who Duchovny courts a year after his wife has died -- so it's easy to see where the sap comes from (their dog gets in the act in a touching mourning for his dead owner).  My biggest problem with the film is I wouldn't run down the street after Minnie Driver, much less halfway around the world! Carroll O'Connor & Robert Loggia are hilarious as part of a foursome of old guys who own an Irish-Italian restaurant.  And Bonnie Hunt (who directs and co-produces) and James Belushi also add to the film.But this film was made to pull at your heartstrings, so don't forget to bring the Kleenex! "}{"Title":"Who says they don't make 'em like they used to?  Duchovny & Driver make a winning couple","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  RETURN TO ME (2000) *** David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Carroll O' Connor, David Alan Grier, Robert Loggia, Bonnie Hunt, Joely Richardson, James Belushi.Who says they don't make 'em like they use to?  Well if it's old fashioned romantic comedies than maybe they're wrong as the case in point is this latest attempt by gifted comic actress Bonnie Hunt (best known as Charles Grodin's wife in the `Beethoven' films and Rene Zellweger's shrewd sister in `Jerry Maguire') who makes her big-screen directorial debut.The film opens with loving married couple Elizabeth and Bob Rueland (the glamourously pretty Richardson and Duchovny, in a wonderful performance eons from his Fox Mulder on the blockbuster tv series `The X-Files'), a dedicated zoologist and a resourceful architect/contracter, who wind up parting for good after an off-screen auto accident claims her life and sends him on a year of grieving. Parallel to the opening is Gracie Briggs (Driver, equally good), a sweet young woman awaiting a healthy heart for a life-threatening transplant that arrives in the unlikely donor of the late Mrs. Rueland. Flash forward one year later and Bob meets-cute the recovered yet romantically tenderfooted Gracie at her grandfather's Irish/Italian eatery where she waitresses,  after Bob's best friend Charlie (the underused `In Living Color' alum, Grier) sets Bob up for a disastrous blind date.  Bob senses something - déjà vu - about the fetching Gracie and after another visit to the restaurant he spontaneously asks her out - after the prompting by her good natured grandfather Marty and his brother-in-law Angelo (O'Connor and Loggia adding a crusty layer to this souffle).  She relents and before they know it fall madly for each other including bowling dates and the new couples rekindling of romantic love overall. But Gracie's reluctance to come forth with her condition to Bob is only further plagued by her discovery of Elizabeth being the donor complicating matters of the heart (pun not intended but unavoidable).  Here she must decide what is the best for her and them leading to a truly old-fashioned romantic climax. All this would be treacly and ham-fisted in the hands of a real hack but Hunt does herself a great job in balancing the tragic undertones with the outright funny set ups and fine work by her supporting cast (that includes herself at her pluckiest insightful as Gracie's married with children gal pal Megan and her better half, Joe (Belushi at one of his best and funniest onscreen lovable louts) and light yet satisfying homage to the romantic comedies of yore with the screenplay she penned with fellow veteran comic character actor Don Lake (who appears briefly as a hair-transplant would-be beau of Gracie) with Andrew Stern and Samantha Goodman. Quite frankly it's the nimble timing of Duchovny's sweetheart Bob and Driver's too-good-to-be-true lovely Gracie that combine to make a charming couple.  Duchovny, whose lachrymose Mulder on `The X-Files' rarely gets to smile and it's refreshing to see him lighten up more here (and to also note that he does sadness even better in his heartbreaking post-mortem with the family dog) and Driver always has some sunniness to her characters onscreen.Hunt, who in my opinion is one of the sexiest comediennes to grace the screen, shows her brains as well as her biting one-liners in everything she does - from her time capsule raconteur appearances on Tom Snyder's last chat show to her mannered waitress in `Rain Man' (of all things!) - displays some comic grace in an art form that sadly seems to be dwindling away; congrats to her!  Her scenes with the beer bellied Belushi are priceless and ring true. My only gripe is the chemistry seemed too quick between the two but then again I'm just as old fashioned as the next Gen X er!!  "},{"Title":"Return to the video store","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Return to Me is cute, contrived and disgustingly predictable. The plot has no realism -- it's the sort of thing that can only happen in the movies. Do not let this tape enter your vcr -- return it immediately from whence it came! "},{"Title":"Go at your own risk","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are a woman. If you are over 50. If you missed the high school. If you builded your culture watching Beautiful or other soap operas. If never you have been in Italy. If you guess being the last romantic woman.  If you still believe to Santa Claus. If you like waste your tears. Go and watch this super sweet movie.... but at your own risk!  "},{"Title":"Return my money!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm amazed (and just slightly disturbed) by the generally positive remarks and evaluations that have been attracted by this stunningly bad movie. Are we so deprived of wholesome romantic comedy that we must applaud even the most trivial of efforts?  Apparently so.With Return to Me, Bonnie Hunt has somehow leveraged her wiseacre sister persona (i.e. Jerry Maguire) into a feature writing/directing debut.  The premise is established instantly -- likeable schmoe (David Duchovny, resorting to forced capering) dearly loves his wife, who does SIGN LANGUAGE WITH A GORILLA and likes SLOW DANCING.  Meanwhile, a timid girl (the ubiquitous Minnie Driver) is in dire need of a heart transplant.The rest of the movie consists of watching the setup play itself out, with agonizing awkwardness.  Even my wife -- for whose sake I rented this quintessential chick flick, after making her endure tons of manly nonsense like Point Blank and Grosse Pointe Blank -- was soon chuckling at the creeping pace and blatant obviousness of the plot contrivances.Let's just watch it to see if it gets better, she said hopefully.  Ten minutes later, she was asleep.The soporific effect of Return to Me brings the total number of benefits of this film to three.  The others area) An object lesson to extroverted children everywhere to never enter the acting profession, lest you wind up a respected professional like Robert Loggia, humiliated by a paycheque into impersonating a one-note ethnic joke in a horrible movie;b) An example to students of film, of how to make consistently wrong decisions in casting, direction, and dialogue.p.s. It doesn't get better. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have the worst comments I can make about a move... un-original and predictable. I was invited to a screening in January which was attended by the director, Bonnie Hunt, and had high hopes for the film. Especially considering the cast. I honestly like the cast members, but not in this film. The scenes without Driver and Duchovny were the most enjoyable. I don't blame the actors, but their characters were just not interesting. Particular standouts in the cast were Hunt and Belushi. If the film had centered on their characters it would've made a vast difference. In my opinion, Hunt belongs in front of the camera. If you love movies and have seen absolutely every other movie out, maybe this is worth seeing. Maybe. "},{"Title":"Great Actors, Horrible Plot","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't tell whether or not I like this movie or not. Let me just begin by saying this is a horrible plot. Whoever wrote this script should be forced to read it. On the other hand, the acting at moments is fantastic. Duchovny is alright and Minnie Driver is her usual captivating self. The do have a very quiet charm to their chemistry. Carrol O'Connor and Robert Loggia are simply superb. Every scene their in seems to come alive. They bring out the best in Duchovny and Driver. It was a shame that the storyline was so bad or else this could have been a really good movie.  "},{"Title":"I gave it a one because zero wasn't an option.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I took my girlfriend to this  movie; and within ten minutes of the beginning of the movie, she explained the entire plot to me. There are a couple of old men that make small portions of this film funny, but these moments are few and far between. I wouldn't watch this movie again even if it were free. It's hard for me to believe that this waste of film ever received a vote higher than 3. Finally, if the soundtrack contains a self-titled song, it shouldn't bite. "},{"Title":"Hearty Laughter","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe the most pleasing film I saw over this summer, Bonnie Hunt's Return to Me is a gentle and funny story that breaks through the high concept schmaltz of a widower's wife's donated heart landing in the chest of a young woman the widower falls for. Hunt's fast, tumbling direction finds the right combination of comedy and tragedy. Return to Me never gets bogged down in its inherently melodramatic story of grief and rebirth.Seeing this film caught me at a particularly stressful moment--my wife and daughter were involved in an automobile accident just days before--and, thank God, no one was hurt. Yet, the thought of either of them (or the other party) being injured or killed in the accident created a personal resonance that made the film more real, more believable.Return to Me is a charming, sweet, and, for me, an emotionally satisfying comedy "},{"Title":"Does David Duchovny ever act?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  David Duchovny just ruins this movie with his monotone acting style. He pales in comparison to the great ensemble cast (Driver, O'Connor, Loggia, Hunt etc.) that has been put around him. The story is OK, but a little too over the top is David Duchovny's time that he spent to cope after finding out that Minnie Driver's character had his dead wife's heart. I guess that was only put in there so the makers of this movie could have a way to set up an ending to this movie and put it out of its misery. It could have been better.  "},{"Title":"a bit too boring","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not the worst movie I've evr seen - no, not at all. But it's forgettable anyhow... There are good actors like Minnie Driver, Bonnie Hunt and that remarkable bunch of elderly men, but they aren't given the possibility to show what they can do. Just imagine what they could have been like in a better movie, that is a movie with a better plot and more depth... It's just another of those pseudo-tragic lovestories where you know in the beginning exactly how it'll end after 90 endless minutes. It's cute somehow, but not cute enough. It's nice to look at, but not nice enough. It's just a bit too pretty, a bit too innocent and a (great) bit too boring. It's a shame really, as I believe that Bonnie Hunt could have done more as a director.(As an actess she was good enough.)... "}{"Title":"Movie of the week","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for the expensive cast (Duchovny, Driver, perhaps O'Connor), I would have thought this was a TV movie contrived premise, weak writing, predictable plot.  The leads were pleasant, if dull, but the supporting cast poorly conceived. Cute old folks, hero's oversexed best friend, James Belushi as a lovable version of Stanley Kowalski, and Bonnie Hunt in her accustomed role as the heroine's best friend.  Romantic comedies don't have to be sappy see When Harry Met Sally or The Fisher King for counterexamples. But don't bother seeing this one. "},{"Title":"*This* is Romance?","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An eminently forgettable love story with a paper thin plot, no character development and mediocre acting.  60-75% of screen time is taken up watching a bunch of old men play cards, bowl, discuss dead italian musicians, and jabber on and on about nothing meaningful whatsoever.  At the end of the movie, I knew nothing more about any of the characters than I did at the start.  My thought during the last moments of the film was So what?  Who are these people, why should I care, and why did I waste my time watching them?  Perhaps they should have set up the dog with the gorilla - at least something interesting might have taken place on screen.  2/10. "},{"Title":"Another garbage","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that on the 1st w.e. so many people have been writing so many comments about this movie which, still now, does not get 5 votes. I can't believe that all those people loved this movie in the same way they wrote. Everyone praises this movie for different reasons, praising a different actor in every different email. All email seem being written from the same person (for me Minnie Driver) This horrible and stupid and supersweet movie is very worse, if  it is possible, than Notting Hill,Runaway bride and Next best thing. I'm curious to see how much this movie will gain to the box office but I could bet that it will be very very little. Miro  "},{"Title":"I left my heart in S.F.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If my wife dies there's no way I'm going to give her heart to someone . You just know the person who gets it will be staying at my house soon . Seriously though , haven't we seen enough of  I'm now dating my dead wife's heart  stories . Enough already .Maybe there's a new wrinkle some enterprising writer can dream up . Here's an idea . Gay guy dies . His gay heart goes into a straight guy's dying body . The straight guy meets up with the dead gay guy's Life - Partner . Hijinx ensue .I did like Bonnie Hunt in the movie . Even if she did help write the screenplay . I guess people just love this destiny / fate stuff . "},{"Title":"When Monkeys Run the Zoo","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playwright G B Shaw called actors trained monkeys; Hitchcock later called them cattle. I always ask `why did this movie get made?' Not why it got financed and distributed (which is obvious), but what purpose did the initiating sponsor have in mind?In Hollywood, it is well established that the best films are driven by a director's vision, which vision is the template all the contributing skills are tailored around. But actors will have none of that; they don't like to be at the end of the food chain. Most film actors don't understand the media and fully believe that the entire endeavor revolves around them; many actors feel that they are the only `real' component --- everyone else is support -- and they have a personality-obsessed public that backs them up and pays them obscenely. Transplanted TV actors are especially prone to this.Every once in a while, we get an actor who just wants to prove the point in an open way. So we get `Wag the Dog' about actors who literally drive the whole country. And we get this movie here, made by actress Bonnie Hunt to show that craft acting is the thing, the only thing. You may enjoy the fruits of these competent actors and their practiced timing; I laughed and cried when I was supposed to, but then I always repeated the Pledge of Allegiance as a kid and still feel patriotic when that button is pushed. It is matter of superficial training only.This film has no story, only a situation. It has no notable film maker skills at all except for the acting, in which all is invested. And -- as we are constantly reminded -- that should be enough. Actors are the `heart' of a picture, and a good heart will remake an otherwise obedient but unremarkable picture, here a wallflower.(Caution by a big stretch, the following could be considered a spoiler because so little happens)--The only action in the film is that a lush stage gets built for a gorilla who has been taught `sign language' by the original owner of the heart. Here, we are also given a cartoon of the dumb, self-congratulating film financier.--Our hero (surrogate for Hunt) is a construction superintendent (a performing artist) which the film conveniently and deliberately blurs with the real creative artist, the architect. At one point, the two stand on `his' first building and say `we can see all this because of something you built.' This hero creates the monkey's stage to honor the actor's `heart.'Notice how our chorus of widowers (who here represent the effete other film trades) repeatedly obsess over the best performers (not writers or arrangers) of songs?Along the way, we are treated to two Hollywood totems the perfect professional Black guy; and the extreme stereotype of the obsequiously pious Irish Catholic, and his confused priest. (This affect dates from the Legion's blacklist; since then Catholicism has been portrayed in successively silly, and sadly true, fashion.)You should see this film. It works in the same space as the execrable Julie Roberts fluff. Both her films and this take themselves seriously, but at least here we have some self-reference as to the mission. We can see why the film got made. "}]