[{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"209 out of 262 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer didn't have a lot of credibility in his last few years. His final film was the rather crap Reindeer Games, with Ben Affleck, and in 1996 he gave us the utterly terrible Island Of Doctor Moreau. However, he did do Ronin in 1998, which makes up for absolutely everything.It is a detachment from glossy, MTV-directed, Hollywood action movies. If you want trash, like Bad Boys 2, then this isn't for you. Ronin returns to the gritty, rustic and deadly serious actioners of the Seventies, much like Frankenheimer's own French Connection 2.The title refers to Samurai warriors in ancient Japan who were left with no cause, or purpose, if their master was killed. They'd roam the countryside, pretending to be thieves, beggars, even madmen and hiring their skills out to the highest bidder. Much like the lost, wandering freelancers that make up our cast of characters.Robert De Niro is Sam, an ex-CIA agent (or is he?), who bands together with a ragtag group of similar ex-spies for a no questions asked job with what appears to be the IRA. First we have Vincent (the wonderful Jean Reno), as a French agent who knows where to find just about anything you want. Spence (Sean Bean) is a gung-ho SAS dropout who is waaaaay out of his depth and ends up jeopardising the whole mission. Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard), an ex-KGB spy who knows his gadgets and another American called Larry (who is rather disposable). All of these men are led by Deirdre (Natascha McElhone), a young Irish woman who answers to Seamus O'Rourke (Jonathan Price), an IRA boss who is in a lot of trouble with his superiors.Still with me? No? Well I'm gonna continue anyway. The group's mission is to steal a metallic briefcase from the Russian Mafia. The contents of this case are a mystery; all we know is that a lot of people are willing to pay mucho plento to get their hands on it.As if the set-up wasn't tenuous enough, there is immediately too much suspicion within the group to bear. And the already complicated plot is thrown into endless chaos as double-crosses, double-double-crosses, secrets and lies screw things up in a big, big way.It sounds tough going, but it's not really. I'll admit I didn't really like Ronin when I first saw it (or the second or third for that matter), but it's one of those movies that creeps back on you. Frankenheimer's direction is so flawless and masterful that every frame of every scene flows effortlessly The acting is so well rehearsed and the cast so well chosen that even in every gesture, idiosyncrasy and subtle glance you can read into the characters's hidden motives. It takes a good number of viewings to decipher Ronin, but when the story is this well done, who cares? Since its release there have been few action films that have come close to its intensity. Some, like Bourne Identity/Supremacy try to emulate its bleak tone, but don't match up. Supremacy has a car chase that was desperate to beat Ronin's, but is far too flashy.That's also the ace up it's sleeve. About 80 minutes into the film, the second car chase is a juggernaut of film-making. Never before and probably never again for a long, long time, has there been a car chase so completely mental. No Michael Bay 1000 cuts a second, no slow-motion, no stunts silhouetted against the sunset, just sheer, relentless adrenaline, as DeNiro and Reno tear up the streets of Paris. It's the centrepiece of the movie and a perfect example of what REAL action film-making is.Elia Cmiral's score is the other utterly perfect aspect of the movie. Simultaneously lonely, seductive and mysterious, it surely is one of the best themes ever and anyone with sense would go out and buy the soundtrack CD right away.Ronin is perfection from beginning to end, from Frankenheimer's strong, imposing direction to David Mamet's script, riddled with cryptic dialogue and double-meanings.No one can deny Ronin's importance as a real action picture. No one can watch crap like xXx, or 6 Fast 6 Furious, and claim Ronin to be a bad movie. It has enough, maybe too much, integrity and intelligence to shame anything that comes even halfway close. If you're sick of action flicks, or films in general, where the audience just sits there passively and is fed information, then Ronin is the cure.It may sound like a bizarre comparison, but it's on par with Lost Highway, as one of those movies you have to figure out in your own damn time. "},{"Title":"Great action movie, Hollywood should watch and learn from this","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"107 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Every once in a rare while comes an action movie that is also a genuinely good film. This is one of those movies. What makes these uncommon movies what they are is simple plot. No movie can compromise that and in recent years Hollywood has been doing just that to show off it's million dollar special effects and two cent story lines. This film has both pulse pounding breakneck action scenes and developed and interesting story.The story starts when mercenaries are hired to retrieve a secret silver briefcase with mysterious contents. The mission goes awry with betrayal and we soon find out that everyone has their own motives and goals with the mysterious silver case. The cast is good and the direction is smooth and keeps the story flowing and it'll keep you guessing right up to the very end about just exactly what is going on and who everyone is. Then, there are the car chases and they are awesome. Truly awesome and even legendary by now. Just like classics like 'Bullitt' and 'The French Connection' and goofy camp films of the seventies (like the original 'Gone in 60 Seconds') this film uses no hyper-crazy CGI in its action scenes and that proves all for the better since it is an action movie, but it cannot lose all it's credibility for the sake of some cars crashing. A thrill needs to be at least partly believable, otherwise it won't be thrilling. In fact the whole film has a more realistic feel to it with the relentlessness of the action being not over the top, but still enjoyable for fans of the genre. Then there are the characters who much more real as they don't snap wise cracks while shooting bad guys square in the head one handed with a pistol at 30 yards. All in all, this is a very good entry in the action genre and Hollywood should take note. 8/10Rated R for violence "},{"Title":"Car Insurance in France must be expensive ...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"75 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I picked up this DVD in Asda's a few weeks ago and seeing it had Robert De Niro starring convinced me enough to buy it. Then seeing in the credits it starred Jean Reno, Sean Bean and Jonothan Pryce too made me realise I was watching a winner here.I wasn't wrong either, this film is brilliant.  The beginning is slow and tense; dark, clear colours in the picture sets the mood perfectly. From then on most of it is pretty much action.Five mysterious men of various backgrounds (ex-CIA, KGB etc) meet in Paris, France for a job headed by a Northern Irish woman.  The job is to steal a case from a group and return the case to their as yet unknown employers. Just as things seem to run smoothly, one of them is a double-crosser.Now for some of the best bits, the car chases.  These are shot magnificently as Peugeot's, BMW's and Audi's tear through the streets of Paris.  These chases are the most thrilling chases I have ever seen.  And when you get chases, you get crashes.  Think on-coming traffic chases and you might get the picture.This is a must see film. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stunning car chases!! great movie!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"80 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This thriller from veteren John Frankenheimer is pure excellence, the script, acting and action are top draw. De Niro and Reno are brilliant in this as of course you would expect from two such excellent actors. The action scenes are pulse pounding and particularly excellent are the car chases, probably the best ever. Not only did the stunt guys risk their lives but the guys shooting the action captured some truly thrilling close up view from the cars as they speed along. The action also carries a certain degree of realism to it, the shootouts are sensible and the car chases and crashes seem very genuine no massive corkscrewing threw the air like most car chases or cars jumping 100 feet in the air like in Gone in 60 seconds, which is all very good but not for this sort of thriller. The pacing of the film was great and there was a constant chilling atmosphere. As I said before Robert De Niro and Jean Reno were exceptional particularly in their scenes together. The support cast are good too with a brief but excellent display from Sean Bean and Natasha Mchelhone and Jonathan Pryce are both good as Irish terrosists with comendable accents. All in all a very god way to spend a few hours. "},{"Title":"A film that lives up to its high expectations","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"65 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is one of those rare action films like The French Connection and To Live and Die in L.A. that will keep a viewer watching from beginning to end.  The performances in this movie are nothing short of superb and terrific.  All of the key characters deserve a lot of credit, ranging from De Niro, Reno, McElhrone, Pryce, Skarsgard, and especially, Michael Lonsdale, who fills in the missing link with such detail and looks like he made the little samurai action figures with extreme care.  The best scene of the film isn't the shootouts or car chases, it's the conservation that Sam (De Niro) and Jean-Pierre (Lonsdale) have over the Ronin myth.  I'll have to admit that Ronin is the first film that I have seen was made by the crafty veteran director John Frankenheimer (Grand Prix, The Manchurian Candidate).   If you haven't seen Ronin, go to a video store and rent the movie now.      "},{"Title":"Pay attention.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"52 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A great movie that you can't just watch with one eye. It starts slow, laying a strong foundation, and if it's on TV, it's easy to get lost by not paying attention at the beginning. However, it's an outstanding film, exploring the characters with a huge action movie in the background.It's visually interesting and doesn't ever let you know the things you think you need to know, but by the end you've forgotten that you wanted to know them in the first place. Robert DeNiro gives a strong performance and doesn't get lost in some of the showiness he can deliver when he's making up for a weaker story, and the supporting cast is full of familiar faces, many of which blend so well into the characters they play that, again, you can become lost in the story (although this time, it a good way). "},{"Title":"A throwback to old-style espionage thrillers, with an unexplained plot but plenty of enjoyable action.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"64 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Watching Ronin is like going 25 years back in time. The European locations, the cold and cynical characters, the deliberately ambiguous and serpentine plot, the car chases, the treachery.... all these are the standard ingredients of those twisty spy flicks that were ten-a-penny in the late '60s and early '70s. And who better to direct this retro-thriller than John Frankenheimer, the man behind such genre masterpieces as The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days In May?A group of mercenaries gather in a Parisian warehouse. They don't know each other, and they don't particularly know why they've been summoned.... other than the fact that they're about to be offered a job worth a considerable amount of money. Among the group is Sam (Robert De Niro), an American ronin (the name once given to masterless Japanese samurai-warriors who used to wander across the land offering themselves as hired swords). Others include Frenchman Vincent (Jean Reno), English weapons expert Spence (Sean Bean), East European electronics specialist Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard) and ace driver Larry (Skip Sudduth). The team has been brought together by Irish revolutionary Deidre (Natascha McElhone), who eventually reveals to them that their task is to get hold of a mysterious silver briefcase. They are not told what is in the briefcase, merely that if they want to get their hands on their money then they must steal the said briefcase from a team of ruthless agents currently guarding it.Throughout its running time Ronin keeps its plot very secretive (even at the end we never learn WHAT was actually in the briefcase). In some ways, this makes the story intriguing but it also causes a certain degree of dissatisfaction as many of the loose ends are still left untied as the final credits roll. De Niro gives a game performance as the morally complex hero, and Reno backs him up splendidly in yet another of his charismatic, slightly villainous roles. The big revelation is McElhone, a relative newcomer, who holds her own with all these powerhouse stars without looking at all daunted. The action is excitingly shot, especially the film's regular car chases and shootouts. It's nice to see genuinely hair-raising stunt work being used to achieve the effectiveness of these action sequences, as opposed to the usual '90s dependency on digital trickery. Check out also the amazing scene in which De Niro has to cut a bullet from his own stomach, using a mirror and a sharp knife! While Ronin might be a throwback to the films of yesteryear, with a story every bit as murky and cloak-and-dagger as the old films it resembles, it still comes across as an enjoyable and pacy piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"The ultimate McGuffin","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"59 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A pretty decent action outing for Robert De Niro and John Frankenheimer. Good photography of some of the seedier neighborhoods of Paris and other French cities. This film is quintessential De Niro, and he gets all the good lines. There is an interesting revelation at the end, which I will not reveal here. The case everyone is after, is a complete McGuffin, what Hitchcock called that plot device, the thing which everyone wants, and it doesn't really matter exactly what that is. I think that Frankenheimer may have been paying homage to Hitchcock on this, as what is in the case is never revealed. Apparently David Mamet was the script doctor on this film, and it ended up OK. I am of two minds on Mamet, having liked The Untouchables a lot, and disliked Glengarry Glen Ross and loathed Oleanna. I also liked Natascha McElhone, who I had never heard of. She is a beautiful and accomplished actress. Some people complained about her brogue. OK, she's not Meryl Streep. But then again, who is? A lot of actors won't even try. I look forward to seeing more of her.Oh, yeah, and some of the car chases were really, really cool, almost McQueenian. "},{"Title":"An exciting film with tour de force performances by De Niro & Jean Reno&#133;","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The movie begins with a bunch of international mercenaries, five to be exact, gathering in a bistro in Paris&#133; Working only for money, their job was strictly to take intact a metal suitcase from several men&#151;very well armed&#151; who'll be intent on preventing them&#133; No information was given about its contents, value or purpose&#133; An extraordinary cast of actors forms the groupRobert De Niro, the ex-CIA agent and expert strategist; Jean Reno, the French mercenary; Stellan Skarsgard, the mysterious computer professional; Sean Bean, the ace field man; and Skipp Sudduth, the specialist in driving getaway cars&#133; Dierdre (Natascha McElhone) is the icy Irishwoman who explains the mission, but she is not necessarily the one fully in charge&#133; It seems that the 'handler' who pulls the strings is an Irish fugitive called Seamus (Jonathan Pryce). The film becomes tense and very exciting when one of the five members double-crosses the rest of the team, replacing the suitcase and leaving with the one they got&#133; Here appears a mysterious man&#151; apparently in love with Natacha Kirilova played by Katarina Witt, the East German figure skater, 4-time world champion&#151;interested in the suitcase&#133; Ronin combines exotic European locations with the most sophisticated movie car chase ever filmed on a superhighway when McElhone takes her black BMW through the wrong lanes followed by De Niro in a blue FWD Peugeot&#133; De Niro is great to watch as the tough Sam, who remains cool regardless of the peril of the operation&#133; Equally not susceptible to alarm are Skarsgard and Reno&#133; Natascha McElhone brings a chilling, glacial quality to the role of the forceful woman not afraid of anything&#133; Frankenheimer doesn't recapture the intensity he once created in movies like The Manchurian Candidate, and the French Connection "},{"Title":"Action, car chases, an international cast, and a director who knows what he's doing","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer crafted what was likely the last great movie of his career with this international espionage thriller about rogue agents who have found themselves out of place in post-Cold War era Europe.With few exceptions, everyone is addressed by their first name only. As the story progresses, this works well, since they could just as easily be aliases. The film follows an American ex-CIA spook Sam, and a French mercenary, Vincent, as they are recruited along with a German ex-KGB agent named Gregor, a British military man named Spence, and another American named Spence. An Irish femme fatal, Deirdre, tells them about their mysterious mission to seize a case from some French gangsters before it can be sold to the Russian Mafia.The case is what Alfred Hitchcock called a McGuffin, something the characters want, but the audience doesn't care about. And whatever it is, people seem to think it's of great importance. Whoever has the case, has control of the situation.Spence proves to be a wimp at the job, and is given an severence pay before walking away. Then, in the impressive takedown where the case is seized in transit, Gregor turns out to be a turncoat working for the Russians. But this is a difficult place to be for him, since they want him dead just as much as the Irish do.Deirdre, for her part, is covering for a cruel IRA man named Seamus. Everyone has a reason not to trust their fellow man, and shootouts and exhilarating chase sequences ensue.This was something of a precursor to the more recent Jason Bourne movies in style, although since no one is working at the CIA, we don't have the jumpy editing. But it certainly has equal, or even superior chases to the Bourne movies.Robert De Niro is good as the wisecracking Sam. Jean Reno is even better as his comrade Vincent. Stellan Skarsgard is sinister, but also a little sympathetic. NAtascha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce, English and Welsh respectively, play the two Irish characters, whose accents are pretty good. Pryce is menacing in one of his more sadistic roles.Overall a good movie. There is, of course, some suspension of disbelief involved. But the way that Frankenheimer melds the environment to make it seem realistic, it's easy to let it slide. "}{"Title":"Fabulous International Cast Just One Of Many Good Things","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Here's another of my favorite films, movies that get better and better with each viewing. One thing I've always enjoyed here from the first time I saw this movie is it features the best (and longest!) car chase scene I've ever seen on film.But the movie is far more than just spectacular car chases (there are two incredible ones, not just the one noted above.). It offers an interesting story that remains interesting with each viewing. That's because it's a bit confusing, a la Mission Impossible, so each time you see it ,you figure more and more out. There also are tons of twists to this crime story.It also features a wonderful international cast American Robert De Niro, Frenchman Jean Reno, Britain's Sean Bean and Natascha McElhone (both of whom are better playing Irishmen, as they do here) and Swede Stellan Skargsgard. All of them are top-flight actors, as you know. As a bonus, I get to see Olympic skating champion Katarina Witt, from Germany.eAlso, it's directed by John Frankenheimer, a man who makes some of the most entertaining films I've ever watched. Speaking of watching, De Niro and Reno are my two favorite guys to watch in this thriller. The French scenery - rural and urban - is also terrific. The action is not overdone and the only scene in the film I didn't care for was the gruesome one in which a bullet is taken out of De Niro. It's just too detailed and unpleasant to view but, with a DVD, can be skipped rapidly.The soundtrack also is outstanding. The Chinese instrument that plays here and there is fantastic. I've heard it before in a couple of Yanni concerts.This is a high quality crime movie and is very highly recommended. This was the first DVD I ever bought (in 2000) and I couldn't have gotten by DVD collection off to a better start! "},{"Title":"A unique and overly entertaining action film!","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" To start with I must say that the film direction done by John Frankenheimer in this movie is absolutely AWESOME! It was first pointed out to me on the 2nd Disc of the 2-Disc Special Edition DVD, and I hadn't seen the film in almost two years, then when I went to watch it again, I was absolutely astounded by the direction. God rest John Frankenheimer's soul.When I first heard about the film, I was looking through the films done by Sean Bean (my favourite actor), and when I found this one I thought 'What the hell!' and when I looked at the star rating and the plot, I thought this sounded like a reasonable film to see. I hired it from the video store and while watching it I was painting Warhammer and didn't pay much attention, and I thought the film was mediocre. A couple years later I discovered that the Region 4 version is going to be upgraded from a single disc release to a 2-Disc Special Edition and I looked forward to that. I started on the 2nd Disc to look at the special features, then when I proceeded to watch the film a second time I couldn't tear my eyes away from the screen, I was hooked. So my advice to you is GET TO THE VIDEO STORE AND HIRE THE FILM, YOU'LL LOVE IT! ANOTHER THING TO DO IS GET YOURSELF TO A STORE AND BUY IT! The one thing about the film that wasn't wise to do was knocking off Sean Bean too early, he got it easier then his regular treatment being the bad guy and getting killed. Although the whole film revolves around the characters being bad guys, at least Sean was sent home alive. The director says in the DVD commentary that in the original draft of the script they give the character 'Spence' the money, then as they leave the warehouse we hear a gunshot, and we suppose that he just killed himself. Another version includes after he leaves, we come back to him in a later scene on the street, and he's picked up by i think the IRA, and it's pretty obvious that he would've been killed. So Frankenheimer decided to just 'leave him alone', as he was an admirer of Sean Bean.Overall the film deserves good and high ratings on IMDb (an 8 or 9, certainly not 10), so I'll always try to get the rating up, as it is a good, entertaining action movie that should be enjoyed by many. It has my recommendation! "},{"Title":"Good action flick helped by some outstanding acting.","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm surprised how underrated this film is. I thought it was one of the better action movies of recent years. DeNiro and Reno had a great chemistry, and some of the chase sequences, especially the last car chase scene (one of the best filmed/coordinated I've ever seen). The supporting actors were great, there were plenty of devious double-crosses and the like as well. The basic plot is as follows There is a group (presumably IRA) which is looking to steal something important. They hire a group of criminals/ex-operatives to do a job in return for exorbitant pay. DeNiro's character (Sam) is mysterious,although he seems to be some sort of ex-operative. Needless to say his true origins do not become clear until much later in the film. The remainder of the gang members also have shady backgrounds. They are tasked with finding a specific package which their employing shadow group covets. However, once they have the package, greed takes over and the group begins to break down as order and allegiances quickly dissolve. What results is some compelling action, as Skaarsgard (Gregor) turns out to be DeNiro's antithesis, another ex-operative from the other side. As I mentioned before, the camera-work in the chase scene is outstanding, and as far as I know, very original. I have never seen anything like it before or since.I thought it was a highly entertaining movie, and, well I'm a huge DeNiro fan. If you're in the mood for an entertaining crime film with a twist or three, then go rent this. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Poorly Written Entertaining But Brainless","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe movie has some great chases and action scenes in it but also features utterly brainless, badly written characters. Sam is cautious; they give him one scene, where he shines, in the tunnel with the gun dealers but look at all his mistakes. He falls in love with his principal's underling, a little unlikely for a company man wouldn't you say? He needs Vincent to bail him out all during the rest of the movie. Gregor switches cases on him, he has to call for help, gets shot and slows the whole mission down. Have no illusions, when Sheamus had Gregor at the post office, Deidre would have had a gun to her head; it would not have been AS THE WORLD TURNS, gee, you cannot shoot me you love me. How phony! Who could not agree with Sheamus' last words,you stupid S, he was, a completely, incompetent idiot. Again, Vincent who had to figure out where the case even was; later, he shoots Sheamus saving idiot Sam's life again. The writing is surprisingly poor for a Frankenheimer movie. The first time you watch it you will be overwhelmed with the great action and car chases. As you re-watch the movie, like his dreadful Black Sunday, you will notice terrible writing.Gregor would believe that ruthless Mickie would value his ice skater's life over the money and the case? Gregor, who is portrayed as ruthless enough to shoot school kiddies, this man thought Mickie would let him walk away with the money? Notice that with the exception of Sam with Bean or the tunnel scene, Sam is a completely unprofessional idiot. He is constantly being bailed out by Vincent. Yes, it develops their friendship but it also shows Sam to be a terrible agent. He should have been killed at the end for his impetuousness, which contradicts the whole characterization up to this point, but we have the deus ex machina of Vincent miraculously saving him. The first twenty minutes of the movie we watch, in great boredom, as Sam surveys the bar where he meets Deidre and the crew. He then secrets a gun, outside for an emergency. Is this the same character who runs after Sheamus though blind corners and doors?There is great acting and chemistry between DeNiro and Reno with Skarsgaard doing his usual great job. The action and the car chases are worth seeing but I would not buy this movie. Frankenheimer was always terribly overrated; please, Black Sunday and The Osterman Weekend, he made some really lousy movies. The first time you watch it you will hate my review; the more times you watch it over, the more you will notice how badly written it was. The whole romance between Deidre and Sam has such a sense of unreality about it given the aforementioned hyper caution of Sam. Supposedly, the make out at the surveillance site triggered this uncontrollable passion in Sam. Does he look like a passionate man to you? Later, he misses an opportunity because he will not shoot Deidre which again is so bizarre and contradictory to the characterization. A very overrated movie that drags quite a bit between action scenes. Pryce is his usual great villain; the acting is powerful but the writing sinks the movie. "},{"Title":"Most confused, pointless film I've seen this year","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"28 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I cannot work out why everyone seems to like this film so much. The excellent cast is wasted on a weak plot that is full of holes, and the technically great stunts are wasted because the way the action scenes occur is so contrived. We also are left with no idea as to why any of this is occurring, except for some vague notion about DeNiro's job of trying to assassinate 'Seamus', (which he was, incidentally, particularly bad at- if he'd had 'Deirdre' tailed to one of her meetings early on, we would have been spared most of the film).The constant desire to obtain the 'Mysterious Package' became so tiresome. I think it could be that no-one could think of something important enough that could be in the package, so they didn't bother telling us what it was.The film's attitude to innocent bystanders was very strange- The director seemed to enjoy showing us as many innocent people as possible buying it, for no good reason. None of the characters seemed to care, and I in turn found it hard to care about the main characters. If you don't care about the people you're watching, there's no tension.And Jean Reno's speach at the end ... perhaps that is the third lesson... etc, could the script-writers have found any more cliches to use? I think not, they used them all.I could go on all day about the other errors, inconsistencies and, but I've got better things to do than waste any more time on this piece of rubbish, I just had to write because I wanted to see some more alternatives to the mostly YEAH, GREAT LIKE ACTION AN CARS AN SHOOTIN AN STUFF  simple-minded 'reviews'.(revidyks@rocketmail.com)  "},{"Title":"They Don't Make Them Better Than Ronin","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Robert De Niro gets a chance to shoot off more than his mouth in director John Frankenheimer's Ronin, a first-class, fast-paced, off-beat, international suspense-thriller about a mysterious suitcase that has co-stars Jean Reno, Jonathan Pryce, Stellan Skarsgård, Natascha McElhone and Sean Bean squeezing triggers first and worrying about questions afterward in modern day France. If you are searching for comparisons, Ronin huddles alongside raw-edged Quentin Tarantino classics like Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction as well as the Michael Mann masterpiece Heat in a line-up of crime thrillers. Indisputably, a cynical, street-wise, blue-collar crime caper, Ronin qualifies as De Niro's most visceral actioneer since the mob-related Martin Scorsese saga Goodfellas. Audiences who demand that their movies neatly lace-up all leftover plot strings before fadeout may hate Frankenheimer's penchant for realism in storytelling.Clearly, Ronin is a post-Cold War thriller. Neither patriotism nor propaganda motivates the ex-Central Intelligence Agency operative known only as Sam and the former KGB agents with whom Sam swaps lead in this crisp, hard-heeled melodrama about lethal secrets and lost illusions. A shady lady with obvious IRA connections, Deirdre (Natascha McElhone of The Truman Show), hires a diverse team of former spies and terrorists to seize a hot suitcase that the Russians, the Irish, and others want to buy. De Niro ramrods this covert cabal as Sam, a reticent professional who evades questions about his past. You can tell that Sam knows his business in the first scene when he cases a bar before he enters it and stashes a pistol outside near the back door should he require a rapid exit. Joining him are Vincent (Jean Reno of Le Femme Nikita), the scourger who can lay his hands on anything; Larry (Skipp Sudduth of Eraser) the getaway car driver; Spence (Sean Bean of GoldenEye), a flaky English weapons whiz; and Gregor (Stellan Skarsgård of Insomnia), a wizard with electronics.Written by Witchblade's Z.D. Zeik and Richard Weisz (playwright David Mamet's pseudonym), Ronin deplores artifice. The scenarists reveal only what audiences need to know. This heist caper does things that audiences either will hate or are not accustomed to in Hollywood films. For example, De Niro does not get the dame Deirdre at fadeout. The most that our chief protagonist gets out of her is a couple of hugs and kisses during a make-out scene. Essentially, there are two kinds of thrillers. First, those where the innocent bystanders never acquire so much as a scratch and second those were they die. In Ronin, innocent bystanders are victims. They get shot at or smashed up. The heroes get shot up themselves, despite their bullet-proof vests, too.Some things in Ronin are left up in the air. One apparent main character exits early in the action, but not in a shower of blood like Janet Leigh's premature departure in the Alfred Hitchcock classic Psycho. Instead, Spence gets booted off the job because he cannot measure up to their standards. Meanwhile, like Pulp Fiction never divulge what is in the suitcase. Veteran director John Frankenheimer has a knack for staging urban shoot-outs and car chases through crowded Parisian streets. When the characters scramble for their cars and careen recklessly down narrow, claustrophobic streets, you want to grip the arms of your chair. Even if you walk out of Ronin unhappy with the ending, you cannot say that this spirited thriller did not keep you glued to your chair by the seat of your pants during the superb action scenes. "},{"Title":"Spies, cars, guns and brilliance","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is undoubtedly my all time favourite film. It has everything I like in it. Great plot, characters, action, acting, script, cinematography, direction and of course the locations. This film has combined all these aspects into a monster of a movie.The plot is great as it has narrative but only gives you what Sam (De Niro) knows about what he's doing. The audience is purposefully being kept at arms length so that they are constantly thinking about what is coming next? What does this mean? And of course the most important question, what is in the case? The plot itself is not overly complex. An Irish separatist group want a case which is being sold to the Russian Mafia and they hire spies, who no longer have jobs since the Cold War, ended to get it for them. However the relationships between characters and the plot twists make for a movie that is filled with intrigue and themes. So the plot ranks at 8/10.The script is very solid. It is a no nonsense script which contains good lines from different cultures. It has American sayings, British phrases, Irish mannerisms, French touches and even a little bit of a German directness for the appropriate characters. It has some good interactions in it. Vincent and Sam have some of the best exchanges, as do Sam and Spence (Bean). Script gets a rating of 9/10.The characters don't seem complex at first but they are very different and very three-dimensional. Each character seems to have am untold back story that has made them who they are. The relationship between the characters counts for a lot especially the ones between Sam, Deirdre (McElhorne) and Vincent (Reno). So the characters rate at 8/10 as well.It has a unique cast the likes of which rivals 'Heat'. De Niro, Reno, Skarsgard, Bean, McElhorne, Price and Lonsdale are some of the best in the business and they are all on the top of their game in this picture. To give you an idea of what to expect I regard the scenes where it is just Reno and De Niro to be ten times better than Paccino and De Niro in 'Heat' (which is arguably the greatest Thriller/action movie ever made). Lonsdale is the icing on the cake of this films cast, Reno, De Niro and Skarsgard provide most of the cake ingredients, but Lonsdale is just class. So the Cast is 10/10 Frankenheimer achieved perfect acting with his cast as well as brilliantly composed shots done with Robert Fraisse and a good challenging narrative. The car chases surpass the racing scenes from his 'Grand Prix' and there is some of the best acting we have seen from one of his casts in this film. 10/10 for him as well.Each shot in this film is a work of art. The smooth steady-cam shots, the perfect composition of the close ups when introducing the characters and the various shots achieved during the car chase scenes all look fantastic. The cinematographer Robert Fraisse did a fantastic job working with the very visual John Frankenheimer, who never received the plaudits he deserved. 10/10 for the photography.The action is immense. The gunfights and car chases all look sublime. No CGI in the action sequences either it's either stunt men or the actors and its looks so fluid. The car chases make ever other car chase seem obsolete and the gunfights aren't half bad either. But the car chases are the high point of the action of the film and must be seen to be believed. The action gets a 10/10 rating from me. The locations in Paris, Nice and Arles add a subliminal beauty to the film. The helicopter shots give the audience a nice view of the brilliant architecture and charm of French cities. The layout of the cities also makes the car chases interesting, as the streets are very narrow and filled with sharp turns. The look of the buildings does the most for the films look though. The stone buildings give a sense of age that goes along with the retired intelligence officers. This is the first Hollywood action movie to be shot in France and special rights were given to the crew so that the film industry in France would boom. The locations collect a solid 10/10.Due to all these factors Ronin becomes a classic espionage film that will be difficult to surpass. The car chases are truly phenomenal. This is a must see film. "},{"Title":"Short On Thought . Long On Thrills","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  RONIN is to all intents and purposes a highly intelligent thriller , or so it would seem on the surface . Unfortunately when you start to examine the plot and structure of the movie it starts to fall apart . These  Ronin  characters - Who are they ? Who employed them ? Where was the job advertised ? It`s never really revealed , perhaps just as well since it`d be impossible to explain how such a motley bunch can be taken seriously . Notice one of the characters is a Walter Mitty type but can get the group any type of gun they want , and is this Walter Mitty guy really necessary to the plot ? , he`s written out after 20 minutes and it`s difficult to understand why he was included by the final draft . Let`s look at the plot . In his book STORYTHE PRINCIPLES OF SCREENWRITING Robert Mckee explained that when he was a script reader for Hollywood studios he`d only be sent two types of script neither of which really worked , one being an understructured real life type drama and an overstructured action thriller involving an object all the great powers want to get their hands on . RONIN certainly sums up the second type of script , the CIA , the Russians , the IRA and quite possibly the winter olympics commitee are after something that will change the world as we know it and it`s up to this group of hired guns to cross , double cross and triple cross one another to get their hands on it RONIN could have turned out a complete mess and despite the movie never being as clever as it thinks it is neither does it become the complete debacle it could have become . My exceedingly high entertainment thresholds were met and then some more and much of it had to do with the cast . This movie hardly features DeNiro`s greatest performance but considering the complete rubbish he`s appeared in since the early 1990s he`s by no means bad and does manage to bring some moral charm to his character . Jean Reno and Stellan Skarsgard are two of the greatest actors Europe has produced in the last twenty years and it`s very interesting to see these fine actors in a high octane Hollywood thriller and British Equity is very well represented with Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce A highly effective and entertaining thriller which at times is over complicated and plot bare at the same time . Can you imagine the mess Jerry Brukheimer and Michael Bay would have made of this ?   "},{"Title":"Magnificent movie","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a magnificent title. It's a carefully painted picture. The plot is very smart. You should probably see the movie for the acting itself, and for the tension between the characters that fluctuates as you go through the scenes.This is the single best real-life spy movie I've ever seen (as opposed to high tech/high action spy movies like James Bond / Bourne series).Reno and De Niro made a great roles here, but so did McElhone and Skarsgard.The whole plot is about a chase after a suitcase, or at least it seems so. When it finally becomes clear what's the case's significance, you come to realize the ingenuity of the writer. Believe me, it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Above average action/intrigue flick.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin puts DeNiro at the center as a mercenary who is hired by people unknown to nab a case with contents unknown for reasons unknown. This international intrigue thriller set in France has all the usual Hollywood action excesses (car chases ad nauseam, stunts, pyro, firefights, etc.), and excellent cast, and even a bit of a story which keeps us, the audience, wondering what's in the case, why do they want it, etc. during most of the film. Ronin is all business from the get-go and a cut above the average Hollywood formula action flick. Worth a look for those who few who may have missed it. "}{"Title":"Extremely Exciting 90's Gem","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" An excellent plot line with a few nice twists and some of the greatest car scenes ever put to film make this a must see for all action fans and one of the best movies to come out of the 90's!With Deniro , Reno and Bean bringing extremely believable characters to life this action - fest is also one for folks who don't necessarily always opt for the high octane stuff! There's some decent acting and a cracking plot to keep those of you who like a little bit more than just a car chase satisfied. Really this film is simply a little gem waiting to be enjoyed by all!8/10 "},{"Title":"A Case of Unknowns","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin (1998) being one of the late John Frankinheimer's final films before his passing is a much improved formulaic film to the disastrous turnout of the Marlon Brando led Island of Dr Moreau. The story contains a McGuffin being a plot device that the characters want very much, but the audience cares little or nothing about. The device of Ronin is a boxy Metal Case, with contents unknown. At the same time the film's title draws its name to the similarities of the leads....The Ronin were ancient Japanese Samurii warriors without Masters to serve. Mercenaries. Our film contains a group of former spooks of multiple nationalities turned freelance mercenaries without a master aka a Country to serve. Sam, Vincent, Gregor, and Deidre plus a handful of others whose names are unimportant. For this movie, our hodgepodge of Ronin are hired by parties unknown (accept that they have Irish and/or Russian connections), for reasons unknown to capture a case whose contents remain unknown in possession by French gangster whose reasons for possessing the case remain unknown. The Ronin do their homework and manage to snatch the case after hair-raising car chases and violent gun battles. But then the double cross begins and a new chase (both literally and figuratively) ensues for the now split Ronin the recapture the case and send it on its way to its unknown Desiree.For all its splendor and suspense, Ronin, still lacks a clear direction to follow. Clearly, Frankenheimer's direction was utilizing a Hitchcock McGuffin (the case) to explore the characters. However, the script lacks a real clear direction for any of the characters, perhaps thats why the title was named Ronin. Despite all their combined acting talents and prestige Robert De Niro and company all come across as dry characters. All are basically amoral and suspicious of their fellows. The audience really has no like or dislike of what constitutes the good guys from the bad ones. None really show passion towards the Case beyond its perceived monetary rewards, which is what they are trying to obtain. Unfortunately, the McGuffin fails in this film because, the audience really cares more about the case than the characters. As if the Case itself had a personality and history. Clearly the Case's contents are of high value given all the trouble and time that the higher-ups are paying to get it. However what the movie lacks inward looking makes up for in high stakes stunts, car chases and gunfights, that makes the viewer more interested in the momentary safety of both the supposed good and bad guys. Well done on that part.In an otherwise typical Hollywood way of illustrating things for the audience to understand better, occurs about 2/3 of the way in the movie after Sam performs surgery on himself, at the old man's house in the Mountains. This man had a hobby of designing and building diorama-like miniature sets of legendary battle scenes, complete with handcrafted characters in proper attire. On this particular day he was designing scenes of Japanese Feaudal Samuri, and he began a little monologue about how certain warriors who lost their masters were known as Ronin. In a sense he compared these ancient feudal warriors to the freelance spooks of the movie. This is how the filmmaker's tied the film's title to the film, which would otherwise be called something like Hire, then Betray, then DiePossible spoilers below. On a footnote, at the movies conclusion during the little coffee shop scene between Sam and Vincent, a reporter mentions in a sound only byte that some new twist had occurred concerning peace negotiations in Northern Ireland...suggesting that the case's contents contained some sort of instrument of negotiation that the parties involved need to help in the peace negotiations...what that could be I couldn't tell you.Provided you can look past the desire to learn about whats in that ubiquitous case, Ronin is a film that any action fan will rave about, but mystery fans might find a little lacking. My opinion...I enjoyed it but still left wanting to know more about the case and why all the destruction and death to get it, when the characters themselves had no desire to keep it permanently. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, fast-paced action","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It was a shame that this did not last too long in the cinema, as people missed out on quite a brilliant piece of work.Robert de Niro is outstanding like usual as the ex-CIA man. Jean Reno is also credible as his French accomplice, while there are notable performances from Stellan Skaarsgard and Sean Bean.The best sequences, by far, during the movie are the car-chases, which are brilliantly filmed all the way around France. Who'd have thought 2-litre Peugeots and Citroens could provide so much entertainment?The movie is never dull throughout, as the story twists and turns. Shame we never actually find out what's in that damn case!! "},{"Title":"Two parts gin, one part brandy","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Of course I'm scared! You think I'm reluctant because I'm happy? - SamRonin offers two films, one by director John Frankenheimer and one by writer David Mamet.Frankenheimer's flick is a fairly slick thriller which utilises the various tropes, techniques and conventions that he helped popularise in his spy, conspiracy and car racing thrillers of the 1960s and 70s. So we have car chases, 70s snap-zooms, beige trench coats, noir angles, lots of elaborate planning and moody cobblestone scenery. There's also the presence of Michael Lonsdale, who plays the same character here that he plays in Spielberg's Munich. Incidentally, Munich (which tries to replicate the look and feel of classic 1970s thrillers) casts Lonsdale based on his performance both here and in several other seminal 70s thrillers, notably The Day of the Jackal. Aside from its car chases (whilst its first car chase is routine, the film climaxes with a masterful 6 minute pursuit) and De Niro's super cool character, Frankenheimer's film remains only a better than average thriller, with some strangely bad cinematography during a few of its day time sequences. It's aged better than most action films in the 90s, but can't touch the classics it hopes to emulate, occupying an uneasy ground between serious spy thriller and bloated Hollywood action movie.The second film here is by David Mamet, a sort of meta-film about words, art, and the artist's Zen-like quest for personal mastery. In this regard, De Niro is a classic Mamet hero, detail obsessed, always scrutinising, always ten steps ahead, a master of misdirection, always questioning the validity of words and syntax. Like most Mamet films, De Niro is also bound by a strong code and is caught in an elaborate con game, though which he must persevere.The Ronin (or Samurai) and syntax allusions were toned down by Frankenheimer, such that the film only offers a shell of what Mamet intended. In a sense, the Mamet formula is reversed, narrative card tricks and con games jettisoned in favour for blunt action sequences (the film moves from being word-oriented to image-centric). Unhappy with Frankenheimer's finished product, Mamet would remake this film with Redbelt and the excellent Spartan. 7.9/10 &#x96; De Niro's character is a blast, especially when viewed as a retired version of Val Kilmer's character in Mamet's Spartan. Frankenheimer is enough of an auteur to make the rest of the picture worth watching, but only barely so. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"One of those rare movies with both amazing action and an intriguing plot.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This definitely makes my top ten.  I know, it's not one of the greatest movies ever made, but it has to be one of the most entertaining.  The action is mind blowing - both the gun fights and the long car chase - and it keeps you at the edge of your seat (literally) the whole time.The plot circles around five former agents (Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgard, Sean Bean and Skip Sudduth) hired by a fine Irish lass to steal a case for her.  This case is very valuable to the characters, but still very mysterious because none know what's actually in it. Eventually, one agent is fired, another turns on them and a third is killed, resulting in Sam (De Niro) and Vincent (Reno) teaming up to find the case and get their pay.The performances by Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgard and Sean Bean are great.  De Niro is both funny and cool as Sam.  Reno is actually pretty nice and likeable - for a mercenary - as Vincent.  Skarsgard is sinister and evil as Gregor, and despite Bean's small part, he delivers a great performance as Spence.The action, well, it's hard to describe what is perfect.  During the gunfights, almost all audio fades except for the gun shots, which is a really cool effect.Overall, I give it an 8.5 out of 10!  Watch it.  Now. "},{"Title":"Killing without consequence.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is not a very good film. The plot is thin, the characters weak, the whole thing lacks conviction. My big problem with it, however, is the violence - not the amount, or the degree, but its inhuman elitism. We have here a band of professional killers, and professional survivors, and what they do costs innocent people their lives through car crashes, stray bullets, explosives, and all this killing is without consequence, without regret or even acknowledgment. That troubles me very much. The professionals come through, the mass of ordinary people who had the misfortune to be driving, or walking, or eating at a restaurant, when our heroes and their mission burst into their lives and wrecked or even ended them, do not. It's not real, of course, but we wouldn't watch it if we didn't get involved and care what happened. And if we care what happened, how can we say the arrogance and cruelty of this film does not matter?  "},{"Title":"47 Paths","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This has two things to recommend it.First is the writing. David Mamet is the crackerjack writer today, period. Anyone in the film business knows Kurosawa. Anyone in the writing business knows the `Yojimbo' trick of twisting the narrative based on which of the two warring forces is capriciously focused on. Here, Mamet follows that template with novelty and reverence, even to the point of allowing each warrior his/her own reality.He even creates the obligatory play within the play in a clever way by inserting a fellow who creates complex `models' of samurai, with comment. More, he mirrors that `show' with the ice skater, who gives her life for her boss. The direction doesn't equal the writing, alas. But this is as clever as a spy thriller has thus far gotten.The other good thing is the final car chase. Mamet of course had nothing to do with the chase scenes. But the first one really was by the book see the fish stand, see the first car, see the fish close up, see the car plow through the fish stand, see the vendors gather round in dismay, see the second car plow through the mess. If this was Kurosawa, we could be assured this was parody. Here I think not.DeNiro is less obnoxious than he has been for four years on either side of this film, perhaps because he knew the script was over his head. Natascha McElhone is the winner here, just in her carriage. She looks and acts like an Uma done right. Maybe we won't have to wait for Sarah Polley after all. She completely stunned in Branagh's recent Shakespearean musical comedy. Someone to watch.The score was dreadful. The worst.Ted's evaluation 2 of 4 -- has some interesting elements "},{"Title":"Clothed Women in Action Films Are INVISIBLE To Male Viewers!","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" An Anti-Action, anti-formula movie was my initial choice for a tag line for this review...but I wanted something more enticing! If you've gotten this far, you're probably looking for a little clarification. Here it is It is indeed rare to encounter a truly original element in any movie. Much rarer still, is to have such originality overlooked completely by the viewing public. When this occurs, it really upsets me. RONIN offers us just such an unheralded moment of cinematic history! Initially curious to see what percent of reviewers had commented on the totally unique and unprecedented selection of a female driver, in what is, undoubtedly,the most REALISTIC cinema chase sequence of the past 20 years, systematically, I began scouring the reviews. What I discovered has not ceased to amaze me! I would like to share the results with you, and let you measure your own reaction.Out of the 212 reviews that were posted at the time, I carefully went over 70 of them! Only ONE reviewer used a name clearly belonging to woman. Unfortunately, she restricted herself to only 15 or 20 words, so she really didn't end up saying much of anything! (Of course, there were perhaps 7 or 8 anonymous reviews.) Of the 70 reviews, 50, or more, made reference to the chase scene. (Between 80 and 90 percent of those comments were basically positive.) Although Robert De Niro and Jean Reno were the only two actors in the film who definitely had more on-screen time than Natascha McElhone, (Dierdre, the chase car driver from HELL!) around 20 reviewers commented on other actors, whose on-screen time wasn't half that of hers. Only 6 or 7 chose to mention her at all! Probably, more reviewers sited Katarina Witt's 3 or 4 minute cameo spot! (Of course, she was much more scantily clad than Ms. McElhone!) Finally, out of 50, or so, who did talk about the chase scenes, ONLY ONE linked McElhone to them directly! Amazingly, paraphrasing here the reviewer's words, The car chase scenes are very authentic. (Except that Natascha McElhone looks like she has never driven fast in her life!) Well, all I can say is, after having screened the scene at least a dozen times, it seems to me that this reviewer was watching a different RONIN! Some might argue that THELMA & LOUISE had car chases. These were all together different, because the movie revolved entirely around its title characters. In RONIN, nobody seems to make a big deal out of the fact, and it is actually Dierdre's boss who pointedly barks at her, YOU DRIVE! Is there a lesson to be learned here? Apparently, all this tends to bear out the title of this review...Clothed women in Action films are invisible to male viewers!Sad, because RONIN has a lot more to offer than just the chase scenes. It pays yet another subtle tribute to the prowess of women, when an ex-East German operative (Stellan Skarsgaerd) says, I've hired the very best sniper assassin...SHE never misses! More than anything else, RONIN provides an utterly believable inside- track on the post-Cold War mercenary and the shadowy, detached world he inhabits, reminiscent of the insider's glimpse of real-world spies offered in the classic, The SPY WHO CAME IN FROM THE COLD. If it's John Woo style Action films that make your day...You'll probably find RONIN much too realistic, too cerebral, too noir and too explosion-less for your tastes! On the other hand, if you like your Action movies well grounded in reality, RONIN is a near classic, anti-action, anti-formula film, with a most refreshing European aftertaste, that you will find quite engrossing and enjoyable! 9 STARS.....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! "},{"Title":"Attention To Detail","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm the sort of guy that abandons a movie because of weaknesses in the plot and/or storyline. There was no such problem with this movie. Frankenheimer is a master and had a lot of help from some great actors. Add some education along the way (The 47 Ronin), and some great car-chase scenes, and what a great movie. I feel a little guilty only giving 8 from 10, but I've only given one film more than 8. A great job was done by all! I suppose if there was a fault, I would say it would have to be with the car-chase scenes. Driving the wrong way for such a distance was a little unbelievable. Just the same, these scenes kept me on the edge of my seat and certainly added a lot to the end result. "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic action films I've ever seen","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The thing I really liked in this film was the way the actors portrayed the rolls of highly trained agents, De Niro especially  played the hard man very well. I watched this film twice and it was only the second time that I really got the story and understood the end. As I said before this is a great action film, with some of the most spectacular car chases I've seen.I'd recommend it to anyone "}{"Title":"Decent, some good acting, but also slow and a familiar pattern we've all seen","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin (1996)This is a more straight forward heist film than it at first pretends. The title alone gives the idea that there is a new angle on things--that some modern day warriors (in this case, crooks) are floating loose in the world because of some misfortune that they were perhaps in part responsible for. This relates (apparently) to Samurai history, and there is even a scene later on that directly references this old Japanese culture.But it's all unnecessary because what really happens is a familiar formula (with all the exciting formulaic twists) a group of variously talented and slightly disreputable guys (and one woman) meet to pull off a huge and dangerous crime. There is planning, intrigue, disappointment, treachery, and a final huge surprise. And there are gunbattles and at least the beginnings of on the job romance. It's not bad, and the cast is terrific. Robert De Niro is in usual great form, and he's well supported by the great Jean Reno, as well as several others in the group.It's curious that the director, John Frankenheimer, returns to theme, or sensational trick almost, of having a sniper hidden up high at a public event. This first appears in The Manchurian Candidate (which is a far more inventive movie) and is almost a self-reference here, in one of his last films. "},{"Title":"Great action movie.","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is an extremely well made film, and although is has some failures, still an enjoyable action movie.Ronin is the Japanese word used for Samurai without a master. In this case, the Ronin are outcast specialists of every kind (De Niro, Reno, Skarsgård...), whose services are available to everyone - for money. Dierdre (McElhone) hires several Ronin to form a team in order to retrieve an important suitcase from a man who is about to sell it to the Russians. After the mission has been completed successfully, the suitcase immediately gets switched by a member of the team who seems to work into his own pocket. The complex net of everyone tricking everyone begins to surface slowly, and deadly...It's an action movie, so let's talk about the action sequences, in which I think is what this movie focuses. The shootings are excellent, we always know where is everybody, and we can notice their strategy, instead of seeing a lot of man shooting themselves. Now, the car chases are the reason this movie will be remembered, because they are simply the best. When a friend told me it was the best car chase ever, I thought, This guy haven't seeing Bullit, but I was wrong, and he was right, the angle that they shoot the chase sequences, make that seem really dangerous, we always expect them to crash, it look so real.The acting, as you expected from De Niro, Reno and Stellan Skarsgård, is really great, but De Niro deserves attention, he appears always safe about what he is doing, which strengthens the idea of him being so wise, and experienced. You can't find a single movie that De Niro is not good, the only movie that I thought he was just good is Awakenings.The plot is unbelievable sometimes, like when they are looking for a Russian, and when they see a poster announcing a presentation of Russian ballet, they deduce that they will find the bad guy in there (didn't they notice that is hard to find one man between 30.000 people, when they didn't even know how they look like?).Verdict It's a well made action/thriller with great action scenes, and equally great performances. "},{"Title":"Explore Exotic Cultures, Meet Exciting New People & Kill Them","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Frankenheimer's back in Paris, where he triumphed more than 30 years earlier with The Train. This time he has New York Bob DeNiro, some shadowy Irishmen (that's a new one), Russian mobsters & an overlying Japanese motif. Provacateuse Deirdre (McElhone) assembles ex-Cold Warriors who are at loose ends to do a single job retrieve a case from several men who will be intent on preventing us. The crew includes French scrounger Vincent (Reno), American driver Larry (Sudduth), English gunman Spence (Bean), Russian computer whiz Gregor (Skarsgard) & American tough guy Sam (DeNiro). This talented crew is as trustworthy as soldiers garrisoned in a Bangkok brothel, but lurking behind them are Irish nationalist fanatic Seamus (Pryce) & Russian kingpin Mikhi (Atkine). Frankenheimer's use of the case as a McGuffin, as Hitchcock described a material object used to cement the plot, is too ham-fisted to be effective in a full-length film, especially one as long as this. Once again, we see why Hitchcock's old thrillers hold up so well today. But Frankenheimer's combination of action, dialog & character development remains unique & as enjoyable as ever, especially since he gets fine actors & makes them deliver. The streetwise New Yorker Sam should probably not have been believable as a sophisticated but haunted ex-CIA agent, sort of a cross between Casablanca Rick & The Equalizer. But DeNiro's mastery of his craft is up to the considerable challenge. Most of the rest of the cast is fantastic and, with a better plot, might have been legendary. Standing out are Reno's wry Frenchman (Everyone is your brother 'til the rent comes due), Bean's nervous blowhard & Skarsgard as the slick, steely, ruthless Russian bookworm. McElhone is a one-of-a-kind winner as the handler of the headstrong, tough-guy crew. Deidre is strong & competent but far from cold, dedicated but not naive, mysterious but not vague, at her ease in pearls or behind the wheel of a getaway car. The tale of the 47 Ronin, an old favorite of Asian lit professors, provides the theme of out-of-work Cold Warriors who have no place in society & must remain slaves to their training & experience, no matter how tragic the consequences. The real-life proliferation of wars-on-terror & their self-described experts & security specialists, even before 9/11, renders this theme ironically implausible. Scenes where the characters discuss this depressing state of affairs are almost unbearably boring, dragging down the second half. As with most thrillers of recent years, the plans realized by DeNiro & crew are too complicated & violent to work, relying heavily on advanced weaponry & electronics. They are just excuses to set up spectacular action scenes. But when has Frankenheimer ever let us down in that department? High production values permit TWO fantastic car chases in addition to several other gripping, convincing bustups. Frankenheimer has remained immune to the over-the-top bloodbaths of Tarantino, the cartoon silliness of Lucas & Spielberg & the blowdried stylishness of Michael Mann. His action draws the viewer in without trying to induce sympathy, laughter or vomiting. With a more coherent story & more convincing theme, Ronin might have been one of the greatest films ever. As it is, Ronin is an exciting, enjoyable thriller if you don't think too much. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Authentic Action Movies of All Time","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Being a guy automatically makes me more inclined to like action movies, but having hands on experience in the Army and a certain intellectual preoccupation with accuracy makes me more inclined to criticize an action film than praise it, given the large number of unrealistic and poorly designed action films that are produced. This is not the case with Ronin.As far as the film's portrayal of the international mercenary and criminal scene goes, I cannot speak for it. I admit I have no experience in international law enforcement, criminal activities, intelligence or mercenary work. I can tell you that the tactics used by the characters in the action scenes are very realistic.The convoy ambush scene is highly authentic and is, without a doubt, THE MOST ACCURATELY CONSTRUCTED AMBUSH EVER to be shown on film. The main characters operated just like professional soldiers in that segment. The ambush was not only well planned, but well conducted, and the characters quickly adapted when the plan went South. Such an ambush would have worked as well in real life.In general, this film is underrated and under-appreciated. Simple-minded people who enjoyed such films as xXx (with Vin Diesel) would do best to steer clear, as they will almost assuredly find this film's plot moves too slow for them and the dialogue occurs too frequently and is verbose. Anyone who can enjoy a Thinking Man's film or appreciates attention to detail, however, should definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"If you hate car chases, see this!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin may not have been popular while it was out and in truth, much of that would be the advertising of a long car chase scene.  Admittedly, I was not enthused when my partner rented the DVD one night.  I really get sick of long, drawn-out car scenes, generally tuning them out after a few seconds until they are over.  However, Ronin will change your mind.  This film is made for wide screen and DVD!  I am sorry we missed it when it was on big screens.  The story is typical spy stuff, full of twists and turns, some you see coming, some you don't.  The film is dark, and terribly European feeling.  I can't even express why that is so, it just is.  Having been to parts of Brussels, France, England, I felt like I was there again.  The performances are wonderful.  I am a fan of Jean Reno already, but in this he was even better.  Haven't seen him this good since The Professional.  DeNiro is also better than expected.  I was afraid he would just phone his part in, but he lived it, made it a real character, not just stereotypical.  The rest of the cast rounds out a very well-developed film.  Frankenheimer pulled this one off!  He has reason to be proud of this one... "},{"Title":"Just excellence","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I've watched this movie dozens of times, and it deserves higher ratings than the 7.2 it's getting here so far. Few films work so well on repeat viewings, especially in the action genre.Starting with the slight negatives, the plot has some points that could have been better. The McGuffin brand case works fine but it's a little simpleminded, especially given the sophistication of the rest of the film. And there are some questionable plot points, a few instances of 'why doesn't he just...'. But these things happen in the best of thrillers, and this one has a level of complexity that requires a bit of focus the first couple of times you watch it, so these things happen. After you've seen it more than twice, you can start to notice the excellent detailing, and everything makes much better sense.DeNiro gives a wonderful performance, exactly as intense as necessary to be convincing without going overboard. He and Jean Reno have great chemistry as actors, playing two men who find themselves being able to trust each other in an untrustworthy situation, and it only occasionally steps into cliché territory. Stellan Skarsgaard is fantastic as usual. Natasha McElhone speaks with a not-too-great Irish brogue, but putting that aside, her look and attitude give a much more adult sensuality to her character than most action movie females put on. Great performances.Really, the film is meant for action lovers who are over the age of twenty-one, and that's a revelation in itself. Ronin has a stylishness born of an atmosphere that's both cool - love the soundtrack - and gritty, preferring a portrayal of international intrigue that cuts the perfect balance between entertaining and realistic enough to spark the imagination. The bullet removal scene is just excellent, and will draw squirms from some viewers. If there's any place where the film goes overboard, it's the car chases, but good sweet baby Jesus, it's the best kind of overboard. You need not violate the laws of physics to create an exciting chase, Hollywood. No other movie comes close on filming vehicular chaos, and I'm including the massively overrated chase in Bullitt. This movie has two chase scenes - one rigorously planned and one off the cuff, both frenetic and amazingly well-shot - and they just work. Even when playing with rocket launchers and taking the Citroen off-road and massively exaggerating the destructive effects of 40mm M203 grenades, you just let the movie have those things and enjoy every screaming second of it. The data on the IMDb page says the movie didn't make a profit, not surprising given the cash outlay for the car chases but still just too bad. I wish there were more films like it. "},{"Title":"Complete and Utter Rubbish.","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is without a doubt the worst movie I have ever seen. A total insult to intelligence.One of the biggest regrets in my life is that I sat through this complete and utter rubbish. The plot had so many holes it was like a sieve. Only, watching a sieve would have been more entertaining. The whole film was pointless to say the least. I have no idea why so many people liked it. The title 'Ronin'-meaning-'a samurai who lost his lord and was forced to wander, often living as a bandit' has nothing whatsoever to do with any of the characters. "},{"Title":"Explosive thriller from the late, great John Frankenheimer","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is directed by John Frankenheimer, a recently deceased veteran film maker behind many classics and almost classics like Manchurian Candidate and French Connection 2 among many others. Ronin takes place in France stars Robert DeNiro as Sam, who is among couple of others (which include Stellan Skarsgård and Jean Reno) hired by one mysterious female to get one briefcase and bring its content to that female (and her superiors which remain anonymous) without asking too many questions. They make a plan and everything seems to go fine, until betrayal and double crossings take place and quest for life begins, and there aren't many that seem to be trustworthy. I didn't know anything about the plot when I watched this so I think it is not necessary to tell too much about the story, which is full of surprises. This film is very paranoid and fast moving, if little too long. Frankenheimer was very great film maker since the action scenes and use of camera is totally brilliant in here. The two car chases are so over the top and breath takingly effective, I really wondered how they shot those scenes without killing anyone. Especially the second car chase that lasts approximately 10 minutes is among the most fast paced and outrageous scenes of chases I've ever seen, and yes, it is close to Bullit's and French Connection's similar scenes. This is no less than a proof of this talented film maker's abilities. The scenery at France and Nice is also very beautiful and they are captured incredibly smoothly with camera, especially the scenes that are shot above the city. At the end, the film becomes very exciting as there are no clues how this ends. The film is very exciting and full of twists all the time, but it all thickens at the end. Technically there's nothing bad in this film, and if it just made little more sense, this would get more stars and appreciation from me.The film takes itself occasionally to seriously, and is too hard to believe at times, as all the characters seem to be able to track down everybody and, in a big country like France, it seems to be easy to find people who are supposed to be hiding. This film should have been little more realistic and less predictable in this department, but that is usually the case with these kinds of films. Also, the ending is little cliche as this kind of finale has been seen also previously. It seems like they had to come up with a happy ending and thus the ending is like in many other films, too.Still I appreciate this films pretty highly as the photography and editing is so great and the tension lasts throughout the long running film. This is pretty traditional thriller film, but told with brilliant cinematic skill and nothing to blame in its technical side. I give this 7/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Murky plot, endless blood and mindless violence","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The theater and television previews to the film `Ronin' were somewhat vague. However, of the two new choices in town, I decided to go with  this, after all Robert De Niro was in it. But, as I've learned before, having a known actor in a film doesn't guarantee it will be a good film.The film begins by explaining its title `Ronin.' I checked in my trusty Webster's, and sure enough there it was `ronin ...noun...in feudal Japan, a samurai who lost his lord and was forced to wander, often living as a bandit.' In the opening scene, five men meet at a seedy bistro in the poor section of Paris. They've all come because they need the money being offered for a job requiring  certain illegal specialities. At one time they probably worked for their respective governments, but  now they are on their own, they are &#145;ronin.' The objective is to retrieve a silver case.  The five middle-aged ronin all come from different backgrounds; two Americans, one Frenchman, one Russian and one Englishman.The silver case is wanted not only by an Irish terrorist group,  but also a group of ex-KGB agents.  Whatever is in that case fuels the entire film. The Englishman is rather unstable and after the first mission he is sent packing by the leader of this group,  a female member of the Irish terrorist group. Actually, she is the seen leader. The real leader, who happens to be somewhat demented, calls her constantly on a cell phone. His name is Seamus and he is played by Jonathan Pryce.  Eventually only de Niro as Sam and the Frenchman, Vincent, played by Jean Reno, emerge alive from the original five.There are more double crosses in this film than you can count. That also means there is a lot of shooting and a lot of blood and dead bodies.  The film is atmospheric but claustrophobic, from small dives in France and Italy to the narrow streets and endless tunnels. The director, John Frankenheimer has given the film a mean and seedy feel. Frankenheimer spends much of the film on two bloody car chases reminiscent of the films `Bullitt' and `The French Connection.' The lives of others, innocent pedestrians and drivers of vehicles, are meaningless, are merely throwaway commodities - all for a silver case.  Though the viewer knows it, it is still hard to imagine that there are people like this in the world; paid mercenaries who kill anyone in their way, and seem to view it as a part of everyday life.In the end there is nothing really going for this film, and even de Niro can't save Ronin from its murky plot and endless blood and mindless violence. "},{"Title":"A group of killers played by an all-star-cast is brought together  to take a strange case  for a high-powered client","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A woman called Deirdre (Natascha McElhone) assembles a team of professional mercenaries (Robert De Niro, Jean Reno , Sean Bean , Stellan Skarsgård , Skipp Sudduth , among others) from all over the world , they are specialists of every kind , whose services are available to everyone at exchange of money . Their mission to get a hold on a certain package with some mysterious content . The case is in the hands of some ex-KGB spies and there are many people and organizations that will do anything to get it . As the package is wanted by both the Irish and the Russians ; both of whom try to track down . Then a double-cross leads to a cat and mouse game . These mercenaries are like Ronin , in Japan ,Ronin (coming soon a film starred by Keanu Reeves titled 47 Ronin) means a Samurai without master .This exciting espionage picture packs noisy action , thrills , car pursuits , and spectacular outdoors from France such as Arles , Nice , Cannes and Paris . From start to finish the action is unstoppable and frenetic . Interesting and nail-biting screenplay written by Richard Weisz , is in fact David Mamet . Impressive car chases , in fact 80 automobiles were destroyed during filming and more than 300 stunt drivers were employed to give the real-time chases scene an air of metal-crunching realism ; even one of the stunt drivers was former Formula 1 driver Jean-Pierre Jarier . Main cast is frankly excellent such as Robert De Niro as Sam , Jean Reno as Vincent and Natascha McElhone as Deirdre . Very good support cast such as Stellan Skarsgård as Gregor , Sean Bean , Jonathan Pryce , Michael Lonsdale , Jan Triska , Feodor Akine , Amidou and Skipp Sudduth requested to do his own stunt driving during the car chases and John Frankenheimer agreed . Furthermore , the figure skater played by Katarina Witt, winner of two Olympic and four world championships in figure skating . Colorful cinematography filmed in Super 35 and Panavision by Robert Fraisse , almost all scenes were shot on location with the exception of two scenes ; the opening scene used a set with the couple walking past the camera as the matching shot between location and set . Thrilling as well as atmospheric Original Music by Elia Cmiral .¨Ronin¨ or ¨a samurai who is masterless¨ was efficiently directed by John Frankenheimer . At the beginning he worked for TV and turned to the cinema industry with The Young Stranger (1957) . Disappointed his with first feature film experience he came back to his successful television career directing a total of 152 live television shows in the 50s . He took another opportunity to change to the big screen , collaborating with Burt Lancaster in The Young Savages (1961) and Birdman of Alcatraz (62) ending up becoming a successful director well-known by his skills with actors and expressing on movies his views on important social deeds and philosophical events and film-making some classics as ¨The Manchurian candidate¨, ¨Seven days of May¨ and ¨The Train¨ and , in addition , ¨Grand Prix¨ also with great car races . Rating  Better and average and well worth seeing . The flick will appeal to frenetic action and suspense buffs . "}{"Title":"The car chases make this movie","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. It has deep characters, two breath-taking car chases, and a plot that keeps you guessing right until the end. I am not going to restrict myself here so I shall warn you that if you have not seen the movie read no further. See it first.The movie opens with a description of the Ronin a masterless samurai. The samurai were warriors of feudal Japan that bound themselves to a master. If the master of the samurai were to die then the samurai would become a ronin. A samurai who lost all of his honour would have to commit seboku (sp?), or ritual suicide. Thus we can expect this movie to be about a code of warriors, and people without masters.The cold war is over and many secret agents are now without organisations. The KGB has been disbanded and many CIA agents have been retired. Into the movie come a group of people, hired by a lady, Deirdre, with an Irish accent, to steal a case. Sam (Robert DeNiro) is an American and appears to be ex-CIA, and Vincent(Jean Reno) is French and ex-Euro Intelligence. There is also Spence, an Englishman who claims to have been apart of the SAS, and Gregor, a German, a computer expert and ex-KGB. When Dierdre spoke in an Irish accent, I immediately suspected that this movie was to be tied into the IRA. The IRA is not mentioned until the end, but there seems to be connections through it.It seems that the movie is focused around a case. We never know what is in the case, but we constantly want to know. It is not until the end that we realise that the case was little more than a decoy because the true aim of the movie was for Sam to capture Seamus, who is a radical member of the IRA.We are constantly led to believe one thing, being that Sam is ex-CIA and is only doing this for the money, but a couple of hints are dropped, like when Jean-Piere asks Vincent if he is really ex, and when he seems to have a contact when needed. It is not until the end that our suspicions are proved to be true when he gets into a car and drives off. It is also interesting to note that even though Dierdre has turned on Sam, he gives her the opportunity to escape. This is two-fold. First he likes her, and this is revealed at the end when Sam and Vincent are sitting in the café waiting. Secondly it is a hint that Sam is not after her or the case, but Seamus.Ronin is not afraid to go all of the way. One instance is where they threaten to shoot a major Ice Skating star. Most movies would save her at the last minute, but Ronin does no such thing. Instead they kill her, but this is more to do with Gregor and his Russian contact. In a world where the KGB has dissolved and the former agents now run mafia-like organisations, they begin to operate in a very brutal manner. Gregor knows that he cannot trust his Russian counterparts, and this was shown before when they gave him a case full of blank paper. As such he knows that he cannot trust the Russians and must hold something against them. They call his bluff though because the Russians are ruthless, and what is one ice skater when you are a crime lord. Not only do they let her die, but they don't even hang around. They have the case and that is all that matters.Vincent is a much more interesting character than Sam. Sam does not reveal everything to us, but it is clear that he has a purpose. Jean-Pierre talks to him about Ronin, and Sam listens but does not respond in a way that he would if he does not have a master. He claims that he is a loner, and even thinks about Seboku, but we realise afterwards that this would have never been the case. Sam is CIA and this is the way that he remains. Vincent on the other hand, takes a liking to Sam instantly. Sam is distrustful of most people, but he seems to have a soft spot for Vincent. He reads characters well and he is an excellent bluffer. He knows that he can trust Vincent and this knowledge saves his life a number of times. It seems though that Vincent latches onto Sam because he is somebody whom he can serve. It seems that Sam serves himself, but Vincent has been left in the cold with the collapse of the Soviet Union, so in essence he is the Ronin.The director claims that the title has nothing to do with the movie, but I disagree. I guess he did not want to reveal too much because to do so would give away too much. This is a movie is lots of twists, turns, and betrayals, and to show too much would destroy the integrity of the plot. Instead he gives as much as possible without giving away too much. The one thing that I can talk about (even though I have blown the plot right open already) is the car chase scenes these are the best car chases that I have ever seen, and Triple J agrees with me. The thing that makes these chases terrifying are the narrow streets that the cars literally fly down, and from what the director says, these chase scenes were done as is without any fancy editing that is breath taking because I know that I would have heaps of difficulty traveling at high speeds round such narrow alleys. With everything else in this movie, the two major chase scenes catapult Ronin above most other movies. "},{"Title":"It's in the bag or suitcase!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Violent mindless as well as ridicules film a lot like the previously released Robert De Niro crime epic three years earlier Heat that despite all the action and excitement in it by the time it ended, with a king size blood bath at a Paris skating rink, you still had no idea what the movie was all about. Everything in the film hinged on this mysterious steel suitcase that scores of people ended up getting killed in trying to get their hands on it. It was American mercenary Mr.Sam, Robert De Niro, who was hired together with a number of unsavory characters by Irish Republican Army operative Deindne, Natascha McElhone, to retrieve this suitcase in an arms deal set up in Paris. This lead to a shootout when the deal went bad and the person who was supposed to make the switch, the guns for the money, and his bodyguards ended up shot to death.From then on out things got worse as the movie went or zipped along with a number of spectacular car chases and shoot-outs in the French cities of Nice Aries and Paris with Mr.Sam getting clipped and coming back to life by preforming a delicate operation on himself, in getting the slug out of his side, without the help of anesthesia or a blood transfusion. Only to get shot again in the films confusing and mindless final at the skating rink. Mr.Sam in fact was saved by his partner and fellow mercenary, the last one still alive by that time,Vincent, Jean Reno,who was also gunned down and left for dead just a few minutes earlier by IRA gunman Seamus O'Rourke, Jonathan Pryce. It's Seamus whom Mr.Sam, who turned out to be really working for the CIA, was after all along in the movie. Besides Seamus there's also former KBG Agent Mikhi, Feodor Atkins, who's determined to get his hands on the suitcase that he plans, when he finally gets hold of it, to sneak it out of France disguised as a box where he keeps his girlfriend Olympic Gold Medal winner Katacha Kirilova's, played by real Olympic Gold Medal winner Katharina Witt, lucky ice skates in. ***SPOILERS*** The final few minutes in the film were the most confusing of all the confusing scenes in the movie. It turns out that the guy who was in possession of the suitcase team member, picked by Deindne, Gregon-Stehhan Sharsguard-planned to have Natacha shot while she was preforming her skating act to cover his escape. But that like everything else in the movie went bust with Gregor getting iced instead of paid off, with a bullet between his eyes, by his double crossing partner Mikhi that in fact set Gregor's plan into motion. It's then that a terribly scared Seamus reappeared, after he was almost killed in a flaming car crash, and started the fireworks in a massive gun fight, in and out of the skating rink, with him blasting away in all directions. Which all ended up blasting Seamus as well as almost everyone in the entire cast of the movie away! P.S Like in the film Heat we have director John Frankenheimer also have inserted into Ronin a recreation of that famous as well as forgettable diner scene where the two greatest actors of our time Robert De Niro and Al Pacino, who both starred in Godfather Part II but were never in a scene together, finally meet face to face over a cup of coffee and slice of cheesecake to chit-chat about nothing really all that earth shaking, like their meeting each other was supposed to be,in particular. But this time around Al Pacino wasn't available so it was up to Jean Reno as Vincent to not only fill the bill but also pick it up the check! Since Robert De Niro or Mr. Sam came up a bit too short by not having enough cash to cover it! "},{"Title":"action-packed...and doing a good job with it","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'll admit that Ronin has a somewhat vague plot, but they do a good job with it. It has ex CIA agent Sam (Robert DeNiro) accompanying tough guy Vincent (Jean Reno) around France to find a suitcase wanted by various factions. Mostly, the movie is a bunch of car chases and such things, but good performances keep it strong. And I think that we have to agree that this was infinitely better than Jean Reno's other starring role in 1998 (Godzilla).An interesting aspect is that we never find out what's in the suitcase, but maybe that's not totally important. Among other things, there aren't really any good guys in this movie; we identify with Sam and his cohorts, but you can't totally classify them as good guys. All in all, another interesting flick from John Frankenheimer. Also starring Natasha McElhone, Stellan Skarsgard, Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce. "},{"Title":"No Questions, No Answers","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a solid mood piece with some butt-kicking action sequences and effective ensemble acting. Think L.A. Confidential with subtitles. It does have some plot holes you notice more with re-viewings, and the why of Ronin is a bit lost. Still, it works pretty well for what it is.Robert De Niro stars as a guy named Sam, whom we see in an effective opening sequence casing a bar, hiding a gun, and then walking in to order a drink and make contact with a would-be employer. I never walk into a place I don't know how to walk out of, he explains later, and that's the key to Sam, quietly resourceful and deliberate.De Niro seems miscast at first. If this was shot 20 years before, it would have been a great role for Steve McQueen. DeNiro doesn't have the same laconic charm, but his Sam grows on you. Maybe it's because he's DeNiro; you keep expecting him to blow up and go into some spittle-flecked rant. Instead he keeps it in check, like a quarterback who beats you going underneath every time while you keep waiting for the bomb.So I like De Niro, and he has a great cast around him, led by Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone, Sean Bean, and Michael Lonsdale as various shadow-dwellers in the European underworld. Stellan Skarsgard is especially fantastic as a ice-cold tech expert named Gregor who makes some daring ploys. He plays his prickly character close to the vest, reminding me a bit of Donald Pleasance crossed with Karl Rove except, you know, Northern European, and carries the story through various long stretches.There are bits involving Gregor that I didn't get, though, and the feeling is a lot gets skimmed over in the interest of keeping the action flowing. That thing in that case is not the film's only McGuffin, as a romance between Sam and McElhone's Deirdre feels like a similar sort of plot contrivance. So too does the entire ending of the film. It's a good ending in terms of where it leads you as a viewer, it just doesn't bear up to analysis well.The Paris-in-winter vibe, which director John Frankenheimer mentions in his worthwhile commentary as a critical element in what he wanted to bring to the film, is nicely done, as are the realistic car chases and street-side shoot-outs where innocent bystanders get hit in the crossfire. This was a comeback picture for Frankenheimer, a demonstration the great filmmaker had at least one more bullet left in his gun. I like what he brought to the picture, but there's much here that feels underwritten. When the film's title is explained by Lonsdale, for example, it comes off a bit affected and strained. The idea of modern Ronin might be more developed if we thought there was some sort of code like the ancient samarai had, but instead it just hangs there, a tone change and no more.Overall, though, Ronin works more than it doesn't. I like Sam's ways of defusing unwelcome queries with mild humor, like when he tells a questioner that he lost it during an interrogation when they gave him a grasshopper.What's that?Lessee, two parts gin, one part brandy... "},{"Title":"Fast paced action thriller","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A movie with almost everybody in the team double-crossing each other.  It keeps you guessing which one of the sinister mercenaries will carry out their hidden agenda next.  Even up to the end, the least likely character in the film, turns out to have an agenda of his own, although it is something completely different from every other member in his group.The movie has this darkish, hard-edged look, making it very un-hollywood, though the score seems to be a throwback to the 70's films (or whatever genre) in which they try to force the mood with the score.  The film itself was fast paced, with many double crossing, side switching that had keep you off pace.Then there is the car chase scenes, three in all.  With the high speed driving through narrow European alleys and streets, two cars going against the traffic, much of it filmed from the perspective of the cars, with minimal hollywood frills like stunt techniques giving us slow motion of a spectacular blowup in 10 camera angles, repeated 10 times.  It keeps continuity and definitely keeps one on the edge of the seat.  This ain't The Fast and Furious, where the whole drag race scenes seem to be filmed with cars traveling 30 MPH.Some people complained that the contents of the case was never revealed, but that is not important, since the agenda of the Robert De Niro's character was not to be part of this heist, but to assassinate the man behind the whole scheme.  I guess that's why the movie's name is Ronin, which Samurais wandering the countryside after their master was killed, forever shamed because they were not able to protect him, but in reality, secretly avenging his death and afterward, taking their own life.  Except De Niro didn't commit suicide at the end.  "},{"Title":"Extremely clever, thrills a minute, coldly analytical - wonderful","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is riveting. Ronin is the ultimate of a certain sort of movie - a group of strangers gather to do a job - what follow are thrills, car chases, gunplay, mayhem, switching alliances and double-crosses  - set in France with an international cast.  It almost seems as if the late great director John Frankenheimer were made a bet with other directors of action movies to see who could top whom.There are no better car chases in any movie. There are few, if any women as alluring, beautiful and mysterious as Natascha McElhone (an amazing actress - see her also in the musical made of Love's Labour's Lost with her enticing singing and dancing opposite Kenneth Branagh). The character portrayed by Jean Reno has a fidelity, by Jonathan Pryce a ferocity, and by Robert DeNiro a tenacity that are all memorable. Sean Bean (the villain in Patriot Games, the star of Stormy Monday with Melanie Griffith and Tommy Lee Jones - or as the star of the Sharpe TV series) performs well in a COMPLETELY uncharacteristic role.  I'm not particularly an action movie fan - but the plot and the action were fabulous. I also liked the settings - Paris, Nice and Arles. To see a shootout in the Arles amphitheater (a Roman construction), which everyone has seen pictured in geography, history and French classes from school days was actually scary! This movie went all out - the music is wonderful, and there are so  many nice smaller touches - the beautiful singing by the choir before the cathedral in Nice, the skating of Katerina Witt, that I'll remember.The only downside I can think of is the typical one of action movies -**** SPOILER **** No matter how many hundreds of people are killed, they somehow can't kill our protagonist. The more cars turn over, the more people are gunned down, the more unlikely becomes the hero's survival. His car survives while 135 cars all crash, he survives what seem like 38 separate gunfights. He's invincible. I suppose the hero needs to survive in such movies - but when you raise the rate of accident and death, you lower that probability to the ridiculous.*** END OF SPOILER ****  Do see it - regardless of your feeling about action movies. Its French setting gives it an exotic feel and its coldness lends it a THIS is how you make an action movie mastery. "},{"Title":"Lightweight but engaging actioner","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well paced, atmospheric thriller is basically a travelogue through a fantasy France of grimy bars and cobblestoned streets, where shifty-eyed hard cases in dark clothing concoct devious plots over cigarettes and espresso, race around rain-swept night streets in high-powered sedans, and exchange automatic weapons fire with minimal police interference. The slender plot concerns a mysterious band of international hired guns brought together by a mysterious mastermind to steal a mysterious package from a collection of mysterious gangsters; as in all such stories, gunplay and double-crosses ensue as the bodies of various shady characters (and a few unfortunate members of the public) pile up.  All too routine, and more than a tad silly, but the film is mostly saved from self-parody by the excellent cast (standouts include Robert de Niro, Natascha McElhone and the always-wonderful Jean Reno), beautiful, fluid location camerawork, and superb stunt sequences, all under the veteran direction of John Frankenheimer.  Like spiritual cousins Bullitt and The French Connection, Ronin features gritty, realistic settings, handsome actors exuding an air of rumpled coolness, attention to procedural detail and the insertion of a cracking good car chase whenever the action threatens to flag.   Of the latter, special mention should be made of the spectacular centerpiece chase, in which the streets of Paris end up littered with wreckage as competing parties in a BMW and Peugeot chase each other down sidewalks, through tunnels and finally, the wrong way down a traffic-choked highway.  In the end, it's all just another Hollywood entertainment, but afficiandos of the crime thriller will find it a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Why can't I vote negative ? This is WHY we have ZERO.","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Spoilers ahead MAYBE - I have ten minutes left in the movie - they STILL haven't got the case, that so many people have died for.All for $100,000 too in 1998.So many innocent bystanders died in this movie for that silly case.And to top it all off ? I have to watch FIGURE SKATING in the end- it ALL LEADS UP to a skating scene.One too many car chases.No plot.This movie is SO bad I want to SUE for my TIME BACK.ABSOLUTELY POINTLESS MOVIE.At this point - NOTHING could be in that case that justifies the 1 hour and 45 minutes WASTED getting to the final scene which pretty much is the SAME place everyone was at at the beginning of the movie.This was WORSE than the Good Shepard and that's pretty hard to do.Now King of Comedy ? that's a great movie with De Niro.Please let this be a bad dreamPlease let this be a bad dreamPlease let this be a bad dreamIt gets worse5 minutes left and NOW she says - just forget about the case.WOWThis movie will require therapy. "},{"Title":"A excellent action film with thought","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I first saw this film I went in expecting an average action flick with some big names to help it along. Boy was I wrong. The film starts out slow as the 'ronin' are introduced, mercenaries from various backgrounds who are hired to retrieve a silver briefcase with unknown contents. The group is soon torn apart by betrayal and things really start to heat up as the briefcase exchanges hands more than once and you fight to keep up with the plot (in a good way).Both DeNiro and Reno deliver an excellent performance as does pretty much the entire cast. And the best part? They manage to have some of the best car chases and action scenes of any film I've seen in a long time without sacrificing the story as some films do. Plus they're fairly realistic, the shootouts and car crashes don't just look like a whole bunch of CGI.Overall I'd say it's a must see film even if you have to spend a few minutes figuring out exactly what just happened. "},{"Title":"An action-thriller film with probably the laziest plot I've ever seen.","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Robert De Niro plays an Ex American whatever who does Mercenary work. He is hired by the Irish to get this case. We have zero idea of what's in the case but all we know is that whatever it is, it is very valuable and the Russian's are trying to buy it. There's a small mini love story with De Niro and the Irish woman who hires him, but otherwise the plot is a big ???? Even at the end of the film there's a little narration saying no questions, no answers... It's like the movie was like ya.... we wanna do an action film with a lot of guns and car chases but putting that in a story.....meh.... let's skip the story part. So ya the story is crap, the acting is okay, the cinematography is pretty good. But the main reason you want to watch the film is for the constant chase scenes... the whole ronin aspect to the film is so Luke warm it's comical. They shoulda just called this film The chase for the mystery case Get it!?! It rhymes!!! Anyways the chase sequences are really well done, they messed up a looooott of cars in this film and that was pretty enjoyable. That's pretty much the only reason to watch this film is for the car sequences. The gun shooting is okay, not the best but pretty good. This film almost got a 60% cuz the car chases were thaaaat good. Almost...but I'm not that forgiving for such a weak plot. "}{"Title":"Brilliant action flic","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is what you want. Robert DeNiro, Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgard, Jonathan Pryce, Sean Bean, and Natasha McElhone at the tops of their games. A byzantine plot. Double-crosses galore. Only the most necessary information disclosed. All we as the audience know is that these characters want to get hold of a suitcase. We don't know what is in the suitcase or why the group is so determined to get hold of it.John Frankenheimer turned the clock back here, summoning up the best of late '60s, early '70s noir action flics. The script, written by David Mamet is perfect because of his ease in scribing convoluted plots. None of the characters know any of the others and they all bring some special skill to the job. However, their lack of familiarity with one another leads to a lot of uncertainty among them. The car chases in this film are not artificially enhanced. This is the real deal and the film fares better for the herculean efforts of the stuntpeople.The lack of knowledge about the details of the plot, the doubt among the characters, and the cool direction from Frankenheimer make this a must-see for action fans who have an intolerance for absurd, computer-enhanced, phallus-swinging contests. "},{"Title":"A classic gem, a European spy thriller not to miss!","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" With out a doubt one of my favorite movies of all time. It all just sits right. The mood, the plot, Jean Reno and Robert DeNrio. Plot twists and car chases, which at the time were considered the best to date. This exciting adventure still brings me fond memories.If you have not seen this movie yet, it is a MUST watch. I don't think to this day a better spy thriller has yet been shown (if you do, please let me know).This movie has deep character development an excellent story line. The acting is superb and well as the cinematography. I truly do believe this is a great classic gem, and one of the all time best thrillers ever made. The cast put together also intrigues me, Skipp Sudduth (3rd Watch), Natasha McElhone, Michael Lonsdale (One of my favorite actors), Sean Bean, Jonathan Price, with DeNiro and Reno create an immerse depth to carry out a thrilling plot across Europe. This post cold war thriller sets the stage of geo-politics in the 90's, an era between the cold war and post 9-11 war on terror where former intelligence officers no longer have a purpose or a master, except that of personal monetary gain. "},{"Title":"A Modern French Connection","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Is it possible to call Ronin the modern French Connection? Not the story, of course. But the look, the feel, the atmosphere, the action, it all comes back to Friedkin's superb thriller. Instead of a pair of street-savvy narcotics cops, you get a mishmash of characters, ranging from an ex-CIA operative to the Russian mafia. And all of it surrounds on simple question what's in the case?John Frankenheimer, a legendary director, did not miss a step, not when he had the help of David Mamet, er&#133;Richard Weisz. (Oops! The cat's out of the bag now.) Blending Mamet's penchant for multi-faceted stories and Frankenheimer's style of action-thriller directing, what ends up is Ronin, a tense and gritty action movie that leaves you begging for more&#133; literally. The story centers around the formation of a team of mercenaries, who are tasked by a mysterious Irish woman to steal a case. Among these vagabonds is Sam, played to perfection by Robert De Niro, an ex-CIA agent who is never off of his game. Sam quickly befriends Vincent, a well-connected Frenchman who sees a bit of himself in Sam. But the group is not without it's rabble. Enter Gregor, a cold and calculating ex-KGB operative, whose personal ambitions only slightly outweigh his brutality. As much as Ronin acts like a typical underworld kind of movie, it is so much more. Above anything else, it is a character film. De Niro and Jean Reno give excellent performances, but they are only accentuated by the supporting cast, which includes Stellan Skarsgaard, Natasha McElhone, Sean Bean, and Jonathan Pryce. As the search for this case intensifies, you come to see the true nature of each character develop, up until the climactic ending that sheds a light on the true heroes and villains.But what would this movie be without the action? The atmosphere is gritty, but it so perfectly fits the setting in France. To compliment the mood is some very tense action. The bullets fly freely, but the gun fighting is fairly reserved. There aren't a lot of explosions of the extravagant kind. The action is very realistic. But what gives it a real boost is the car chases. Remember The French Connection? Friedkin set a new standard with the car chase in The French Connection. But Frankenheimer has fashioned his own masterpiece, with two distinct and exciting chases.I have heard quite a few complaints about this film, most notably regarding the case. But another common question is why the movie is called Ronin, save for a short discussion about the Japanese story. Yet if you think about it, it is a fitting title. This is a movie about men who are lost, the relics of the Cold War striving to continue the life they once lived. And when an opportunity arises, they will take what they can get, even if it means destroying themselves. Ronin has been one of my top three favorite movies since it first came out. It is an entertaining movie, with plenty to offer. And if it isn't your kind of flick, understand that the story is not one for the modern audience. It intentionally leaves many questions unanswered. But that is what makes it so unique. It is like a throwback to the great crime dramas of the 70's. If you don't get it, don't worry about it. Just accept it and move on.That is lesson number three. "},{"Title":"Must-Watch","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A good movie with good effects. I'm not saying that it's a classic but no one can deny that it's enjoyable to watch. DeNiro's character is great and both of the actors acted really good. I'm glad that they didn't showed us what's in the case. It's a good decision. There are some good dialogs too. Of course, the explosion scenes and the shooting scenes are nicely done.I think it's a good movie and there's no harm in watching it. You will spend a good time.I can't understand the ones who hate this movie. No one tells you that it's a milestone in the cinema history. It's a good movie and it deserves good reviews. "},{"Title":"A great action thriller","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This film has to go down as one of the best action thrillers of all time. It has everything in it. Some action films lack the acting and have the same old story but not this one. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are among the cast and perform really well. The film was well written and well directed. This film will mainly be known for it's great action scenes and it's memorable car chase. It has two car chases but the second one is the one to look out for. The first chase is still really good tho. You will be hooked on it till the end and will love the the action scenes. I would advice any action fan to watch this because i am very sure you will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Almost the best of two worlds","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Big fans of French crime noir, like Le samurai, Le clan des Siciliens and Un flic, immediately recognize where Frankenheimer found his inspiration. This should be no surprise; The train (early sixties) is another tribute to French cinema from this director. Of course crime noir itself was derived from American film noir; Kubricks relatively unknown but excellent The killing springs into mind. Ronin has all the elements. For an important part the story is told by pictures, not by dialogue. This is scanty, especially for the two main characters played by De Niro (Sam) and Reno (Vincent). It needs two excellent actors to play roles like these and they don't disappoint. Sam and Vincent are enigmatic pro's and have paid the price for it distrust, loneliness, lack of affection. Crime pays sometimes, but there is no reason at all to envy the two. Sam and Vincent slowly learn to respect their mutual skills and at the end even something like friendship has grown - which can't last of course. Note, how we indirectly learn at the end, that Sam is not an average criminal, but a CIA agent. Also note that our two heroes in the end are left with empty hands. Again this is typical crime noir. All those efforts were in vain; only Sam's boss (who we don't see) and many English, American and Irish politicians can be satisfied. The first part of the movie shows the preparation of the ambush in detail, a bit like Le clan des Siciliens. As always in the hands of a skillful director, this builds up a great tension. Frankenheimer also does a great job indicating elements that predict failure. The spectator feels, that things will go wrong, but has no idea how. But Frankenheimer was an American. He adds an element, missing in those great French movies action. And all the action scenes are spectacular and convincing. They are filmed realistically no stylish slow-motion, no wild music, no irritating one-liners. Everybody does his/her job and does it simply the best (s)he can. Don't expect superheroes; everybody is too busy to survive difficult circumstances. All characters involved get wounded or killed one time or another. The spectator is not saved from the ugly details of the wounds. This should be one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. Alas I have one major complaint. The story sucks. Frankenheimer is so convincing, that I hardly noticed it while watching. But afterwards the questions rose. If Gregor worked for the Russian mafia, how and why did he get involved? If not, how did he manage to make a copy of the coffin? Where did he get that female sniper from? How did she get in? What was her reaction, when she did not get paid? Where did the IRA-money remain? There are way too many loose ends. Still we see a recipe for some perfect crime movies for the future. Combine French story telling with American action scenes; film it in a dry, realistic style and match a great American actor with some great European ones. Which director will take up the challenge to improve Ronin? "},{"Title":"The Power of Observation...obviously an important character trait of a 'Ronin'!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I love to watch action movies. Better still, I love to watch Robert de Niro in action movies (15 Minutes, Men of Honour, Godfather...). I also love to watch Jean Reno in action movies (The Professional, Mission Impossible, Wasabi...) Imagine my surprise, when I saw both Robert de Niro & Jean Reno in the same action movie! Ronin is a very interesting movie. Very exciting, too. It has a complex theme, a twisting plot as well as perplexing subplots, exotic settings, rising & falling actions, a critical but unknown object of pursuit, witty dialog, all compounded by a host of mysterious key characters & their vague relationships (IRA terrorist, Russian mobsters, ex-CIA & ex-KGB operatives). What I have enjoyed most from this movie is watching Sam (Robert de Niro) assuming the role of a strategist in the snatch team. As a strategist, he is always asking clarifying questions & verifying details. I am amazed at his astute power of observation, as shown below...just to name a few scenes - scanning the surroundings from various angles before entering the pub & checking out possible escape routes; - sensing danger & spotting a sniper at the bridge while conducting a covert weapon buying exchange near the bridge; - sizing up each member of the snatch team, especially Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard playing the rogue electronics expert) by intentionally pushing a cup over the table edge; - reconnaissance, testing the camera & taking photographs unsuspectingly at a hotel lobby & creating a diversion...; - noticing the wrong suitcase immediately after a ambush/shoot out; - spotting a wall advertisement as a possible lead to the whereabout of the Russian mafia; Even Vincent (Jean Reno) demonstrates it, especially when he spots, from a window in a cafe, a young girl carrying a metal suitcase, while trying to figure out with Sam the exact whereabout of Gregor, who had switched & stole the original suitcase earlier. The Power of Observation is obviously a very important character trait of a Ronin. I understand a Ronin is a master-less samurai. A lone-wolf. A maverick. A mercenary. Apparently, in the movie, each member of the snatch team is a Ronin. In the movie, there is even a short history lesson about the exploits of the famous 47 Ronins & their eventual suicide ritual known as sepaku, as told by Jean Pierre (Michael Lonsdale). (Based on actual historical events, only 46 of them committed sepaku. The last one was pardoned by the Shogun.) The most exhilarating parts of the movie are obviously the high-octane car chases & rampant shoot-outs in both Nice & Paris settings...on a quiet country road, a highway then through busy side streets & a tunnel. There is even an amazing scene, showing Sam doing his own surgery to remove a bullet from his stomach with a mirror & knife. The most touching scenes in the movie are the dynamic comradeship & seemingly mutual respect between Sam & Vincent, despite the fact that each of them has his own agenda in the snatch team. In the final scene, - & in fact throughout the movie' running time -, the critical but unknown object of pursuit remains a mystery. To conclude this review, I have really enjoyed watching Ronin very much. Once again, I have also learned that human ingenuity & creativity are very important life (or survival) skills, as characterized in the movie. This is another addition to my resource repertoire. "},{"Title":"Great acting, terse script, inspired direction, gripping action","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" One of the best action/suspense/intrigue films i have seen. Fun to see DeNiro in a James Bond role. The on-location shooting and occasional French dialogue, subtitled, and Frankenheimer's no-transition, episodic pacing lends a very European feel to the film. It has some of the most intense auto-chase sequences in cinema, and a startling foot-chase through the tourists!Above all, the intelligent plot, with rapid-fire surprises, changes of direction, and confounding reverses, keeps you on the edge of your seat. Characters are nicely developed. Frankenheimer has made them complex human beings, not just comic-book characters. Of course DeNiro's superb talent helps immensely, as does a perfectly-utilized musical score that supports the moods but does not obtrude, and travelogue-quality cinematography. "},{"Title":"Old school double double cross.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I just want to say that this was one of the best flicks I'veever seen. Casting, acting, writing and production, awesome.I have not seen the alternate DVD version and don't plan to.The original is just perfect as it stands. I will see this oneagain and again. I can't say another word! "},{"Title":"Don't be misled by the gushing praise.","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is very much one of those cases where IMDb's rating is completely out of kilter with the actual quality of the movie.We were so looking forward to this movie (we're big fans of Sean Bean and Jean Reno) but in the end we were so bored & frustrated with it we stopped watching after the second car chase and wiped it off as a bad decision. I honestly cannot understand it's high rating. It was bereft of a decent plot, totally threw away any concept of characterisation, had ridiculous plot holes galore, had preposterous dialog and incredibly awful tacky music. Some of the actors mumbled too much making hard to follow what they were on about. As for my boy Sean Bean - Yikes! I don't know what was going on with him!! He seemed to be over-acting like crazy and not sure what kind of accent he should be using so he just swung wildly between a range of silly accents none of which sounded real. I was so thankful his role in the flick was so short-lived because he was really not doing well. The others were so-so, I think they were trying for gritty & realistic but it was just bland and wooden for the most part. I have no idea what the Ronin title had to do with anything and even less idea why some reviewers thought the conversation about samurai/Ronin etc was so awfully fascinating & meaningful. It was a bit naff to be honest.Some nicely filmed albeit unrealistic car chases and a few other gratuitously gory/violent scenes seem to be the only thing driving the high ratings. But I've seen better in several other flicks that actually had interesting characters and a decent plot but don't get as much praise as this stinker does.My advice, look on Youtube for the car chase scenes and/or the bullet removal scene (not that it's all that shocking. I've seen far worse even in some of the less gory horror movies around) if you're curious and skip the rest of the movie. Watch John Woo's The Killer instead if you want to see a real action movie with REAL characterisations, excellent plot, great acting and of course, Woo's incredible direction. Or the Mechanic, or The Jackal (1997) or the Wrong Man. Just to name a few infinitely better flicks. "}{"Title":"Why ?","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As a French, I can only say one thing  this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Not only because the scenario is empty, the actors subexistant and DeNiro looking like he's been bit by a pit bull. It's essentially because  1- French people have other forenames than Jean-Paul, Jean-Pierre, Jean-Luc or Jean Whatever. 2- French police don't let anyone drive on the wrong way, whether it happens in Paris, Nice or anywhere. 3- If some reason had been used when writing the scenario, there would have been absolutely NO CAR CHASE IN PARIS, for the simple reason that the Périphérique is ALWAYS JAMMED. 4- Michael Lonsdale is not typically french just because his hair is dirty 5- If you consider Pulp Fiction and cut the story about the suitcase, the movie still has some value. Try to do the same with Ronin  the movie is now 5 minutes long. Including the cast.If you're desperate with life, if you like to get bored to tears, try to have a look at this. But do not bring your girlfriend, she's still mad at me because I took her out to see it. As a real frenchman could say, Si tu tiens à la vie, passe ton chemin. "},{"Title":"Great car chases, but the plot doesn't hold together under pressure","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A group of unemployed military, intelligence and CIA agents from around the globe are employed for a covert operation in Europe.  The group must capture a briefcase for Deirde, however a series of double crosses and set-ups leads some members of the group into a dangerous game of betrayal and treachery.This set itself out as something fantastically different from special FX films, but really this is an addition to the spy thriller genre with the same old hackneyed plot and rough characters.  The plot here is quite good for the most part - the best bits being the build-up to getting the case and the chases, however the latter half falls into double-cross mania and loses much of the credibility it had early on.  The film also tries to rope the plot into real life events involving the IRA, but this doesn't work and just creates a bit of a mess at the end.  However, as I said, before all the baggage starts to weigh the film down this is a very tight little thriller with a simple plot.The main talking point of the film at the time of release was the car chase scenes.  No using any CGI effects, these are very exciting and very well executed throughout the film and, unlike some critics claimed, you don't get bored of them after the first one (there's only 2 or 3).  The direction is excellent during these scenes - highlighting the speed, danger and narrowness of the streets, the only criticism would be the camera lingering on several multiple pileups in the wake of the action, these made me feel like I was watching the Blues Brothers or Cannonball Run rather than a thriller.The characters are good, if a little stereotyped.  De Niro and Reno and good together and have a nice chemistry for the most part. McElhone is good as the IRA leader of the group, while of the others Sean Bean and Skarsgård stand out.  The worst link in the film is Jonathon Pryce's IRA mastermind - he has one of the worst Northern Ireland accents I've ever heard and his performance is limited by that.Overall an enjoyable thriller that loses it's way towards the end as it starts to get tangled up in it's own plot. "},{"Title":"A bond fide action espionage classic","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer's Ronin is a sleek, smashing good spy flick from the mid 90's that features a killer cast of actors, a terse, palm sweating narrative and one of my favourite, and best car chase sequences ever put on celluloid. The setting post cold war Europe, the paranoia dying into a dull roar, and previously employed spooks from various backgrounds now find themselves outcasts with no direction to turn in, no higher power to guide their every clandestine move. Several of these individuals work as mercenaries, stealing.g whatever they can for whoever will hire them at whatever price. They include vague, enigmatic Sam (Robert Deniro), Vincente (Jean Reno), feisty Irish Deidre (ever gorgeous and underrated Natasha Macelhone), slightly sinister Gregor (excellent Stellan Skarsgard) and Spence (a twitchy Sean Bean). You ever kill anybody? Spence naively asks Sam. I hurt someone's feelings once, Sam dryly intones. Such is the blanket of deception the characters are steeped in, each one not knowing the history of their peers, who will be allies and who will slit their throat first chance they get. They are tasked with stealing a mysterious briefcase, the contents of which we never see, a plot twist which any thriller with class benefits from choosing. Off they go, on a merry chase across Europe, double crossing, killing and dodging each other to advance one step ahead towards an empty goal that they themselves may not have a clue about. The cast also displays nice work from Jonathan Pryce, Skipp Sudduth and Michael Lonsdale in asly turn, reminding us that he appeared in another excellent spy flick the generation before, The Day Of The Jackal. The title ties into the forty seven Ronin of ancient Japan, exiled warriors who share the fate of the lost combatants we see here. It's a fine tuned exercise in suspense, espionage and intelligent entertainment that sees the troupe careening through the narrow streets of picturesque French city Nice in compact cars that could quickly become coffins, navigating a clinical assassination attempt in a Russian ice rink, and all kinds of intrigue in between. The actors all inhabit their roles with a weary, going through the motions quality that amps up the realism by being laid back, a nice touch which makes the high octane aspects pop all the more. Low key goes a long way in ratcheting up tension, as demonstrated nicely by this classic cloak and dagger entry that many thrillers these days could learn a thing or two from. "},{"Title":"Taut, European-style action-thriller","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A team of mercenaries Sam (Robert De Niro), former ex-CIA officer; Vincent (Jean Reno), former French intelligence agent; Gregor (Stellan Skarsgård), a KGB-trained East German agent and electronics and surveillance expert; Larry (Skip Sudduth); a mechanic and expert wheelman; and Deirdre (Natascha McElhone), an IRA operative working in Paris, plan an attack on an armed convoy to steal a steel briefcase. Their hijacking is successful, but Gregor takes the case and Deirdre is intercepted by her former IRA handler, Seamus (Jonathan Pryce). Sam and Vincent finds themselves left together and soon make an effective duo. They chase the briefcase through Paris, while competing against Deirdre, Seamus and Gregor's Russian mob buyers for ownership of the case. It also features some of the most elaborate car chase work ever filmed, with pursuits all over the streets and traffic tunnels of Paris. This was made with a number of high performance luxury cars from Peugeot, Audi, Mercedes, and BMW. The car chases were indicative of filmmaker John Frankenheimer, who's the director car racing thriller Grand Prix. "},{"Title":"Mercenaries including De Niro, Reno and Skarsgard go after a suitcase","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a fine John Frankenheimer film, a kind of an action-laden spy-crime-thriller that also falls into the category of action neo-noir. There are outstanding action sequences, especially two car chases, one in and around Nice and another in Paris. There's several shootouts, including one in the Roman amphitheater in Arles. The cast is uniformly excellent. The story is complex enough to involve double crosses, danger, and gunplay. The screenplay has just enough character interplay and development, just enough philosophy, to add some depth to the overall result; but it's not really a deep picture with deep themes. Themes of duplicity, trust and professionalism are brought out at times and are also implicit.The only spy in the film appears to be De Niro's tough and seasoned character. His connections are left shadowy, but late in the film he admits his goal is to find and dispose of an Irish terrorist (Jonathan Pryce). He also secures sophisticated help late in the film and eventually drives off with what appears to be an American agent. We infer this intelligence connection early on anyway because De Niro keeps pressing Natascha McElhone for her bosses, and he refuses to divulge much information about himself while showing that he has plenty of experience at what he does.There's a suitcase with unknown contents, never revealed, that the Russians want, adding another spy-type element. McElhone, under Pryce's lead, has pulled together a team of mercenaries to hijack the suitcase from another team of shadowy figures. That team includes both Jean Reno, who strikes up a friendship with De Niro, and a German played by Stellan Skarsgard. Sean Bean is among them, playing a weak sister, and Skipp Sudduth is the wheel man. Later on Michael Lonsdale is a reclusive figure who has Parisian connections with vital location information.I've watched it twice and it holds up. The style is really 70s, which is good. Even the music at times reminds one of The French Connection. But it's not a cheaply or shoddily done throwaway picture. Just the opposite. This film had an estimated $55 million budget. "},{"Title":"Plot? You watch this for the cars.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is what happens when you have an absurd sum of money and a desire to shoot some exciting car chases. I'm pretty sure that this movie was assembled working backwards from the action sequences, since the plot is almost totally derivative of countless films that came before it. I will grant that it is extraordinarily well-done though for what it is, and, since I'm a car guy, there was something in it for me. The car action is no doubt some of the best ever filmed, and the only reason a lot of guys like me watch this particular film. Otherwise, I have to say that as far as the disposable plot goes, I've already forgotten too much of it to really even spoil it for anybody. Did I mention though that it has cars in it? Especially a really hot Audi S8 and a great older Mercedes, among many others, the true stars of this film for those of us in the know. "},{"Title":"Cut to the chase","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you like car chases, you'll have a good time watching RONIN. In most other ways, it's routine. It's buoyed up by committed performances from Robert De Nero, Natascha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce. Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgård and Skip Sudduth provide solid support, and there's a nice cameo by the ever-unruffled Michael Lonsdale. Sean Bean contributes a an overly twitchy turn, perhaps because his role isn't all that clear.The problem with the movie as a whole is that it's difficult to work out who we're really supposed to be following. Is the central relationship of the movie De Niro+Reno or De Niro-McElhone? Are we seeing the story through De Niro's eyes, Reno's eyes, any or all of the above? It feels as though there was too much cut-and-paste in the final cut.Still, it's mostly good fun. John Frankenheimer was as comfortable with pile-ups as with close-ups. He gets good work from his editor and stunning stuff from his stunt-team. "},{"Title":"superb tactical tense action movie, with a wonderful European spin","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" One of the reasons I like this is that part of it is shot in Arles and I've been there, another reason I like it is that Jean Reno is awesome and he's in it. Jean Reno and Robert De Niro are a great duo and both show their superior acting, their chemistry as comrades in arms is brilliant and compelling, and believable. Reno is charming. I like that it's not Americanised, there is a lot of French (subtitled) and as such it won't appeal to many but the international feel of it is something I like.It has many memorable scenes, and incredible action and car chases, and I love De Niro's scene removing the bullet... and the whole Ronin monologue. It's incredibly real, but also managed to be a little humorous - if you don't mind, I'm going to pass out is one of the immortal lines of the film. Natascha McElhone as the handler is good and grim but her accent sometimes fades in and out, but not as bad as Jonathan Pryce's but the acting was mainly okay. Stellan Skarsgard, another of the 'Ronin' was also good, Sean Bean putting in a rather strange performance (suitable for the role) but De Niro and Reno stood out by a mile. There were some hammy performances and on watching it on repeated occasions there are flaws, but the film stands up to multiple viewings and hasn't aged badly. It was great in the cinema - the car chases on a big screen were quite ground-breaking at the time with some jaw-dropping stunt driving; some of the hand-break turns were some of the best driving I've ever seen on film. Very tense but the main chase scene does go on a bit, and I concede that it might have been filmed and then sped up... I don't know. Still brilliant! The irony of this film is that few of the characters were actually masterless warriors, as the title suggests, or at least weren't fighting for honour. It is an intriguing film, with depth, and intelligence, rather than just a shoot-em-up for the sake of it. It's a really pleasing action film, which cleverly doesn't stretch plausibility. Overall a great film, very enjoyable and a must see for Reno and De Niro fans. I like this film so much that I don't mind that it suggests that it was the Americans who brought about peace in Northern Ireland and solved all the conflict there. The Director (brilliant, though) Frankenheimer is American after all! "},{"Title":"A realistic spy movie with impressive execution.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I really enjoyed this film as it is a breath of fresh air compared to most spy-action movies out there.It has an all star cast with Robert De Niro, Jean Reno and Sean Bean to just name a few. I had never heard of John Frankenheimer before this, but from this movie he has shown to be a very capable director. Then I researched him to see that he also directed Birdman of Alcatraz (1962), which is another fantastic movie.To sum this film up it has great car chases, great action and a good storyline to match.8/10. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Full of sound and fury signifying nothing","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This begins with a gathering of five international gunmen who have been hired by an IRA operative to retrieve an aluminum case. These guys have been cut loose from their employment at the end of the cold war and are now guns for hire. Pursuing the case establishes the plot line for the entire movie.When this was over I tried to determine what value it had for me and it turned out to be very little. There are some rather spectacular car chase scenes and I could appreciate the skill that went into making those, but, as good as they are, they are just more hyped-up car chases to be added to the ever-growing archive. No money was spared on cars and trucks being wrecked in these scenes, so the movie must have had a substantial budget. An unusual feature of the chase scenes has innocent people being killed along the way, if that sounds like something you would enjoy seeing.The plot is so complicated, filled as it is with so many double crossings, that I gave up trying to keep track of it about half way through. The actors seem to be taking their jobs seriously, but the end result is a waste of good actors like Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, and Michael Lonsdale.There were a few positives for me. The settings in Paris, Nice, and Arles were nice--for example, utilizing the Eiffel Tower for background effect and the Roman Amphitheater in Arles for a long sequence (this time for chases on foot). The filming of Katarina Witt ice skating was extremely well done and the networks could take some hints from that on how to film Olympic skating for effect. For my own pleasure I wish Witt's whole routine would have been filmed, but what was presented was more than necessary as far as the story went. The actors do have some good moments in conversations during the few quiet times.If you like loud music and plenty of action taking place against some scenic backdrops, then you might well like this. If you are looking for a story that makes sense and has some meaning, then you might consider looking elsewhere. "}{"Title":"Classic, Nonsensical Thriller...","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" How can you not enjoy a classic thriller with great cast, incomprehensible plot and excessive action sequences? Ronin is one those types of films and it doesn't disappoint. It's well made and shows why R rated thrillers always are and will be better than PG-13 Bourne copycats.Have to mention the cast first. We have here Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone, Stellan Skarsgård, Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce. They all give good performances which helps driving the film forward. Interesting thing that I found out - the figure skater who gets shot is none other than Katarina Witt. Who's she? If you follow figure skating then you should know that she is legendary figure skater from East- Germany (Twice Olympic champion and numerous times World Champion). The only real bummer about the cast is the fact that Sean Bean isn't a whole a lot in it. I also liked that there was actual use of foreign languages.The big selling point of this film is the action. The car chases are great. They are well shot and flawlessly executed. It's nice to see actual stunts and real cars being destroyed, not that terrible CGI overloaded Fast and the Furious garbage. The shootouts are the classic R rated one with squibs and blood packs, not that digital blood splatters. I really do miss the days of these types of films. No phony tricks, everything is the real deal.The only real problem to Ronin is the script. Almost every single film that is similar to Ronin, shares this problem. The plot is hard to follow with all the double, triple and quadruple crosses. You hardly get any real motivation or reasons why anything is happening and so on. Ronin isn't the smartest thriller because the script sucks and it has a ton of plot holes but that doesn't really matter. What matters are the fantastic performances, action and craftsmanship involved in making it.I recommend seeing Ronin. It's a classic, old school thriller with car chases, bloody, violent shoot outs and awesome cast. If you like these types of films then it's a must see. But if your mind can't accept the lousy script and numerous plot holes, then you probably should skip it. "},{"Title":"This is an action film redeemed from being merely okay by the performances of Robert De Niro and Jean Reno and by the car chases.","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is an action film redeemed from being merely okay by the performances of Robert De Niro and Jean Reno and by the car chases. They made it actually good.This 1998 movie was directed by the able John Frankenheimer and stars De Niro, Reno, Katerina Witt, Natascha McElhone, Stellan Skarsgard, Sean Bean, Jonathan Pryce, and an international smorgasbord of others.It's a story that's been done many times. A bunch of guys who don't know each other show up for a job nobody knows about to steal something that isn't identified. It stumbles a little out of the gate, as De Niro's character is suspicious of everybody and everything, and he's always right. Once we get established, however, things crank up, and we have a good action movie with a great buddy film thrown in. There were several plot holes that gave me pause, but the chase soon started, and plot holes were blown away by action. Frankenheimer does car chases as well as anyone, maybe better, and every time our heroes were in touch with the prize, it was jerked away from them and put on a very fast car driven by a very professional driver. Over and over again. I lost track of how many innocent bystanders were shot, run over, and otherwise killed -- many more innocents than bad guys -- but no one in the movie cared. On to the next chase. Reno and De Niro were very good, pulling the movie into the range of being good instead of mindless. The plot is forgettable, but those two guys gave heart to the movie. There's some kind of samurai stuff that the screenwriters attempted to graft onto the story, but it was a waste of time and had no bearing on the action. They want us to have something to puzzle out, but forget it. Watch for the two stars and the action. "},{"Title":"Good thriller","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is the story of a simple job that got complicated. One the movie starts we are introduced to the character played by De Niro, he is offered a job and it looks like he is the men for it. He know what to do and how to do it at all times. The rest of the cast is great too, what they accomplished here is excellent. There are some pretty good fight and chase scenes that add to the action of the movie but this is more a conspiring thriller, we are continually thinking who is gonna betray who and why and that is what makes this movie worthy of notice. The things I did not like was that the music was awful and it was too long. This is a good movie but not too good, so if you are looking for an action movie but also one something that makes you think why is all happening this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Confusing, but otherwise excellent.","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The car chases, and there are about three intense ones, are excellent. Funny thing is, their 100 mph drives through narrow streets was exactly what I experienced from two Maltese cab drivers in Malta - one from the airport to the hotel and one from the hotel to the airport. Unbelievable - thank God nobody was killed - needless to say, they didn't get a tip. But I digress - the film was very subtle, intense, and fast-paced. I have to see it more than once because I had trouble following all the double- crosses and surprises. I believe this film is much better the second time around. Although McQueen's car chase from Bullitt stands alone, the ones in this film were definitely white-knuckle rides. One thing - this film never lets up. DeNiro maintains his focus as do all the other actors - cold blooded assassins all. "},{"Title":"Patience in the first half eventually pays off.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A solid International thriller from filmmaking legend John Frankenheimer.Ronin stars Robert De Niro as an ex-operative looking for a paycheck. He finds himself teamed with four other like-minded mercenaries under the employ of a mysterious woman (Natasha McElhone). The item in question is a metal case, the contents of which are kept secret. Things don't go according to plan, and after one double-cross too many, the remaining members of the team set off globe-hopping in search of the money and who's responsible. Ronin starts off as an espionage movie, and takes its sweet time getting the action underway. But once the team makes their move for the case, the movie proceedings light up like a Christmas tree. Cue the gunfights, explosions and thrilling car chases (one of which puts Ronin in league with Bullitt and The French Connection as one of the premier car chase movies). It's tightly-plotted, the covert ops are fun, and De Niro is a badass from start to finish.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fierce, Sophisticated Action!!","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I really enjoyed watching this movie many, many times over the years! The plot in Ronin centers on a group of Cold War veterans hired to retrieve a mysterious case without being told what the contents of the case are or the identity of the current owners of the case. The action that occurs in their pursuit of their goal is exciting and well directed without being over produced or outrageous. There are a few gratuitous explosions but it's not like all of France is experiencing a major disaster.Deniro is great as always, and as far as the story itself goes, I believe that its best attribute is that the outcome and plot twists are neither obvious nor so convoluted as to be impossible to follow. The characters are well acted and not at all cardboard. Not really heroes and villains; more like people trying, sometimes desperately, to win without getting killed. "},{"Title":"One of my Top Ten, PLUS  Best Director's Comments Ever","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a class action film with brilliant performances from gifted actors.It's full of great car chases, techy caper process, lots of bullets, intrigue and twists, characters to love, characters to hate, huge emotional punctuations and subtle buddy buddy connections. If you are in the mood to be pointlessly entertained and visually stunned grab some popcorn, sit back, strap yourself in and go for this ride. Watch RONIN and then watch it again while listening to Mr. Frankenheimer explain how he made it. I saw this film when it came out and then again on video and then on DVD and I could watch it once a year like I do Casablanca or Shawshank. (f you liked how you spent your time with this film go see Reindeer Games, Frankenheimer's last feature film before he died which has many of the same elements plus Carlize Theron who I could watch doing laundry and listen to reciting numbers from the phone book) "},{"Title":"Stylish action film is a rare case (no pun intended)","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is an aberration among more modern films of its genre an action film that is actually intelligent and subtle in spite of its gripping action sequences.It is also that rare case where perceived holes in a film's story line may actually be an asset. We are not given all the information we may want, but in the end that is not only irrelevant, but an aspect that actually adds to Ronin's appeal. The minimalist treatment of the details ramps up the intrigue and the feeling that we are witnessing the interaction of dangerous people and events from a world which is hard for the rest of us to understand. What's exactly in the brief case, exactly who the characters are and where they came from is not as vital as just enjoying the ride. That not only includes an extremely talented international acting ensemble, an intelligent script and mesmerizing location settings, but perhaps the greatest car chases in screen history (at least in my opinion). This was one of John Frankenheimer's last films and you can really see the intelligent decision making that went into each shot. A real bonus if you have the DVD is listening to the late director's commentary which gives you an even greater appreciation of that.Featuring a perfect supporting music score by Elia Cmiral, I even enjoy the ending that folks who even supported the film criticize. There's something stirring about the music combined with Jean Reno's voice-over...although I do acknowledge one shouldn't think about it too much! "},{"Title":"Best Car Chases EVER","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie is a huge homage to The French Connection, if not just for the car chases. This movie IS the watermark of this genre. The cast is fantastic DeNiro proves he far from washed up cliché you see in Casino, Reno is brilliant as always, McElhone comes off sharp yet brittle, just to name a few of the great people in this flick. This is action/intrigue/heist at its best and sets the standard, showing exactly what Hollywood can't do in what should be their bread and butter. The story of the 47 Ronin is a compelling metaphor within the film, but most of all, the personalities of the characters are beleiveable and interesting. Actions movies get a bad reputation for being bone-headed and implausible goof-offs, but again, blame Hollywood for that.And the car chase scenes, particularly the Paris one, are far and beyond the best driving and stunt work I have ever seen. Forget pyrotechnics, bullet time, and guys taking 87 bullets without going down- seeing things that obey the laws of physics is refreshing when they can do so much within those constraints.The ticket covers the entire seat... but you're only going to need the edge! "},{"Title":"Heroes","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The shooting skills of Sam and Vincent against the underworld hoods would astonish most law enforcement troopers. Annie Oakley would have been proud of them. But when THEY were wounded, their recovery was miraculously swift. After the sniper shooting of the figure skater in the ice arena, everybody exits in a panic, Vincent takes two rounds in the gut at point blank range, and minutes later re-enters the arena, goes backstage, climbs up high and pops the evil KGB guy in the nick of time before he could finish off Sam, who had just taken a slug in the right shoulder. Physical tenacity like this is unprecedented. Must have been something in those demitasse cups of coffee they drink at the sidewalk cafe joints. "}{"Title":"Brilliant carchases!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Mr. John Frankenheimer's works with car chases is gripping! I also loved his BMW internet film. I was amazed to see the 'making of'. I worked as a storyboard guy for pre-production Recently. I got an opportunity to work on a mainstream film which is directed by a fantastic director in India and I am very thankful for such opportunity! I sincerely believe that the weightage of the characters is justified by such brilliant action sequences. I would be really interested in such work and would keep my eyes open for new international projects. In Ronin, modern day samurais used the cars as their horses! "},{"Title":"Unmissable","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite movies. There is absolutely no doubt whatsoever that it contains the greatest car chases (yes, plural) ever seen in the history of cinema - Bullit, Italian Job, French Connection, etc, etc really don't stand up to this in terms of action, thrills, skills, and tension. It's edge-of-the-seat, nail-biting, and hugely impressive stuff. Guaranteed to raise the heartbeat! But it's not just about car chases. This is story-telling and cinematic performance par excellence. It draws you in right from the beginning and completely engrosses you in the thrills, subterfuge, deception and intrigue. Plus of course there are magnificent scenes and stages for almost every shot. DeNiro for once, puts a bit of effort into his work, and the incomparable Jean Reno gives probably his second-best ever performance (that I've seen) next to Leon. OK, there are some very dodgy accents and Sean Bean, but this is the sort of movie that can be forgiven because it is just so damn entertaining. If you're not gripped from beginning to end then you aren't alive! I could write a book about this movie but then so could most people who've seen it, if pressed. Everyone will have their favourite part and really the only useful thing I can say to you is (if by some chance you haven't seen it already) go watch it! In fact if you like mystery, action and a darn good yarn, or just car chases, just go buy the DVD because I guarantee it gets better every time you watch it. "},{"Title":"A five star thriller","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Great movie! A five star action-packed thriller from the opening scene on right up to the end.De Niro as we love him grim, pensive,the dark warrior caught-up in a tense drama.The continental atmosphere is successfully rendered by the typical settings in which the events take place.Paris is indeed Paris and the ambush that is located in a small French village is totally convincing. Brilliantly registered and breathtaking car chases. The supporting cast is excellent with a special mention for Jean Reno.Both De Niro and Reno have that low-key approach to their acting that is the mark of all exceptional performers. Ronin offers the advantage of capturing the dramatic intensity of the former French film noir while adding an extra thrilling dimension by the use of all the modern techniques of present-day cinema. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review (DVD) Ronin (1998)","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I have a good friend who's been raving about how good this film is, and it took me actually this long to watch it. At its time, I suppose the plot's intriguing, with betrayals being the only constant in a complex cat and mouse game in the streets of France.Robert De Niro plays Sam, a mercenary who joins a band of merry men of various shady background in a mission to grab a metal briefcase from a group of heavily armed men. Amongst the team are various ex-secret agency folks, like Vincent (Jean Reno), Spence (Sean Bean), Deirdre (Natascha McElhone), Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard) and Larry (Skipp Sudduth). Will too many crooks spoil the broth? It plays out like the first Mission Impossible movie in its level of sophistication and mission preparation, although this movie has loads of gunplay, and the best part, the car chases. It's BMWs, Peugeots, Mercedez, continental cars of various makes, making slick maneuvers through narrow streets and along busy highways. Definitely top notch work, without the use of digital technology, but relying on good old stunt driving.The plot might be confusing for some, so my advice is keep your eyes and ears really peeled to what's going on screen. Before you can say Betrayal, it's double and sometimes triple crossings between characters aligning themselves with their various factions, and of supporting characters from CIA, KGB, IRA all working towards obtaining that steel briefcase, whose contents are never revealed.Robert De Niro and Jean Reno pair off really well as strangers forced to work together amidst a world of lies and deceit, and bring about certain flair to their roles and camaraderie. It's an interesting film, a little dated, but exciting enough nonetheless.Code 1 DVD contains an alternate ending. "},{"Title":"A great bit of psychology","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Whole heartedly recommended. The plot is a little lame, with several holes big enough to drive a bulldozer through. However, aside from the ending, which is completely inexplicable, the Franhenheimer and Ziek do manage to actually use the plot gaps to provide twists. Saying that, several of these twists were so obvious that a little more imagination would have been nice, but there were enough surprises to keep you interested and on your the edge of your seat. It is quite a psychological movie and needs to be concentrated on to keep track of the plot.In terms of acting, de Niro, Reno and McElhone are very good (Jean Reno in particular, but since I rate him highly, I may be biased). Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce are a bit weak, but just about acceptable. "},{"Title":"Great when it moves -- chunky Eurotrash  when it doesn't","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A set of international anything if the price is rights (both actors and the characters they play on screen) gather in Paris to plan the robbery of a well protected briefcase.What a mixed bag of a movie. If only the late director John Frankenheimer had studied the film The French Connection and noticed how thrills can be presented in a realistic environment -- rather than a cartoon one -- then we'd have a much better film.There were script problems and it shows on screen. The whole thing is clearly a back of a cigarette packet job -- so how could they run in to problems with that? Just write a list of all the thriller clichés and tick them off one by one? Between these you simply fit a bit of short talk-talk to explain the who, the why and the where. Easy. Sadly the writers think they are above all this and want to get in to Eastern mysticism to make them sleep better at night.It doesn't really work -- and besides the audience doesn't care. Pulp is pulp -- you can't polish it.The car chases and the shoot outs are great -- but we have seen them all before although rarely much better. The chase through the streets of Paris has to be seen to be believed! Cars crash, people get knocked over, fires are started, lorries spin off (to god knows where) but we don't stop for a second to see if they are all-right, we just plough on with the action. Who cares if bystanders live or die this is the morality free age! Indeed in the end we don't care who lives or who dies among the leads. If you live by the sword you die by the sword. File under flashy and trashy and file De Niro under just another overpaid middle aged American actor.  "},{"Title":"Catch this on basic cable","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin was one of those movies I had been meaning to watch for quite a while now. Despite the efforts of Deniro and his talented supporting cast, we viewers are treated to a few lengthy car chases, numerous double crossings albeit hollow motives behind all the pointless espionage. This film does deliver on cinematography and it's a shame that it reaches so desperately to make sense of it's confusing plot. In the end Ronin relies mostly on the momentum of car chases and explosions to make it even the slightest bit exciting. A minor detail that I found bothersome once I noticed, all the automobiles shown in these elaborate and unmemorable car chases have their steering wheels on the American side of the cars even though the film takes place throughout Europe. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" As my summary suggests I think that this is such an underrated film because the more I watch it the more I like it . It is just a very good down to earth action thriller with a bit of noir thrown in and lots of double cross and counter plots flying in all over the place .The one good thing I do like is that it gets you thinking ans speculating in your own mind what is exactly that De niros character has done OK we find out that he came for mcelhones boss but we never find out the complete story also Jean Reno's character runs a lot deeper then on first impression does he know De niro ? from a previous life nobody knows nor will they ever because thats what makes the whole movie we need more films like this and it should be in the top 250 at least "},{"Title":"Organized crime and organized movies about organized crime, like Ronin","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie contains an explanation for its awkward title, which you'll learn if you watch it. The story is one of those organized crime tales where different people get together to carry on an important theft or robbery. I believe that in what is professional organized crime, these people don't even know each other, like in Ronin.When the movie begins several persons go into the same bar. They act very well, and seem like they don't know each other, at least the real people watching them would think that; but we're watching the movie and know they'll get together. The truth is that they really don't know each other, but the people in the business recognize the people in the business.They are taken by Deirdre (Natasha McElhone) to a sort of base, where they sleep and discuss the plan after the break. This woman explains the plan while introducing everyone. She can't tell who she works for; she's in charge of making it happen. The cautiously selected team includes Sam (Robert De Niro), the wise ass who asks a lot of question to be certain of what he's doing.Disturbing events make clear he's the leader, so the ones who follow are Vincent (Jean Reno), the man who gets things; Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard), the computer genius; Spence (Sean Bean); the insecure guy and Larry (Skipp Sudduth); the car man. There are many others, and you can expect the unexpected that meaning betrayals, chases, shots, etc; that we expect in the movie but shouldn't occur in real life.That's what Mamet is for. It had to be David Mamet! It's a great work of writer J.D Zeik for creating the story, and alongside the master Mamet (I don't know why he had to change his name they achieve a great job. They quietly develop all the characters and the general story, putting some more focus in the relationships between Sam and Vincent (great conversations) and Sam and Deirdre (love thing).These three performances carry the movie. I admit that I saw the movie announced, saw De Niro there and read the plot line and thought Umm; Heat&#133; But not exactly because of the story, it was more because of De Niro, and the roles he play, that, leading to my conclusion, always seem the same; but for God's sake they're not! In Heat he was the bad guy, and here he could be the good guy of the bad guys; but that's not the comparison I need to make. I just need to say he's great; as always! Jean Reno's fluent English is something to talk about too. The good thing of the movie is that they created characters from different parts of the world, but Reno&#133;His character learns, grows, and his performance shows this No questions, no answers that's the business we're in, he declares. On the ladies' hand, I've said how much I like Natasha McElhone, and she accomplishes a role of indecision here, where all her actions are committed, and she has to choose whether to make them or not. Very intense things; with the love interest too.What's left is an all-star cast that includes England (excited Sean Bean), Sweeden (calmed Stellan Skarsgad), some legends (Jonathan Pryce in a trivial role) and a director (late John Frankenheimer) who makes all the right calls, leaving us more than satisfied. "},{"Title":"An Under-rated classic ***Slight Spoilers***","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I am just 15, but I believe I have a good taste in movies. Ronin was one of those movies I liked for its story, and not just its action elements. The small bits i really enjoyed. I am sure they could have saved time and money to leave Sean Beans character completely out of the story, he wasn't crucial. To me though, it was parts like that that made the movie, making it seem so believable, that not even the most common and simple jobs in this movie went right. The acting I belived was excellent. I loved Deniro, and Jean Reno. Even Sean Bean, who has a relatively small role, did a fantastic job as the nervous merc wannabe I really enjoyed this movie, and I think if anyone is into movies as much as I, they should give Ronin a try "}{"Title":"A movie that exudes style and class","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a movie that matches a superb cast with an intelligent and well scripted storyline. The lead actors Robert de Niro (as Sam) and Jean Reno (Vincent) supported by Natascha McElhone, Sean Bean,Stellan Skarsgard, Michael Londsdale and Jonathan Pryce combine perfectly and multi-lingually to provide a first class tale of breathtaking action and betrayal. The stylish cinematography, locations and sheer panache of the delivery of this movie make it it a must see! I was particularly impressed by the white-knuckle car sequences that must rival The French Connection and Bullit for the choreography and subnetwork.If there is a question mark over this movie it has to be this...what's in the case? "},{"Title":"definitely one of my favourites","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" i watched this movie for the first time a few years ago and hav watched it quite a few ties since. i find that the storyline is good and develops well especially the friendship between jean reno and robert de niro.when i first watched the film it amazed me and luckily i had bought it so i watched it a few times more and the car chase i think is one of the best i have ever seen in a movie.i have to say it is definitely one of my favourite movies and to me one of de niro's best definitely up there with heat.Mickey "},{"Title":"Good actionpacked thriller, great acting by De Niro and Reno","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" For me this is one of my favorite De niro movies, in particular his way of not-talking/telling when asked to many questions especially by Bean's character in the beginning, feeling he does not like/trust this person.Throwing down a coffee cup to see Stellan's reaction and setting up an ambush with yet another coffee cup this time filled with hot coffee to destract Bean, great.There are some holes in my opinion, in particular the freeway where there car ends up and Price's party down, why not jump down a few meter knowingly that they land in a pile of sand to catch Stellan with the case?But overall a great movie with one of the best(directed) carchase in film history, near the end of the movie doing it all over again with a second great chase.My vote 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Worth the watch","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I read over the previous commentary, and I agree, but not about the score. Score was brilliant; reflected the situations and their underlaying meanings. Every movement in this film, had some significance and just as much upfront as it did in it's suggestion and metaphore.The one thing that caught my attention other than the cast, was how they used heavy weapons to take out the 'case carrying group'. I'm no weapons expert, but if I was in Nice and saw some guy pulling out weapons that could take out a tank, I'd sure be impressed and... well, run. It not only makes a point, but makes the roleplayers and writers in the audience gasp with excitement.I'm wondering if there was any interviews done with Katrina Witt. I'd like to hear from her on how she got that part, who was beat out, and what she thought of the film...There's more, I'm sure, but I'll leave it at that and place it in my top 15 of all time movies to watch. "},{"Title":"A Taut, Stylish Product","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is good for what it is a structured, by-the-numbers product of the heist thriller genre. However, it is a stylish, sometimes exciting film with a few notable features that separate it from others in its pack.The direction of the action scenes - most notably the car chases - has tinges of brilliance that could only come from the attention and care of a director like Frankenheimer, and the exotic European locales are a welcome change of pace from the familiar southern California back lots. I also appreciated how Ronin studies the state of its expatriate characters. Even though the ensemble's trade is amoral and compensates with more money than most of us will ever see, it becomes easy to empathize for these mercenaries who cannot officially go home again. Unfortunately, the emotions are not as strong as they could be the cold, severe direction of the acting may be justified, but it still prevented me from fully connecting with the characters.Ronin is not much more than a manufactured genre flick with a little something extra. It is a something extra that may enliven during and encourage reminiscence for a while after, but I would not count on the feelings and thoughts to last for a very long time. "},{"Title":"Why oh Why will Hollywood not make all movies as good as Ronin.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Why can't Hollywood make more movies like this? This movie has everything- amazing shootouts, realistic carchases, good plot line, great actors, amazing direction, etc, etc, etc. The only movie that has com eclose to how good this is in recent years is The Bourne Identity, but that was still not as good. Who cares what is in the briefcase? We are watching this movie from the point of view of the Ronin (De Niro, Reno, Skaarsgad). It is not important what is in the briefcase. On his commentary Frankenheimer does an excellent job of how he wants this movie to feel as though it is real and he does not want to insult the intellect of the viewer. Bravo John Frankenheimer, too bad the world will never get to witness another film as great as Ronin. Although he did some bad one's, hey we all have to pay the bills, Ronin is on my top five best movies ever made. I just have a few more comments 1. To all those who do not see the connection between the Ronin samurai and the Ronin in this movie, don't worry. Just turn it off and go watch The Rock or The Italian Job- movies that do not expect you to think and are just fluff- action movies for the whole family if you will. 2.Please, Please, Please, Please make more movies like Ronin. Why had J.D. Zeik not been given a multiple picture deal with some studio, why has Mamet not collaborated with him more on other pictures, and why can't a movie come out like this once a year rather than once a lifetime. Anyone who wishes to discuss this movie feel free to post something yourself. Oh Gods of Hollywood movie making please give us another movie that is as good as Ronin.  "},{"Title":"Samurais under fire.","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin stars Robert DeNiro and is directed by John Frankenheimer. In this case, the main characters are considered to be somewhat of Ronins, meaning someone like a samurai, without a master.DeNiro plays a guy named Sam who takes a mission in France. Jean Reno plays a guy named Vincent from France and them two are the main characters for a big part of the movie. The employer, who is an Irish woman, assembles a team of 5 men and they meet each other from different cultures, DeNiro being American, Vincent being French, and so on. For the next 4 weeks, they're being paid $40,000 to retrieve a briefcase of some importance from the employer's enemies. The suitcase is needed by the Russians, the Irish, and so on. Later on, ignorance comes from the woman by not telling what's in the briefcase and they want even more money for the job. Tensions flare when any small suggested plan turns out to be a possible ambush and Sam takes care of it accordingly. The story continues to play out well. The finale is awesome.Overall, Ronin is a definite see if you're a fan of DeNiro. It's a sly classic killer of an action ride, filled with tons of thrills, car chases, gun scenes, chase scenes, car crashes, explosions, you name it; what more could you want from a DeNiro film. A great, well-done DeNiro movie from '98.My Rating 8.5/10 (A Mid 8.5)Eliason A. "},{"Title":"who cares about the case?","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is about the best action/crime movie I have seen in a long time. The cast, the car chase, the suspense (De Niro didn't reveal himself until the last chapter) and the story are all top notch. One little twist I liked the most was that the movie never lets you know what is in the case. some people find it annoying, or think of it as some sort of loophole. I like it because it allows you to use your imagination. The case could be some mini nuclear bomb, or some secret weapon's design, or something the CIA leaked so that Seamus would take the bait and surface. There are so many possibilities, and the contents of the case is of no importance because De Niro's target wasn't the case, it was Seamus, that I don't even bother to guess what's in it. Anyway, I really enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"One Thing...","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The One thing that drives me insane... They never tell you what's in the case! They spend the whole movie trying to get the case, and they never tell you what's in it. Brilliant.Anyways, the rest of the movie was pretty good. The Action was okay, the car chase excellent, and the plot good. I thought that the Characters were well developed, but the movie had a couple of Continuity errors, I found. But the errors were easy to overlook as the next action sequence started. The Car chase, I must add again, was one of the best I have ever seen in a movie.All in all, It was a good movie. I give it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Another almost-great film...","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I first heard about 'Ronin', and it's premise, back in 1998, I was excited.Here was the director of two of my favorite films, 'The French Connection II' and 'The Manchurian Canditate' making a comeback, in a gritty espionage thriller, set in France. Many reviewers heralded 'Ronin' as John Frankenheimer's return-to-form after such clunkers as 1996's 'The Island of Dr. Moreau' (remake) and limp would-bes such as 'The Holcroft Covenant' (1985).'Ronin' was good, but it wasn't great. When I saw it the first time, 6 years ago, I had a couple of nagging problems with the film, but now I can only boil it down to one-and-a-half. As a nominally 'gritty' caper film, it really fails to establish a firm 'sense of place'. Sure, it's set in France, and sure, I watched and listened to Frankenheimer's commentary about camera-coverage, 3- and 5- shots when working with an ensemble cast. While most of these actor-centered elements were covered reasonably well, Frankenheimer really didn't make proper use of the cities and towns he was shooting in - Paris, Nice, Villefranche, Arles - or establish these characters' relationships to them - to those PLACES - as well as he might have.Granted that my comments come from the point of view of someone who's independently spent time in both Paris and Provence, but over all, Frankenheimer essentially homogenized France here - about half the film, the exteriors, were shot on location, while the other half was shot on a sound-stage. That is/was the first mistake For someone who avows an interest in a 'documentary feel', he betrays it, almost entirely. The obvious flip-side to this is Frankenheimer's use of Marseilles in 'French Connection II', where he made a point of capturing a lot of the grit and grime of a city that continues to creep me out, whenever I visit it in person. Not so, in 'Ronin' - the streets of Paris, etc. are always clean, even when they were in the sketchiest neighborhoods, that almost certainly don't get a regular cleaning. In a sense, Frankenheimer et al. never really got out of the studio with this film, as it was so entirely limited to the limited universe that the 5 or 6 protagonists inhabited when they were together.Unanswered questions - Who are they working for? What's in the case? Etc. - are fine for thrillers like this, but Frankenheimer really failed to give these characters an existence outside of their criminal caper - and the little café scene at the beginning of the film is *hardly* enough to sustain the 'foreignness' of the location for the duration of the film. All of the principals - Reno, McElhone, DeNiro - all seem to have a reasonable familiarity with either Paris or France in general - AND a need for alternate Parisian locations to eat and sleep, yet none of this is supported.My point here is that previous and successive films in this genre work well because they communicate a very strong sense of quotidienne (everyday) existence outside of the 'caper', and gave the viewer a sense of _place_ *before* the criminals disrupted that fabric with their violence and other exploits. Other examples of good script/location work in this genre include Alan Parker's 'Midnight Express' (1978), the entirety of Neil Jordan's output ('Mona Lisa' 1986), 'The Crying Game' 1993, 'The Good Thief' 2003) and Stephen Frears ('Dirty Pretty Things' 2002, 'Sammy and Rosie Get Laid' 1987, 'The Hit' 1984). In short, the precedent that Frankenheimer laid-down 23 years before was virtually ignored in this, his 1998 film. Even the craptastic remake of 'The Italian Job' (2003) managed to convey a sense of foreign location - Italy, France, etc. - so what went wrong with 'Ronin'?Perhaps, the failure of this film should be lain across the threshhold of the script-doctor - David Mamet (e.g. failure to shore-up a promising script) or Frankenheimer, since many of 'French Connection II's conventions were borrowed from William Friedkin in the originating film. But both arguments should be entirely moot, considering an entirely new generation of filmmakers have capitalized upon the 'script/location' paradigm that Frankenheimer helped to create - Roger Avary, in 'Killing Zoë' (1994); Doug Liman, in 'The Bourne Identity' (2002); Guy Ritchie, in 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' (1998) and 'Snatch' (2000); even Tony Scott made good use of location coverage with 'Spy Game' (2001), but he is categorically *not* a GenX filmmaker. *SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD*The film really stutters in the final half-hour, with the conclusion at the Hippodrome. Frankenheimer had all of Paris at his disposal - many, many of scenic streets, public plazas, unique architecture and a labyrinthine subway-system - yet he chose to frame the conclusion of this well-traveled tale inside a sports-arena, which could have been shot in Cleveland, OH if not L.A. In this way, the specificity of *place*, which Frankenheimer worked - however tenuously - to establish in the film's previous 90 mins. is all but evacuated. And thus ends our interest in 'Ronin' as an 'international' crime-caper.  "}{"Title":"Best DVD Commentary Ever","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  John Frankenheimer, the Director of this fine movie, through the DVD commentary proves he was a master of his craft. The commentary set the standard for all others. He walks through the film scene by scene, explaining how he shot it, and why he made the choices he made, such as the film process that was used, angles and edits. His enthusiasm through the car chase scenes was noticeable and exciting, and you could hear his disappointment and regret when he had to use a green screen background in one of the scenes. Everything he said was relevant to the film.When I listen to other director commentary, they talk about inane banalities, like what they had for breakfast, and what color shirt they were wearing. John Frankenheimer's Directors Commentary is for those who appreciate the craft of film-making. He was a filmmaker's filmmaker. The film itself was excellent, but the commentary really made it great. The film community lost an absolute master when he passed.  "},{"Title":"yet another clever spy movie","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  SPOILERSIn 1998, Robert De Niro, released his last big action movie before he began to joke with his previous works. The year before 1999's Analyze This, De Niro featured in Ronin, a clever, if slow starting film, featuring a good basis of actors and a brilliant plot.In Ronin, De Niro plays Sam. Sam, a former CIA Agent is in Paris to earn some money working for some unknown clients. Introduced to Vincent (Jean Reno) and Deirdre (Natasha McElhone) the contact, De Niro is told to retrieve a package being transported for sale to the Russian Mafia. As the film progresses, De Niro's Sam is placed in harm's way on countless occasions leading upto a quick moving finale.The Ronin from which this film receives it's title are explained from the very start. When a Japanese Samurai's master is killed, the Samurai becomes a Ronin and lives for nothing but to revenge his masters death. The link between the Ronin and the characters in this film, from what I understand, is that De Niro, Reno and all the others involved with the operation are former Government employees without direction. Working in effect without a master, these men hire themselves out as mercenaries and never ask questions.The plot of this film is actually very good. Whilst it does contain one or two severe loopholes (never actually finding out what is in the case for one), it contains enough car chases and violence to keep the audience occupied. With De Niro in the lead role, this film has a sense of dignity, and this is then also helped along the way with the inclusion of Jean Reno as well.Ultimately though, whilst this film does climax well, it does infuriate with the previously mentioned loopholes which annoy slightly. Added to this the enourmous number of twists and turns which serve little but to confuse and it has a stumbling block. Whilst De Niro and Reno are their usual brilliant selves, with Natasha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce as two Northern Irish terrorists, the film has a small problem in that their Irish accents grate on the ears. Finally, and most infuriating of all is how long the first thirty minutes feel. Whilst the second two thirds of the film fly by, this first part which focuses on characterisation and development of the original mission is slow and tedious and is entirely likely to bore. This is a shame, because Ronin is a film worthy of attention and keeping focused on. The reasoning behind this is that whilst it does feel slightly overrated in other reviews, it does remain a decent action movie with some brilliant scenes and some brilliant characterisation. It's just a shame that it takes so long to get going. "},{"Title":"Fabulous fun","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a moody, subtle film. It is not a typical hollywood film. It features a great score which propels the film through some of its slower, more cerebral sections. Some people have criticized Ronin for being too slow, and I will admit that it can feel a bit that way at times. The rest of the time, it is breakneck action, technically very well accomplished. I like the balance. Seeing this group of rogue agents plotting the capture of a much sought after briefcase is great fun. There is a gritty realism and deliberate pace to this film that is not often seen in hollywood films. It is however the relationships between the characters which sets this film apart, especially for a film in the spy thriller/action genre. Great sets, lighting, acting, sound. I love this film!    "},{"Title":"Intelligent, But weird crime thriller.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has a stunning cast, no doubt about that, and the brilliant acting is imho what keeps the movie alive, the directing is also well done, while the script at times is dull and confusing, but overall i guess works out pretty good.The movie seems inspired by De Niro's former movie, Heat, in many ways i could draw comparisons, that's not a bad thing, although this movie is not as good as Heat, even though they lean across each other, this one came after Heat, which makes Heat the original one right )Anyway i think De Niro once again shows in this movie that he is absolutely one of the best actors alive today.Also the directing in the movie is well done, and it turns out as a very mysterious movie, especially in the start where everything appears to be a secret, the first half of the movie is very exiting and you want to get more information, but then a little around the middle, the movie stands still a bit, maybe a bit to long, because this part is partly boring and that is what i think takes the movie down a bit, because from there the plot twists becomes obvious in a way and somehow predictable, only surprise i had was De Niro's employee, which was well hidden in a way, although there were a few setups.Next time try not to stall the movie in the end you can make a more exiting movie a la Heat. Dont get it wrong though, this is still a good movie, just seems a bit like a Rip Off, but definitely worth checking out if you are into the genre.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought Ronin was brilliant. The casting and characters reminded me very much of Quentin Tarantino, in that it was a series of brilliant characters, in a rather sticky situation. DeNiro proved that he does not have only one character, and Frankenheimer also is a true artist. The 1950's film Grand Prix was truly revolutionary. Many of the same techniques were used in this film with the car chases, of which there were many. The level of research, concerning the samurai concept, was very good, and the opening scene holds a great suspense, the only character I did not like was Deirdre, played by Natascha McElhone. The actual character was fine, but less could be said for the standard of acting. Either that, or her character was very cold and serious. Either way, I came out of the film feeling very enlightened, which is usually a telltale sign of if a film is good or not.Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"There is something","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Although the plot itself is not that great, there is something in this film that made me watch it several times. An atmosphere, perhaps. It is being played in somewhat imaginary world, that makes it close to a fairy tale. I would say, the film is about loneliness, when you can no longer find your place in the changed world, something great and important has disappeared, so you are doing odd jobs, any kind of jobs you could be suitable for because of your past expertise, and the only thing you have left is to look up for some amusement while trying to survive further.Also, there is a great car chasing scene that beats the mock-up in the Matrix 2. "},{"Title":"DeNiro and Reno open up some cans.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  An elite cell of renegades and mercenaries are hired for an elaborate plan to steal a briefcase, containing something very valuable from a wealthy, bald Frechman. What's in the case? Who knows, but apparently it's extremely valuable as those who pursue it do so at all costs.Possible SpoilersI enjoyed watching DeNiro and Jean Reno together in this film together. They had a chemistry that just seemed to work, although that would be hard to predict having not seen them in anything together before. Ronin is basically an above average action film with only a few Hollywood-ized explosions created to wow the audience, which is forgivable because of the characters involved. It's a fairly simple story, but it doesn't need to be complex. The whole movie centers around the quest for the unattainable case, which begs the question, `What the hell is in the damn thing anyways?' Well, don't expect to find out, because the film never reveals that, but that's ok. I'd like to think it was filled with gold from a leprechaun. But whatever floats your boat.DeNiro easily pulls off his role as an ex-CIA agent, now merc for hire because he's just a bad mofo, and Reno does a great job as well as the team's gopher in France who can acquire anything they may need. I thoroughly enjoyed the French setting, which provides some excellent chase scenes that get fairly claustrophobic on the busy streets. One of the chase scenes features an Audi A8 equipped with nitrous oxide&#133;..I want one. Santa take note. Not your typical DeNiro film, but still thoroughly enjoyable. An above average action flick that shows intelligence. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film, highly recommended.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  First of all, Ronin is NOT one of those non-stop gunfights and explosions kind of action movie.  Anyone who expects such will likely be disappointed. That said, the movie works incredibly well without such an over-the-top Hollywood style.As many of the previous comments have mentioned, (both of) the car chases are stunning.  The same can be said for all of the gunfight scenes in the movie.  Frankenheimer does a wonderful job of keeping the action gritty and real without straining credibility too much.  In fact the entire film keeps plausibility high (with only a slight blip at the end).However that alone does not make a good film.  The script is well crafted and mostly stays away from conventions, keeping you guessing at each allegiance shift and plot twist.  De Niro and company, especially Jean Reno, are first rate.  Still, the most impressive bit is the way that the interaction between each of the characters (De Niro and Reno in particular) keeps the movie moving and suspenseful during the slower scenes.I just watched Ronin for the second time and I suggest that anyone who liked it the first time should watch it again.  Some of the lines that I didn't fully understand the first time around (ie. the scene between Reno's elderly friend and De Niro) became a lot clearer after I had viewed it once already. I also think that this is one of those rare films that actually gets better and seems more impressive the more you view it. "},{"Title":"Vrooom!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has a decent plot and great score with stunning locations and the some of the best car chases ever commited to celluloid. You can see the adrenalin in those driver's/actors eyes for real.  Not the best film in the world but highly recommended. Easliy one of the best from '98. "},{"Title":"Director's Commentary is great","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I loved the movie but rather than repeat what so many comments already say... I'd like to draw attention to the Director's commentary on the DVD. Frankenheimer walks through the rationale behind each sequence and many of the shots. It's like Film School 101; a pleasant departure from so many commentaries that dwell more upon the actors and personalities. "}{"Title":"Rehabilitation","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What do I mean by rehabilitation? Several things. John Frankenheimer's reputation as a director. The dignity of the car-chase picture- degraded and degraded by the Michael Bays of this world since the heady days of Vanishing Point, The French Connection and John Frankenheimer's own French Connection II. Most importantly, though, this film rehabilitates speed.It was in the early hours of the 31st August, 1997, that Princess Diana and Dodi Al-Fayed took a late night spin in a Mercedes and ended up dead in a Paris road tunnel. The effect on popular culture of that pair of deaths was immense, but little recognised until now was its sobering effects on that most vital, most urgent, of cinematic forms- *action* cinema.Suddenly it seemed for one grim moment that action would forever after be represented either as an out-and-out cartoon- I mention that word 'Bay' again, which might as well be four letters long- or in the grim mortuary style of Steven Spielberg's 'Saving Private Ryan'.Then Frankenheimer rescued it. Mamet-honed dialogue and crisp, TV-style plotting reduce a complex espionage thriller to only its most important aspects- the tip of the iceberg, subplots and character motivations simmering below. Action, speed, and a joy in movement more reminiscent of dance than drama are brought to the fore. Cars crash and smash and we laugh with glee- we have reclaimed our thrill at speed, our childlike delight at destruction.Performances are average, especially from an extraordinary cast. Accents make one wince, rather undermining the intended cosmopolitan flavour of the whole piece. But the action - pure cinema- that takes up so much of the running time should stand forever as an example of what film can do that no other artform can. The film mesmerises despite itself. Almost as good as Porky's. "},{"Title":"Not Just a Car Chase","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I bought this DVD mainly for the highly regarded car chase, expecting the rest of the movie to be rather ho-hum.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I am not a huge Robert De Niro fan - sorry.  I don't dislike him, but his presence in a movie hardly makes it a must see.  The pleasant surprise is that De Niro doesn't dominate the film, and instead is part of a well-balanced cast of fine actors, many of whom are unknown to American audiences.  The standout performance is by French actor Jean Reno as Vincent - the one member of an assembled team of mercenaries that De Niro's character respects, and vice-versa.  The two make an engaging team, throughout the sometimes predictable and often unpredictable double-crosses.  The plot is vague and begins with little fanfare and no boring intros - a group of mercenaries - portrayed as Cold Warriors whose jobs have been phased out (hence the title) - are hired by an intermediary to steal a briefcase.  While a lesser film might be all about what's in the case, this one is about everything else... and the better for it.  I watched the entire film without prejudice, and at times found myself comparing it to The Manchurian Candidate, in my opinion the greatest Cold War film of them all.  It was only after the end of the film, I realize that Ronin, like Manchurian Candidate, was also directed by John Frankenheimer.  I'm glad I watched the film without knowing this in advance, so the comparisons came about naturally and not by looking too hard for them.  Oh yeah, the car chase!  There are actually two of them, one short one earlier in the film, and a longer one - both are intense, fast, dangerous, and although lacking the legendary Bill Hickman, they do stack up well against classics such as Bullitt and The French Connection.  I must admit, it's difficult to do anything new in a car chase -- so what is done must be done well, with intensity and realism and a minimum of cuts or schlocky slo-motion takes or unlikely pyrotechnics.  The car chases, and the other action scenes in Ronin deliver in spades.  The overall tone of the film is closer to another old car-chase classic, The Seven Ups, in which even at the very end, you aren't sure exactly who were the good guys and who were the bad guys... or why.  I rate it 9 out of 10 for holding my interest, an atypical De Niro, and a strong supporting cast without the benefit of star power.  "},{"Title":"So close to being so good","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Something about the movie captures me, and I watch it over and over.  But that doesn't make it a good movie.  There are better movies that I never want to see again.  Why does this one grab me?  Entertainment.Yes the movie lacks plot, that much is evident.  The ambiguities fail to incite curiosity or even confusion.  The Maguffin of the case seems more like a cop-out than a suspense-builder.  But the action is some of the most solid I've seen in a long time.  It is coherent and exciting.  The perfect antidote to Bruckheimer's standard shake-the-camera-and-it'll-look-more-exciting. The shots are mostly steady and cleverly set up to best present the action.The authenticity of the action is also something that speaks to me.  Too often are new cars driven like older cars in famous action scenes.  In Ronin they showcase advantages of modern cars speedy fuel-injected pickup, precision handling, and outstanding performance in low-traction situations. And the weapons are wielded with great authenticity; used as they should be used in real life.Each action sequence has a well-defined plot.  Indeed, better than the overall plot of the movie.  You know what each character wants and it is clear how they are going about getting it.  Which brings up another point While the plot is muddied by gaping holes, the ambiguity in the characters works very well.  I lean towards attributing this to the wonderful cast, but could have also been the work of the director or even the original script.And because of the weak main plot, it's easy to pick up on if I happen to come across it on TV.   This definitely contributes to the re-watchability and gives it a very comfortable feel.  After watching it the first time, the movie feels like an old friend.The movie succeeds in my mind because it is entertaining, and continues to be entertaining each time I watch it.  But in the end, no one I've spoken with can call it a good movie in the strictest sense.  It fails for obvious reasons.  It is close to being a great movie, but only close. "},{"Title":"A murky European underworld thriller looks east for inspiration","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A curious hybrid of modern action thriller built on the principles of classical Japanese mercenary honour-codes, this picture succeeds by not looking to explain everything at the moment it happens, despite the popcorn muncher audience demographic. The film does cater for this movie-goer (i.e. me! bring it on) in spades, bringing a Samurai sophistication to the vibe of the movie if not the sequences.But there's a film noir pathos, in the form of Robert de Niro's particularly cynical hired hitman that gives the whole show some depth. The whole briskly paced melee is brought into a strange tension by the spiky go-between Natasha McElhone getting the hots for de Niro's Burtonesque anti-hero; this boils over from the business to the personal as Jonathan Pryce's baddie begins to personally intervene as the job gets botched. de Niro is good, as good as in Heat, his conventional action-flick predecessor to Ronin. Pryce's cold-blooded fiend is what you wish he had been in Tomorrow Never Dies. The other characters are well taken; Sean Bean is particularly effective as the desperate but green ex-serviceman.The film is well shot and, in the spirit of equality features scenes with the product of almost every major European car manufacturer! But why??????? does Frankenheimer sanction CGsmoke for a wheel-spin as the first car chase gets underway? We notice it John, and it's cheap! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, saw it in the theater","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Yes, this movie was great.  The chase scenes, the plot, Bobby D's character was excellent.  Not to mention the supporting cast.  It kept you entertaining throughout the whole movie.  Not many movies have come since that i can remember being so entertaining. "},{"Title":"The best car chase in the Real World","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  And yes, that was a nod to Matrix Reloaded.Unlike the most recent pretender to the car chase throne (Bad Boys 2 has yet to open in the UK), there is not a single CG shot in the mind-blowing Parisian Pursuit.There is, however, ultimate realism. Actors are filmed inside the cars while they're being driven (or towed) at three figure speeds. More or less every available racing or stunt driver in France is employed for one mindblowing shot where our leads pile head on into traffic. And we're not just talking the traditional beep and swerve of the Hollywood genre, but two cars weaving their way through thirty...The ironic thing is that the modern channel zapping audience won't ever get to see the chase, because it comes almost at the end of a very deliberately paced film. Frankenheimer directs his actors brilliantly, playing out lengthy scenes with just a handful of shots and letting the performances of his cast shine through.Aside from the action sequences, this is very old-fashioned movie making from an old school director. On the basis of this film, I've discovered the masterpieces in his back catalogue, such as The Train, and The Manchurian Candidate.Perhaps, after watching Ronin, you will too. "},{"Title":"Smart Action---7/10","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is one of those few action movies that is intelligent and has explosive action scenes. It follows a group of expert thieves who are paid to steal a suitcase but are not told what is in it. The Paris car chase is one of the best i have ever seen. Robert De Niro is great as usual and the movie also has a great supporting cast. Jean Reno and Sean Bean are excellent while action master John Frankenheimer directs the awesome action sequences which will blow your eyes out of your head. And in what has to be one of the most maddening twists ever, they never tell you what is in the suitcase. That might be a good thing, because whatever it was probably wasn't going to be worth the trouble. It would either be something obvious like money or evidence or something completely ridiculous like a signed Barry Bonds card. So in a way, i am glad i don't know. The movie is exciting from start to finish and has twists galore. Anyone who likes action will get a kick out of it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The best action movie ever!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is the best action movie ever.  It is very realistic.  The car chase scenes are real, innocent people get in the way, it is how things really would happen.  You don't have to suspend your disbelief watching this film. "},{"Title":"nice smooth action","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  movie has a very strong smell of Mission Impossible. although this one is done more... i don't know.. professional? it starts as some boring nonsense and then there is a smooth transition (buying weapons) to intense non-stop action. you ain't gonna see another 2 minutes where no one is getting killed until almost the end. of course everyone would agree the best part in the movie are care chases. they are incredible. not even Matrix Reloaded's highway scene can compare. plot - 6 (too standard) actors - 8 (de niro is the man) screenplay - 7 (too little curses) sound - 7 (mp5 doesn't do that kind of noise) visuals - 7 (good explosions but we need more blood and limbs getting ripped off though) stunts - 10 (there is some really amazing stuff) movie is basically more violent and adult version of mission impossible. "},{"Title":"Sean Bean","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  So it's heavy. you got some big guns in this film and its full of more twists than a mcflurry. And its very multinational. Nice european feel, something to make us proud.Its intense and i mean intense. But sometimes not so great. I like this film alot and i love the cast. i would give it 8 outta 10 but if you want something lighter watch Taxi.ONE OF THE GREATEST CAR CHASE SCENES EVER!!! "}{"Title":"great car chases","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  i've enjoyed this movie everytime i watch it.  i have yet to find any movie to rival ronin's car chase scences (the transporter and the bourne identity).  how can you beat a seven minute car chase scene going the opposite direction of traffic (which has recently been used in other films)? quailty acting from good actors, DeNiro/Reno, helps quite a bit too. only problem i had with this movie was that it was very confusing.  not until i watched the movie with director commentary did i fully understand what was going on.  yet that was the late john frankenhemier's style, to not tell you everything.  if you want a movie with good solid action and speed from european cars, check out ronin.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film, one of the best.","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" One of the best action triller films I have seen in along time. Robert De Niro & Jean Reno are at the best here. It is films like these that should win Oscars. This film had a exellent story line with action somewhere around the corner. The car chases are the best, the one with Robert De Niro & Jean Reno in the Peugeot 406 driving wild through Paris on the wrong side of the road. Truely brilliant. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I dropped my samuri sword in Paris!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  RoninThis film is an action drama with a theme from ancient samurai warriors known as Ronin that more or less applies to this film. Three Days of the Condor carried some of the themes of this film with agents not knowing who to trust and being displaced from their usual positions of employment, although without the comparisons to ancient warriors. Ronin is an enjoyable; some say great, action, suspense, spy type drama that is tightly directed by John Frankenheimer. The premise being that an assemblage of operatives, former agents of various governments now in post cold-war adjustment, are hired to form a group to obtain by force an unknown item in a silver metal case. Their mission objective is clear until after the daylight effort to secure the case involving gunfire, and some amazing low angle car chase scenes through narrow Parisian streets.  Just as it appears to be a success the plot begins to become more complex. There are betrayals, switchbacks and De Niro's character Sam looking for revenge and also to complete the `mission'. It's a convoluted tale that even has Russians involved, those former bad guys and now resident gangsters of modern Europe. Finally the twisted plot begins to simplify after nearly overwhelming what could have been a more straightforward story and we almost learn what the hard sought after item really is.Early in film as the group plans and defines itself by the initial operations we learn more about each member, Robert De Niro as Sam, Vincent, played by Jean Reno are closely allied by a sense of shared professionalism, Sean Bean, as Spence the loose cannon and weapons specialist, shows us more of the intensity he had in patriot games Skipp Sudduth as the quiet, solid, skilled driver and apron wearing cook, and Stellan Skarsgård, the technical former East German agent make up the group of ronin. We also meet Natascha Mc Elhone who plays Deirdre, the mysterious liaison between the group and the unknown person who hired them. This is the only female interest we get in the film and she carries it off with quiet intensity and an understated obligatory romance scene with De Niro.French Cinematographer Robert Fraisse, a former camera assistant in 1962 on Orson Wells' The Trial, is excellent in his shots of brightly lit outdoor scenes or shadowed interiors. His experience in European films has helped make the beautiful settings even more inviting and the car chases are some of the best seen yet.  There are some comparisons to be made with `Bullitt' and `The French Connection' car chase which was not nearly as good as this scene set in narrow European streets, but for years the French connection set the tone for car chases in film.I enjoyed this film-much more in the first half but no worries-you still want to see it. While the film didn't exactly conjure up scenes of feudal samurai fighting to the death and committing seppuku if still alive, the over obvious collection of samurai figures was not lost either. This film seems to have lost its way somewhat, denigrating into a Bruce Willis action extravaganza but still wrapped up at the end with the samurai triumphant and yet their true nature and destination still shrouded to viewers. What was in that case anyway?   Perhaps it was the original tight and less complicated script?  Maybe.....bgbdesign "},{"Title":"Brilliant ... and very European.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant and highly crafted.  Some think de Niro was in a 'trough' when he made this film; instead, I feel he is -- quite simply -- exceptional and REAL, as always.Filming is superb.  Cinematography pushes the envelope.  Even the sound is well thought-out (note the scraping of the ice skates in the scenes near the end -- and the realistic pistol sounds during the climax in the parking lot, the innocuous pop-pop).  Car chases right out of EA Sports video games (my kids love 'em, so the chases MUST be good, lol.  Especially de Niro's parking-brake technique in the Paris chase scene).  Locations are delicious; thank you, John Frankenheimer.And, stellar performances from * Stellan Skarsgård (quite a contrast from Good Will Hunting, 1997); * Sean Bean (who first impressed me in Patriot Games, 1992, and continues to do so); * and, of course, Skipp Sudduth (our beloved 'Sully' from Third Watch, 1999-).Sarcastic overlay of base animalism over Europe's sheen of ultra-intelligentsia is especially appreciated.  If you've ever spent some time living in Europe (as I have), you'll enjoy whenever a non-European (ie de Niro's character) brings the stuffed-shirt intellectuals of the 'continent' grinding back down into the dust of reality.  Yet the banter in French (w/English sub-titles) near the end between the Michael Lonsdale and Jean Reno characters is exquisitely ... I don't know ... RIGHT.  It's better than had it been translated into English.I wish that Jean Reno could appear in many more English-language films; he is the best from the land of 'vin et fromage' since Gérard Depardieu.  An appropriate Gallic partner to the quiet and intelligent American represented by de Niro's character.Best line  I once removed a guy's appendix with a grapefruit spoon... (de Niro's Sam).spoiler followsIn the end, we don't care that we never discover the true contents of the silver case.  Very John Le Carré, thus; de Niro is today's Richard Burton (Spy Who Came In from the Cold, 1965), at least in THIS film; t'isn't the plot that counts ... it's the struggle. "},{"Title":"DeNiro, Reno, 100mph cars down medieval streets!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I, too, saw this movie because of De Niro, and came away wanting to see more of Jean Reno.  One of the best parts of the movie, for me, was the developing friendship and respect between their two characters.  The car chase scenes are incredible - racing down impossibly narrow streets in Caanes, Arles, and finally in one of the same tunnels in Paris where Princess Diana was killed.  Michael Lonsdale as Jean Reno's old friend was a scene-stealing part - remember him as Inspecteur Claude Lebel in the 1973 Day of the Jackal?  Lonsdale's made over 100 films - mostly French with only a half-dozen English titles in the list.  He explains the term Ronin in a wonderfully played scene with DeNiro.  I was not at all put off by the infrequent four-letter word - seemed to lend verisimillitude.  Look for Sean Bean as the mercenary with a problem.  He along with everyone else never put a foot wrong.  This is one of those Frankenheimer films that, like Seven Days in May, would come across just as well in black and white.  I bought the DVD, so should you. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There are lots of car-chasing, gun-wielding, package-stealing movies out there and, to be fair, this film doesn't really add anything to the genre (is there a car-chasing, gun-wielding, package-stealing genre?).What it does have is a very good story line, which focuses more human relationships and how the betrayor can become the betrayed. It features some fine performances, especially from Sean Bean (although it's not very clear what his character adds), Stellan Skarsgard and the ever-watchable Jean Reno. Robert De Niro, however, probably wouldn't rate this among his materpieces. The locations really add atmosphere to the piece and of course there is the car chase. Not as long as Bullitt and perhaps not as spectacular as French Connection, I really liked the low angle used during a lot of it, which made you feel like you were in the driving seat.The plot is a bit labyrinthine, but worth sticking with - the twists and turns will keep you guessing all the way to the end.This was the second film I purchased on DVD having originally bought the video tape (the first was Léon - spot the connection) and the digital picture and sound really comes through on it. As a bonus feature on the DVD, there is an alternate ending, but I'm quite glad the director stuck with the current one for general release. Although not a classic piece of cinema, it is a thoroughly enjoyable way to spend a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Thrills, Spills and squealing tyres","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has got the best car chases ever filmed. They're ultra cool, hi octane and with plenty of tension. So if this were the only thing good about this film then that would be good enough. However it also a has a brilliant plot about a team of freelancers that don't know each other, who have to retrieve a briefcase (the contents of which isn't revealed) for Irish girl Natascha Mcelrone. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno both give top performances, and the whole plot moves along at a slick pace, with the two awesome car chases proving the highlights of the film.So great cast, great plot and the most awesome car chases ever filmed all add up to a brilliant action thriller. "},{"Title":"uh no...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  My apologies across the board. I wouldn't waste my time on this one. We waited and waited but nothing ever delivered. Yes to Jean Reno, excellent supporting actor. Tongue in cheek, uh overall, no..... "},{"Title":"Overall a Great Movie","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw Ronin I expected it to be another corny spy movie but it wasn't. The plot was pretty well put together and their was suspense. I must say that Sean Bean played a rather wimpy guy which he usually doesn't do.I really liked the plot because it always made you wonder what was in the case and made you wonder who was double-crossing who. the end left me with a few questions but I wont post them here because of spoilers. I could see a sequel being made in the future but its unlikely.The acting was great. Robert De Niro turned in another great performance, it seems he usually plays the same type, a guy who is careful, Smart, and tough. I also enjoyed Jean Reno. He adds some European flare and can be funny. I was dissapointed that they didn't give Sean bean more to do, I usually enjoy his movies but his character was a wimp.How can I forget the guns, cars and fights. The car chase scenes were brilliant, and the gun fights weren't half bad either. I especially liked the scene where they actually try to get the case, in Nice. I recamend this movie to anyone who likes a good spy, sort of who done it film. That is if you don't mind guns, car chases etc. This was a fun and enjoyable movie. It left me with some questions but overall I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I liked the movie.  But there was one thing that I noticed that you may not have.  The great car chase through the tunnel going the wrong way ended when Reno (is that his name...) shot the tire of the other car.  This in turn caused the car to FLIP!  I watched it several times to check.  There is him shooting tire...There is car flipping.   Did one cause the other?  I think the movie would have us believe so.  (It's bad enough that movies have cars exploding when they get dinged in the parking lot by a shopping cart, but this is just silly). "}{"Title":"terrible soundscore","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  and that´s not the only thing, it´s really just another movie saved by De Niro´s performance and admittedly, some nice moments with the Norwegian actor, but overall, this movie belonged in the sixties or even fifties to be thrilling AND the way the story was handled had to be revised, I mean, there were buildups which didn´t get any followups, but instead went flat on their face (and personally I did not particularly like the way the title was explained, I mean, this should have been more pronounced, ronin Sam who turned out to have a mystical master to serve after all and ronin Vincent who has to commit sepuku? come on!) "},{"Title":"A superb and intelligent action thriller.","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is one of those films you will want to watch time and again, like Saving Private Ryan or the Matrix, it is action packed and the acting of both Jean Reno and Robert de Niro is simply fantastic. On that note, Robert de Niro plays the part of 'Sam' the ex-CIA man brilliantly, and the way he and Jean Reno relate on-screen is a marvel to behold. Other points to mention, have to be the car chases, driving the wrong way through a French tunnel takes your breath away. Without spoiling the plot, there are several exceptional and intelligently written set-pieces including gun-fights in a Colosseum and another with a group of arms dealers. Sean Bean is well cast as the 'weapons-man' who is not telling the 'Ronin' the whole truth, and the other actors all give well-rounded performances to make this an action-thriller worth watching. "},{"Title":"So.... what's in the case???","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Inquiring minds want to know! Maybe the case is full of Hershey's Kisses. Maybe the case is empty. Maybe the contents of Al Capone's safe is in it. We never do find out. But in the end, it doesn't really matter, because this movie is more about style than substance anyway, so forget the case, and just let yourself be entertained by the stylish settings, the noirish, moody acting and dialogue, the preposterous car chases, the horribly over-the-top gun battles, and the appearance of Katerina Witt as a Russian (!) ice skating champion.I like this movie, it is fun and entertaining in a sort of James Bond 007 sort of way (well, it IS afterall a spy movie, so it's hard not to make comparisons to Bond films). It's much, much darker than a Bond film though, although, oddly enough, Robert De Niro's character throws around enough corny wisecracks to enliven things, maybe even put a guilty grin on your face.I personally could have done without quite such elaborate car chase/gun battle sequences... although they are nicely filmed, they seem way out of step with reality, and seem to have been concocted exclusively for sensation and effect rather than for any real contribution to the story. That being said, for those viewers who really get into that sort of thing, they ARE great car chase scenes. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are simply two of the coolest dudes around. In fact, I think Jean Reno is even cooler than De Niro, but don't tell him I said that. Natascha McElhone (Deirdre) is beguiling and dons a fantastic Irish brogue... could she maybe have kissed the Blarney Stone more than once? And the filming locations are worth the admission price alone. Nice is nice. Hope to visit there someday (only hold the car chases and the gun battles, si vous plais). "},{"Title":"What was finally in the suit case ?","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It´s not one of the best thriller I love and it´s not more than average. The script is not very hot but the car chases or some good special effects balanced it again. One thing is great and this is that the director chose the nicest places in France to realize the action scenes especially at the Cote d´Azur. But this is quite all I liked in the movie. The end was disappointing and I expected more suspense but there wasn´t enough for me. And then what the hell was finally in the suit case? I think this movie is too overrated and I would give it not more than 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Fast Ride Through Europe","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie is underrated. The plot line and acting go deep and the script is excellent. If you like car chases, then this movie is a must-see for you. The sets are beautiful and the scenery is breath-taking. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are superb. 9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the best action movies ever made!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a must see movie for action lovers! This movie packed with excellent car chases and actions, thrilling and very realistic. I felt being in the movie myself. The story maybe was not that great, but just like other action movies, the actions are important. And this movie offers that a lot throughout it. "},{"Title":"Repetitious scenes, mediocre acting, disappointing ending","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  With its several action and chase scenes, Ronin is a movie that is quite thrilling in many parts, but which leaves you somewhat dissatisfied after watching it. I attribute this to the cliched characters and the basic story, which is not really a story, but rather a justification for all those chase scenes. The latter are entertaining at first but become redundant very soon, and you wonder why the film repeats itself so often. After so many car races, shootings, and fights in crowded locations you are eager to know the true reasons and also the contents of the mysterious case everyone is after, but the film ultimately lets you down. I understand that this film wants to depict fraud and deception in the first place, but this should not be done at the expense of a more profound plot. Most of the characters are also stereotypes you usually see in cheap made-for-TV movies You have the cool, tough woman leader in a man's world, the cold-blooded, greedy German, and the experienced, super-smart and super-resilient ex-CIA man. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno's performances are good, but no way special; they are playing parts they have played many times before with more passion and depth. This movie is only recommendable if you're a fan of car chases, but not if you want to see an intriguing, complex thriller. 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, with incredible car chases","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  An interesting, thoughtful flick, that avoids getting _too_ caught up in philosophy.  The car chases, particularly the one featuring the Renault and BMW M5 screaming through Paris, are unbelievable.  It does run on a little at times, but well worth viewing (and owning - this is a DVD I'm happy I bought). "},{"Title":" Robert De Niro shines in his role","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the grittiest films of the last ten years, best car chase scenes ever put on celluloid.   Shot entirely in Paris and the South of France.  Great scenery.  Ending is a little weak, (Katerina Witt plays the part of a doomed professional ice skater) but acting is all around first rate.  "},{"Title":"Realistic action with lots of depth","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Director Frankenheimer is both a Francophile and a car nut, and he combines these two interests very effectively in this post-modern soldier-of-fortune thriller. De Niro is very solid, as is the rest of the cast.Frankenheimer's commentary on the DVD is a terrific education on the many decisions a director has to work through, and his rationale for the choices he made. "}{"Title":"Excellent action movie","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's a cliché, but they just don't make them like they used to. Ronin is the proverbial exception to the rule. Ronin is a pure action movie, made by a veteran director. It has a great international cast, featuring Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Jonathan Pryce, and others. The plot is fairly straightforward - but it's far from simplistic. A group of mercenaries gets hired to steal a certain suitcase - but of course things are never that simple. Soon, the plot thickens, etc.One of the things that set this movie apart is its setting. The movie was filmed on location in France - in and around Paris, as well as in more rural settings - which lends the movie an original atmosphere.As others have mentioned, the action scenes are handled brilliantly. The car chases may be the best since Bullitt - and in my humble opinion, they surpass it.This movie is highly recommended. If you like action movies, you just *have* to see Ronin. "},{"Title":"Real action film","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film may one-up even Bullet for it's car-chase scenes.  Because it is such a well done action film that also has a plot, it stands as one of the greatest actions films.  The Seven Samurai is without a doubt, the best.You can watch this movie again and it remains fresh.  That is the true test of a good work.  It has acting, story, and believable action that may bore those who like things served to them with garish garnish.If you do not want to think, if you prefer sensationalistic action, you may not want to see this film.I vote for more movies like this.  "},{"Title":"Superb action movie","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  An action movie blessed with an actual plot and outstanding acting. Car chase scenes are the best ever filmed - even better than those in Steve McQueen's Bullit. Any action film buff is missing a real treat if they don't see this movie! "},{"Title":"Labyrinthine Thriller","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Frankenheimer's labyrinthine thriller marks a welcome return to form after a number of lean years, characterised by such poor films as 'The Island of Dr Moreau'. At his best, as in 'Seconds' 'The Manchurian Candidate' 'The Train', 'Black Sunday'(which it most resembles in mood) and so on, the director is expert at managing tension and manipulating action across a broad canvas.'Ronin' shows many of these characteristics as a dream pairing of Reno and de Niro join forces, professionals in search of what Hitchcock once fondly termed a MacGuffin (any item of desire used as a trigger for continuous dramatic excitement). The said item here is a shiny suitcase which may, or may not, contain a bomb, precious stones, drugs -or anything. True to Hitchcock's credo of suspense, Frankenheimer uses his own MacGuffin as a dramatic device, triggering the action and driving motivation throughout the film without even bothering to reveal what it is at the end.The chase is the thing, rather than the thing they chase. 'Ronin's 100 minutes or so contain several car pursuits which in staging recall those famous from 'Bullett' or 'The French Connection'. The plot of this film is complicated to say the least and has been described in all detail elsewhere here. In more general terms,'Ronin' aims at a division in its drama familiar from (for instance) some classic Westerns interiors are full of unresolved tensions and psychological conflict, while exteriors commonly consist of action and resolution. The excitement of the car chases, in other words, those several high speed duels where danger is clear cut and immediate, contrast and balance the convoluted plotting in rooms.Particularly noteworthy is the noirish opening, de Niro lurking outside a French gaff as well as his 'boathouse' exposure of Sean Bean's flaker. In a particularly strong cast perhaps only Jonathan Pryce is slightly underpowered in his role as an Irish terrorist, while this viewer at least felt that Stellan Skarsgård's part (incidentally one of Von Trier's preferred actors) would have been even better in the hands of Udo Kier or Stephen Berkoff.Interestingly the term 'ronin' is explained twice in the film once immediately after the opening titles and once to the recuperating de Niro. In a film which apparently prides itself in holding back information from the intelligent viewer, this repetition is mystifying, a flaw reminding Me of the heavy-handedness of Jarmusch's 'Ghost Dog'.A good film never the less, and unlike many contemporary action thrillers, one which benefits from convincing dialogue and an intriguing story line that stands several viewings. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Rousing, enjoyable and well acted. This movie had a solid plot and plenty of action and none of the sequences seemed extraneous. I agree with the other assessments, an action film for the thinking man. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An average movie with long car chases","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've just watched Ronin, and I think the movie was an average experience.First of all I think it's unrealistic that a CIA-agent knocks out French policemen. I don't think that the French would co-operate with a nation that has agents who risks the lives of the French policemen.The movie is about average, it has some very long car chases, but if you like these, this movie is one for you.I would rate it 6/10. - I prefer the action movies with Arnold Schwarzenegger when it comes to pistol fights like the ones in this movie. "},{"Title":"The French Connection Between Robert De Niro..","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin was a great movie.I loved the action and actors..Robert De Niro and Jean Reno were amazaing..but i think the plot was far fetched.Sean Bean had a bit role which he deserved more and Robert De Niro was in a role not sutied for him.The femal role was great i forget her name but she was great.The Street chases through the narrow streets of France were not that exciting for me.Ronin was a great movie but need more i give it ** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Seems I have to go to France soon...","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ...just to visit Nice, Arles and Paris. Everything in this movie looks as if it could really be happening, now, just now in France. The special atmosphere of Ronin is created by the total lack of any attempt to have an atmosphere. And so, it looks more realistic than anything else, even the action does. Of course, the movie is a little long, but it makes the time count. And the solution of the suitcase content is very good You could say, they all died in vain, just because you don´t know.Robert de Niro Here, he´s cool. Jean Reno Quite as good as he was in Leon. The cars 80 of them were ruined by making this movie - OK, that´s enough.Finally One of my Top Ten. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking action-flick.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Having to review Ronin, the first thing that comes in mind are the breathtaking, awefully well-shot car-chases.  When I saw this movie in theatre and I experienced the cars speeding through the narrow streets of old European towns, my mouth actually felt open and I couldn't but wonder how the hell the director had managed to get this fantastic yet realistic spectacle on the silver screen. I mean, I was just gripping my arm-seats and -unconsciously- swinging my body from the right to the left, depending on the manoeuvres the cars were making on-screen. But of course that's not all needed to create a good movie.  I liked the acting (which was believable and realistic all over the line), the settings (since I am European the streets and cars were very realistic to me) and the story. I sincerely hope I'll get to see some more action-flicks of this calibre in the near future  believable and extremely thrilling. "},{"Title":"Could have been a full 10, but...","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Having to watch two long car chase scenes too similar with each other is not a bonus, but rather a turn off. However, I will still recommend this movie to anyone who likes GOOD action films (as opposed to say... Cliffhanger, or something else that has paperthin plots and poor acting / actors shunned by giant explosions).The suspense stayed all through the movie, even if the ending was a bit disappointing to my taste. De Nero did (once again) an excellent job at acting. The plot is rather good, keeps the movie flowing in the right direction. Take away that 2nd car chase or even shorten it by minute or two, would make this film one of the true gems of its genre. As it is, a good movie to watch.  "}{"Title":"Well above average heist movie but a bit stupid at times","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is firstly a good, enjoyable movie. It's well above the average dross that Hollywood normally serves up to us as entertainment. It features a great cast and is, in some ways, a fairly intelligent heist/action movie.Acting DeNiro is doing nothing he hasn't done a 1,000 times before in this role but it's precisely *because* he does such characters all the time that he's so good at it. Jean Reno is equally capable of matching deNiro on screen and they form a nice relationship that doesn't grate. The other actors are all acceptable although not outstanding.Plot The plot is decent, but not dripping with originality. Look it's a terrorist organization. And look it's the IRA again and the Northern Ireland situation depicted with all the lack-of-knowledge Hollywood is so good at. The double crossing is amusing and makes sense - these characters aren't exactly on the side of angels are they?  The action sequences are great fun too and, it must be admitted, feature the best car chases of any movie I've seen from the 90s. Which is saying something. On a down side to the plot it gets a tad ridiculous when, over the course of the movie, approximately half of France's population gets wiped out in the various car chases and gun battles... it's a tad over the top (though adrenalin pumping)Directing Very competent. The chase scenes are done particularly well with the cameras mounted to the front of the car to give you the feeling of speed. It's what helps lift this movie up that bit more from the other dross. Oh and nice touch making people in France speak *French*. Take note Kiss of the Dragon...Overall I'd recommend this movie, especially for fans of the heist genres or those who like car chases. You won't be bored ever and will spend an enjoyable couple of hours viewing it. "},{"Title":"An absorbing and intriguing thriller, didn't want it to end.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is simply a masterpiece of fliming, along with The Assigmnet, it makes you think, and it's set pieces of action are essential to the development of the story.The cast is simply first rate, Robert DeNero, and Jean Reno are simply brilliant. What separates Ronon from others in a genre of boring usual sterotypes is the fact, of it's brilliant direction, casting, writing and acting.I simply cannot get enough of this flim, the mere fact, that like The Assignment, it engages your mind, always wanting to know what will happen next.10/10 A must for being part of any flim buffs collection. "},{"Title":"so-so, at best....","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I love a good car chase in a movie, maybe even two of them.  After a while the novelty wears off though, no matter how good they are.  They are excellent in the movie as well.  Unfortunately the story is rather weak.  I am a person that cannot tolerate double crosses and plot twists.  There aren't a lot of plot twists, just a lot of double crosses.  After one, I don't mind, but by the third and fourth I have just lost interest and don't care anymore.  The story isn't special, on top of the excess of double crosses.  If you love car chases you'll be sure to enjoy this movie, as the car chases are fantastic.  The first fifty minutes are excellent as well, but it just starts to drag after that.  Nothing special.  6 out of 10.  It killed a couple hours.  "},{"Title":"Classic car chases and superb ensemble acting","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Most action flicks are dominated by a star and very rarely do you see an ensemble effort that is uniformly satisfying.  Perhaps because the heroes in Ronin have souls as checkered as the villains, it makes the movie all the more compelling to watch.  It's about time that a movie shows standers-by getting injured/killed because that's what happens in real life!  The car chases are guaranteed to make your knuckles white and I can watch them over and over.  It's Bullitt updated to the 1990s and Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno are ample replacements for Steve McQueen.The acting is really amazing.  DeNiro plays his comfortable wry, weary man of the world with a past, but it's always exciting to watch him perform, particularly when he has an equally charismatic cast to play off of.  One question where have I BEEN to never have seen Jean Reno?  The man is amazing and nice on the eyes as well! ;)  His wry and quirky Vincent paired with DeNiro's Sam is an acting tour de force.Overall, Frankenheimer has made a caper/espionage masterpiece where no one is safe when opposing forces lock horns, not even those usually lucky pedestrians.  A thrill ride of the 1st degree. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not an inspiring movie, if that's what you're looking for.  8/10","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great movie that I enjoyed.  It's been a while since I saw it and don't remember much, but it was full of action.  Don't be dissapointed if it doesn't inspire you, if that's what you're looking for.  It's one of those action films, but now I don't watch those often.  I rather watch serious drama films. "},{"Title":"The Best Car Chase Movie Ever Made!!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well, I don't have much to say about this movie. However, two things come to my mind. ONE, it's the best car chase movie ever made (really, it is). Only this, makes it worth seeing. It seems that the rest of the scenes are there just to warm you up for the next car chase. Forget Gone in 60 seconds, The Fast and the Furious and others like (unless you're keen on tunning). TWO, it combines the american tecnology and know how with the european scenario and charm. Oh, by the way, an espionage movie starring Robert De Niro and Jean Reno... need I say more? Enjoy it! I'm sure you will. "},{"Title":"This is a good film but confusing in places!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The main character in this film is some form of an ex-secret agent kind of guy who you don't really understand because he is one of those bruding, keeping to himself person who gets hired to get a breifcase. I got the basic story line and that is that they have to get a breifcase which you don't know what contains (Like in Pulp Fiction) from a bunch of baddies who are organized by guess who Robert De Niros' arch enemy. I mean don't directors have any originality!? There is some really good action scenes in th film like when there chasing a car down some mountain roads and blows it up with a grenade launcher and flips through the air (a bit like in Mission Impossible 2!) and flies off the edge of the cliff. There is an iceskater in the end who gets shot if he doesn't get the breifcase to the baddie man. The iceskater still gets shot because baddies are baddies and can't be trusted silly people. The Ronin title is a Japanese term for a Samurai warrior who becomes a freelance mercinary. This is a good film and I recommend seeing it.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre Actioner","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Car chases are good but plot and token samurai links are rather pathetic. de Niro is okay in this but he's made too many average films recently; maybe he needs someone like Scorcese to get the best out of him. The alternate ending on the DVD is one of the worst endings I ever seen, it's unintentionally v. funny. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An incredible action picture","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  De Niro blows up the screen in this excellent, well thought out movie.It has everything, Action, car chases, blood, gore! Perfect for any guy with a beer! the only drawback and it is minor, is that the storyline takes a while to devolop, but none the less, an excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Frankenheimer","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Having seen RONIN you wonder Where has John Frankenheimer been all those years? Of course he has been working steadily. But were his projects the right ones for this master story teller? He could have contributed a lot more. All those car chase scenes make you relive the frenzy predecessors of the early Seventies, e.g. BULLITT or THE FRENCH CONNECTION. Every minute of it is more exciting and terrifying than all those digital dinosaurs of our days. And you notice A great film director must be able to produce a good car chase. Even Spielberg once knew this (see THE SUGARLAND EXPRESS). Of course This is a very masculine movie. There is just one woman, and she is not a sweetie and certainly overshadowed by all those high calibre super machos around her. But there is no ridiculous so called actress who ruins this movie's credibility.There is also no ridiculous love story. And there are no ridiculous sex scenes. In short This is not the right movie for teenage movie goers. Stay at home - and leave this movie to more mature people. Because what counts here is intelligence. Rarely to be found in Hollywood nowadays, but it is possible. Nevertheless RONIN is full of nail biting tension. So what more do you want? Finally This movie is so cool. It never wants to overwhelm you, with the exception of its visual force. Thank you, John Frankenheimer, for this one. I can't get enough of it. "}{"Title":"What is in the case","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  the question that drives you in this film is  what is in this case ?. like in pulp fiction this would not be told truely. but anyway this movie has the most terific car chase scenes i have ever seen on a movie. the plot is changing several times in this movie. this keeps you watching. every time you think you got it all figured out, the writer of this film pushes the plot in an other direction. jean reno and robert de niro are playing terrific.all in all  watch this movie. it is a masterpice. "},{"Title":"An excellent more-than-just-a-caper-film film","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is an excellent film that starts out very reminiscent of a caper movie (like Rififi or a serious Ocean's Eleven), but then takes a number of turns that keep the audience guessing as to what is really going on. The end of the Cold War is a major theme in this film, in that the former operative on the Cold War battle lines now must sell their services to make a living, much like the masterless samurai that the movie takes it name from.DeNiro is excellent as the main character Sam, and he plays well off the equally-excellent Jean Reno.  This is definitely one of my favorite films of each actor's oeuvre, and is definitely worth a watch by any film fan. "},{"Title":"This is how car chases SHOULD be done.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Some movie car chases make you go 'Ooh' and 'Aah'. In this film they make you go 'Ouch' and cringe. Cars pelt down tiny back streets, skid through pedestrian-choked markets, and the many, MANY crashes are handled with bone-shattering realism. This is how car chases SHOULD be done.Alongside the gob-smacking chase scenes, the plot is smart and handled with style, disarmingly simple while requiring you to keep track of a large number of allies and villains. The ensemble cast are all excellent (dodgy Irish accents notwithstanding), and DeNiro and Reno underplay their roles to perfection.Perhaps the ending, deliberately low key in comparison to the film's action sequences, is a touch too understated and reflective, but overall this is a great film. There really should be more like this.  "},{"Title":"Loyalty is bought, betrayal is a way of life...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The script of 'Ronin' is first class right from the start. This is one of Robert DeNiro's best roles; as Sam, an ex-CIA agent on the run, and Jean Reno's performance as Vincent, a fellow operative is also commendable. The plot, which involves the safe retrieval of a top-secret briefcase, soon turns nasty, and double-crossing becomes the name of the game. Stellan Skarsgard makes for good company as a German operative, and Natascha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce are there to ensure no-one gets the case. The french locations are absolutely stunning, and the terrific car chases fit in nicely with the scenery. A first class film, which uses its intelligence, and is guaranteed to please audiences with its many action set-pieces. Another film which I recommend is 'Bullitt' (1968), because of its many splendid car chases. "},{"Title":"Fast and Cool","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've never seen a better car chase scene in my life. To bad the Oscar's don't have a category to award amazing action. De Niro was amazing as usual, it's unfortunate Jean Reno does not do more action movies, he's one of the best. "},{"Title":"Incredible believable action-flic","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is an example of a great action-movie, that could have beenbotched up. The reason why it was not botched up, was of coursethat the scenery was not located in the USA, but in Europe.When viewing other action-packed movies you often can get theimpression that such things only take place in the USA, and morespecifically in NY or LA.The reality style, and the setting of this movie, creates an intenseway of thrill &#150; that makes you realize that Queen wasn't so far offwhen they sang &#133;sitting on the edge of your seat&#133; This isdefinitely true about this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best action films ever!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is the ultimate action film! Start with an *amazing* cast, each one practically born for their roles! Robert De Niro is excellent as always, in a purposefully understated role as the main man Sam. Jean Reno basically played Jean Reno, the quirky 'tour guide' Vincent. The under-rated Stellan Skarsgård was brilliant as the back-stabbing Gregor...Skipp Sudduth, who I don't think I've ever seen before, was also excellent as the unassuming driver/chef Larry...Sean Bean as the know-nothing gimp, Spence, the charismatic and fiery Natascha McElhone as Irish brigand Deirdre and of course Michael Lonsdale as eccentric Frenchman Jean-Pierre. Throw in the luscious Katarina Witt as a Russian skating champion and we're off! I don't think a single cast member could have been better...The thing that hits me most about Ronin is the realism. From the strong though under-stated dialogue (especially De Niro's lines) to the utter disregard for innocent bystanders (which always bugged me in Hollywood films...would a villain in a car chase really swerve to avoid a pedestrian??) it stayed real. There are ricochets, bad shots, worse luck, strong tacticians and utter morons (go Spence!! &#145;Ambush?? AMBUSH? I ambushed you with a cup of coffee!!!'), this was well-paced (fast and slow mixed well) and action-packed, but not over-heroic or ridiculously inhuman. And it was all done without excessive gore or bloodshed. No overdramatic explosions (and when there was an explosion it was always handled realistically) and one of the coolest car chases I've ever witnessed (watching it on video is cool, but on a big screen it's jaw-dropping...and you can *almost* not tell it was slowed down;)Throw in characters getting injured, and a lack of a Hollywood ending (no cheezy, evil romance, and life goes on...) and we have ourselves an instant classic. Frankenheimer is a very up and down director. His good efforts are *good* and the bad ones are *bad*. This is one of his best films. The whole title tie-in; the code and the honour, the realism and the story, an intriguing and intricate plot...I just can't praise it enough.Overall This is not a perfect film. There were a few very minor flaws...if only you couldn't tell the chases were slowed down, for example. And after all my talk about a perfect cast, I'd have liked a better Seamus perhaps, or a better Mickey. (And what WAS in the case????) But I'm nitpicking. There's really not much to be improved on here. An easy 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Supreme actioner. Intelligent plotting, brilliant direction","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have watched Ronin countless times. It's one of the few films I will pull from my DVD shelf when I want to get engrossed in something familiar and entertaining. And yet I still find myself being surprised by it. It's main draw is the direction Beautifully shot in France, it captures a quality of lighting that makes each frame resonate with poetry and depth (and this, mind you, is an action film!). Couple that with the fact that Frankenheimer loves depth-of-field shots where things happen simultaneously in three planes (foreground, midground and background) and you get an idea of why the eye and the imagination rarely get bored with this film. The acting Has anyone ever mentioned what a great buddyactor Robert DeNiro is? He elevated Charles Grodin's performance in Midnight Run to such a degree that you actually cared about him -- I like Grodin, but he's not generally a great actor. In Midnight Run, he was. DeNiro has even more to play with in the perrson of Jean Reno who is indeed a great actor. Still, Reno's never had as much range and depth as he does here. Strip away the complex plotting and the romantic C-plot, by the way, and this is essentially a buddy film. Another brilliant turn is offered by Stellan Skarsgaard. This guy, in my opinion, is on the order of Olivier and Brando (though his style is more intense than the former and more restrained than the latter). Skarsgaard, no matter where he is in the frame, is never anything but fully inside his character. I read a previouscomment about the fact that the car chases are reminiscent of 1970s movies. Excuse me, but is this a bad thing? Here at last are car chases done without trick photography or digital effects. Indeed, Frankenheimer not only utilized actual Grand Prix racers for the stunts, he made the actors ride along inside the cars during the chase sequences. I have thrilled at the chase scenes in French Connection, The Seven Ups, To Live and Die in LA, Bullitt, etc. -- believe me -- these are the best you are likely to see. And, I'm afraid, they may be the last film to include these types of scenes now that Hollywood has discovered the desktop computer. Are there any weak spots? Yes. NatashaMcElhone, while beautiful, does not match the energy of the direction or of her costars. The plotting, while intelligent, is in some areas incidental. It's no problem that the contents of the case remain a mystery, but setting the penultimate scenes in the ice skating arena temporarily saps the film's momentum, and the voice over dialogue attaching current events in Northern Island to the machinations of the plot was awkward and superfluous.  "},{"Title":"Action and a good storyline as well, not bad.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is not just a good action movie this has a plot as well and some damn fine acting.Robert De Niro gives what you would expect of him, a great performance. Jean Reno also does very well and these two are really the main two characters in the movie. They go well together, they have good chemistry and like I said before give great performances. But the acting throughout this movie is good, Jonathan Pryce is quite good and so is the rest of the cast. Maybe suprisingly so is Sean Bean. He must have been over the moon when asked to be in this film with De Niro.The car chase scenes are worth mentioning as well. Brilliantly done, looks amazing, among the best car chase scenes I've seen in a movie.If your an action movie fan I don't think you'll be disappointed and if you're into thrillers then I think the plot is just good enough to hold your attention as well. "},{"Title":"Two episodes of The Sweeny.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film was a major disappointment.  It felt like two episodes of a 1970s cop show.  Two great car chases do not a movie make!!  And they are great but the rest of the film just drips along wasting a great cast, and what on earth is Sean Bean up to?  He is there for about 5 minutes and could not do enough research to figure out the Boathouse at Hereford is Blue, or the more realistic response which would be I couldn't give a s**t!!  Most of the Army and Air Force guys I know from there would go for the latter.  Oh well, many people I know really enjoyed this but if you want a good movie avoid, if you want an adequate way to waste a couple of hours, knock yourself out!!! "}{"Title":"Under rated film","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is unusual in today's action market in that this film requires you to think. Although there are holes in the plot, the unique mood and superb cast create a strange need to see this film several times. I believe the chemistry between DeNiro and Reno deserves another re-teaming of these two. A sequel to Ronin would be great but probably won't happen. Also I liked the alternate ending on the DVD copy better than the original in the released film. "},{"Title":"One of De Niro's worst!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  In this movie, one of De Niro's worst, John Frankenheimer once again shows us that he is way past his prime, which was in the late 70s-early 80s with movies such as the superb Black Sunday. The plot is uniquely incoherent and unless you are turned on by myriads of car chases, this wannabe-suspense thriller is definitely one flick you would like to miss.IMDb rating 5/10  "},{"Title":"The movie was great, the DVD is even better!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Though Ronin was great on tape, and the car chase scenes were some of the best I've ever seen, you really should see the DVD. Frankenheimer explains the intricacies of every scene, and explains why he never tells us the answer to the question we all want to ask during the whole movie, What's in the box?. Watch the DVD! "},{"Title":"Amazing Car Chase, Bad Movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The first thing I noticed about this movie was that the sound was terrible, it sounded like everyone was mumbling. The acting was all right for an action film but I expected better from De Niro and Reno. The only thing that really stuck out in this movie was the car chases. They were in my mind the best ever filmed. A lot of people would argue that The French Connection or Bullit were better but this was by far the best I have ever seen. Only see this movie if you are a car chase fan. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie finally has real good car chases and LONG ones too! Like the first has a Mercedes, 2 Peugeots and 2 Citroens and an Audi S8 (VERY NICE), and the 2nd chase has a BMW M5 (1991 or 1992), and a Peugeot. That is great. But the second chase didn't have any ramming but it was fast-paced. And the plot was great! This a Great Movie! "},{"Title":"John Frankenheimer gives us the most intelligent suspense thriller in recent memory, and there's still plenty of action for those more testosterone-prone among you.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  In John Frankenheimer's 1998 suspense thriller Ronin, a group of individuals with special skills is brought together for a one-of-a-kind job. They are offered a tidy sum of money to steal an object from a wealthy, and heavily guarded, party. The object is a case, and its contents are never revealed. The identity of the party holding the case is never revealed, either. But, for purposes of the story, this is not important. The band of men gathered to pull this job are relics of a different era, each applying different skills and methods in order to accomplish their individual tasks. There is a preface to the film which explains the meaning of the word ronin. In feudal Japan, samurai who lost their lord became, essentially, without purpose or alliance or, ultimately, without meaning. Cast out from the only world available to them, they wandered the country until they could find some shred of familial connection to ally with, or they committed hari kiri (suicide). In the year 1998, long after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of world wars, this group of specialists are truly ronin, relics of another time struggling to find purpose, and living from one job to the next.While this may sound like a scenario for just another action flick, it is far from that mundane misanthrope. Director Frankenheimer (The Manchurian Candidate, The Birdman of Alcatraz, Reindeer Games) trimmed away the fat of background errata and left us a compelling, intellectually stimulating cinematic treat. The characters are introduced slowly and tantalizingly, allowing the viewer to be pulled in while also permitting multiple layers to build. The result is a masterpiece of double-crosses, misrepresentations, and surprises that never fails to entertain.  "},{"Title":"What kind of audience are you?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When IMDB gets 295 comments posted on a movie, you know this one is going to be controversial. What you are going to get from this movie is very much dependent on what kind of audience you are.At the most basic level, this movie has one of the best car chase scene ever shot. If they can only make this chase into a VR ride.If you are a casual cross puzzle fan but won't do the tough clues, then you are in for a hard time. This is not a movie to watch with your brain in the `off' position. If you like the hourly detective show on TV with everything neatly tie up in 50 minutes, forget it. Don't bother with this film. You will get all steam up by `what's in the suitcase? what's in the suitcase?'But if you are tired of all the run of the mills junk on TV, and you are willing to put in a little brain time, then this one may appeal to you. If you are an aficionados who is knowledgeable of movie intricacies, then you will really go crazy over stuff like plot devices, reference and inside jokes.The casting in this movie is solid. Most of the stars were reprising characters they had played before; such as Jean Reno `in the Professional' or Jonathan Pryce in `Tomorrow Never Dies'. Robert De Niro again shows why he is in such demand. He is both star and team player. The scene he had with Michael Lonsdale is a gem. Set among little figurines of ancient samurais, both men quietly discoursed about the heart of the movie. What drives men to kill others? Or even themselves? Can the pursuit of an ideal (loyalty) allow some room for deviation (betrayal)? Morality at its simplest, at its most ambiguous.Of course a movie with only two men having a dialogue in a study full of Japanese dolls will bore even the most hard core audience to tears. So the use of the action / adventure sequences to dramatize the dilemma of the individuals in extreme situations was very effective.The entire film was very well crafted from smoky evocative entrance to explosive gunfight. Aerial shot of a drive through southern France to hostage taking in an ancient coliseum. Of course the car chase through the streets of Paris should be rank as a classic in cinematography.So if you just want a good thriller, just fast forward to all the action parts. If you like to savor a thought provoking work, once will not be enough. Bet you are going to hit the replay button again and again and again. "},{"Title":"Action sucks....this doesn't.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I hate actions.  I hate action movies more than any other genre of movies.  But in this case, I am making an exception, this is a great action movie.  I bought this movie one night having no idea what it was about, and having no idea who else was in it besides DeNiro.  So I went home, popped it in the good ol' VCR, and watched it.  This movie is amazing.  Its beautifully filmed(in England I might add).  The casting is superb.  The car chases are the BEST I have ever seen in a movie, even better than in chase in The French Connection.  The story is great, all though it is basic, and sometimes over used, Frankenheimer uses it in a different way.This is a thinking mans actions flick.  There's alot of clever situations and dialogue slipped into the script. Characters (DeNiro's especially) are clever and play tricks on each other regularly. Watch the entire first scene for some examples you probably missed.  People don't realize it either, because I read a lot of reviews on this movie where people just say that there is no boathouse at Hereford, which there isn't, and thats the exact point Frankenheimer was trying to make.  Don't assume that this script was written by an idiot, its just clever.All in all, this movie is pretty good, one of the best action flicks out there because its not pretentious, its one of the more believeable action movies I have seen in a long time.  Next to Heat, this one goes down in the books as one of the greats.  ***1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Intelligent action flick that goes too far","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was an unusually intelligent (probably because David Mamet had a hand in the plot) action film, with excellent performances and beautiful location shots in Paris, Nice, and Arles. The problem is that Frankenheimer didn't know when to stop. Consequently, the action sequences are not only over the top but preposterous. Siskel and Ebert long ago pointed out the chase scene cliche of having a car involved in a chase hitting a fruit stand, thus sending fruit flying all over the place. This film also borrowed from To Live and Die in L.A. and have two cars in a chase going the wrong way down a freeway. And so on. If Frankenheimer had reined himself in, this would have been a genre classic. "},{"Title":"Great car chases let down by the rest of it","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There is no denying that the sight of cars driving ludicrously fast around the streets of Paris and the French Riviera is both exciting and highly watchable. However, a cast and director of the quality that produced Ronin should have know that to really make a good movie you need a good plot. It is senseless to try and follow the intricacies of this plot or else you get bogged down asking questions such as how did he know that?, how did they get there?, who are they!. It's not so much that the plot is intelligent just unintelligible!As usual for an American funded film, no attention is paid to correct pronunciation. Was Sean Bean scared to tell De Niro that Hereford is actually pronounced Her-e-ford? Was Jean Reno afraid to tell De Niro that he was not pronouncing Creme de Menthe correctly (despite that fact that De Niro's character was supposedly fluent in French)?It could be argued that there was some good character interaction throughout the film but no, this cast and director? They should have done better. "}{"Title":"John Frankenheimer at his heart-pounding best!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the finest action / adventure films I've ever seen. Robert DeNiro's performance is powerful, yet understated. Sam is definitely a man who has been places and seen things (he's probably been betrayed a few times as well).  Sean Bean's role is brief but excellent as the overbearing phony. Jean Reno is the perfect match for Sam. And they both live up to Michael Lonsdale's description of Ronin, those who choose honor above life. But, I must admit that my heart was stolen by the lovely Diedre. Natascha McElhone smolders from the moment of her first appearance. And her love scene with DeNiro in the car is breathtaking. A previous reviewer has said that the two were in love and I must agree. You can see it in their eyes when DeNiro nudges her with his pistol. She smiles coyly and says, You can't.... Like many, I was initially disappointed about not learning the contents of the case. But that's not the point, I realized. It's about trust and trust betrayed. No one is above suspicion and alegiances shift with the winds. For an intelligent thriller, Ronin  "},{"Title":"Finally, a good action movie","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Before Ronin came out, it had been years since I had seen good action. The Long Kiss Goodnight had to be the last time. Action is about choreography and this can be different in every movie. Sometimes it's about karate, sometimes about guns. In Ronin, it's about car chases. It seriously has the best car chases of all time. The great one in The French Connection is a joke compared to those in Ronin. Aside from the amazing action, the story about a band of mercenary/spies is pretty interesting. Robert DeNiro is the greatest actor in the world, but sometimes he chooses stupid parts, (Analyze This, Mad Dog and Glory). Ronin is the ideal DeNiro role where he's in charge and the strongest character in the film. Even the direction and scenery are superb. This is John Frankenheimer's best movie since the Manchurian Candidate. If you don't like action then this movie isn't for you because it is very intense and should contain a warning May cause excessive heart-pounding excitement. "},{"Title":"I was surprised and intrigued.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a superb film, mostly because of how it avoids many of the cliches and pitfalls that ruin the typical American action film.  You'll want to see this just to see what the tired (and quite obvious) summer money-grabs are missing.One of the primary ways the film does this is by not condescending the audience's intelligence in most any way.  The dialogue is mature; it's clear the scriptwriters didn't feel the urge to put in as many one-liners as possible.  The plot, while not really a political thriller, has modern relevance and isn't afraid to be subtle.There's also an inherent brilliance in the very subject of the story; as virtually everyone is a criminal, you can't really predict the conclusion like in so many action films (i.e. the hero always survives, or if not is going to sacrifice himself).  There are no guarantees on what other characters will or won't do, even things you might already expect.Ronin also excels in the action scenes themselves, which isn't easy in an era where any film in the genre tends to be loaded with excessive explosions and gunplay.  The car chases are notable for where they take place; this is Europe, and so you don't have the luxury of a two-lane (or even four-lane) road free of pedestrians.  Most of the action is on very tight roads with little room to move, and many panicked people on foot - it's tense even in the lulls in the middle of the action.  The gunfights also buck the trend by being chaotic and purposeful; none of the protagonists want to stick around just to see a firefight out.The only real complaint that warrants mentioning is that the whole concept of the ronin (or renegade samurai who rebelled against an evil master) isn't touched on much in the film directly; it's up to you, after watching, to see how Sam and his companions tie in to the theme.  In that sense the ultimate meaning of the film - and you know the creators want one - is vague and not totally realized.All in all, though, Ronin is a refreshing break.  It's a great rental (or even a purchase) if you want a little refinement along with your guns and fast cars. "},{"Title":"It's a pity I can't rate 11/10 because Ronin deserves it all the way!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A small introduction.  Heat with Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and Val Kilmer is one of my all-time favorite action thrillers and I was looking in the IMDB for some other good movies of the same kind.  So I stumbled upon Ronin and read the comments by you all.  I thought that if it was half as good as Heat it would have been satisfying and so after viewing the trailer I bought the DVD yesterday.  Today I watched the movie and I'd have to say Ronin can't really be compared with Heat.  But it turned out it's 200% as good as Heat and now Ronin is by far the best action movie I've ever seen.Now comes the part where I say what I like about the movie but I don't really know where to start. )  There is so much I like about it but I'll try anyway.  The cast, acting and character relations are superb.  The action is great, the music is great, the car chases are great, the gunshot scenes are great, the filming locations are the best and the camera positions are awesome.  That sums it about up. )A lot of you seem to talk about nothing else than the car chase.  I agree it's the best chase I've ever seen but this movie is so much more than just a car chase.  It has a really great plot to start with.  And the relationship between De Niro and Reno is really terrific.  So for whoever is considering renting or buying this movie but starts having second thoughts that it's all about a single car chase... don't let that mislead you.  Ronin is simply the best action thriller I've ever seen, perhaps even the best movie in all categories.  I should be able to rate it 11/10 because it's truly near-perfect.  And the fact that this is an action movie in France instead of another one in New York makes it all the better. "},{"Title":"Very impressed.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There were times in the film when the suspense was so great I thought I was about to have a heart attack..... fantastic from beginning to end.  The DVD option of an alternative ending was also a very interesting feature. "},{"Title":"Underestimated","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD the day before yesterday, and i already have seen de carscenes ten times, so cool! I was very surprised to see that this beauty is not in the 250-list! Robert DeNiro had some great lines, a very cool actingperformance it was. Also loved the French accent. Go see it for yourself! "},{"Title":"What's in the box?","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie rocks.  It has a bunch of modern day ronins trying to recover a box that has something of great value to many people.  The reason I liked this movie was mainly the shootouts and the car chases.  My god this movie had a great car chase.  It has some of the best ones I've seen in any movie.  The actors were good and look very professional in there roles.  Such as how discreetly Sam would place objects or how calmly he reacted to Dierdre's slight tap of her foot against his to tell him that he had to do something quickly about gathering intelligence on who had possession of the target.  Anyway my main response is to tell who ever hasn't seen Ronin and wants to see a good action film should definitely pick this upMy rating 9.  "},{"Title":"Solid action movie","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Relentless pace. Very realistic. Great cast. Excellent car chases. One of the most intelligent action films in recent memory. Excellent use of a mcguffin and Mamet clearly shows of how little importance the mcguffin's form really is. "},{"Title":"Riveting Action Film!","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the best action thrillers of the 90's! The cast is excellent, DeNiro delivers an appropriately reserved performance and the stuntwork is outstanding! You will see some of the best car chase sequences ever filmed! The DVD is a marvel with an insightful Director's commentary from Frakenheimer,alternate ending and DVD-ROM material! A definite keeper, this film is on my all-time top action films list!  "},{"Title":"Good choice for adrenal rush","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Worthy of an 8 for a well-devised and intriguing plot alone, Ronin is a must for any fan of The French Connection, with some of the most skillful driving scenes ever.  De Niro's character has a perplexing depth which he executes magnificently. "}{"Title":"I told you the past had some useful stuff.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  *This review contains the slightest of spoilers, and you probably won't realize it's importance until well after you've seen Ronin*Well, it's been awhile since I first saw Ronin.  It's gotten alot of mixed reviews, even from my friends.  The funny thing about it is that people don't really give reasons they hate it.  As a result I've deduced this is one of those like-it or hate-it films.Ronin focuses around a group of former secret agent types who have now gone rogue.  The title hints to this a little bit.  Basically, that's all you need to know, as this movie does not need extensive background setup. Frankenheimer's colors are drab and grey, blue, or black most the time. This is part atmospheric and part the fact that the movie was filmed in France (note this was one of the first movies of the modern age allowed to be filmed in France and for the film crew to use simulated gun fire and such whilest there).  The characters aren't there, but there is a sort of explanation  since these are former special ops/spies, wouldn't they ditch any trace of emotion anyway?  Take scenes between Jean Reno and DeNiro. Emotion and character do surface, but so subtlety most people would call it bad acting.Where this movie really shines is the action.  Frankenheimer is a former race car driver and it shows in his techniques during the elaborate and well designed car chases.  No optical effects were used in post production on the car chases.  Actors and cars are really moving at 90+ mph.  The shots of the chase, as a result, are mixes of in-car actor shots, stunt driver/camera car shots, and low to the ground speed shots that totally rock.  This isn't a normal car chase...by Hollywood standards.  In Hollywood you see more outrageous in-your-face shots.  In Ronin you get steady wide shots and close shots, just like movies of old, where the technology didn't exist to do things we can today.  The whole process gives the chases a true sense of speed and a feel of realism, becuase everything is really happening.Shootouts are good, with situations where you see the result of ambushes, as competent fighters are drawn into situations where they are cut down quickly...which is exactly what the characters wanted.  Oh, and there IS NO boathouse at Hereford.  That's the point, people!  Look at the context instead of assuming the script was written by an idiot.  There's alot of clever situations and dialogue slipped into the script.  Characters (DeNiro's especially) are clever and play tricks on each other regularly. Watch the entire first scene for some examples you probably missed.All in all, this movie is a solid, original action movie.  WHich is where it fails most.  It isn't a social commentary, it's a great action movie.  That's it.  So in this situation you can really dislike this movie. I personally appreciated the little touches, as well as the clever script and excellent (and logical) chases and shootouts.  I'd reccomend it if you wanted a more realistic alternative to, say, the outrageous final action scene of Face-off. "},{"Title":"A cut above the usual action movie","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had avoided seeing this movie until I read my recent copy of Car and Driver, in which the comment was made that this movie contained, hands down, the greatest car chase ever made. When I saw the sequence, I certainly had to agree. It was the most exciting and inventive car chase to date, and I will probably rent this flick again just for that reason. I also appreciated the treatment DeNiro gave his character, since  rather than the Mr. Macho egomaniacs we typically get with action movies, we instead have a character who is intelligent, confident, professional, and understated in his dialogue. This relieves us of the usual sweaty action hero cheeseball with his karate chops and ridiculous waste of ammunition. I am also becoming quite a fan of Jean Reno (yes, even in Godzilla), for that same calm demeanor that gives his characters such strength. In all, Ronin is a cut above your typical action movie, and I'm sure you won't be disappointed (even if only for the car chase...) "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable Action Film","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Overall, I found Ronin extremely enjoyable for several reasons. First, the car chases are absolutely brilliant. These are some of the best driving scenes I've ever witnessed, and they hold up favorably with those of just about any other film I can think of, including The French Connection, The Driver, Bullitt, The Seven-Ups, and To Live and Die in L.A. On the DVD version the Frankenheimer commentary track also gives some enjoyable insights into how each scene was created. These aren't your usually Hollywood chase scenes. No trickery here, just a whole bunch of professional drivers practicing their trade on winding mountain roads, underground tunnels, and busy freeways. In several scenes, a driver deliberately rolls the vehicle while still inside. The key actors all went to performance driving school so they wouldn't panic or vomit when put in the cars at speed for filming, though they still look genuinely frightened in places.Second, the plot is generally interesting and usually holds up. There are some occasional gaps and some of the characters are surprisingly gullible, but it's better handled than in many films of this type.Third, the acting is often first-rate. De Niro is always great to watch I think, and especially in roles of this type where he must use his wits, intensity, and toughness to survive. The evolving friendship between De Niro and Reno is well done.Fourth, the cinematography and locations are breathtaking. Again, the DVD version gives some nice insights into the choices made in the process.All in all, I say don't be scared away by those who nitpick the minor flaws, especially if you enjoy action films, heist films, or incredible chase sequences. Even with the flaws, this film is much better than the vast majority of action films produced by Hollywood, and the driving scenes more than compensate for any minor inadequacies.  "},{"Title":"Great car chases, that's it!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  After watching this movie I can only say one thing.  Great car chases.  I am a great fan of Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno.  I found the performances by both these fine actors to be below par.  I never found myself caring about their characters or any of the characters in the movie.  I think Frankenhimer tried to do a Pulp Fiction type of mystery with the ice-skating case, but it really did not come across.  I never understood why DeNiro's character cared for the woman character, unless she was one heck of a kisser.  It seemed to me there should have been more to Reno's character, because that character unlike the others, excluding Sam, seemed more grounded.  My bottom line was I did not care if any of them retrieved the case or not.  I found myself just wanting to see more car chases, maybe I will rent Bullet. "},{"Title":"A classy exotic thriller","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The old Master Frankenheimer dips into his bag of tricks from the sixties and delivers an intelligent thriller. The teaming of De Niro and Reno is perfect. The best part of this film is the european backdrop. It makes this classy thriller stand out from the rest. It reminded me of The Day of the Jackal, with Edward Fox. Frankenheimer delivers one of the best car chases ever put on film. "},{"Title":"Car chases, De Niro, Paris","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great car chases, I think the unique thing is that they shot the camera looking ahead on the road closer to the ground than usual, which made things seem faster. De Niro was great as always, and Natasha McElhone was excellent. Excellent action, shoot-em-up movie, if that's what you like.  "},{"Title":"Smart, cool and very good","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The look of Ronin, without watching it, said to - Robert DeNiro has just done Heat, why would he do a film that looks exactly the same? But no, no. The comparison between the two ends with Robert DeNiro. Heat is an actors film with juicy parts and long scenes, whereas Ronin is a cleverly scripted (what else from David Mamet (under the name Richard Weisz)) smooth running action film.With amazing car chases (Frankenheimer did Grand Prix), superb acting from DeNiro, Jean Reno and Johnathan Pryce and a really interesting plot line, Ronin just seems to fly by.Sean Bean also deserves credit for his small role as the excentric crook.Overall a good film with enough action, acting and one-liners to keep you going - watch it! "},{"Title":"Ronin has potential but is weak, weak, weak.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was so excited to see this film.  It has great actors, that are known for their great intelligent characters who can kill with style.  Ronin does not live up to the potential, mainly because of a weak and loose script.  there is no direction with the story and the plot is confusing.  The only good thing about the film is the Audi A8, a great car. "},{"Title":"Pros And Cons","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film on the recommendation of a friend who saw it in the theaters and could not stop talking about it.  I loved the car chases, the most intense I've seen in a long time.  Other good ones include Terminator 1&2, Bullitt, Duel, Speed, and The Rock.  I have two major problems with it though.  First of all, it had the same problem as Heat in that there were too many extraneous characters and plot threads to keep straight.  Many seemed pointless and unnecessary, such as the murder of the ice skater.  I will give Frankenheimer props on that scene, however for not having the skater be saved at the last second.  Interesting touch.  I would advise Frankenheimer to follow the KISS principle on his next movie. (Keep It Simple Stupid)  My other problem comes with the actions of the team.  I think that if I was going to steal something or assassinate somebody, I wouldn't do it in broad daylight on crowded city streets that would result in numerous accidental death and me surely getting thrown in jail or killed by the cops.  I would go for a nighttime covert kind of deal.  The ridiculous actions that these characters take makes me wonder why they didn't have much shorter espionage careers.  Not one of Bobby D's more memorable roles, either.  I give it 2 stars out of 4   "},{"Title":"Ronin gets better and better the more often you see it","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I had watched the DVD for the first time I thought, well it's good, but not as good as for example Heat. At first I didn't like the car chases very much, but when I read how they were made I saw them quite different. Knowing they were made without modern special effects technology makes the chase scenes even brilliant.I regret the movie is only 2 hours and 1 minute long. The plot leaves some questions open which could have been answered by at least 30 more minutes of footage. And by the way a good movie never gets too long.The performance of Robert De Niro is again perfect, as always, he is simply one of the greatest actors. The other cast is also excellently chosen.A great movie, worth to watch several times. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Car Chase film of ALL-TIME!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I mean that truly.  How many films show great actors like Robert De Niro and Jean Reno doing what they do best and still be able to pull off some of the greatest chase stunts ever shot on film.The film itself is excellent with a great cast and surprising plot twists.  If your a person who likes a little gunplay action, then this is definately the movie for you.  my only opinion to you is this.  If you watch this film..rent it on DVD and watch it in Widescreen VERY VERY LOUD!  That is for the best results.Out of 10.............9 and a 1/2.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Technical movie making","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie sees Robert De Niro in a role that was perfect for him.  Excellent casting and direction by John Frankenheimer.  I would highly recommend this film to anyone who would like to see an interesting, fast paced actioner. "},{"Title":"Suave, macho, unpredictable, elegant - Ronin has it all!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  THIS is probably the most exciting film I have ever seen! It grabs you by the throat right from the start and has you on the edge of the seat all thru the finish.Recipe You take de Niro, the coolest suavest actor to walk this Earth, pair him off with Reno, the most macho actor to walk this Earth and Skarsgaard the most unpredictable and dangerous actor to walk this Earth and throw in a few other brilliant actors for measure.Then you add a few car chases, which make French Connection blush with shame, one of which is done by two of the most elegant cars to cruise this Earth, the Audi S8 and the Citroen XM, throw in a spectalucar show-down with a cameo by the stunning Katharina Witt in a filled Le Zenith in Paris and what have you got ?RONIN!    Watch and enjoy the shiver down your spine.......you won´t regret it!  "},{"Title":"Exciting Fun!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was a bit too-long, and had no plot(big surprise there), but it was still an great flick.  It features a number tense moments and exciting action scenes, including one of the best chase scenes in cinema history.  It also features strong performances, especially by Robert De Niro and Jean Reno.  A couple scenes were a bit too morbid, even for an action movie, and probably should have been excluded or done differently. One other little detail was disappointing, but I won't tell you about it.  Nonetheless, it was still exciting, entertaining, and a lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Thinking man's *what*? Huh?","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Did everyone else watch the same movie I did?The first annoying thing was the repetition of and silly explanations for simple spy terminology. Jean Reno was s'posed to be an old pro, for example, but DeNiro had to lead him by the hand. Here, Reno was just being used as a stand-in for the dopes in the audience. Ah, the Second Lesson indeed!Next up was the assault in Nice. Now, the team had belt-fed machine guns, anti-armor rockets, HK grenade launchers, etc. to play with, so why the heck didn't they take down their targets out in farm country? Then they would not have gotten numerous civilians killed, and the police would've been far off. Not much of a covert operation, eh?Last thing I'll mention is the insulting bit about the teflon-coated bullet that thwarts a character's soft body armor. The substance does not in itself add to penetration in targets. It was used on the old KTW armor-piercing rounds because the projectiles were harder than normal lead or copper plated bullets, and it was thought that the teflon would cut down on wear of the gun's rifling and add a bit of useful velocity. Spritzing teflon on a normal bullet would not do much of anything at all. Might as well use PAM cooking spray. But it was undoubtedly calculated to sound good to 90 percent of the audience, reminding them of oft-repeated TV gun tech fables. (I'd bet the armorers winced when they heard that line.)Rent Heat instead.  "},{"Title":"Ronin rules. Gets better and better the more times you watch it.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw this movie in theaters I was confused but I still enjoyed the action sequences and of course De Niro. However, when I got word my buddy Gwynn got it on DVD, I had to watch it again. This movie is brilliant. I've made a habit of trying to watch it every week. Every time I watch it I get something more out of it. Very slick production with a top rate cast. De Niro is the greatest actor of the 20th century and is perfect in this movie. Watch for 3 James Bond villains in the movie.   "},{"Title":"what about that misterious suitcase?","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It is a very cool movie. Well acted by Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno, it is the type of movie that keeps you asking questions all the way to the end, when you`ll, finally, be able to put together the whole picture. Very good action and most of it is not special-effects. The car chase realy took place and it was realy entertaining watching it. But after the movie is over, you are asking yourself one question what about the suitcase? what was in it that people were killing each-other left and right for it or because of it? Does Pulp Fiction ring a bell? It is a movie thet WILL keep you awake righ to the end of it and for me it was worth 8 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but confusing","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno star in this action/suspense flick.  They're rogue agents and are hired to retreive a brief case.  There's a few double crosses, which ended up confusing me, an excellent car chase in Paris (although I still liked the car chase from Striking Distance with Bruce Willis better), and the ending just didn't seem to fit in with the rest of the film.  If it had a different ending, I may have liked it more, but the ending was just too neat for me.   All in all, a lot of fun, directed by the very good John Frankenheimer, who directed other very good action films.   "},{"Title":"Greatest car chases I have ever seen","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  My Age 13Ronin Japanese word for samurai without masters.  In this film, they are specialists whose services can be hired by anyone for money.  They include Sam, played by Robert de Niro, Vincent, played by Jean Reno, and Spence, played by Sean Bean.  They and a few others are hired for a job by Dierdre, played by Natasha McAlhone.  The job is to retrieve a briefcase from several armed men.  Once they have retrieved it, one of the team's members double-crosses them, seeking more money for himself.Ronin offers not one, but two, incredible and brethtaking car chases throughout Europe.  They are both quite lengthy as well as exciting.  The rest of the film also is top-notch.  Robert de Niro and Jean Reno work well together as a team and put in tremendous acting performances.  It also becomes more interesting when Seamus, Jonathan Pryce, comes into it.  Fantastic action sequences and shootouts are also quite abundant in the film, and it also features a nice music score.  I would highly recommend Ronin if you like action and/or fantastic car chases.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Violence, Low Level Coarse LanguageRating 82 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Average film that should have been much better","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Average movie, but could have been so much better.  The car scenes were obviously excellent and well executed (apart from the construction site where all the signs were in English).  Both De Niro and Jean Reno were excellent.  The problem was for all the build up to something clever and intellectual it just became a repetitive chase movie.  Every time they caught the guy they wanted they would let him go.  The twist of the film didn't really come off and the non-existent police force throughout the film ruined any believability.It was a shame as the cast were excellent (apart from the strange over acting and completely pointless Sean Bean character) that we didn't see a much more credible movie with some depth.  "}{"Title":"Outstanding Cast!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I highly recommend Ronin.  I saw the film solely on the strength of the cast (deniro, sean bean, jean reno), and was very pleased.  The plot is quite intricate and it tends to blow away a lot of boundaries.  There are a few plot holes but overall holds up very well. "},{"Title":"supposed to be a quality movie","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It takes more than just taking away some Hollywood glamour to make an action movie with class. This film reminded me how good The French connection was and old french films by Jean Pierre Melville.Oh, by the way, if you drive against dense traffic you run into car's driving side by side which you crash into within 15 seconds. Let alone 15 minutes with two cars. The James Bond action scene with the tank in Moscow was about as plausible as this one. "},{"Title":"A Smart Action Thriller","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are amazing in this high paced action about a mysterious brief case.The acting is great. Reno in particular gives a performance worthy of his Leon days. Sean Bean and Jonathon Pryce provide reasonable support.The action is breath taking. There are lots of guns and fast cars to please the heavy action fans, but also a decent story to occupy the thinkers among us. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"An action film with a theme","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin breaks out of the action genre by using DeNiro as the Hero instead of the usual young, handsome, and more inexperienced actor. The film has a wonderful tone and feel to it. Kudos to the head cinematographer and editor. There is a good dialectic between the story of the Ronin told at the beginning, and the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  An enjoyable film that was often hard to follow. One of those films that starts with promise but ultimately becomes an above average movie. DeNiro was the highlight as usual, however Heat was a much, much better film. Ronin gets a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the best car chases in film history!! I can understand, why they took formula one drivers for this awesome movie (the chases were filmed in real time!). Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno, a wonderful duo. But there's one thing I want to know What has been in that damn bag? "},{"Title":"Excellent car-action","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good movie, De Niro had better ones. Sophisticated somewhat. The car chase is one of the best I've ever seen. Keeps the viewer in constant suspense "},{"Title":"Make-up snafu","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Editors note this comment may contain a SPOILERGary Hood should hand back his paycheck for a failed special effects make-up job on Stellan Skarsgard. Skarsgard is supposed to have a bullet hole in his head, but the plastic ear, artificial hair, and obvious prosthetic forehead render the effect laughable. The editor (Gibbs) and director (Frankenheimer)have to share some of the blame as well for (1) using a close-up and (2) placing the make-up shot just seconds after a close-up of his face without the make-up. "},{"Title":"An ill-conceived effort.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Briefly, this movie tried to be a thinking-person's action movie.  In doing so, it managed to combine the worst aspects of each.  The boring, intellectual scenes never amount to anything; no ethical moral or logical conclusion is reached.  The action scenes become interjection of high-energy violence, but they lack the typical action movie's occasional humor or the usual sense of good-guy/bad-guy that allows us to condone what is happening. It may be that this movie is more realistic, that this is what happens in a criminal covert operation.  But there is a reason most movies are not like real life; it tends to be dull.  I finished this movie wondering what the point of it was.  "},{"Title":"Best actor line up, good plot, not very well thought ending...","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Worth seeing movie, great actors, and good base plot, not a great ending, very confusing at some points, but an excellent movie for the open minded. "}{"Title":"Good fun, but does it hold up?","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have to admit I expected there to be a much different beginning from what I read on the DVD case.  Whenever I see group of secret operatives, I figure they open up with some preliminary fight scene, very well orchestrated, then move to a bigger score and shenanigans ensue.  Think, what was the last secret ops film you saw that didn't have this beginning?Well, Ronin does buck the trend and start out slowly.  It does develop characters and build towards its action.  For some reason, I guessed early that they'd never show us what was in the case.  But where this was used to great effect in Pulp Fiction, in Ronin this just kind of annoys you.  I could have forgiven this easily--as many people have pointed out, it doesn't affect the plot--except that the ending just makes a joke of it, and I don't think that added anything to the movie.The car chase scenes are extremely good.  The assault scenes are quick and bloody, and DeNiro, as always, is a bada**, though Jean Reno does a better job.  I did like that the violence didn't get that cartoonish (except for the usual glaring lack of police presence in several car chases and shootouts), and the movie keeps you interested though it bogs down towards the end.  Oddly enough, I'd say this is more of a turn-your-brain-off action film than most people would... it's worth one viewing, but you needn't bother with any more. "},{"Title":"The setting is the key to this movie","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I suspect an action thriller set in Europe wouldn't be that appealing to some American's, but I managed to find a great deal of enjoyment in Ronin. The script, while not that great, is well written and is brought to life by Bob DeNiro and Jean Reno, both giving some wonderfully understated performances, only bettered by the first class cinematography.A change of scenery from your average hollywood thriller, France makes an excellent setting for this tale of double-cross and intrigue, where the action pieces manage to be realistic taken in context. To appreciate the film, it should really be viewed in widescreen, since the two car chases are some of the best ever filmed and lose a lot of their impact when viewed on standard video.I remember this film didn't perform that well critically or even in box-office terms, but it really is an enthralling two hours, directed by a true veteran who manages to breath life into what is essentially an old style thriller. Go rent the DVD and you won't be disappointed.7/10. "},{"Title":"What a movie!!!!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  actually, I have seen the movie twice, once in the theater and the other one in a type, First of all, the movie is one of the best movies I've ever seen. it is not just that, but also, the actors and the actresses are really great, from my point view, in the movie you can feel they are like a family, you feel close to them, also the location, actually we've got tired from the American views and the huge open areas, Robert De Niro who is the man of the movie did great job, he is that kind of actors whom are being loved as they get older, although he is not young, you can feel that he is in the correct position in the movie. generally the movie makes you very close to the actors. the hot pursuits are really great, and the car chases. at the end, it is one of the greatest movies as I said, and when you see it, I'm sure that you would like to see it again and again, actually it deserves more than 7.4, not less than 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Best of Two Worlds--The Smarts and The Braun","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie had the best action and plot line together that I have seen in a while.  Sometimes I ask my self how people could think that this movies wasn't good and this question has only brought me to one conclusion.  You won't like this movie unless you like to think for yourself.  If you like other people to do the thinking for you then this movie isn't for you.  I can't stand people asking me what was in the case!  The whole point of this is to make you think for yourself!  I mean, Hello, what was in the case had no relevance to the plot.  The plot would be the same if it were a new nuclear projectile or if it were pictures of Bill Clinton with Monica. The whole story revolved around the briefcase and not within it.This movie mixed a great plot with tons of action brilliantly.  The car chases were superb( I LOVE AUDI)! The gun fights were great, with smart action.  The shootouts were not Rambo style, they had much more thinking and used many more toys than even James Bond.  This movie to me had everything and is a Must See for any movie goers that have an I.O. above 2.5!! "},{"Title":"Professional, but not perfect.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Probably the best stunt driving I've ever seen (even better than Taxi). Highly educadet composer. Brilliant camera work. Very talented actors. All it needs is a better story more thrills and jokes would have made it a lot better.  "},{"Title":"This movie just rocks","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is one of the top ten movies I have ever seen. The Car chases are just great and very well done. Frankenheimer is also very good at directing the rest of the movie. If you like action movies which actually have a plot that makes you think, Ronin is the movie to see. "},{"Title":"Ronin is a smart, smart film","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have always loved Robert Deniro, ever since Godfather II and Goodfellas all the way up to his directorial debut in A Bronx Tale. He is one of those guys that I will go see a movie just because he is in it. In this movie all eyes are on the metal case, when actually the focus should be on Robert Deniro and the other characters. In this tale of twists and turns and the best car chases since any James Bond film. Its hard to believe who is who and who to trust. Ronin doesn't have a huge introduction like a lot of other films do. But they chose to introduce the characters and set up the plot. Which is a very good one. Very smart. This is not the best Deniro film I've seen by far, obviously with great films under his belt already. But this is a different type of film by his standards. However, this is a worthy addition and smart, and we as viewers are forced to focus on objects instead of characters and who is really screwing who. I liked Ronin and I think that anybody who likes action films will agree. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Japanese for very many car chases","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Hi, my name is Slim and I just saw a movie that is probably on one of those lists those moral majority types are making up in Washington, D.C. due to its 'violence content'.  You know, stuff like guns blazing into a bunch of folks out shopping, or guns blazing while there are a bunch of stupid white-folk tourists looking at some old stone relic, or guns blazing while speeding down a crowded freeway so we got double violence with car crashes and bullets flying. Now I don't know what they were saying 40, 50 years ago when kids were in bed listening to The Shadow or The Lone Ranger or any of those other radio shows where folks were killed or fell off buildings or got impaled or whatever.  Maybe it was okay because it didn't show it.I'm talking about Ronin, with Bobby De Niro.  You would think that with all the bullets and car chasing in this movie Bobby would be playing what he does the best--some Mafia gangster. But nope, he is some sort of blackballed ex-CIA spook for hire who teams up with some thugs and malcontents and other spook types who are recruited by some Irish babe to get this piece of luggage cleverly disguised as an ice-skates holder.  So they go after this case, but the folks who have it don't want to give it up.  Then some Russians or East Germans or someone from that old Cold War bozo brigade decide they want the case, also. Which means we got all sorts of opportunities for gun battles with small guns, big guns, machine guns, and one grenade launcher.  And since all these guys are into fast cars, we got just as many cars as guns.  But all this takes place in France, so we aren't talking about good old American violence, we are talking about good old French violence.  Then again, good old French violence would be folks getting their heads chopped off, so maybe we just got good old American violence in France.  And since everyone speaks American, some with an Irish accent, some with a French accent, some with a German accent, and some with a New York accent, I guess we can say American is the language of choice for violence.We got gun battles galore, and even with automatic weapons we still got guys who can't hit a dead-ass slow target 10 feet in front of them much less a moving target like a car, we got cars speeding through all the narrow streets of France meanwhile there ain't no other cars on these streets so maybe the French were on strike again, we got a piece of luggage everyone wants but we never find out what's in it and finally, we got Bobby De Niro talking like he just finished reading some sort of seventh grade story about Stupid Things to say so you can sound Stupid.One and a half 9mm stars. Go check it out but only if you want to start thinking that movies like this give gratuitous violence a bad name and that maybe Bobby De Niro has hit hard times. "},{"Title":"A film for the smart movie patron.","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This John Frankenheimer film has a way of grabbing you by your adulthood and not letting go. Make sure to watch it a couple times if you don't quite appreciate the plot. The way the film was written and directed is somewhat unconventional, as Frankenheimer knew that smart movie patron didn't need explanations for everything. For instance, what was in the case? Many of the characters lost their lives trying to either protect or steal the case while not knowing what it contained. Sometimes the lack of full enlightenment gives the viewer the chance to take part in relating more to the characters' personalities. The chase sequences were wonderful, too, as Frankenheimer knew that he didn't need a musical score to make the chases more exciting. What makes them thrilling are the sounds of the revving engines, squealing rubber, screaming bystanders and low camera angles with strong editing. The film makers didn't try to fake the scenes by running the cars slower. I understand they employed professional stunt and race car drivers who would push the envelope with their knowledge of the limits of the machines they drive. And thank goodness Frankenheimer didn't follow that tired style of man wins war, man gets girl. There was no male noble cause and no weak female follower here. "},{"Title":"Exciting car chases","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing just for the car chases, which are quite well done. The rest is above average for action films these days, mostly because we don't get a wise-cracking hero/buddy formula going on.  The romance part is somewhat unbelievable, and the ending is somewhat unsatisfying (this sort of thing has been done before). "}{"Title":"Intense thriller delivers","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Just saw the movie on tape, and was suitably pleased with the movie to recommend it.  It starts off quite confusingly, and takes a while to understand what happened at the beginning.  The mystery of what the assembled men are doing builds tension and interest into the film.  The middle is dominated by some of the best car chase sequences through some of the narrowest French streets you've seen.  The last third really drags and appears to lose most of the movie's momentum.  The payoff at the end is not as intense as the rest of the movie promises, but nevertheless, an interesting twist.  Worth the rent. "},{"Title":"Gripping Car Chase sequence - that's about it..","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I think of John Frankenheimer and Robert DeNiro, I think of film making magic. This movie in simple terms was just a mediocre spy thriller that was beautifully photographed and had several excellent stunt sequences. Most notably, the car chase sequence in Paris was enough to make the film memorable. But as far an intelligent script that makes the moviegoer get engaged and care about these characters, this is all absent. DeNiro plays a character that I have no sympathy for as well as any of this spy cronies. It was just another formulaic way of how DeNiro survived and the bad guys died. In summary, a disappointment - I don't know what I could have been expecting from a team such as this. "},{"Title":"The cast deserved a better story.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As a big Jean Reno and Robert DeNiro fan, I had high expectations for the film. I began watching the movie wanting to be entertained and willingly allowing the story the freedom to develop but within the first 20 minutes, the whole story is told. They have a box and we have to get it back.No tension ever develops, and honestly I never really cared about any of the characters. The interactions between DeNiro and Reno were interesting but this point was never explored... unfortunately it was just an aside. None of the other characters were in the slightest bit interesting.In all fairness, the chase scenes were pretty good... I am sympathetic to BMWs being driven with spirit however, I have a hard time believing that a Citroen could really be up to chasing down a big 7XX BMW. Also, the sound effects on the BMW sounded more like a 2-stroke dirt bike that the massive Autobahn demon of the BMW.Really disappointed. I for one would like to see an American made movie featuring Jean Reno that doesn't suck (i.e. The Professional, Ronin, Mission Impossible) I think he is a great actor in search of a good story.Too long and not enough story.  "},{"Title":"same old stuff","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film is a dissapointment, not because it is badly acted or filmed, (in fact it is quite well done), but because it is so mediocre.  There is nothing new or original here.  It left me thinking what was the point?. Fast car chases and explosions do not make a good movie.  It tries to be the 'thinking man's action movie' except it neglects to put in a story that you can think about. Too long and a waste of time. Not good, not bad just the same old stuff. "},{"Title":"Two words Stupid & Exciting","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ok, so a lot of people are complaining that this movie is stupid and doesn't have a plot. They're right. Almost as many, on the other hand, is saying that this is one of the best heist movies in years. They're also right. The thing is, that the first group has forgotten how to have fun. This is essentially a one-idea movie made so well that you don't care and just go along for the ride. Jurassic Park was just the same. And so is Episode One, for that matter. "},{"Title":"Guns, cars, guns, cars","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If you are a really big fan of gun battles and really, REALLY  enjoy fast car chases through European streets, look no further...this is your moobie. One warning though The first half may render you unconscious. Just have some coffee and wait it out. The second half won't bore you. "},{"Title":"Seldom Seen","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro plays the smart and deadly Sam in Ronin, a classy action film set in Europe. Sam is in a volatile and dangerous business as a hired gun. A true professional, he is crafty enough to squeeze through explosive and unlikely situations that will awe the audience. The action is first-class, and a particular car scene is almost unbelievable. Ronin is what the common action film should strive to be. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of story telling.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A mind bogling piece of work. Action for the thinking man. Contains great cinematography, acting, directing, and on and on. If you have given up on action this is a film you need to see. Leaves you in a daze wondering Wait, was he a good guy or bad guy. I don't get it. OH! I understand. WOW! That was cool! A good movie within its genre and a good movie altogether. "},{"Title":"The best heist movie in years!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A slam-bang actioner that pulls no punches, takes no prisoners, and never slows down for a minute--except for an excruciating scene in which Robert DeNiro directs the removal of a bullet from his own abdomen.  Director John Frankenheimer hasn't been in form this good since The French Connection; this is the best heist movie in years.  The fine ensemble cast generates an on-screen tension that cracks and sparks until the inevitable betrayal and, amazingly, doesn't fall apart afterward.  If for no other reason, Ronin is worth seeing for its stunning location cinematography.  All its high-speed car chases were filmed on location in France, with the actual cast.especially noteworthy in this day of stunt doubles and digital effects. DeNiro's performance is one of understated excellence, and Natasha McElhone (also seen on the big screen this year in The Truman Show) blazes white-hot as a terrorist whose motives and loyalties are kept as secret as the contents of the locked suitcase so desperately sought by all. "},{"Title":"Hair - Raising, fast and furious Hunt,led by the hands of the master Frankenheimer!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is, without a doubt,director John Frankenheimer's best work, and also the best espionage thriller already accomplished by Hollywood. Veteran and experienced film director, Frankenheimer knows how to conduct with effectiveness and safety David Mamet's complicated and touching script, maintaining the elements tension and mysteries constant in the story. Supported by a beautiful picture (that reminds the crime-drama films,such as Sharky's Machine, of the seventies), excellent performances and an intrigue that really compels and interests, Ronin appears as the responsible film for the renewal of the gender action, acclaimed by the specialized critic and for the public. Ronin follows the story of mercenaries who are chosen into a rigorous criterion and hired to rob a strange handbag,whose content is ignored, which is in the power of the Russian Mob. The first contact of the mercenaries takes place in Nice, a small city in France. Of course in elapsing of the story, a lot of betrayals and shootings will happen. The mystery is sensational, because the doubt on the content of the handbag lasts long to the end and there are curious scenes that increase many scores in certain scene, actor Sean Bean's character asks Sam (Robert De Niro) Don't i know you from some place?, as Sam answers, a little irritated and confused No, I never forget a face..., the nervous and tense camera of Frankenheimer accentuates the whole paranoia and the uncertainty aspects. With the success of Ronin, director John Frankenheimer really gives a new breath to his turbulent, but inspired, film director career. His last films had not been well welcomed, but he is redeemed with Ronin. The scenes of car chases,on the streets of Nice, are terrific and they deserve to enter in the action film's canons. The edition and the assembly get to reach a primacy that until then belonged to another film, Bullit (1968), with Steve McQueen. The cars really run furiously on the streets, and at this time, the persecution becomes hair-raising, being impossible to the people watching accompany that without an accelerated heart!in Ronin, the accident's scenes are real and strong, and the film doesn't make concessions the characters are shown leaving the wreckages, with blood dispersed around their bodies, and the rain falling strongly.The perfection with which the action scenes were accomplished deserves to be checked, besides in the shooting moments in Nice's streets, with Sam and his friends holding the machine guns and trying to take possession of of the stranger's handbag. There is a particularly violent scene, in which Jonathan Pryce's character,Seamus,beats a partner who had betrayed him. While Pryce beats the man, Natascha McElhone's character,Deirdre,is calm and relaxed, without doing anything to help, listening to the man being massacred.Another exciting moment is the climax, in a stadium full of people, in which Sam confronts the Russian Mob and the character of Pryce.Ronin comes out well, counting with a lot of qualities, especially for studying, for developing its characters, accentuating the psychological aspects, that are exposed with the violence of their acts. Thus, Ronin is a great film, that deserves to be seen! "}{"Title":"This movie is a work of redundant, corny,noisy TRASH. - STUPID.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  At the outset, DeNiro, our hero, informs the woman agent that he will not do the job for a meager $20,000., he wants $100,000. for each, as he and his people are Professionals - YEAH, RIGHT ! The plot is laid out in about 15 minutes and the balance of the time is taken up by THESE PROFESSIONALS trying to correct thier blunders in catching the BAD GUYS. It's a true LAUGHER....... "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Very brisk action.  Was great on the big screen, without bothersome things like complicated sub-plots to weigh it down.  Cool line-up of actors, and stunning car chase footage, especially through the streets of Paris. Enjoyed the usually not-addressed-enough factor of cops coming into the scene (most action movies have the players fire machine guns in public, with no police ever coming into the fray).  Terrible work in of the film's title, though--better to have it not explained it than explained it twice, first as a cheesy introduction to the credits, and then as a point of a hackneyed, wooden conversation in the middle of the film.  Since I detest the man as a person, I'll blame it on David Mamet.  P  "},{"Title":"It's like _Mission Impossible_, except that it doesn't suck","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It isn't perfect; it's only nearly perfect.  Some downsized secret agents, no longer needed now that the cold war is over, now hire themselves out as mercenaries.  We watch a group of them get hired and go into action.  As in real life, their best-laid plans don't always go as planned!  DeNiro stars as the all-around best member of the group, and he is so believable he makes you forget you're watching a movie.  _Ronin_ reminded me of _Mission Impossible_, but I found it far superior in plot, characterization, and action.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Dumb!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This films beggars belief. Frankheimer throws in the deaths of hundreds of innocent bystanders (typical example a fruit seller lamely falls sideways as his wares explode in a spray of machine gun fire), our heroes linger at the scenes of the crimes for hours, with any disguise, and no one ever connects them with the carnage. I could only keep thinking, mayhem on this level, repeated 3 or 4 times, would surely result in national crisis, but we see life carrying on as if nothing ever happened.The car chases are bad too, I mean, a race across Nice without a single other car or moto or bus or truck on the road? Give me a break. The final chase scene throws in a huge amount of gratuitous incidental car smashing, some which are unintentionally funny in their silliness.   "},{"Title":"Great performance, but... something was missing","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a picture that could give more , watching what was all about, something was missing, it was not the best Robert DeNiro movie... C'mon! It wasn't better than Heat, but I think this movie is good, but it could be excellent!!. Something was missing... but I have to watch it again to find out what is it... I think it was... What the hell was in the box? "},{"Title":"Knowing it was written by Mamet helps","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I'm used to being left without a neat, tidy Hollywood ending at the end of any Mamet film (Oleana, Homicide).  It helps to know he wrote it and then this movie can be appreciated for its genre.  I enjoyed the acting, the action, and the story.  If you like Mamet's films, you will like this one. "},{"Title":"Unevenly paced and confusing action picture still has some breathtaking moments.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  They are elusive, taciturn, and disciplined.  They use aliases.  They are proficient with firearms, fluent in several languages, and are trained killers.  They are masters of the art of espionage.  These people are no ordinary spies; they are the elite unit known as the modernized Ronin. This term, derived from feudal Japan, has been used to describe nomadic Samurais who serve no other purpose than to appease their lust for wealth. Now, these covert merciless men have a new mission to retrieve a silver briefcase containing unparalleled merchandise...Sam (Robert De Niro) and Vincent (Jean Reno) are two such mercenaries whose obligation it is to find the briefcase which has become the cynosure of all agents, operatives...and enemies.  In the midst of this elaborate web of deceit is a mysterious woman,  Diedre (Natasha McElhone) who is cognizant of the mercenaries' assignment.   As   Sam and Vincent  dive deep into the heart of this conspiracy, they learn that no one is trustworthy...The movie spirals down into a tale where lone warriors are immersed in a world of corruption, duplicity, and beguiling situations... These souls are about to enter the eye of the storm...RONIN as a whole is a satisfactory thriller.  This movie is helped by the exquisite Paris locations and a musical score which is illustriously orchestrated.  Admittedly, the cast in RONIN is marvelous also.  Both De Niro and Reno are crackling good as vindictive mercenaries willing to complete the mission at all costs. There are lots of compulsory high-energy gun-slinging action, immense shootouts, and destructive car crashes that pump ebullience into male audiences.  The complicated story also keeps the acute, fecund mind thinking as well.Evidently, with all the strengths RONIN has gathered, observers cannot omit this movie's weaknesses.  The biggest foible in RONIN is the dearth of a constant motion.   The car chases exist, but only rarely.  It is also sad to announce that there are only two extensive car chase scenes in this entire movie.  Still, even with this setback, these superbly choreographed action sequences do offer a worthwhile experience, especially for genre fans. Second, the plot is often incongruous and frustratingly perplexing.  The audience tries vainly to comprehend what is the central theme of the story, but instead, they are wallowed in disconcertment, as the structure of the plot turns more complex.  The surprises and double-crossings are also so intricate that they fail to engross the audiences.  Third, sometimes the music tries to misleadingly elevate the tension, but that does not click. The suspense is intended, but these nail-biting moments just jump out of the window before they take place.  This is a reference to an earlier statement pointing out how many supposedly exciting scenes turn out to be anticlimactic.In short, RONIN is not nearly as entertaining as the film's premise promised to be.  The direction by John Frankenheimer (THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE) mayhave efficacy, but the general product of this film just misses the mark. The professional acting by the stars is a plus and RONIN does contain some of the best action sequences in cinematic history.  Still, the film just does not have that magical, cohesive finishing touch to be considered an explosive masterpiece.  RONIN had the potential to be an outstanding, one-of-a-kind gritty thriller, but the filmmakers simply did not take advantage of all the elements given to them such as a high budget and an e script full of enticing ideas to help make this film profound.  Be forewarned, overzealous action fans may feel crestfallen after seeing this sluggishly paced film...Tallying up all of the strengths and shortcomings, RONIN is a moderate hit.RATING **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Smart, thrilling... a good example of really cool action movie","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film you will watch at one breath! All actors act incredible. DeNiro + Reno - are at their best! Story is also smart and you won't get what will be the end until the end... Great! "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin was a suspenseful and creative picture.  Witty and intense.  I loved the car chases through the city. "},{"Title":"A good idea gone bad","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What makes RONIN fail? As an action film, it has plenty of action. Too many characters?  Maybe. I found it very hard to focus, like I was always asking the person next to me 'what was that?' or, 'who is he again?'.Those sort of digressions make me wonder about the story. I could neither stay with it, God forbid ahead of it, as we've been conditioned in most films today of this genre. There have been wonderful, simple heist films (The Italian Job) and complicated ones (Heat), but Ronin is neither, just messy.What might have been a wonderful,  fast-paced car chase is destroyed by too many close ups of a very scared Robert Deniro in the chase car. A needless appearance of Katarina Witt verifies that 'sold out for no good reason' feeling.The characterizations are all too predictable, Natasha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce are weak in key roles. Stellan Skarsgard is superb, however. Jean Reno and Michel Lonsdale, as always, are excellent.Poor story, poor direction, poor film.  "}{"Title":"A Visual Treat and a good movie too","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Now this is the real Europe portrayed! I don't think there's a single camera shot in the movie which isn't beautiful.. the overhead views of the european cities are grand and picturesque and the photography is always good.. Only an idiot would be stupid enough to say the film was boring with car chases like that and an intelligent plot like that. The film is very good for an action film and unlike other ''hardcore'' action films like Die Hard or ''smooth and chalant'' action films like those Bond movies, it doesn't rely on tons of high tech gadgets or explosions every 10 minutes to capture the viewer's interest.. In my opinion if there is anyone who thinks this movie is bad they must have serious brain damage. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a what could be called a hybrid movie; the largest part being action (shootouts, explosions, firepower) with elements of chase (figure that out for yourself), political intrigue (think really hard and you might understand it), and a slight psychological influence. Shootouts well done, with realistic weapons (I thought I saw an MP5 or two) and explosives (stuff in the case aside). I think Robert DeNiro's hand-held bazooka (previous comment) is an M79 grenade launcher, though I could be wrong (and probably am wrong). Jean Reno, DeNiro and the rest of the cast do an excellent job across the board, convincing accents for those cast members who needed them. Not a movie for the action-only fans, or the political-only fans, instead a movie for a person who can adapt and enjoy different types of flicks.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"better the second time","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For its genre, Ronin is a good film. I don't think it's quite fair to criticize it for what it is not, such as saying that it's a poor film because there are movies out there with better car chases.I saw it at the theatre and thought it was OK, saw it on video expecting to be more disappointed, and actually liked it better the second time.I don't think the plot is as difficult to understand as some might claim. I had no trouble following it. Whether or not it's credible, well, how many action films are? It's credible enough for me to watch it and not say is this ever stupid. That's about all that I look for in an action film, sorry to say.I actually enjoyed the dialogue for the most part. DeNiro and Reno in particular were solid. The film did begin to fade towards the end, especially once everyone was in the skating arena. I appreciated Frankenheimer showing as much of France as he did. That was a bonus.So, yes, I could point to a number of flaws in Ronin. But, perhaps because of my low esteem for action films overall, I would say it's a worthwhile watch if you're an action fan, or a DeNiro fan, as I am.  "},{"Title":"Action movie for connoisseurs","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer has pretty well closed the book on car chases with this flick. Watching them you wonder at the cred he must have had to get the touchy French to approve the locations. Also, great plot twists. Interesting characters.DeNiro! And the wonderful Michael Lonsdale, who appears in far too few English language vehicles, especially given that he speaks such beautiful English.There's a continuity problem in one sequence (at the amphitheater) and a gratuitous crowd panic in another. These are quibbles. Ronin is a must-see for those who love intelligent action movies. There's great interplay between DeNiro and Jean Reno, strangers to each other but bonded by the freemasonry of their profession -- thus, the movie's title.Don't know why this movie doesn't get a better score. Great story, great action, great acting -- what more to ask for? "},{"Title":"Great movie - we need more like this","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is truely a thinking man's movie. I liked that they developed Deniro's character slowly, and the interaction between Deniro and Reno. I waited for the DVD to see this movie, and I wish I had seen it in the theatre instead. I understand where all the previous comments came from, but I was not bothered by what was in the box. As Deniro says to Sean Bean when Bean asks him about his choice of weapons It's a toolbox - I use the right tool to get the job done. I really feel the box was just the right tool to get the job done. I won't spoil the ending for anyone who hasn't seen the movie, but it was a wonderful twist to end it. "},{"Title":"Yes, Car Chase scenes","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert De Niro kicked major ass in this film.  This movie is the BEST Action movie of '98.  The Plot is great, you never know what is going to happen next.  The car chases, were great.  Do you think Hollywood is going to get the picture about putting a plot in an action movie?  They probably won't though.  If you want to see a real Action Movie, don't be a fool, rent Ronin "},{"Title":"Not as good as I had hoped","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  First of all, I have to admit that I'll see just about any movie that has Robert DeNiro in it.  There were glimpses of the DeNiro that I know and love, but his character, as well as others in the movie, were cold and distant.  The best scenes in the movie were the interaction between DeNiro and Jean Reno, who I thought was really good.  And OK, the first car chase was great, showing some great maneuvers and precise driving, but the second REALLY LONG car chase wound up just being silly.  I'm sure Parisians loved their city being depicted as a terrorist's heaven.  "},{"Title":"Rarity in film...","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Liked though I did, it's rare for a film like this to actually show people eating and sleeping!  Little things like that I found refreshing in an otherwise by-the-book genre thriller.  An excellent example of a genre picture; like a well-tuned vintage Chevy vet.  Sure it's 40 years old, but, look at it go! "},{"Title":"Nominated for best Action Movie - Ronin","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Action from start to finish.  DeNiro steals the show, in this movie that could have been written for him.  His co-stars support him beautifully though, with Reno at his wonderfully impassive best, and McElhone as the sulky Deirdre.  I believe that this movie has one of the longest car chases in movie history (Blues Brothers excepted), although I couldn't help thinking I'd seen a similar backdrop to a car chase in one of the pink panther movies.  If you like action, you'll love Ronin, in fact if you like a good movie, then watch Ronin anyway as it is creditable in all areas. "},{"Title":"Lots of unrealistic action, a bit of suspense, a thin plot","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's tough for me to write this review, being that I am such a De Niro Fan, but this movie does not live up to what it was billed as.  When I first saw the trailers in the theaters I was led to belive that this would be a true action movie, but it was really more of a chase movie.  Much of the movie's time is spent following unrealistic car chases through narrow French streets. It's amazing that none of the main characters actually die during any of the chases.  Those of us that know De Niro know that he is strongest when he has good dialogue to work with.  However, the film really lacked script to support his talent.  All in all, the action was halfway decent, the suspense was quite high, but the plot was a bit thin.  Things slowly fall into place as the movie goes along, but you are left wondering how and why it ended as it did.    "}{"Title":"A film among the great","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is easily overlooked because of its surface impression, but I gave it a chance when it arrived to my city.Frankheimer, who I had never heard of till Ronin, is a fantastic director among many others. The film starts off very calmly, acting so innocent with the operatives arriving together in a cafe, without revealing anything to the audience or other people residing in the cafe with them.They then chatter among each other to secretly inform each other of who they will be working with. Sam's (Robert De Niro) witty sarcasms, one liners, and experience is among one of the best features of these operatives.The car chases are also an excitement as well. Many tight spots, and on the edge-of-your-seat close chances. The experience of the stunt drivers was amazing.Another important factor is the police in the film. Not very many films include this (Peacemaker for example), but Ronin added this to add more realism.The operatives covert techniques and style is also something amazing. Their still walking and silence is an important factor in their accomplishments.The script is also something of uniqueness. The script adds a sense of realism and surreal to the film, adding to the suspense and mystery.The only mystery left of this fantastic film, is what is in the case? "},{"Title":"Disappointing -- A great cast deserved a better script","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Very disappointed in this film, which I was prepared to like.DeNiro/ Reno et al. were very good, but the plot was not believable and left innumerable gaps in credibility, both large and small.The GREAT cast, the setting, the ronin motif, and the attempted tone (all pluses) were undermined by a script that was facile and weak.A great opportunity wasted -- like watching NBA stars play nerf basketball. Save it for a rainy day when nothing else in the video store is of any interest.  "},{"Title":"The best chase scenes of the 90s!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Il sonts des pros, as the Frenchmen would say. They are professionals, hired professionals. The driver, the computer technician, the weapon specialist and two real men. Great atmosphere, excellent chase scenes with German cars (each over 340 hp). I went two times into the cinema just to watch those chase scenes and hear the Audi S8 in the first gear!!   "},{"Title":"Supreme car chase scenes!!!","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Very well directed and acted movie.  Little cheese or predictability anywhere in the storyline.  Good use of deathbed humor, also.  Action from start to finish. A very unpredictable movie throughout, with double-crosses galor!  Besides, it's hard to find anyone cooler than Robert DeNiro anyway, and his character is just as chilly! Good performance by Reno as well.  The friendship between DeNiro and Reno was well written. First class flick, all the way.  Buy this movie today!!! "},{"Title":"DeNiro's great; movie isn't.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro plays a bad guy this time...a hit man who is very efficient. Some excellent dialogue, particularly on the part of DeNiro, and some fantastic chase scenes.  Not very believable chase scenes (are these guys good, or just lucky.  So many near-misses at top speed through narrow city streets).  Several scenes of mass murder and mayhem.  But a thin plot, a weak climax, and too much repetition make for a mediocre film overall. "},{"Title":"Fair hired gun drama with exciting moments","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What's in the briefcase is not important, so don't knock yourself out trying to figure it out. Excellent car chase in Paris on a wrong-way highway! Sean Bean's character is dropped out after only 20 minutes (huh?). Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno have a nice friendly chemistry; they really seem to like each other. Pretty entertaining.  "},{"Title":"thumbs down","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I hate to add to the amazingly long list of comments about this movie, but this is the single film I've seen in a long time in which I had a problem _suspending disbelief_. I didn't believe anything, from McElhone's Irish accent to De Niro's zombie-like walkthrough. Hey, I've been in those French sidewalk cafes and no one ever shot at me. Maybe I was just lucky. Under all that, I shudder to see the American death-wish cult spread its tentacles throughout the free world.  "},{"Title":"Endless, boring car chases by gun happy thugs.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought the endless car chases were stupid and BORING.  The chances of surviving such reckless driving were less than 1/10th of 1%.  And throughout the movie we were saturated with The Case.  But at the end we are never let in on what was in it.  I liked the opening references to the derivation of the title Ronin.  It is my opinion that all the shooting and reckless driving in public would have quickly made the modern ronin Personna Non Grata anywhere in the western world.  And the duration of the subtitles could have been upgraded from one nanosecond to two nanoseconds. "},{"Title":"A great chase film","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin, inaccurately billed as an action film, is more correctly a chase film -- and easily one of the best. The film follows DeNiro, Reno, and company as they attempt to steal a mysterious case. The case constantly evades their grasp; the result is one continuous yet unpredictable chase to secure the unknown goods. The extended chase scenes allow the audience to immerse themselves in the detail of the chase; the suspense keeps them asking for more. By the end, what hides in the case isn't important; the experience is.  "},{"Title":"One of the few smart action pictures","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I will start out by saying that Ronin was my favorite movie of 1998. This movie has a rock-solid plot that is interesting to the final page. DeNiro is outstanding as the veteran CIA operative who will do whatever is necessary to get a job done. DeNiro also heads up a great cast, namely Jean Reno, who was great in The Professional as well as this film. The action sequences are terrific including the three heart-stopping car chases. These are some of the best car chases since Bullit and The French Connection.  There are no cars jumping off bridges, or through buildings, just a good old-fashioned car chase. Praise to the actors, the director John Frankenheimer, and the film. Don't miss this smart suspense thriller. "}{"Title":"Disappointing for a movie with so much potential","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie had so much potential with a well developed early plotline. However, it slipped into a somewhat formulaic cat and mouse chase movie.DeNiro was excellent, and most of the remaining cast was good.  However, not knowing the contents I think takes away from the plot, not adds to it like others might think.Also, there was way too much time spent on car chases, which as usual, proved to be highly unrealistic.  Darrel Waltrip would be in awe of these people if they could really drive like that.While better than most recent action films, it's still only average. "},{"Title":"Ronin - finally a MOVIE!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Thank you, John Frankenheimer!  For finally giving us something from 1998 (besides Saving Private Ryan)  to be excited about.  Ronin demonstrates the craftsmanship and hard work in a film that isn't seen nearly enough.  Exciting editing, never boring camera set-ups, and pounding musical score rate Ronin one of the best in a LONG time.  The complexity of every scene (in every sense) is mesmerizing.  Almost all of the described above have a 70's kind of feel about them.  While watchig this film you might think you were watching a more exciting French Connection or something. Filmed what I would describe as visceral, the movie never gets boring.  The camera's always doing somethig to keep your interest.  Frankenheimer has proved himself another masterpiece here, with a superb cast and by showing us what the craft of filmmaking is all about - in case we've forgotten, with everything else which I won't point the finger at.  Special attention should be payed to the film's composer, Elia Cmiral - whose score is as hauntingly mysterious and exciting as the film itself.  Ronin could have easily been a horrible movie to watch - but in the hands of John Frankenheimer and his creew who handled the script beyond what all could have been imagined - I'm calling it the precedent to which all film students, filmmakers, etc.  should follow. "},{"Title":"Awesome car chase scenes and brilliant acting...","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin was one of the best movies I've seen all of last year. The actors were chosen perfectly and the directing was especially good. Although the plot may not have been the best and a bit hard to follow at times the rest of the movie was awesome. I give it 4 stars out of 5!   "},{"Title":"DeNiro and his magic bazooka","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro, a hand held bazooka, enough car crashes to be considered a Blues Brothers sequel, a hot Irish chick, tons of car chase scenes and stunts, mass destruction of the hated country of France, the Lexus guy playing a mick named Shaemus, a plot even the characters can't figure out, Jean Reno, gun play aplenty and finally a figure skater is killed in mid-spin. Yes this movie is as entertaining as it sounds  "},{"Title":"atypical ambivalent plot, stoic characters, mostly believable action/suspense flick","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Atypical ambivalent plot - refreshing.Mostly believable action/suspense flick - when all hell breaks loose in towns and cities, innocents aren't spared... very unsettling, but realistic.Also refreshing/realistic is the avoidance of black and white characters/motives.  The world in which the Ronin - and most of us - dwell is a very grey place.Stoic characters - also refreshing, tension creating.  The tease about the case throughout the film setup the tease at the end of the film, which was poignant  Sam waiting for Deirdre and his stoic acceptance, She's not coming back here. Reality. Mystery. Desire. The case, which could have arguably symbolized all these things, never revealed its contents - which, in turn, could have sybolized the nature of reality and the fulfillment of desire. Things often pursued but seldom discovered.  "},{"Title":"STRONG CAST WASTED IN THIS DATED, POORLY CONSTRUCTED THRILLER","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The storyline revolves around the plot to steal a mysterious briefcase by a bunch of  misfit ex-security service mercenaries. De Niro plays the lead as he and his comrades speed around the French countryside moving from one doublecross to the next.  The car chases are excellent but the overall flow of the movie is clumsy and dated.  There are too many cliched moments involving French cafes, ex-Russian spies and Irish terrorists.  Multiple attempts at sophistication and intrigue fall flat as an accomplished cast try to sustain the suspense.  A glaring example is the extreme waste of Sean Bean as a twitchy ex-SAS imposter whose role serves no purpose but to introduce a few overly clever references to the English town of Hereford. (The connection between the town and the SAS is probably lost on much of the audience and no explanation is given). This movie tries to bridge the gap between an intelligent dialogue-driven thriller and a gratuitous all-action movie.  Sadly, it falls very flat somewhere in between.  "},{"Title":"GUN BATTLES AND CAR CHASES DO NOT A PLOT MAKE, EVEN WITH A FINE CAST AND GREAT LOCATIONS.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If you think chic flics are silly, wait'll you see this guy flick. Intelligence mercenaries, all with a two day growth of beard and wearing black leather jackets. Gauloise-smoking, tender tough-guys.  Car chases and gun battles ad infinitum.  Yanks, Russians, Irish, a Scandinavian, les Francaise, Paris, Nice, KGB, CIA - everything but the New York Yankees and Manchester United!  The director probably had to settle for a crane in one scene because a blast furnace wouldn't fit on the set.Don't get me wrong, I actually enjoyed this silly movie, especially the macho chemistry between Robert De Niro and Jean Reno.  At one point I thought they might actually kiss each other - in a manly sort of way, of course.  These two guys are every bit the equal of that pair from a previous generation, Newman and Redford playing their Butch and Sundance roles.There is, however, one particularly totally reprehensible scene in which an innocent young child is made an arbitrary target.  Director Frankenheimer should hold his head in shame for having included this gratuitous scene in an otherwise innocuous movie. The inclusion of a car chase through the tunnels of Paris is also stunningly insensitive.Come to think of it, perhaps this is not just the guy flick that I assumed it to be.  Maybe it's just the swan song of a bitter old director trying to exploit a 1960's format in the late 1990's.  Oh, well, I'd better knock off the pop psychology.  If you're a guy, you'll probably like the flick.  If you're a woman...well, my wife refused to see it with me.  C'est la vie! "},{"Title":"Spectacular and entertaining!!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  You take a bunch of great actors and you put them in an action film taking place in France, and you might get something good. But Ronin goes deeper. The plot isn't great, but there are enough turnovers and action sequences to keep your eyes on the screen until the end. However, what makes this movie so great, are the car chases, some of the greatest on film, great enough to challenge famous Bullit's car chase. Definitely a winner. "},{"Title":"DeNiro Shines Again","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Finally, Hollywood makes an action-adventure film that is worth seeing. DeNiro shine through as a true action hero.  The story is believable and not over-the-top, and the car chase scenes will leave you on the edge of your seat!  Do yourself a favor and watch Ronin to see how an action film should be done. "},{"Title":"The best car chase film","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I think RONIN is one of the best car chase films I have ever seen. The acting was terrific, especially Sean Bean and Jean Reno who put up great performances. Overall I thought that the action was great, but the plot and the characters could be further developed. This is a great film and I would urge everyone to see it. "}{"Title":"A movie you should see.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well, this movie is a real hit, a film that you will not regret watching. Ronin is a great action movie, the chase scenes, the shooter scenes, and the tactical aspect of the story is a very fine piece of art. The film is different from other action movies, as it throws light on the life of the agents, who were  very, very fine group of actors, headed of course by Robert De Niro, who played a great role; his naturalness, simplicity, humour, and professionalism added a lot to the film.De Niro played the character of the professional agent so simply and so cleverly that you felt he is doing his daily household work! Jean Reno also fascinated me by his sweet way of acting, adding a new perspective for an agent's job and for the movie's story.The plot was cleverly drawn, nothing extraordinary, or supernatural. It all seems as if the film retells a real story, with the events happening neither too fast nor too slow, but just at the correct rate. Even when new surprises appear on the surface, you don't feel any interruption. The film's theme, is however, the most charming point, by telling the story of the Samuri and the Ronin, it added an atmosphere of charm and vagueness to the film.The end of the film, though some may disagree with me, is an excellent one (no spoilers). The only disadvantages of the film are the excessively long car chase scenes, with the commercial like spirit. If you didn't watch this film, go and watch it. "},{"Title":"Two hours of pure action","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Two hours of pure action. They all want to get the briefcase, but who are the good guys? Advertisement for cars is prevalent. But however - the story you can start watching the movie anytime. The action is of good quality all the time as the story is simple. Recommended! "},{"Title":"An Action Sparkled Thriller With Breathtaking Carchases","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Movies with Robert De Niro are a given box office success. The question is if the director just roles on mr.De Niro`s name or if it is a good movie. Ronin is a great movie with brethtaking car chases and hard action. The car chases are stunning and scary..you get sick after 20 seconds and the many car chases are Ronin's build up. De Niro act`s marvellous as usual and swedish Stellan Skarsgård is also exellent Go see Ronin.. You won't be disappointed  "},{"Title":"Exciting car chase scene/s, Explosions, guns, De niro, Reno, excellent","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was very impressed by this movie, It kinda reminded me of Heat, (not the storyline but the style). This was truly a thinking man's movie. Alliegences changed so many times during this movie that you had to have your wits about you.Add to this Robert De Niro, ex cia, Jean Reno (excellent in the professional), car chases galore, exciting scenery, gunfire murder and you have all the elements of this great film.Plot A group of specialist in different fields of espionage are gathered by an unknown irish extremist, to obtain a briefcase containing unknown material. Many groups want this case, especially the Russians and the Irish. The rest of the movie focuses on obtaining and keeping the case.Go see it, you'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie - violence, cars, Jean Reno - say no more!!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Went to see Ronin today, and LOVED it. Wonderful scenery, good acting, no needless sex scenes, lots of laughs, lots of violence, lots of cars, Jean Reno perfect AS USUAL. Only one complaint - why did they all survive at the end?  GO AND SEE THIS FILM IF YOU LIKE OLD-FASHIONED THRILLERS-WITH-A-TWIST!! "},{"Title":"Bitterly disappointing action extravaganza","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What a joke!  Apart from some terrific set pieces in the guise of car chases and explosions, Ronin is a poorly thought out movie.  It seems all creative thought went on the stunts.  Perhaps the scriptwriter should have devoted more time to creating a credible storyline which would have provided a much needed intelligence to this disappointing action extravaganza.Robert de Niro sleepwalks his way through his role of hired gun and was obviously pre-occupied with other matters when filming this French made thriller. "},{"Title":"I like the look of this film","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sometimes, I always get the thought that the director couldn't care less about what the critics and audience think about the film. About stuff like what, really significant connection in the film between the leaderless characters links them to masterless Samurai? But I guess Frankenheimer didn't give a damn, and I respect him for that. He gives the film the feel and atmosphere he wants it to. Icy characters, speeding through France, mashing up some guys car against a tunnel wall and watching the sparks fly, the whole KGB/CIA feel, a computer nut as the villain who looks like a crackhead, a cold, straight faced Robert De Niro- stuff like that, just probably a load of ideas he had in his head and wanted to just slickly put them to film. That's the sort of stuff I'd like to do. And the car chases are the best I've seen. "},{"Title":"Politically interesting, visually stale.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found a lot more could of been done about the special effects.  It seems the creators of Ronin spent too much of their budget on blowing up vehicles, and not enough on the visual effects.  This movie reminded me of the old Sean Connery and Roger Moore Bond movies. "},{"Title":"I may say it's good, but you may say it's bad.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Why? or Why not? I can understand that some other people said that this movie is just only big bang-bang to get a mysterious case or ngeeeeeek bang in the street. Ronin...hmmm? that has also happened in this century.I tell ya what...this tales is also happening to us..someday or maybe.. Just read the tales of that Ronin before you watch this movie. well. 7/10 not bad  "},{"Title":"A very different action-thriller movie with awesome car chases","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What made me go to see this movie was the actors Robert DeNiro, Jean Reno and Stellan Skarsgård, but after I had watched I must confess I never really understood what the movie was about; that is what I liked about it. One thing of great importance is a suit-case that both the IRA and the Russian Maffia want to have but they never let you know what was in it. Further it is very difficult to understand who is the good guy and who is the bad; but that only makes the plot more interesting so there is no way you can figure out the end in the middle of the movie. I must also recommend this movie to all who likes car chases. They are filmed in a way that almost makes you think you are in the cars. So to all action lovers out there. Go watch this movie!! "}{"Title":"Lengthy pseudo-action thriller.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Re-using Hitchcock's classic McGuffin, Ronin's main plot revolves round a secret briefcase and a band of mercenaries chasing it.OK, so it's packed with hardboiled characters, a great deal of shooting and three truly spectacular car chases. It's still an unsuccessful attempt to make an old-fashioned spy thriller. And it seems like director John Frankenheimer has too much faith in the pointless dialogue interludes. It's just dull and flat and the ending is ludicrous and close to parody. Great cast though.  "},{"Title":"Ronin vs. Taxi (Fr. 1998)","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Many comments are about the great car chasing.  I have seen a better movie with car chases, that is also located in France Taxi. (You have to see this one when you get the chance.) Taxi  has &#145;real French actors' and a better plot unless you like only-action-movies. Great actors though, in Ronin. The movie kept tempo all the time, was exciting and definitely not boring.As for the title, I read somewhere that the agents were named this way because of the similarity with the ronin that also had lost their master. Hence the miniature-ronin-maker in the film.   "},{"Title":"Well written, Great cast, and unparalleled car chase scenes","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Deirdre (Natascha McElhone) is a mysterious Irish woman who has assembled an international group of covert operatives in Paris for a special mission. Joining Americans Sam (Robert De Niro), the most experienced of the bunch, and Larry (Skipp Sudduth), the designated driver, Vincent (Jean Reno), the French coordinator, Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard), the Eastern Bloc electronics specialist, and Spence (Sean Bean), the English weapons specialist. Other than Deirdre, none of the team members know who's hired them, the motives of the others, or the exact details of the mission, other than that they're to ambush a multi-car caravan and steal a coveted briefcase that's being heavily guarded. After staking out their prey and establishing their plan in Nice, the group strikes and retrieves the briefcase, but things immediately go wrong. One of the group flees with the valuable item, and the chase begins. As allegiances change at the drop of a hat, the team members realize they can trust no one. As the members attempt to retrieve the coveted case and its unknown contents, they discover that more operatives, including Russian businessman Mikhi (Feodor Atkine) and another mysterious fellow, Seamus (Jonathan Pryce), also want the briefcase and will kill anyone in their way. Director John Frankenheimer , who's delivered such great films as The Manchurian Candidate and Birdman of Alcatraz. Of course, he also brought us 1996's remake of The Island of Dr. Moreau, so no one's perfect, does his part well in Ronin. The action sequences certainly make the film easy to watch, but not any easier to follow. With the numerous villains, their plans, and the switching of allegiances being handled in somewhat of a muddled fashion, the end result often leaves the viewer pondering exactly what's occurring. The film features a superb cast, and the great Robert De Niro is obviously the main draw. Having a track record of many tremendous and famous performances in the past (Raging Bull, Taxi Driver, and on and on), it's enjoyable to watch him command the screen and easily hold our attention while we wait for something to happen. French actor Jean Reno (Mission Impossible, The Professional) always a perfect character actor for films such as this is as good as ever, while Stellan Skarsgard (Good Will Hunting, Breaking the Waves) and the always radiant Natascha McElhone (The Truman Show, Surviving Picasso) also deliver good performances. My only disappointment with the cast involves Sean Bean (Patriot Games, Goldeneye), not due to a bad performance, but because he prematurely leaves the story and his thespian volatile presence is missed, although there are plenty of villains to go around. Decent film thad´s well worth watching for two hours.  "},{"Title":"Cool as it gets when Stellan is there.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great movie with a lot of good actors. Big applause for Stellan Skarsgård and Jean Reno. Kind of a reminder of Taxi, as to the scenes in the tunnels. Great lines and a lot of great car scenes. "},{"Title":"Not a Bruckheimer production, it's better","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"   From the first minute you see that this is not a Jerry Bruckheimer Movie, it's better. It's not slick, with beautifull people and things like that. This is a movie that tastes as a 70's pic, with not so steady camerawork and clean locations. This is a story, raw and full humour. It was not a blockbuster, but if you like movies, than go see it. In a cinema, because it has some great scenes "},{"Title":"great car chase but very confusing story","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is like going in an Audi showroom.  The movie showed more of the great performance of the car.  Overall, it is an interesting movie but there was just too many characters who did not stay long enough on screen to be developed.  The result was there was too much men whom you just don't know if they were the good guys or not or where did they come from.  The connection to Ronin (samurai) was not really established and one wonders if the name was actually relevant in the movie.  This movie for me is not worth seeing well it is worth it if you are a sucker for great car chases!  "},{"Title":"Jean Reno is a great guy!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I really liked this mowie because of the car chases and the great actors. I can´t say that the plot were so convincing, but a good action-movie doesn´t have to have a plot when it has Jean Reno and Robert DeNiro in the cast. Since I´m from Sweden I must say that Stellan Skarsgård did a good job as well. I think that the character that Jean R. played must have been the brother to Leon. A more open-minded and talking brother but never the less a brother. See it for the car chases and the DeNiro expressions. "},{"Title":"The action film *I* would have made","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had looked at reviews on IMDB before going to the film, since I thought the trailers looked good but the film was only being shown at half past midnight. So when I decided to go I was still a bit worried by some of the comments about a lack of plot.But I really don't know why people have thought that. Maybe it's because there is no obvious, predictable and classical (in the literary sense) storyline, no good people or evil people, no simple build-up to a largely cliche climax...No matter, I for one thought that there was a surprising amount of detail and subtlety - both in storyline and people's actions as well as in the settings used. The construction guys trying to rescue the bad guys from the wrecked cars, for example, and did anyone else catch the relevance of the window being painted over at the apartment in Nice or of the chase under the metro-bridge?   -)There was also a very low *CRINGE* factor.. apart from the computers still going bleep all the time. Most other objects/scenes/situations/people were handled with a good helping of realism. Oh, there were two pretty awful Irish accents but we'll gloss over that.And of course.... the CAR CHASES! No crappy Hollywood exploding, stationary dummies or whatever.. no no, *real* cars driving *really* fast and having *real* crashes! I was particularly surprised when one car smashed past a restaurant terrace.. and actually took a few (real) people with it!!!So, all in all, just the kind of action film I have always been saying they should make - spiced up with a little international flavour to bring back the Bond feeling we've been missing in the last few Bond films.My mark 8/10 "},{"Title":"A solid performance by De-niro in a good film.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Not expecting much from this film initially, I was pleasantly surprised. The acting is good, the plot sticks together and besides some moments of forced dialogue, it comes out as a pretty believable experience. The movie won't become a classic, or even be widely remembered in a few years, but it's a better viewing option than other recent movies because it carries with it a relaxed feeling created by the fact that it isn't stuffed with special effects or one-liners. "},{"Title":"Action, done good","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is how all the action pictures should be. Nice, smooth and realistic (as much as possible anyway). Great direction by Frankenheimer. Nobody knows how to orchestrate major car chases like he does. Also, great performances by Robert De Niro, as always and by Jean Reno. This surprised me somewhat, considering the earlier attempts of French actors (e.g. Depardieu) to conquer Hollywood. The only thing that bothered me a bit are the large holes in the script, but who cares about that in a great piece of work such as Ronin? "}{"Title":"A guy's movie","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have to say that I didn't really like the movie, although my husband did. It's a guy's movie full of car racing and KGB CIA stuff. So ladies if you go be prepared. "},{"Title":"Great Car chases - shame about the plot.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin - unfortunately, I failed to see the real connection between Ronin - the title of the film and the film plot itself. The acting itself was good, and the car chases fantastic. However, I felt that the plot left me a bit bewildered. There were too many twists, and I even got a bit confused towards the end !! - however, the staging, casting, and action was worth watching. I give it 7/10 in total. "},{"Title":"Finally something good","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good action movie with good actors like Robert de Niro, etc. Finally the action take place in beautiful Europe.  You can see very good German, Swedish and French cars. "},{"Title":"Cool Car scenes!!!!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie because someone told me that an Audi S8 was used as a chase car. I was not disappointed!This movie is different. It's set completely in France (Paris and Nice). And, my point to make in this text, it has _real_ cars in it. There're no American cars as a primary vehicle in the chase scenes.Without giving up too much of the story- Audi S8, Peugeot 406, BMW M5, Mercedes S-something (sorry don't know the exact body series), Citroen Xantia,.. you get to see each one of these partially or totally demolished.The first chase scene around Nice.. neat (the Audi S8 has an aluminium body.. very expensive, and difficult to knock back to shape). The second chase scene in Paris... even better, and totally INSANE.. if you've driven in Paris you know how seemingly chaotic and busy the traffic is.. and you can see two cars tearing up half the roads in the city, driving against the traffic and destroying dozens of other cars.Earlier someone summarised Ronin as two chase scenes with lots of dialogue in between. I agree!! However the dialogue is not a total loss.. it's a good story. I like the ending bit with the contents of the suitcase.I'm gonna get the video.. just for car scenes..it's gotta be a classic in time to come. "},{"Title":"It's alright I guess...","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I actually quite liked this movie, although going in I didn't know what to expect and leaving I was still somewhat confused. The reason being Ronin's first half is all superb characterisation, while the second half is more or less standard action movie fare. I enjoyed both parts thoroughly, problem is if I want intelligent and action, I'd probably have preferred to see two movies!Credit to the direction which is very slick, especially the camera work in the chase scenes (but no surprise there really), but I really am drawn more to the begining.We are introduced to a colourful band of rogues each with their own unique personality, and each hiding some strange secret. The irish woman whose strange packet implies sinister forces, the cold east german operative, Sean Bean brilliantly portrays the very nervous SAS man, the mysterious Jean Reno and De Niro whose secret is eventually the key to the film. From these beginnings anything is possible... "},{"Title":"The best car chase scene!","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the best car chase scenes in recent memory!  I found the whole story very involving and was totally wrapped up in it until the final credits.  A winner! "},{"Title":"What happened to Sean Bean?","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Sean Bean's exit from the film was odd to say the least. Personally I think the character was annoying and I was glad to see the back of him, but where did he go? Any person who is mad enough to pose and ex paratrooper/commando is not just going to give up and go home. I kept expecting him to pop up and get in the way of the operation. Did the writers run out of ideas or did Mr Bean have commitments elsewhere?PS I liked the film and agree Robert DeNiro should receive an Oscar. "},{"Title":"A series of car chases interspaced with witty but pointless dialog","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Despite a stunning cast and promising title this film fails to inspire. It's not a standard action fare but it would have done much better if it had tried to stick to that genere. The plot is weak and repetitive and despite De Nero's best efforts I didn't feel anything for any of the characters. The team could obviously put together a car chase well as that's how most of the action sequences end, but by the third most of the audience were more than bored. The script has some excellent lines in it but if more time had been spent on the overall story this film could have been a whole lot better. Go and get Chushingura, it's namesake, out on video instead. "},{"Title":"For an action movie, it loses its grip on me too often","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I really had expected a bit more out of this one. A glorious cast, lead by Robert de Niro, and a story that looked promising enough, in the preview trailers.So, this movie at least partly tries to be an action movie? Well, I found myself being so relaxed an unenthralled by the action in the middle of one of the car chases (!) that I decided it might be better to listen for some nice music -- alas, there was none.The ending -- well, suffice it to say, the film would have been quite a bit better either without the last five minutes, or with at least a little bit more integration of that final revelation into the line of the plot. As it is, it felt as if someone else had decided to finish the story, after all the real writers had gone. "},{"Title":"Great movie, exciting, have some questions","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I really loved watching the film. It was a well planned and exciting movie. But there are still some things I would like to know. What was in the suitcase which everybody wanted to have? I didn't sleep too good because I didn't know what was in the suitcase. If you know it please tell me.Thank youMAirJ  "}{"Title":"Better than Bond","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Frankenheimer&#145;s Ronin is one of the most enjoyable secret-agent movies I can remember.As are most of the genre, it is old-fashioned. In fact, one could imagine an even-older master such as John Huston being the director.In contrast to other new films such as Mission Impossible or The Saint it does not pander to a young audience with coolness.What Ronin does offer is what almost all James Bond movies promise but fail to deliver roller-coaster car chases, erotic suspense, spectacular scenery, witty dialogue, and above all a super-luxury cast with magnetic attraction.Another wonderful trait of Frankenheimer is his attention to detail no sloppy cuts, no circular dialogue, no stupid special effects.The only thing missing in this eminently entertaining film is more women. "},{"Title":"Poor film, keep your money","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  To cast so many great actors in a film such as this was a mistake from the start.  This film has no beginning and a poor end.  It leaves you in a daze as to who is friends with who and towards the climax of the film, we don't care what's in the box that everyone has been after.(but we don't find out just the same!).  There are some clever recognisance techniques used and some very expensive car chases but this didn't make up for the lack of a good script. Next time eh? "},{"Title":"Seeing this movie means you'll never want to drive in France again","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin burns up the road. DeNiro and Reno are a nineties Butch and Sundance.Chasing after the 'briefcase' they do wrong but, are never 'wrong-doers'. You need to give this movie fifteen minutes to light-up,but then it never slows down.Those car chases in Paris and through Nice defy belief;unless you've driven in France,everybody drives that way! DeNiro excels,believable and intimidating ,Reno is a wonderful counterpoint ,at times more an observer than a participant. Excellent stunt work, that tumble in the stadium in Arles looked like it really hurt. Go see,now! "},{"Title":"...yawn...","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This morning's Hollywood Reporter has a production still from Ronin, a Submitted-for-Your-Approval thingus...Now, I saw this piece of nonsense and I'll tell ya, paying for this ad MUST be buried in SOME contract SOMEWHERE cause they COULDN'T wilfully be serious (unless the Globes or Oscars now offers a Best Car Chase figurine, which this Movie deserves).There's nothing really WRONG with Ronin if you overlook the worst case of MacGuffin-itis (this is the correct spelling, look to the source) I've seen lately; a seemingly complex structure that is frighteningly easy to predict; a loconic European pace that mistakes Insight in favor of thinking man action picture (which it is NOT).Ronin falls on its face every time an attempt is made (and They see fit to try A LOT) to modify the standard template of the Chase Film.  Nobody gives a cold squat about the interiors of the supplementary characters they DO spend screen time investigating, CONVERSELY the screentime they spend on fleshing out the characters we DO want to squat over is mired in some BRILLIANT CHOICE concept that waves a wand at creating some knock-off brand EXISTENTIAL AMBIGUITY in the same way we don't know what's in the oh-so-soughtafter ice skate box, we know as much about what's inside our main characters.  This strategy CAN work, but its failure here demonstrates the difference between 'Masters' and 'Journeymen'.Unrecommended. "},{"Title":"Great actors, terrific location, appalling direction","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Both my cousin and I thought this film was extremely disappointing because we  had such great expectations for it. When we saw the trailer, the actors, the film name, and the atmosphere were all very appealing, but when we actually saw the movie, we realised that the title 'Ronin' had nothing to do with the movie, and the car chases were over-long and unrealistic. Most of the characters were underdeveloped and the script was shaky. It's a real shame that a director with such great actors and a huge budget couldn't do much better than this. We'd rather stay home and play 'Bust a Move' on the Playstation for two hours any day. "},{"Title":"Action films how they should be made","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I left the cinema genuinely impressed. For the first time in a long time Hollywood has made an action film where the money was spent on decent actors and down to Earth stunts and special effects. This was a thinking man's action film.This isn't to say the film is perfect. The plot seems to go around in circles for the second half of the film and as a lot of the people die at some point in the film you can't help feeling that there were plenty of missed opportunities for some decent character work.The action sequences were brilliant though. I mean almost spot on. The realms of realism were very rarely breached and it was packed with bone fide stunts as opposed to the CGI substitutes that we have become too used to. Collectively, the car chases are probably the best I have ever seen, knocking even the likes of Bullit and the Blues Brothers for six.Also deserving mention is Robert De Niro's performance. He has seemed a bit flat in his last few films but he is back here doing what he does best. Combine him with Jean Reno (again, doing what he does best) and you have a truly magical performance.If you can, see this film. The car chases alone will justfiy it. "},{"Title":"A total waste of money!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A rating of 7+ swayed me to go and see this movie.  What a mistake!  This movie is barely worthwhile watching on video.  Miss it. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, Enjoyable and Un-American amongst the best action movies this year","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  South of France, Nice a number of cars zoom through the narrow streets of the old town... Just one of the many scenes that kept my shoulders tense so often during that movie. Most action movies have a plot one can feel coming from a mile away. Not so in this movie. A set of characters is described in a rather differentiated manner, and the plot is full of unexpected events. The car chases are amongst the very best I have ever seen.But the most striking fact about this movie is how un-American it feels. The dialogues and the way the movie is shot remind me more of the french movies I grew up on than the American movies that now fill the cinemas. The beautiful takes in the South of France were especially enjoyable, and added much to the ambiance of the movie. It would be a shame to miss the movie...  "},{"Title":"Excellent action film","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was one of the best action films I have seen for a long time. The car chase sequences were excellent and totally gripping.A must see "},{"Title":"Thinking Man's Action Flick, I loved it.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin Starring Robert De Niro (cool), Jean Reno (very cool), Natasha McElhone (very fit), Johnathan Pryce (very scary) and Sean Bean (very in-it-for-about-five-seconds)Ronin tells the story of a bunch of disavowed (very Mission Impossible, I know) intelligence agents who hire themselves out through a contact known only as The Cripple or The Man In The Wheelchair to the highest bidder. They are hired by Natasha McElhone (with an Irish accent, very important) to steal a case, the contents of which are unknown.All goes to plan (if your plan includes exploding cars and high speed chases) - or does it? Suddenly double-bluffs and plot twists spring out at you from all directions. The rest of the film basically concerns itself around the case - a perfect example of a Hitchcock Macguffin - and the fight to get it back.To say the direction was sharp would be an understatement. It was sharper than a razor who's just been made Professor of Sharpology at Oxford University. Also - and I'm trying not to use the words gritty realism - it was... How shall I put it? Real. I couldn't see any CGI for once, and I find that kinda refreshing in a film, I'm fed up of being to make absolutely anything appear, that just ain't interesting.Sean Bean is actually only in the film for about five minutes, which   ****ed me off, not because I'm a huge fan, but because it annoys me when Studios think that they can get away with passing off a huge star as being in a film when really, they're not, example Steven Seagal in Executive Decision, Robert De Niro in Copland.Robert De Niro and Jean Reno were absolutely excellent together, and I sincerely hope that they work together in the future, though hopefully not on Godzilla 2 This time it's really, really big. Natasha McElhone, apart from being very attractive, was convincing as am-I-the-good-girl-or-the-bad-girl? and Sean Bean (when he was in it) was very good. Jonathan Pryce was cool, calculating, and playing his part from Tomorrow Never Dies all over again, I half expected Stamper to come through the wall, Arnie-style.Onto the plot I loved it. I thought this really was The Thinking Man's Action Flick - billing itself as a car chase thriller is no lie - (though I'm pretty sure you can't really fire a rocket launcher by sticking your head through the sunroof)... those Audi's really kick up some dust. By the middle of the film you'd got the idea, but you weren't really sure who the bad guys and who the good guys were, and by about three-quarters of the way through, I wasn't sure if there was a distinction at all... Though I'd really like to see Jean Reno playing a *really* bad guy.Overall It ain't quite in my Top Ten, but it's hovering around number 11. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It has been a long time since I have enjoyed a film so much as I did this one. Car chases were great so was De Nero as usual. "},{"Title":"Best Car sequence ever","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A while ago this newsgroup conducted a lengthy debate over the topic of the best car chase ever.  Well I believe I've just been witness to one that can top them all.To those who appreciate the car chase as the best expression of stuntmen's capabilities, and easily the best form of the 'action' sequence, then UA's Ronin will go down as an instant classic.  And like Bullitt, who's car chase has given it iconic status, its place in the annuls of history is assured.John Frankenheimer should seriously consider just directing car sequences for other people's movies.  The second chase through the streets of Paris is unprecedented and to those who still think The French Connection or The Seven Ups reign supreme, this should finally silence their claims.If you have ever spoken of an interest in the action genre, if only in passing to a stranger, then watch Ronin and see what even $50 million's worth of CGI could never achieve.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw Ronin in the theatre with my friends and I loved it.  I was very disappointed when I saw the box office standings and how poorly it did in the theatre.  It truly was a great film.  I would recommend it to anyone who likes thrillers and likes to think. "},{"Title":"A thrill ride with a brain","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is one of the best action films to hit the silver screen in a long while.  It has all of the action and intrigue of a 007 film, the twists and turns of a Humphrey Bogart mystery, and the intelligence of The Manchurian Candidate.  Sporting an excellent cast composed of Jean Reno of The Professional, Robert DeNiro, and three former Bond villains, this movie tells much about friendship, trust, and personal integrity in a profession where honor is a valued commodity. "},{"Title":"good stuff","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is like a film school exercise you would give an A.  The film manages to have all the required features of a good spy film, but none of the context; it is often hard to tell why you should care about what is going on.  But that's fine, because the movie makes up for this lack of explanation by excelling in other departments; the car chase scenes are great, and the dialog is trademark Mamet.  While strangely disappointing on some level, this film is ultimately very worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Potential hit sells out halfway  replacing script with car chases","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I waited all summer to see De Niro's new film. After all, he's my favorite actor, and I was looking forward to seeing him in anaction flick written by the great David Mamet. It worked so well in Wag the Dog, I figured it would even stand up in a blow'em up movie. Well, I was wrong. With the exception of a few great one- liners and a grim, attention grabbing start, Ronin was fated tobecome, yes, a plain old blow 'em up movie. Somewhere along the line, the script was replaced by car chase after car chase. Even if I was a fan of car chases, which I certainly am not, I wouldbe disappointed because of their misplacement in this could- have- been great thriller. "},{"Title":"A great film, if your definition of great means everything goes boom.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Overall, I really enjoyed this movie, so let me just get all my complaints out of the way first. 1. The plot revolves around a briefcase which contains something that is never revealed to the audience. Did I just ruin the plot for all of you? Good, now you can focus on the action instead of trying to figure out what is in the briefcase. What bothers me is that this is the same concept used in Pulp Fiction, no? The whole thing revolves around a briefcase (Tarantino-ites may argue it contained that dude's soul, but whatever). 2. One, count it, ONE sex scene, and no breasts, not even partial nudity. 3. No one-liners. The mark of a great action movie is its ability to make degenerates like myself remember cheesy lines from it. Like hasta la vista, baby, or you talkin' to me? or Give me some sugar, baby.Now that I've gotten all my disgruntlements (is that a word?) out of the way, we can cut to the grits. Ronin is basically your generic really good run of the mill action spy flick. It has the BEST car chase scenes I've seen in a really long time, I mean they fly all over the place, and lots of people die. I love death scenes in action movies, cause people literally just spontaneously explode and they don't need an explanation. I mean, I wouldn't even question it if DeNiro was talking to some guy and the guy just blew up, anything fits. So this unemployed killer dude (DeNiro) and a bunch of other guys are gathered together by this Irish chick (Natascha McElhone) to steal a briefcase. Mission Impossible/Dirty Dozen style, each one is a specialist in something; cars, electronics, guns, and all that hoopla. Somewhere along the way DeNiro has sex with Natascha, but they don't show it. So the tech guy (Stellan Skarsgard) is really a Russian double-agent (more like triple-agent if you think about it, but don't). He helps them steal the briefcase, then he steals it from them, then wants to sell it to the Russians. They smoke yellow cigarettes in this movie. So then they (DeNiro, the Irish chick, the driver, and Jean Reno's character, who's this I can get it for you type of guy) go chasing after the Russian tech dude, and lo and behold, we find out Natascha is working for Jonathan Pryce, or rather, the character he plays with is a super-IRA type of dude who is in hiding (for a guy in hiding he's outside a lot in the movie, but I let it pass). So there's a bunch of car chases, lots of people get shot, DeNiro discovers what the movie title means (in case you don't already know, a Ronin is a samurai whose master was killed and now he hires himself out as a bodyguard). Whatever, in the end lots of people die, especially this Russian ballerina, she gets shot cause the Russians are greedy and don't want to pay Stellan his money, but I hate ice ballerinas anyway, I still have nightmares about Sesame Street on ice (I just really shivered).  If you ask me, she had it coming. Anyway, DeNiro obviously makes it, oddly enough he does NOT get the girl, which is the only real aspect of this movie, he is recruited back in the CIA which didn't really kick him out in the first place, apparently, and Jean Reno grows up to be a professional hitman like he's always wanted to be.So, you ask, that's it? Yeah, I mean, they practically blow up France, the death count is nice, the girl is ok to look at, DeNiro is tuff and enigmatic, and Jean Reno is a good bully with silly (but real) Frenchie accent. The car chases are better than any in Bond, and the plot, well... did I mention how great the car chases were?I give this one a solid $6, and add a dollar if you're a big action movie fan like me, add another dollar if you pretend to be James Bond in front of the mirror every morning in the nude. I liked it, Ronin is a very good (not great) action movie, if you do decide to go see it, make sure that it's in a theatre with great surround sound. "},{"Title":"Shed a tear for the lonely samurai (and the audience)","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I almost let Ronin pass me by. It was nearly out of theatres by the time I saw it. I like De Niro. I wanted to like it. But this movie, despite a strong cast, and an excellent car chase, is pure silliness and poor plotting. At first it seemed appealingly like Reservoir Dogs elevated to a theatre of international mercenarism. But it ended like Van Damme's Maximum Impact. Significant characters disappear without a whisper, the score is overbearing, DeNiro and Reno cast meaningful (almost homoerotic) glances at each other, doublecrosses are affected without a measure of intent, romantic longings rear their heads only at convenient moments, passersby casually react (and die) in public gunfights, and the long scene in which an old French man redundantly tries to make sense of the movie's title is purely dispensable. The end is drippily sentimental. It starts like Reservoir Dogs and ends like A League of Their Own. Worst of all, DeNiro, while solid, seems uneasily crammed into a part which seems to have been written for Bruce Willis. Imagine DeNiro in Die Hard With a Vengeance. Not worth the (raised) price of admission. "},{"Title":"Typical shoot 'em up car chase movie","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good actors, but the action scenes were mostly overdone and unrealistic. One of the lamest scenes was when two cars were driving down a busy highway, swerving around oncoming cars for what seemed like eternity.  The worst was when they showed a shot of the oncoming cars from behind and NONE of them were slamming on their brakes!  Wouldn't you at least STEP on your brake if you saw a car coming at you head-on?  After all this, without so much as a scratch, the chase finally ends with a flat tire!  Give me a break.  At least let me believe it COULD happen.  I'm tired of unrealistic movies, they're getting old. "},{"Title":"Not what was expected","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Do you ever wake up at night and become totally disoriented?  That is the way I felt after I left the theater after seeing this movie.  Don't get me wrong, it was worth the 7 bucks to go see, but it seemed like such a letdown.  I think a major reason for this is the limited dialouge.  There couldn't have been more than 200 words spoken in the entire film.  That and the constant introducion of key characters made Ronin patchy at best.  "}{"Title":"Finally a good US Movie for Jean Reno","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Finally Jean Reno is not the only actor in an US movie who is good. This is by far the best (US) movie of him I have seen to date. After all the crap he had to go through it is well deserved. Not only he is perfect as always but also Robert DeNiro is superb, definitely one of my favourites this year, IMO a Must-See. "},{"Title":"Finally, a movie worth all the money.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It isn't very often you get to see high-performance German built sedans(Audi S8 & BMW M3) driven to the limit. An excellent job was done on the realism of the chase scenes and the realism of the violence as well.  It is a very well made movie and is complemented by yet another Robert De Niro performance. I also liked the fact that the makers decided to make an original ending which isn't ruined by the same old cliches. "},{"Title":"Confusing, yet entertaining.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The plot was all over the place for me so I couldn't easily follow along. The performances were very good, yet some of the accents mumbled the dialogue.  This film will be notorious for its two excellent car chases.  It was thoroughly entertaining but I need to research the film to get its full understanding. "},{"Title":"excellent attention to detail","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought that the director had a very well balanced movie, lots of suspense, with a nice release during the car chase scenes.  And the long scenes were also a real treat due to the excellent attention to detail with backgrounds and other items that let you know that you were really in a foreign country, From the yellow cigarettes to the old phone in the French bar at the beginning, Excellent film. Very realistic. "},{"Title":"Bring the drama-mine!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is several notches above your regular action flick. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno work very well together.The car chase scenes are breathtaking. You *must* see this film on the biggest screen in your area! You will feel like you are riding along with the actors as they drive through very narrow streets at high speed.Great stuff! Go see it! "},{"Title":"In stories like this, less is more, and everyone plays it beautifully.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's so great to see an action film where the writer or director don't spoon feed you the whole thing in the first ten minutes. In Ronin, the characters are a little bit ahead of you, and you don't really catch up until the end. It works. Plus the car chase is the ONLY one I've ever seen that leaves you out of breath, the best one ever filmed (how's that for an endorsement?). "},{"Title":"slightly more engaging than Jurassic Park","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film is mostly made up of very well crafted car-chase scenes which makes for a lot of tension and suspense (hence the reference to Jurassic Park).  Otherwise, the plot's pretty thin (hence the reference to Jurassic Park).Contrary to what others here have said, I found the initial frame explaining the meaning of the word Ronin to be unnecessary and hokey since halfway through the movie it is clearly explained by a mysterious friend of Jean Reno's character.  The explanation is even given with visual aids.  How much simpler can it be?Ultimately, I found Ronin to be very disturbing and confusing in its message because (if you don't want to know how it ends, stop reading right now!) as it turns out, the real goal is to capture Seamus, the evil Irish terrorist, presumably so he will not be able to cause the death of innocent people. However, in pursuit of Seamus, scores and possibly hundreds of innocent bystanders are killed and maimed with no attempt whatsoever to protect them from harm.  Huh?The ending voice-over also felt tacked on and very well may have been, given the wonderful recent developments in Northern Ireland with The Troubles.  I guess peace in the real world is bad for action flicks.Save your money and rent one of the belowfor DeNiro fans  The Mission, King of Comedy, Taxi Driver, or The Godfather Part II.for car chase fans Bullitt, French Connection, To Live and Die in L.A., Smokey and the Bandit, any Dukes of Hazard episode, or one of those cheezy Real Car Chases Banned from T.V. videos.  "},{"Title":"Ronin was Ruined","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The film Ronin could have been much better in my opinion.  The first third of the movie pretty much plugs along with a brief, albeit sketchy, description of the major characters and what the plot is somewhat about. The second third of the movie was a grab the edge of your seat and hang on for dear life episode complete with high speed car chases/crashes through the streets of Nice.  And finally, the last third of the movie could have been done much, much better.  The last third of the movie got derailed by the scenes taking place in the skating arena.  I kept thinking to myself How the heck are Vincent (Jean Reno) and Sam (Robert De Niro) able to slide past security so easily at such a high profile public event (the premire of Ms. Witt's character's ice show).   I also noticed several Bloopers in the film regarding continuity.  In one of the car chases, a car pursuing another car on a dusty road goes from having a dirty windshield to a clean one and back to a dirty one.  I also noticed in one scene where the character Gregor kills a secret agent inside his car by shooting him in the head, the resulting blood-splatter shown so vividly on the passenger's window was replaced by a clean, bloodless window when Gregor gets out of the vehicle.  Did he have a bottle of Windex with him in the car?   Also, the score to the movie was all wrong.  It should have been much edgier and less Mediterranean sounding.  I give this film a 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 (with 10 being the highest).  This film will not even be nominated for an Oscar in any category.  "},{"Title":"This film is excellent.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The acting in this movie is excellent.   The story is compelling.  De Niro is excellent as the very patient, methodical and professional agent.  Unlike most action films, this seems much more realistic in the way it shows the planning and execution of the plan. "},{"Title":"Better-than-average suspense thriller","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  How I miss a good car chase scene! There are only a few candidates for masterful car chase scenes (see Bullitt, The French Connection, To Live and Die in L.A). You can add Ronin to the list. There is an extremely well-executed car chase scene set in the narrow streets of Paris. Apparently director Frankenheimer genuinely had his actors roaring through said streets; it shows, you can't fake those facial reactions.Beyond that, the script is exciting and coherent (if barely), and the actors are up to the task, although Robert De Niro reminded me way too much of his character in the movie Heat (an even better suspense-thriller, by the way). All one asks from an action movie is that it doesn't break the pact of plausibility.  The plot doesn't have to be realistic, it just has to be plausible. Beyond the fact that these characters are able to shoot up the French countryside and still hang out in coffee shops afterwards, this movie accomplishes that.  "}{"Title":"Ronin is a muddled mess","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a mess. Its cryptic plot line which is supposed to be intriguing became laughable about halfway through. Great car chases. Some fun shoot outs. But do not expect anything else. "},{"Title":"So smart.  So patient.  So rewarding.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie blew away all summer blockbuster fare.  I have never seen an action movie put together so delicately.  The dynamics of the characters were explored so perfectly; you actually knew who these people were and what they meant to each other.  How refreshing to see a realistic portrayal of the male-bonding process (Sam & Vincent).  "},{"Title":"The best car chase scenes ever!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin has the best car chase scenes I have ever seen in a movie! And no, I'm not ten years old, I've been watching movies in theatres for more than 30 years. This film can be compared to great films like The French Connection and The Getaway with Steve McQueen. Unlike a lot of recent films (like the last ten years) the chase scenes in Ronin don't have any cars flying 30 feet into the air and there are not 200 cuts to artificially speed up the action scenes. Most of the action, acting, and character inter-actions are very realistic. A real plus is that a lot of the chase scenes are shown from the point of view of the people in the cars (eye level, first person.) If you are extremely motion sensitive you may not want to watch this film in a theatre. If, however, you like to ride roller-coasters you will probably want to see this film at least two or three times. Personally, I can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"Too bad these great actors have to spend all their time in car chases.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro compels attention, as usual, and Jean Reno (The Professional) and Stellen Skarsgard are also excellent in this action drama packed with double-crosses. Too bad the movie is one chase scene after another, especially since a couple of them are as ridiculously improbable as they are interminable. Great settings in Paris, Nice, and Arles provide something to look at, but don't imagine that you'll be intrigued by plot twists the movie never gives you the clues to even let you have a chance to figure anything out.  "},{"Title":"A Great New Duo","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I think Ronin was one of the best action films ever. But more importantly I think the pairing of Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno is one the best in movie history. It will be a shame if these two never have a chance to work together again. "},{"Title":"the '70s are back!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's a hard fact that no movie can save the world anymore.De Niro's best work is of course behind him -- no knock on the actor, because movies today are on oft-trodden ground.  If you can't do it better, do it bigger (the woeful Godzilla), faster (Armageddon ideal for those w/no attention span), or louder (the Rock).What Ronin does is take you into one of those wide-focus worlds that I thought extinct when Reagan took office.  Movies like Ronin aren't meant to be seen, they're meant to be experienced -- it's not a thinking movie; it's a fun movie, to watch in a darkened theater late on a Saturday night with your eyes open wide.Hollywood needs more movies like Ronin. "},{"Title":"What was in the case?","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I loved this movie.  But, echoing De Niro, what was in the case?!  And I don't want to hear some existentialist crap about ronin and nothingness.   "},{"Title":"An action thriller with an intelligent plot","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the best movies I had the pleasure of viewing this year. The action is plentiful, with the oft-referenced car chases being the most memorable feature. The cast is an eclectic combination of well-known stars and under-appreciated talent (the most obvious example of this is JeanReno as Vincent). De Niro wears the role of Sam, the rogue ex-CIA agent with a past that is hinted at but never revealed, like a second skin. His relationship with Natascha McElhone (Deirdre) develops quickly and believably and lays the groundwork for a climatic revelation that serves to tie many of the enigmatic loose ends up. All in all, a strong cast with a tight story and great action. Highly advised it is seen on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Superb fast-action movie with De Niro what can be better?","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  My pulse was above 100 almost all the time. Superb car races, higher-then-average quality of script and actors performance - what else to wish for on a rainy Saturday. "},{"Title":"Three Stars","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great chases!  Great locations.  Very good story.  Limited character development (maybe too many of them).  And what is in the case? "}{"Title":"Breathtaking Car Chases..yet something was missing","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The visual was superb.  The grainy feel of the film makes you feel you are there.  The car chases take your breath away.  Yet, I left the theater feeling like there was a missing piece to the puzzle.The characters lack depth, they were so one-dimensional.  The performances were adequate given what the script allowed.  DeNiro gave his usual hard-ass performance, but the only actor that gave the illusion of substance was Natascha McElhone.A good bet if you like car chases and Paris and are not looking for a deep character driven and complicated plot. "},{"Title":"It was good","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is classic DeNiro. He is excellent in the film. The character Gregor was excellent. The chase scenes were beautifully directed. This is probably one of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Thrilling film but too many chases.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The film was superbly directed with excellent acting and photography. Although the action kept you riveted to your seat for the 2 hour length there were too many car chases.In addition, perhaps not relevant, was that there was no answer to the question of what they were chasing after. "},{"Title":"One hell of a ride!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's not often that I can convince my wife to come along to an action flick, but Ronin is no ordinary action flick. No fancy pyrotecnics a la Brukheimer/Simpson. This is realism with the classic De Niro grimace out front. I read a review that described the film as three great car chases with pit stops for plot and character development. Those breaks are needed for the audience to take a breather. The realism comes in when innocent bystanders are not spared from stray gunfire or an errant bumper. There are holes in the plot and some Hollywood cliches, but this film is way above the usual action fare fed to us. See for yourself and then tell your friends. "},{"Title":"Interesting to watch, at the right price worth buying","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I truly enjoyed the character played by Jean Reno.  He was a good match for DeNiro, yet not overwhelmed by DeNiro's star quality. Action flicks work best when the story line is believable, the characters likable, and the villain a dirt ball. Ronin had all the ingredients. The Trend these days is to spend all the effort on special effects, I still believe the plot has to be the major force. This movie was a little weak in plot, but the sheer pleasure of watching Jean Reno work made the flick worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The untouchable spanish prisoner in a house of games.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  David Mamet writes us another masterpiece with this one.  It's just like the perfect Hitchcocks where the first hour is getting to know everything, getting acquainted, the second hour is where stuff happens and is action packed in Ronin.  The greatest car chases I've ever seen and a wonderful job of acting from a great international cast rises it to its current stage of masterpiece-ness "},{"Title":"very good for the genre, with few flaws","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  _ronin_ was a blast. it can be rightfully argued that some of the car scenes were a bit lengthy, but they were filmed well and the takes were notably lengthy as one would expect many quick cuts. it's nice to see car chases executed well, and it's also nice to know that an action movie can be exciting without resorting to over-the-top/digitally-produced special effects.the sound effects were excellent firearms and driving enthusiasts should be pleased with the quality of the sounds.the muted colors were fitting, and the opening sequence explicating the title of the film was interesting large, almost-exotic type with quick cuts between sentences reminded me of the older action films.the typical mamet-ish dialogue is not as evident as it is in his other films, but there were several recurring motifs that served the purpose of the movie well. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat action.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A movie that has more questions than answers. It seems 'someone' has acquired a 'valuable' box. One group has it, another group wants it back. A less than scrupulous group has been hired to get the box back. Throughout the film's approx. 120 minutes the underlying question seems to be What's in the box.  Not only does Sam (Robert DeNiro)want to know the audience does also.. DeNiro gives another great performance, not his best but still note worthy. The surprise performance comes from Natascha McElhone as Diedre. The car chase sequence, two-thirds of the way through, seems to be a little too well choreographed (more originalty please). The movie has a few memorable lines Sam Whenever there is a doubt there is no doubt. As the film finally climaxes and a few of the questions are answered, Vincent (Jean Reno) asks  What was in the box? What is in the Box? Go see RONIN, you shouldn't be disappointed.  Overall I give RONIN ***1/2 out of *****.  "},{"Title":"New Title Holder Greatest Car Chase(s) on Film","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This one clearly replaces Bullit as the greatest car chase, for me.Like Bullit, the violence was subdued, and even the language was toned down, maybe not in intensity, but definitely in frequency.Stylish thriller well done, and enjoyable "},{"Title":"a 6 out of 10","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie had a lot of potential, especially through the first hour.  Some great action sequences and excellent on location filming and photography. The plot however I found to be somewhat muddled and meadering throughout, especially through the second half of the picture.  If I hadn't read a thorough promo of the film prior to viewing, I doubt I could have made alot of sense of exactly what was transpiring.   "}{"Title":"Typical Chase scenes","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good cast but a little slow on the uptake. The usual mixture of double-crosses and vengence. Frankinheimer updates the French Connection for modern times, but the overall picture is slow. Not bad for the type of movie it is but could have been better. "},{"Title":"Not a Rave Review","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film surprisingly came up well short of my expectations. The production quality is very good but many events, plot developments, lines of dialogue, and even pivotal characters are eventually revealed as arbitrary or inconsequential. For such a skilled cast to be given so little to do between action scenes is an incredible waste. About 3/4 through there is a thirty-second sequence where absolutely nothing occurs or is said, thoughtfully allowing you to consider whether or not to leave the theatre and get home a little earlier. Stick around, though, through another car chase and some shootouts, for an unexpected voice-over from a character whose sudden burst of perspective is an excuse-me attempt to dump a quick, tidy ending on you. One that happens to contradict the relation between the lead character and the title (explained twice for those finding seats a little late), by the way. Then go home, recall all the loose ends in both the smaller details and the overall story, and ask how those responsible for this film could leave it so incomplete. "},{"Title":"if you like the edge of your seat...","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's been a long while since I saw a new release that was worth seeing. Ronin was a fresh breeze.The film involves the viewer by keeping you wondering, exactly what is going on?  The main characters involved in the subterfuge are all frustrated by the need to know policy of their employer, and the audience feels the same desire to know more.  What's in the case?  Who is DeNiro, really?  Who is the employer ordering the ambush and theft?The pace of the film supported this plot design and it worked very well.I also liked the bit of honor among thieves camaraderie between the various terrorist/mercenary figures in the film. Constantly asked, Do I know you?  The questions are never answered, and that's okay.  Because, ironically, that's the point.As with most films, the bit of medicine in film had me howling with laughter. It works okay, though.  (I thought the strike team that could order a brand new Audi and state of the art weaponry and have it materialize within 24 hours would have enough loose change for one vial of local anesthetic and a syringe to inject it with, but hey, I'm not a European terrorist -- what do I know?)In the end, I left the theatre entertained, and recommend this cinematographic effort to anyone who likes the fast-paced shoot-em-up type show. "},{"Title":"action galore","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is an excellent action movie.  Robert DeNiro is at his finest, no one could play the part better the him.  Ronin is packed with some of the best car chase scenes, and is also filled with symbolism. "},{"Title":"A pseudo-sequel to The Professional? Not quite, but close.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A great deal of mayhem including not just the 'bad' guys, but lots of innocent bystanders (Don't sit in the front row unless you are wearing Kelvar garments). In between the killings, maimings, chases, and the emoting, there isn't much time for a plot, and none at all for an explanation of the final goal, whatever it was. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Car Chase","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Wow!!! Spectacular car chases is the best thing of Ronin. We see it two times and it's very cool. Robert De Niro is still in a great shape. It's also a great reunion... three former bad guy from James Bond; Sean Bean (Goldeneye), Jonathan Pryce (Tomorrow Never Dies) and Michael Lonsdale (Moonraker). Their parts was small but excellent. In other hand, the script is a little bit nebulous in the beginning and at the end. At some points, the story is strangely like the adventures of James Bond. Finally, go see this movie, it's the action movie of the week or... of the month or... of the fall... or... "},{"Title":"Lots of Great Action Sequences","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a great action film that seems to want to be a character study and doesn't quite make it, but it remains a great action film nonetheless. De Niro plays a former American government agent who has been hired by an Irish woman named Dierdre (McElhone) to obtain, as part of a team of other shadowy folk, the film's McGuffin, a briefcase with an unknown valuable something in it, a la Pulp Fiction.  What follows is a number of rather amusing, but not very deep, dialogue scenes interspersed with some magnificent action sequences.  The longest car chase in the film (there are several) has to stand as one of the finest examples of this action-movie mainstay.  It is notable for its impressive technical proficiency, its high excitment level, and for the great joy that the director seems to have taken in making it; the number of destroyed automobiles left in its wake reach almost Blues Brothers-esque proportions.  There are a number of other impressive action scenes, all set in very scenic parts of France, and together they form the real core of the movie.  The De Niro character is given quite a bit of development time, but I at least never felt that I learned that much about his true motivations and feelings.  No matter; the visceral aspects of this movie are more than enough to make it well worth seeing.Overall Rating 8 (out of 10), or 3 1/2 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Not up to De Niro standards","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A lot of action and violence waiting for a good plot. It was not a terrible movie, I've seen worse.  There were some light moments and enough action to keep me awake.  All in All a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Tightly and neatly done","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a very well-paced thriller, that while not completely filled with suspense is filled with quite a few turns and twists.  Deniro is well cast as a expatriate CIA operative that is the somewhat moral center of this tale.  The car chases however are very well done, reminiscent of The French Connection.  Jean Reno also gives a strong performance, contrasting and blending with Deniro quite well.  Not a classic by any means, but a well executed thriller with a well-thought out story. "},{"Title":"Ronin is the standard by which future action films should be measured.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The car chase scenes in Ronin were amazing. Though I couldn't understand all the dialog at times and the plot was a little lacking, the gunfights and the car chases were excellent...some of the best I've ever seen (including the shootout in Heat). "}{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  After a bit of a slow start, Ronin turns into one of the best action movies I've ever seen.  The plot twists and turns many times, and the action is top notch.  The car chases are great, and the so are the shootouts.  The movie gives you plenty to think in addition to this.  I recommend this to any fan of action movies. "},{"Title":"Average, unless you really like DeNiro","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is enjoyable for its photography and the 'James Bond' car-chases, but the plot has too many holes.  Questions raised are never answered; Characters we want to see either never show up (wheelchair guy) or secretive ones are suddenly everywhere (Pryce).  Probably worth a rental unless you're a big DeNiro fan. "},{"Title":"The best car chase scenes in any film to date!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The movie itself is shockingly mediocre as a post cold-war suspense action movie.  Perhaps the most entertaining feature of the film are the car chase scenes, which are undoubtedly the best I have seen in a film to date, even overtaking the famous chase in The French Connection.  It is for this reason that any stunt driving enthusiast must see this movie! "},{"Title":"Postive review","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  De Niro is wonderful, AGAIN.  Putting him in a movie ups the quality by a factor of 10.  Car chase scenes through small European streets are fantastic.  So what IS in that case??? "},{"Title":"Intricate plot, great action, superb cast","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  By now, you should have had the opportunity to screen the new Frankenheimer film called RONIN, starring Robert De Niro.  If not, I would heartily recommend it.First, this is not a chick flick .. it is an action-packed spy/suspense thriller with multiple layers of complexity.It can be viewed as a simple action thriller with some of the most outrageous car-chase scenes (all filmed in real-time at full-speed, usually with the actors instead of stunt-men), with a plot related to an all-out Spy-vs.-Spy war over a mysterious suitcase (in Hitchcockian style, the contents are never revealed).At another level, there is a fascinating series of sub-plots, double-, triple- and quadruple-crosses, many of which do not become evident until the denouement.  This might be ascribed to Richard Weisz, the pseudonym used by David Mamet to re-write J.D. Zeik's screenplay.  This complex web of intrigue and volte-faces recalls Mamet's House of Games, among many.It can also be read as a 20th Century morality play a la the Maltese Falcon, with the protagonists retaining a shred of humanity and a noble goal (world peace) despite a wanton disregard for human life, as dozens of innocent bystanders expire at the hands of each and every single one of the key players.The ronin were Japanese samurai who lost their masters, becoming untouchables in Japanese society; some prospered, others became part of a gritty underworld.  The various  characters in the film, a motley, international, band of rogue agents, fit this description rather well.In 1701, a naive yet honourable country bumpkin, Lord Asano, was provoked by a treacherous Kira (who was seeking a bribe) into touching the handle of his sword in the presence of the Shogun.  The penalty for this transgression was Asano's death by seppuku (ritual self-disembowelment), the extirpation of the Asano family name and dispossession of all of Asano's property; the 200+ samurai became ronin.  For over two years these ronin plotted revenge, disguising their intentions by descending into the seedy and lascivious underbelly of the Floating World, when finally, in December of 1704, 47 surviving ronin stormed Kira's residence in Edo (now Tokyo), beheading the miscreant.Their devotion to their ex-master touched a nerve with the populace (which was becoming increasingly dissatisfied with the feudal regime), and these 47 ronin became instant heroes.  As a reward, they were given an option of gaining their freedom; instead, they chose to commit seppuku themselves (itself an honour, as this is a punishment reserved for members of the samurai class, of which these ronin technically were no longer a part). Thus, they chose honour over their own life.  This noble deed has become part of the standard Japanese theatrical and cinematic lexicon as the Chushingura and appears throughout Kurosawa's oeuvre.In the film, De Niro pooh-poohs their decision as being stupid ... later events prove De Niro's character to possess such honour.The film is replete with subtle and not-so-subtle clues and repartee; character development is slow and meandering at first; the initial plot developments are almost surreally amateurish at first ... the skill and professionalism and initial positions of each become apparent only in stages.  I agree with some reviewers that the film will probably work better in Europe than in the US, as this subtlety likely whooshes over the heads of an audience inured to Stallonean pap or Bruce Willis pabulum.The tone of the film throughout is dark and gritty, in a style reminiscent of 1960's spy films, with a leitmotif of coffee mugs and cigarettes.  The cinematography is a contrast of stark film noir interiors and rich Gallic cityscapes; Tony Gibbs' editing of Robert Fraise's cinematography is razor-sharp.The action sequences are shot in graphic realism ... scenes such as De Niro's removal of a bullet are not for the squeamish.  Gun-fire and bullet-wounds, in conjunction with a well-mixed Lucas surround soundtrack put the viewer in the midst of the action; seeing this on a big screen is de rigeur.   The car chase scenes progress at full-throttle, flitting from one unbelievable near-miss to another.  The scenes staged in Parisian tunnels are surreal and exciting, in spite of the fact that virtually every critic has decided that these are an homage to a certain vain, bulimic, manipulative, philandering, and now dead, witch.There are a few continuity errors ... witness a windscreen alternatingly crystal clear and grimy, a passenger waving to a camera, and a tour of Paris which is geographically impossible, popping across alternating sides of the Seine.  These details, as well as numerous foreshadowings (or tells in the parlance of the House of Games) make for a film one can view on multiple occasions, discovering additional strata within this cinematic onion.Who's in it a) Sam, an unshaven rogue CIA agent - Robert De Niro (as in Wag the Dog, Deer Hunter, Raging Bull, Jackie Brown, Heat, Casino, Cape Fear (1991), the Godfather trilogy, Goodfellas, Brazil, 1900, Taxi Driver, Once Upon a Time in America, the Untouchables) b) Vincent, a rogue European/French agent - Jean Reno reprises his role in Mission Impossible, the Professional and La Femme Nikita and matches De Niro stubble for stubble - (also in films such as the French Kiss and Les Truffes). c) Deirdre, the token woman, an enigmatic Irish terrorist who has assembled the team - Natascha McElhone (the Truman Show, the Devil's Own, Surviving Picasso). d) Gregor, an amoral German ex-KGB-er and electronics expert - Stellan Skarsgard, a Swede, playing a Russian-speaking German; he played a Russian in the Hunt for Red October; (credits include Good Will Hunting, Amistad, Tabu, Sista Dansen, the Intruders and The Unbearable Lightness of Being). e) Spence, a jumpy British military vet - Sean Bean (Anna Karenina, Goldeneye, Patriot Games, War Requiem) f) Larry, a driver extraordinaire - Skipp Sudduth (54, Eraser and the British Sharpe TV series) g) Jean-Pierre, an associate of Vincent's - Mich(a)el Lonsdale (Remains of the Day, Woyzeck, the Name of the Rose, Moonraker, the Day of the Jackal, the Bride Wore Black) h) Dapper Gent with the suitcase - Jan Triska (2010, Reds, Uncommon Valor, Der Maedchenkrieg). i) Seamus, a sinister IRA renegade, reminiscent of the Real IRA  - Jonathan Pryce (Brazil, Tomorrow Never Dies, Evita and the smarmy black-and-white Infiniti commercials) j) Mikhi, a New Russian mobster  - Feodor Atkine (also in many of the Sharpe series, Love and Death, Enigma and High Heels) k) Natacha Kirilova, a Russian skateuse - Katarina Witt, whose death brings tears of joy. l) Sergi, a New Russian mobster - Bernard Bloch (Enigma, Alors Voila)The director is John Frankenheimer, who gave us such notable films as the Manchurian Candidate (1962), the Birdman of Alcatraz (1962), the Train (1965), the French Connection II (1975), Black Sunday (1977), 52 Pick-Up (1986) as well as the embarrassing Island of Dr. Moreau (1996). "},{"Title":"Intriguing look into the life of a spy","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found the film incredibly entertaining. The cars sequences were some of the best ever. In addition the temperature of the theatre I was in must have raised 10 degrees during the scene where Sam(Deniro) oversees the removal of a bullet from his own chest due to people's stress. Overall it has a good theme, but lacked in the execution of that theme. A must see!  "},{"Title":"Great Plot Built-up","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a great action packed thriller. It has an excellent plot revelation at the end but not before glueing you to the seats with the intense car chases. My only negative view is the exaggeration of the car chases and crashes. "},{"Title":"A modern thriller in the old school mode","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great car chases...good acting...was disappointed in the tiny role for Sean Bean, and it loses its momentum in the final act...but overall it's good.Did anyone else notice that there's three former James Bond villains in this one? "},{"Title":"Gee, they wrecked some really expensive cars","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Lackluster in every detail save the car chases, which are well done but stand out more for destructiveness than originality. De Niro, Stellan, Reno & co. make tired, cliched dialogue sound better than it has a right to, but it's still hackneyed and repetitive. Story is incomprehensible and characters are thinly sketched at best. (DeNiro and co. are skilled enough to suggest characters where none exist in the script, but even that only goes so far.) I challenge anyone who sees this film to adequately answer these questions WHO are these people, WHAT on earth are they after, WHY  do they do the things they do (aside from that it's an action movie and people will be screaming for their money back if the requisite number of people aren't killed and expensive property remains intact.) One thing sums it up the whole movie, this crew of Ronin are chasing after a certain something - none of them know exactly what it is. By the end, they still don't know what it is, and neither do we - and I couldn't have cared less. I'd call it The Dukes of Hazzard go to France, but that show had Roscoe P. Coltrane and Boss Hogg - genuine characters with motivation. Whole movie has a tired, 70s feeling in the pace and look of the photography. One note of respect no digital effects. All the mayhem is more or less real.P.S. I'll say one thing, they didn't skimp on the cars they trashed. An early 90s BMW M5 is obliterated, a brand new looking sedan with 18 rims they call an Audi S8 gets banged up, and a variety of Opels, Citroens, and Peugeots take it on the chin as well. Also a number of innocent bystanders are shown getting shot, run over, and incinerated, which might have been tolerable if we understood and believed in the righteousness of the heroes' mission. But we don't.  "},{"Title":"Great action, skimpy story","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin has spectacular car chases, great shoot-em-ups, ingenious spy-type tactics and a few cool characters, but this film is at times a little slow in its pacing and a bit short on plot.  There's a lot of information we're not given, and though that sometimes can increase a story's mystery, here it mostly drains our desire to root for and be involved with the characters. We don't know what's really at stake if the mission failed or exactly why the people are motivated to do what they do.  But... MAN, what car chases!My Vote 8 "}{"Title":"Great flick!  Highly recommend it!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For all of us DeNiro fans out there, this is what we've been waiting for. Lately his roles have been a little bland, but he shines in this movie. Also, for those of you that enjoy a lot of twists in the plot with some action to spice things up, this is your movie.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Spectacular scenery and action sequences just don't make a movie.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Frankenheimer has crafted a meticulously put together film with spectacular French scenery and equally spectacular car chases and crashes through the narrow streets of French villages. However, as seems to be common with many films today, ultimately the film is all splash and no substance. De Niro and his co-stars are hired by unknown people (eventually revealed to be the Irish) to steal a case with unknown contents (weaponry of some sort is assumed) from an unknown group who is trying to sell it to the Russians. Considering that all of this group is supposed to be some kind of superspies, they all are found awfully easily when they are supposed to be in hiding. Double crosses occur which add a wrinkle to the film. But in the end, the revelations that are offered do not seem worth the time the viewer has expended in the theatre. Lots of violence seems to be the major appeal of the film. "},{"Title":"Watch out William Friedkin","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great extended car chase.  Rivals those of William Friedkin (Jade, To Live and Die in L.A.).  But film suffers a little from espionage movie cliches. Good overall. "},{"Title":"A twisting plot with great stars but a mediocre film.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The cast and locations are fantastic.  DeNiro is excellent once again.  The bad thing is that the other characters do not have much depth.  I can possibly see why because there are meant to be that way - cold, calculating, anonymous.  Ronin is an intellectual thriller.  It's not action-every-second like Mission Impossible which Ronin reminded me of somewhat.  The best part of the film were the numerous car chase scenes in French cities.  I'm a big fan of The French Connection and Bullitt so I love chase scenes.  Go to see Ronin for that.  The film is basically your typical international espionage thriller.  I would've been just as happy renting it and watching it at home or on HBO in a few months. "},{"Title":"Better car chases than the French Connection","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The plot in Ronin centers on a group of Cold War veterans hired to retrieve a mysterious case without being told what the contents of the case are or the identity of the current owners of the case. The action that occurs in their pursuit of their goal is exciting and well directed without being over produced or outrageous. There are a few gratuitous explosions but it's not like all of France is experiencing a major disaster. As far as the story itself goes, I believe that its best attribute is that the outcome and plot twists are neither obvious nor so convoluted as to be impossible to follow. The characters are well acted and not at all cardboard. Not really heroes and villains; more like people trying, sometimes desperately, to win without getting killed. "},{"Title":"A very sly movie","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had just saw Ronin, and to say the least, it was what I had expected. A movie with a similar plot to the one of 'Mission Impossible', which could be very confusing at times. The movie starts out confusing, but as Sam and his team get their mission assignment, the plot begins to unfold and the actions starts. This movie does not lack great action scenes, but some of the best done car-chase scenes I have ever seen. The speeds and stunts of these chases is unreal, which alone make this movie worth to go see. Although many seem to be disappointed with the ending, this movie still deserves 'two thumbs up', for the intriguing screenplay and explosive 'edge of your seat' action. "},{"Title":"A Frankenheimer comeback?","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I find it absolutely splendid that three of the characters in this film had played James Bond meglomaniacs. We have Michael Lonsdale from Moonraker ('79), Sean Bean from Goldeneye ('95) and Jonathan Pryce from Tomorrow Never Dies ('97). They all give acceptable performances in the film which was an entertaining piece of film-making in itself.  Also, for me it's always a pleasure seeing actor Jean Reno who played Vincent. I hope I see more of him in the future. Good movie. I hope it does well at the box office.No sequels please!  "},{"Title":"Kept me awake!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I find that a lot of movies of late have been disappointing. When at one time I used to see nearly every movie that came out, lately I've only been going once in a while. Something, however, attracted me to Ronin. The trailers sucked, as usual, so it wasnt that. It may have been the attraction of De Niro, or the strong up and coming supporting cast (Sean Bean! The Swedish guy with the unpronounceable name!). Frankenheimer, also, has rarely disappointed me (I'll forgive him for Island of Dr. Mureau). I was not disappinted with the movie. From a first viewing, I would rank the movie between good and excellent. Good performances, good action sequences, very well done car chases and believable characters. So go see, and enjoy...also remember, it's basically an action thriller, so if you take the movie in that mould, it does surpass most expectations.  "},{"Title":"A very sly movie","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had just saw Ronin, and to say the least, it was what I had expected. A movie with a similar plot to the one of 'Mission Impossible', which could be very confusing at times. The movie starts out confusing, but as Sam and his team get their mission assignment, the plot begins to unfold and the actions starts. This movie does not lack great action scenes, but some of the best done car-chase scenes I have ever seen. The speeds and stunts of these chases is unreal, which alone make this movie worth to go see. Although many seem to be disappointed with the ending, this movie still deserves 'two thumbs up', for the intruguing screenplay and explosive 'edge of your seat' action. "},{"Title":"Review of Ronin","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin delivers solid performances across the board and a series of jaw dropping car chase scenes which are very well done (using some fantastic shots of Nice and other French locales to produce stunning visuals). However, the plot is the weak link here  definitely more character development than story, though this is surely due to David Mamet's involvement with the film and it is this very reason that the movie is more than just another car chase riddled action flick. "}{"Title":"Car chases, car chases, did I mention car chases?","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie has, by far, the best (you guessed it) car chases ive ever seen. They were out of control, a must see.  The characters were great, professional, yet realistic. They made mistakes but were able to adapt and overcome their problems. Very human. A great cast and a lot of fun. What *was* in that box anyway? "},{"Title":"Very Confusing plot but very, very entertaining","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin may not be for some of the fans of major action films because it doesn't have the usual fake stunts, weak acting, and a simple plot.  I just got back from seeing it and I must say I can't completely tell you how the plot goes besides 5 men under the control of 1 woman and assigned to take control of a metal briefcase in which we have no idea what's in it.  This part of the plot is seen in the first hour but in the second there are many twists that will confuse you but that dosen't make it not entertaining.  The action in this is very much made up of car chases and they are by far some of the best you may ever see.  Having Robert DeNiro as the main character was a very well made pick and gives another good performance as usual.  The stunts are something all directors should take note on, they aren't at all brainless and fake they are clever and believable.  During the first 20 minutes the film will feel a little bit like Reservoir Dogs by how it moves quite slow but after that it feels more like Mission Impossible with amazing edge of your seat thrills.  This is not like one of the latest action films we have seen for the last 5 years or so, this one is different and in a way I find it a lot better than most, I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Absolutely ruthless, but odd at times...","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The characters, the plot and even the action were believable.  What I especially liked was the fact that everybody kills (even innocent bystanders) with no remorse or hesitation.  Absolutely ruthless as professionals should be, perfect!  This is no watered down, expository Hollywood action movie.  Okay, the bad guys do a bit too much talking at times, and of course, that gets them killed.  Action sequences are wonderful, especially the chase sequences, wow.  The only gotcha, why the bullet extraction scene?  Was that really necessary?  I suspect it won't do well though because it lacks a Hollywood ending. "},{"Title":"No Magnificent Seven","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I could not help noticing the parallel between Ronin and The Magnificent Seven and by association The Seven Samurai.  Actually, more a reworking of the story, without, the honor and chivalry of our old friends; Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen, James Coburn, Charles Bronson, and the rest.  From the moment I saw the trepidation on Sean Bean's face, I knew, Robert Vaughn's role, as the cowardly card shark, had been reprised and couldn't help, throughout the rest of the movie, to look closer for similarities in the two films.  A woman, Natascha McElhone, played the Horst Bucholtz role, as the young greenhorn, though, it turns out, her skills for mayhem were a little more established.  Skipp Suddeth, played the Brad Dexter role, which had a little more depth than the original.  He was a little more sacrificial, he cooked for the group, and had undying dedication to his comrades.  Stellan Skarsgard played the Coburn role with an evil twist.  And of course DeNiro, Reno, and Pryce rounded out the symmetry playing the Brenner, McQueen, and Wallach, respectively,  parts quite well.Sadly, the parallel ends there.  Gone are the honor and glory and the bond of brotherhood forged on  the fields of battle, except for the relationship between DeNiro and Reno.  Here, there are only lies and betrayal and dispensable henchmen and bystanders, and, naturally, inept authorities. Plot deficiencies are veneered as deep mystery.  And anyone, who would kill off the beautiful Katarina Witt without a word, really must have their head examined.  Here is where Frankenheimer, Mamet, DeNiro, and I part ways.The determination of who is expendable distinguishes true art from pop trash, and no such discretion was employed here.  There were too many freak, incidental fatalities, without accountability.  And the warrior code was completely ignored, which was an opportunity to add real substance to this exercise in needless mayhem.  Even poor Sean Bean never got a chance to redeem himself, as did Vaughn in the original, who died in the glory of battle, having overcome his self doubt.  Had Bean had this opportunity, he could possibly have overshadowed DeNiro (I know, fat chance).  He really is quite good in the Sharpe series.  And I suppose Harvey Kietel couldn't fit Ronin into his schedule to reprise the Bronson role.  Now that would've been a movie.  "},{"Title":"Deniro strikes back with another great drama/action performance.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin proves once again that Deniro is of the greatest ever to act on screen. This movie combines action and drama to perfection. Heat is my favorite Deniro movie (except for the ridiculous ending),and this is as close to that as any other movie will come. The dialogue in this movie is very intense and well written. The cast is top notch with actors who hold their own with Deniro. There are plenty of plot twists to keep you in your seats and your mouths shut. Car chases that are edge of your seat action.I don't want to give anything away, so all I can say is CHECK THIS ONE OUT NOW! "},{"Title":"Action, Action, Action, Best chase scenes I've ever seen. Great cast!!!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a movie for fans wanting action and more action.  The sound track was rough at the beginning making conversations hard to understand.  Once into the plot, the characters take over and make it very interesting.  DeNiro, an ex-CIA agent, is the most qualified of anyone to lead the group. The plot consists of a group of people trying to get their hands on a suitcase carried by a group of eight people.  The story takes place in France and adds to the suspense in the chase scenes.  The suitcase manages to keep disappearing and the contents never explained.For the acting and action, this movie deserves high kudos. For the soundtrack and amount of new players being introduced throughout the movie, the deduction isn't enough to mar the high rating that I would give it. "},{"Title":"This film is 100% John Frankenheimer at his best....","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ignore the simple-minded James Bond comparisons, this film is classic Frankenheimer with many layers and mysteries being revealed to us as the story unfolds.  Auto chases that seem to surpass both Bullitt and The French Connection and make the auto mayhem in The Rock look constructed in the editing room.  This film has a stellar international cast, but there is no doubt that this is a director's movie that deserves to be called John Frankenheimer's Ronin. "},{"Title":"Excellent chase sequences","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Excellent chase sequences throughout the movie. Also, excellent use of English and French throughout. Makes the film seem more real even though sub-titles must be used for the French sequences. "},{"Title":"No plot, but fun and captivating.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Where's the plot? Beats me. What are they looking for? Don't know that either. What's the point? Your guess is as good as mine. How does this work, you might ask? De Niro, like always, is a commanding presence, there is an emphasis on image and suspense, not an overbearance on dialogue, and kick-ass chase scenes. A great set of characters, and a great development of these personages. Overall, I think it's a good way to waste a couple of hours. You be the judge. Just tell me what the hell it's about, and I might consider giving it more than three stars. "},{"Title":"Their lieges are gone, but their talents and loyalties remain.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Cold War is over, but the cold warriors remain.  Selected by an anonymous employer, a team of highly trained operatives is set on acquiring a mysterious briefcase.This is an amazing cinematic action/adventure film that rivals the best of the genre.  Genuine characters, car chases from the driver's perspective, and international intrigue make this one of this year's top box office adventure films. "}{"Title":"In a word; 'Frustrating'","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is an example of a film that had great potential to be brilliant; several key ingredients were present such as a good premise and a fairly decent cast. However, for me, the biggest problem lay with the writing.Ronin is plagued with ambiguity throughout; we begin with a team of mercenaries who have been assembled by Deirdre (Natasha McElhone) who I think is supposed to be some kind of Irish freelance terrorist. The problem here is that we're given no background information and no real character development for any of the mercenaries. We never really learn anything about them which made it hard for me to invest in the film.The whole plot of the film revolves around Irish Terrorists and the Russian Mob both fighting to get their hands on a silver case. The Irish hire mercenaries including Sam (De Niro) and Vincent (Reno) to retrieve the case with a reward of £20,000 each for the successful retrieval of the case. Then we have the Russian Mob trying to bid for the case from the Chinese. The problem here is that we never learn why both parties want the case and we also never find out what's in the case. This was what bothered me as all through the film I kept thinking why hasn't this been explained? In the end, I just thought 'Oh well it'll be explained at the end' Alas, nothing ever was explained.Another issue I had was with Jonathan Pryce as the villain. He's a good actor, but I think he was miscast as a tough guy villain - for me he just looks too wimpy and somewhat geeky to play a tough mob type guy. To be honest, I had the same problem with him when he played the baddie in Tomorrow Never Dies and that for me made him one of the worst Bond villains despite him being a good actor.Plus points for me were that the car chases were fairly exciting and the action sequences in general were fairly impressive. The biggest problem I had was the frustratingly ambiguous story telling - poorly developed characters, no explanation of the importance of the case and no explanation as to why the Irish and the Russians were fighting to get their hands on this case. I'm not the sort of person who generally needs to be spoon fed plot points, but I think it helps if you give your audience a chance of gaining a reasonable understanding of what you are putting in front of them. This is the main reason why this film annoyed me.The decent chase scenes and strong performances from the cast do at least make it a reasonable film, but in all honesty Ronin was badly let down by some pretty dreadful writing. "},{"Title":"One of My favorite Movies","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I must say I loved this movie for various reasons. First off, great actors like De Niro and Jean Reno. Secondly I liked the different settings Paris, Nice and Arles with its wonderful Roman arena, all of them gorgeous. The car chasing among the small streets of Arles was just amazing. Plus, the continuous coupes de théatre during the entire movie were compelling and gripping. The plot was simple and plain but it's not a flaw in a movie which revolves around action. It won't be remembered in the history of cinema, but I can say that it's one of my favorite movies because it has all the elements I just mentioned, well developed, all together. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" One of the smartest action films out there. Movie has an international feel to it with actors from multiple countries with Robert DeNiro(USA), Jean Reno(France), Jonathan Pryce(Wales, but playing Irish), Stellan Skarsgards(Sweden, but playing Russian) and Sean Bean(UK).The chase scenes are the best chase scenes in any movie you're going to see. The shootout scenes are all top notch themselves, especially when Robert DeNiro of all people shoots a bazooka out of the sunroof of a car.The movie centers on getting a hold of a metal suitcase with contents unknown but everyone wanting it. Ronin means in Japanese samurai without a master. In this case, the Ronin are outcast specialists of every kind, whose services are available to everyone for money. No one can be trusted, everyone is looking out just for themselves. "},{"Title":"Full-On Entertainment...","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" 'Ronin' is Full-On Entertainment. It's fast, engrossing & attention grabbing. The Direction is Neat, The Cinematography is Stunning, The Performances are Impressive & the Screenplay, is it's biggest & best merit.'Ronin' stars Robert De Niro and Jean Reno as two of several former special forces and intelligence agents who team up to steal a mysterious, heavily guarded suitcase while navigating a maze of shifting loyalties and alliances.'Ronin' catches your attention from the word GO. Screenplay by J.D. Zeik & David Mamet is fast & engrossing. Also, The Action/Car-Chase Sequences, are top-notch. John Frankenheimer's Direction is Neat. Cinematography by Robert Fraisse is Stunning. Editing is fair. Art Design is notable.Performance-Wise De Niro & Jean Reno, both, are in top-form. Natascha McElhone is very good, while Sean Bean is excellent in a cameo. Jonathan Pryce also does well as the bad-guy. Stellan Skarsgård is good. Michael Lonsdale leaves a mark. Others lend good support.On the whole, 'Ronin' is genuine entertainment. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Skillfully Crafted Action with Deadpan, Professional Crispness","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" To say Ronin is effectively lacking a plot is to miss the opportunity to watch a real action movie, a pure chase film, pared down to the essence of such Action is character and action is story. There's a clarification at the end, but it's random and unwarranted. The final scene is an indelicate compromise in multiple ways, actually, including an inexplicable tonal shift that violates the emotional detachment of the entire preceding film, which was its principal charm. Ronin is truly about characters, where they are and what they do. It's just wise enough, for the most part, to view exactly who they are and why they do what they do as arbitrary and superfluous.The first scene is a complex opening sequence of connections in which the De Niro character scouts the bistro before entering. We take for granted he's about to assault those inside, but really he's merely meeting all the men that have been contacted by an obscure Irishwoman played by Natascha McElhone. Frankenheimer cashes in on that beginning for 10 minutes of unadulterated cinema. When De Niro finally enters, the scene is uncovered as simple style practice, but in a movie like this you keep to the here and now, and don't inquire too far into why they convene in a public location at all.McElhone has marshaled these five men to obtain an attaché case. We never find out what's in it. It's the quintessential MacGuffin, as defined by Hitchcock, the indisputable master of the pure chase picture something everybody's concerned about, while what it is isn't relevant. The case is in the custody of five to eight men, McElhone informs them, and the eponymous specialists work to pursue them to Cannes, Nice and other striking locales. Each encounter culminates in brutal carnage and whirlwind car chases, so that in reality the headlines would be screeching about infernos of terror and dozens of fatalities, while sure enough, to die in a thriller is to be over and done with.I take great pleasure in the movie. The actors are uniformly persuasive in their roles. The action seems less than sensible but it's never edited within an inch of any real tension like so many other action scenes of the '90s and since. Each chase is done with delicate command and skill, thus genuinely exciting. But the best scene might be one of the quieter ones, when De Niro's character directs others on how to extract a bullet from his side. The scene is punctuated by a line that De Niro manages to utter so that it's simultaneously funny and poignant You think you can stitch me up on your own? If you don't mind, I'm gonna pass out. It's not only atmospherically masterful and tense in a way distinct from all the action, but it's where we get the clearest sense of the ronin-style discipline presumably inherent in the film's characters.The late John Frankenheimer is recognized as a maestro of sharp suspense dramas, owing to his creation of the modern paranoid political thriller, having begun his career at the peak of Cold War politics. There's an idiosyncrasy in his visual style that's difficult to pinpoint yet which brings a charisma to the settings, making them seem like more than background. Here, with a first-rate cast, he does what is for all intents and purposes an engaging drill. Because he ends the film so unevenly, it's ultimately not really about anything. If it stuck to its clinical guns from first frame to last, it could've been something quite special to the action genre and its treatment in the 1990s, since it comes so close. The screenplay credits suppress the involvement of script doctor David Mamet, most of whose clipped, coded dialogue is distinguished immediately and through to the very last word, giving the film a deadpan, professional crispness that does not, alas, make it to the last frame. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the cars !","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In that phase (Robert De Niro) decided to go commercial, so commercial. And why not. That's smartness from his side. So right in the next 6 years he'll make heist movie (The Score), Action (15 Minutes), Action comedy (Showtime), and straight comedies (Analyze This), (Meet the Parents), (Analyze That), (Meet the Fockers), ending up playing a shark in (Shark Tale) ! But before all of that he made the heist action (Ronin). It's obvious that (Bobby) did it for the money, being present, or hell.. maybe for the fun of it. However for us there wasn't that much fun to savor! The characters are one-dimensional crap. The try to deepen a meaning along the way, about the knights and their nobility or fighting for a cause, was blank. So this cast didn't do anything remarkable or just didn't do anything ! And the irony gets painful putting in mind their ranks which range between very good and high actors. For instance (Sean Bean) did his worst role at all, being the stupidest criminal in the world's history. The interplay between (De Niro) and (Jean Reno) seemed like the one between a DVD player and a videotape; namely  nonexistent. (De Niro) himself looked uninteresting (or uninterested enough); I recall during one of the interviews to promote the movie director (John Frankenheimer) was talking and talking non-stop about the beauty of the movie and the cooliness of the chases while (De Niro) was sitting beside him uneasy in silence, and the look up his face was like When this dude is going to SHUT UP ?!. (Natascha McElhone) was big part of this movie's silliness, with her mute face and unattractive presence, but I can't blame her wholly, originally the girl didn't have a lot to do else kissing the lead then holding a gun ! (Jonathan Pryce) wins the show with being that charismatic and menacing evil man, but make no mistake he was better, one year earlier, in (Tomorrow Never Dies), simply his character there got features!It looks like the European action movies, not only for the shooting in Europe, but for the absence of any sense of humor (or the presence of so unfunny one !). The stiffness was about pushing the whole thing to the stuffiness, however the marvelously-made car chases managed to bridle that in the right places. True that Frankenheimer brought some gloss, but not with a real glamour. Ultimately, it's a good action with a dull formulaic script, where you must feel a little disappointment at the end, since it wasn't as great as the names of its stars, asking &#x96; surely &#x96; why they didn't bring (Jean-Claude Van Damme) as the lead instead ?! At least he would've put some martial art into the mix.In 1999, one of my friends rented it after I did, so I asked him  what do you think?, to say nothing, contemplating for a while, then answering dazzled It's like someone wanted to get rid of 40 cars.. and I added sarcastically ..Yeah, with getting money out of it too. Enough said ! "},{"Title":"A cut above the average action flick...","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" RONIN is somewhat better than the average action film, as it focuses more on the development of the characters and the storyline than most movies in this genre. As with many action films, there are lots of mandatory car chases and shoot-outs to be found here (perhaps more than necessary), but many (not all) of the action sequences are actually logical and appeal to the cerebral as well as the visceral. Screenwriter David Mamet (writing under the pseudonym Richard Weisz) went to great lengths to avoid the many annoying clichés found in this genre, and even throws in a Hitchcock-styled McGuffin (as seen in PULP FICTION and MISSIONIMPOSSIBLE III, to name a few) for good measure.The acting is a large part of what sets this movie apart from many of its kind, as the all-star ensemble of Robert DeNiro, Jean Reno, Sean Bean, Stellan Skarsgard, and Natascha McElhone do remarkable well in a genre that doesn't usually require much in the way of acting.Cinematographer Robert Fraisse also did well to infuse a sort of noir element in this movie. I cannot remember the last time a movie featuring the flamboyant city of Paris looked so devoid of flair and colour.Bottom line There's plenty to be had in RONIN; lots of action for the visceral action fans, excellent dialogue and acting, a great screenplay, decent storyline, and good music. In the end, this film deserves a solid 8/10 and 3 stars (out of 4). May or may not earn a place in my 'Honourable Mentions' list. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Hard Act To Follow!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Well this is another candidate for my all time Top Ten. At this rate, it is going to get to 20! This is the quintessential, euro-cosmopolitan movie action thriller, our friends in Uncle Sam's domain, fear of. Admittedly, this movie has the magic hand of John Frankenheimer(last time he tingled my neck hairs, was Grand Prix 1966). Well where do I start? King De-Niro. Sorry I am biased being part VenetianThere was no other choice. You know it? Stellan Skarsgard,Jean Reno you just cant go wrong! loved the story, the link to the title name The cameo scene by Michael Lonsdale(Drax/Moonraker & Jackel). Just absolutely magical! This cut should have been dripping in Oscars. The car chases, I loved the way they did it, with the stick on steering wheels, my son copies me with his paper picnic plate Loved the scene where Sean Bean, gets spammed by De-Niro. Wheres the boat house at Her-ford/Hereford. Then wham! on the table, by the throat! This is your typical quality, moody movie, Great Story, Great Script, Great Cast bar one! You just must see before your passing, to the great one. Nothing else will do. I am not worthy to comment, no further! "},{"Title":"An unglamorous old school spy thriller","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer's Ronin is one of the top ten most underrated action-thrillers of the 90's. It's a film so well made you could swear it would easily fit in with other spy thrillers of the 60's and 70's, like The Day of the Jackal or The French Connection. The script is mysterious, the characters are all intelligent and sophisticated and the direction it's well crafted; bustling with suspense, intrigue and excitement. The film is about a group of freelancing mercenaries who formerly worked for various different military and intelligence organizations that are hired to steal a case that contains important materials that are wanted badly by both Irish and Russian rouge factions. The team is assembled by an Irish woman named Deirdre (Natasha McElhone) which includes an ex-CIA intelligence officer named Sam (Robert De Niro), a computer expert (Stellan Skarsgard), a fast getaway driver (Skipp Sudduth), a French man who knows how to track down anything and everything (Jean Reno), and a former IRA weapons expert (Sean Bean).The film is gritty and played out with a realistic hand due to Frankenheimer's constant vision of keeping things real, and not using any kind of CGI-trickery. Ronin isn't stylized or over-the-top, it's down in the gutter with a sense of believable intensity. The violence is bloody, at times a little gruesome, but only because it would only be realistic, not because he wants it to be over-the-top, but because that's the way it would probably be. Ronin is a rare thing in contemporary action films; it's exciting, without ever having to sacrifice any of its brains in the process of being entertaining and for that reason alone it does stand out from all the rest. Much like 1994's The Professional (another film about a gun for hire, which also stars Jean Reno), Ronin is exciting, entertaining, well acted, well scripted and doesn't ask you to buy into preposterous events in order to get some sort of satisfaction out of enjoying the film; you buy it whole sale from the beginning and it never cheats you out of its believability.The film features two absolutely amazing car chases, which have now become a part of film history, ranking up there with Bullit and The French Connection, and also went on to inspire such films as The Bourne Identity and Supremacy. The chases are purely exhilarating and realistically intense. Why does De Niro have a scared look on his face throughout the chase? That's because that's really him in the car during the entire chase; the stunt driver (usually in the back of the car) was steering the whole time, but it's really the actors in those cars doing 60 through heavy traffic, and driving through those Paris tunnels. John Frankenheimer is probably most remembered for directing the original black and white version of The Manchurian Candidate back in 1962, and if you want to, watch Ronin and turn the color level on your TV all the way down and enjoy it in black and white; and because of the way it's shot it still works quite well even without color. If you're looking for an action movie with some fun thrills without it ever insulting your intelligence, backed up with some solid performances and set against some great European locations than I highly recommend you check this one out. "},{"Title":"Fasten your seat belts, everyone!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin formal definition a samurai without any master. Ronin film definition a movie without any let-down.I rented Ronin on Christmas eve in 2005. I wanted to watch a good action picture which would make the magic night more entertaining. Well let me tell you one thing with Ronin, I got more than I asked for.Ronin is a nerve-wracking and ultra-exciting mix of action and international espionage and not only it is entertaining, I found that it was also a very intelligent movie at the same time, which is not very frequent. There are film series like James Bond and Mission Impossible which tend to be fully action-oriented and absolutely don't care whether the storyline is good or not, because the entertaining aspects are enough to attract audiences and make money.But Ronin has more on its mind that simple heart-pounding thrills. Famous director John Frankenheimer made up a movie unique by its subject, its treatment of international espionage, its plot devices, its exotic French locations and its action scenes.The intricate and complex plot could be described as follow an Irish organizer assembles an international crew of professionals in order to steal a mysterious briefcase. But the more that the story goes forward, the more it goes twisted, betrayals ensue, action moves in and we don't know how the story is gonna end.Ronin will certainly be remembered for the chemistry between the two major characters, former CIA agent Sam and former European agent Vincent. They're respectively played by Robert De Niro and Jean Reno who both are among leading actors from their countries (USA and France). Sam is a more experienced figure than Vincent and he doesn't hesitate to tell about his tricks and his secrets in his job.The other aspect of Ronin that will be remembered, perhaps even more than Sam and Vincent, is the outstanding car chases that make the heart of the action scenes. The Ronin chases might be the greatest and most exciting ever made and they lead us to ask even more of them. Beside of these car chases, Midtown Madness and Need for Speed look like jokes.Frankheimer had an eye for locations. The idea of putting the action in France is masterful and the exoticism brought by this aspect is never put in doubt. It's charming to watch Paris' bridges, Nice's terraces and Riviera's Roman arenas becoming part of the action.The story is complicated, but it's well-constructed and it's different from the black-and-white stories found in James Bond. And crowning this, there's a MacGuffin in Ronin...What John Frankheimer shows here is that it's possible, even in the late 90s, to produce an action-laden spy film that is both enthralling and intelligent. Ronin is one of the hidden gems of the last years of the 20th century and it's a definitely a must-see, especially for action and espionage seekers. "}{"Title":"What a thriller should be","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin, although convoluted, is a great and intelligent thriller. It is perhaps the best movie created about mercenaries. It's the honor among thieves aspect of the film that is most satisfying for me. Rarely have I seen the power play between these types of characters dealt with so superbly. It is Frankenhiemers return to form at the genre he is a master at. It is always disappointing to read bad reviews of damn good films, but I suppose that some people need an outlet for their frustrations. The greatest sign of a good film is how it holds up after repeated viewings. Ronin holds it's own. The ending is perhaps too Hollywood but all is forgiven. If your expecting likable characters look somewhere else. Everone is cagey in this film and rightfully so. As far as the McGuffin is concerned, so what! That is the whole idea. Mercenaries often do not know what they are paid to fight for. It all adds to the intrigue. Pulp fiction! You can't compare the two movies as they have different subjects entirely. Jeez some people! Great film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Simply the best car chase ever filmed","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a film that contains many fine performances both on and off screen. The sheer depth of acting talent is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the director can afford to discarded one very talented actor before the action really starts.But the feature that sets this film above many others is it's car chases. The first would be regarded as a superb centrepiece for any film but this is just a warm up for the second which is simply the most exiting live action car chase ever filmed. No animation, no speed-ed up film, no computer trickery this is the real thing.Bearing in mind that almost every film since has used special effects and computer animation, I doubt whether the chase scenes in Ronin will ever be bettered. A must-have film for every dedicated petrol-head. "},{"Title":"Uh, what?  Huh?  Does anyone GET this?","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I first saw Ronin, I thought to myself...huh? I don't get it. This movie goes to great lengths to add twist after twist, as each of the main characters attempts to screw over the other. The basic plot appears to be this Deidre (McElhone) hires a gang of mercenaries to retrieve a silver briefcase from some unsavory characters. What's in the case? We don't know - and we never find out. Robert DeNiro plays Sam, a supposedly ex-CIA agent who seems to be the only one of the mercenaries beside Jean Reno's Vincent that has a clue.The movie then begins to ramble about, as the team isn't told any details...who is guarding the case? What's in it? How do they get it? It's all left to them to improvise. The movie plays out like a bad reality show. Every time they make progress, there's another plot twist. By the end of the movie, you find out that the case isn't even the real target for DeNiro, and does Vincent know he's still CIA or not? By the end, does anyone care? What a waste of talent of money. Borrow the DVD from someone if you want to see it, but don't waste YOUR money on it. "},{"Title":"Great action, great plot, superb movie","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is the best movie I've watched starring Robert de Niro. He does a good job in this, and the other actors also do that. That's a good beginning. The movie is set in France, and visits a lot of interesting places during it's 2 hours of runtime, for example Nice, Arles and Paris. The story is very, very good. It's about a suitcase that many different groups and persons want really badly. The fight for the suitcase results in lots of great and really exciting action scenes. People who love car chases should check this flick out, because there's a big amount of that in the movie. Really cool Audis are some of the cars involved in that. That is just another thing that gives this movie a good, European feel to it. "},{"Title":"Just about the best car stunts movie in recent memory","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Plus Bobbie D at his cool best along with Jean Reno a much underrated actor. The scenes in Paris show the seediness of the city so well. What is so great about the whole car chase(s) is how natural they look , the high speed driving through the narrow streets is real edge of the seat stuff. The only flaw in the movie is the female lead , her Irish accent is so bad and her acting is wooden at best . This still does not prevent the 10 I gave. I have lost count of the number of times I have watched this movie . I never tire of it , especially when I view it on my home projector . A great addition to any car junkie movie collection. Bobby D and Jean Reno are awesome . "},{"Title":"Somewhat good spy action film","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie does have some good action sequences, though I found the car chases to be slow and boring. It is thoroughly exciting, though I was annoyed by the amount of anticlimactic twists. Near the end, the entirety of the movie changes meaning drastically. You should be able to make a good suspenseful ending without that amount of twists. Jean Reno and Robert De Niro both play their roles to perfection, and most of the other actors play convincingly too. The script is interesting, and not too confusing. I think pretty much every big fan of spy action films should watch it at least once. It is pretty good, at least action wise. It contains some nice, non-Hollywood like shootouts. Nothing that rivals the likes of Heat, but pretty good nonetheless. This is a movie that can be viewed by most action fans, and it will be very enjoyable to De Niro fans. Spy action fans will most likely enjoy at least some parts of the movie, though I don't think this is the best the genre has to offer. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Frankenheimer's Die Hard","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is another shift from John Frankenheimer's usual work.  The Manchurian Candidate was great, Seven Days in May was decent, Black Sunday left a bitter taste in my mouth, and Reindeer Games was just awful.While the man never was a mainstream success (I am happy for that), this movie seems to be more riddled with confusion on the part of the writers than the cast double-crosses each other.  As in Grand Prix, he is concerned about momentum and realism, both shine as prominent examples here...even better than the cast.The movie wants to dig deep into its genre, but it knows it will lose its mainstream audience if that happens.  The genre, after all, is about story, not bullets flying.  The car chases reflect a time reminiscent of The French Connection in their primitive nature.  Kudos to Frankenheimer for creating something different unlike the overloaded garbage of Bad Boys II.Overall, something worth seeing once or twice by anyone.  The movie is like the characters, it wants to be subtle and nondescript yet surprising.  Unfortunately, it takes a lot to surprise or impress this reviewer.  3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Strangely dull and disappointing thriller from one of America's most underrated directors.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've tried so hard to like 'Ronin' (this is my third viewing), but it just doesn't really cut it for me. I'm not sure why it fails to satisfy, Frankenheimer at his best was a great director (especially 'The Manchurian Candidate', 'Seconds', and '52 Pick-Up') and there's some great actors in the cast - De Niro, Skarsgard, Reno, Bean. I think the script is at fault, it's a bit muddled and never really takes off. David Mamet was involved but is credited under a pseudonym. I think that speaks volumes. Anyway, as flawed as it is, there's a great chase sequence (which is still not as exciting as 'The French Connection's) and enough good bits in it to keep you watching, but really, this should have been so much better! I liked the first half of the movie more than the second, especially the interaction between the De Niro character and Sean Bean. But basically  I find 'Ronin' to be mostly a strangely dull and disappointing thriller that gets less interesting the more it goes on. It's MUCH better than Frankenheimer's later 'Reindeer Games', but I still think his best crime thriller is the enormously underrated '52 Pick-Up'. It's ten times better than this! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  a nice action flick that's safe for arty types","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is an interesting, fast-paced action thriller that's worth watching purely as an action film. Speaking for myself, typically I hate dramas, because of the melodrama and because I don't have the refinement to appreciate a cruddy film because one aspect was good.But Ronin contains interesting, deep characters and clever interpersonal connections. It is everything that The Score should have been but wasn't. It's very much like Reservoir Dogs but without the extreme violence that tarnished that film for me.I think it's safe for those drama buffs who demand that any action film they see have depth.Who should see this film-- drama buffs / arty types who occasionally dabble in action films-- action movie lovers of all sorts (but not young kids)Like most reviewers, I give this film a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Everything You Want To See In a Action Movie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  You have seen action movies, but this is not one of those movies that have men in shape with big muscles, and unexplained explosions, like some pen that have a C4 charge. Here you can see Mr. De Niro in a different role, and the french actor Jean Reno teamed up, to make a great movie. This movie is very european style (also with many european actors), but if you don't like european movies, this one will change your mind. Great shooting sequences, car chases (very realistic), and some other stuff... Something that you will never forget...  "}{"Title":"Intelligent action thriller.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  *Possible spoiler*            From the first moment, after i watched Ronin for the first time, I knew i had to see it again. This movie is one of the most clever, and intelligently written action movies i have ever seen.So,What's in the brief case? It doesn't matter. That's just a distraction.This movie may be a bit too high brow for some,real movie fans will like it.And let's not forget the thrilling car chase scenes. Top notch.A great looking, well acted, and very smart movie.Topped with   enough twists and turns to keep action movie buffs happy. And that's my opinion.  9/10. "},{"Title":"Grandly exciting thriller in an old-fashioned unemotive style","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Grandly exciting thriller in an old-fashioned unemotive style. De Niro has never thrown away his mannerisms so completely - he and Reno build a relationship here of mutual trust built on shared experience and articulated through actions, the essence of which they expertly convey in minimalist fashion. The soundtrack seemed muffled to both of us - maybe it was the theater - but the forward propulsion is so powerful that it didn't matter. It's as if Frankenheimer cast out all the c**p that often weighs down the genre, and just took a clean, stylish line toward the material - there are numerous extremely fluid and imaginative moments, even if some transitions just consist of a contact who knows where to find people, and thus sets them on to the next step. The car chases are obvious highlights - one through the incredibly narrow streets of a small town through Nice, another through Paris itself, each squeezes full impact out of the scenery while hiding all traces of artifice - the mechanics of the chase have seldom been conveyed so fluently. "},{"Title":"The best of the best in terms of car chases and realistic action","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is one of my top movies without a doubt. The movie is set in a European back drop, France mainly, which makes it really interesting to start with. Top notch actors, each individual characters, smart (except one), bad to the bone, calculated, just great characters to watch played by even greater actors. The car chase scenes, they are so bloody realistic. Going through the streets of Paris at break neck speeds. If a car hits something it get damaged, no special effect needed, just realistic accidents. Hollywood can learn something from this, make it good then it does not need to have explosives, jumping and indestructible cars. The story, intriguing till the end. You just never know, and then it ends, and you really still don't know as it's not just about the movie, the story, but about the Ronin, the individual warriors. You have to see this, a must see, anybody rating this movie low should open their eyes. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie, then you hate action genre","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Some critics write that Ronin is a run of the mill film. An ordinary action movie. And its rating in IMDb is pretty low either. Sometimes, it is impossible to understand people, what they think? There are some movies, the cast is great, but the film is not, Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are plus one each, but I don't like Ronin only so that there are De Niro and Reno. Is there any flaw in the movie? It is an action thriller with perfection, even if the final is a bit weak. Look at the recent action movies, there is an enormous gap between the action films made in 1990's and made recently. Why? Because, the recent ones are usually slow paced or mild. Ronin is solid. The plot of Ronin is not different, but this is not a disadvantage in this film. The whole movie is very consistent, not boring even one minute. By the way, the tone of the movie is different from all the similar movies somehow. And yes, its car chase scenes. Almost everybody who watched Ronin talk about those scenes once, I will do the same thing, too. It is one of the longest car chases of all times, sometimes even I find it excessive, but not a complaint, and it is more impressive and stylish than The Matrix Reloaded, because those scenes are not showy, not exaggerating, not too heavy music usage it has, not unnecessary slow motions. My favorite car chase with Bourne Supremacy. Those scenes are stark, I love this and also so well planned. No background music in the most parts, almost everything which may happen in a car chase is here, so it deserves to be put in the anthology of action cinema. I watched those scenes over and over again and still do it. However, the movie is worthy to watch not only because of those scenes as some people suppose. The whole movie is well made and worthy. "},{"Title":"The sort of film you can look back on and place; a superb study of international relations at an increasingly tense time.","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm not quite sure what it is about Ronin; I just keep coming back to it and after several viewings spanning several years at nicely spaced intervals, it has firmly cemented itself as one of my favourite films of all time. These days, people seem to veer more towards the Bourne films or maybe something like Scorsese's The Departed if they want espionage on top of crime related activity, or if they want their kicks to be drawn out and have ties to espionage and cops chasing criminals, they may turn to one of those many, rather silly, television serials available &#150; '24' for instance. Me, I'll stick with John Frankenheimer's 1998 thriller &#150; what does it for you is Bourne or Bauer, what does it for me is Ronin.Ronin is back to basics stuff, a thriller revolving around several people trying to come into possession of a mysterious briefcase nobody knows the contents of. All that we know is that the Russians want it and the Irish, led in the field by Seamus O'Rourke (Pryce), want it as well. There is an element of chase, as there is with the other (more inferior) texts I mentioned but here it feels more pure. The rapid fire editing is limited to the nicely timed and consistently impressive action scenes, all three of which tackle some sort of varied 'type' of stunt. That can be a car chase, a chase on foot, an exchange deal or an escape from a predicament as seen in the film's finale. The characters are given time to breath and develop friendships and alliances whereas these days everything just seems chase, chase, chase.The film, as one poster on the message board probably about a year and a bit ago said, captures that era that we are now able to stand back and label. It's that period between the end of The Cold War and the September 11th Attacks in the United States as well as the consequent War of Terrorism. It's set at a time when international relations are as ambiguous and unconfirmed as you like, summing up the overall aura the film carries to do with honour and betrayal getting mixed up and confused within a second of one another. The varying different nationalities, from the suspicious Brit to the intelligent ex-KGB ally sums up perfectly that nothing is as it used to be following The Cold War.At its very core, Ronin sees two of its more accessible characters just trying to do their job. Sam (De Niro) is former US intelligence agent whereas Vincent (Reno) is a Frenchman in a career he is able to identify the ridiculousness of. In another, inferior action film of this ilk; the Frenchman would either be the villain (as seen in S.W.A.T) or a daft, stereotypical character more often than not some sort of aid (see Beverly Hills Cop).The film revolves around a mysterious briefcase but is structured around three action set pieces that come about at various intervals. The first of which is the taking of the case, the second of which is a chase through Paris and the third of which is a dramatic rounding up of things at a skate show. Whilst combining the set piece aesthetics of car chase movies of old, Ronin slips into a realm of noir as it opens on a dank and shady city, a French city no less. Sam makes his way towards a bar nearing closing time and buries a gun behind some beer crates before entering, not wanting to bring attention to himself and the firearm should he be stopped. Following the recce of the locale from within and deeming it safe. After some further dialogue and some establishing of who's who and why everyone's here, it's safe to collect the initial gun.Within the first few minutes, director Frankenheimer establishes mood and tension; two feelings that will echo the rest of the film as others look on in suspicion and angst. The scene echoes the predicaments most characters will find themselves in over the course of the film, scenarios that they will walk into blind with the possibility they may not walk back out of again. It may be former KGB agent Gregor (Skarsgård) attempting to do an exchange in a car park; or the deal most of the mercenaries do in order to purchase weapons under a shady river-side bridge. So if this is established then the fact Sam is up to this task and handles this scenario relatively well is additionally brilliantly established.The said weapons deal is an action set piece minus a chase, something each of the other set pieces either begin or end with and it offers a glimpse as to what's to come whilst maintaining the film's themes of trust and honour by displaying a relative amount of betrayal on the armsdealer's behalf. The set piece that starts the film's second act is the heist of the briefcase in Nice and following the heist, the film branches out into a four way battle for the case. This is the spine of the film, fought between the two leads; two Irish characters; two less than leading Russian characters and a rouge agent who holds the ace in the first place.From here, France acts as a playground in which ideas of who your friend is and who your enemies are, are played out. Natascha McElhone's Deirdre is a developed enough in her own way femme fatale that is thrown into the mix and Frankenheimer finishes his car chases explosively rather than blow everything up along the way alá Michael Bay. This is Ronin; this is a two hour, but never feeling like it, thrill ride of suspense; action; twists and turns tackling issues of identity and mindset amongst a then changing world order; the likes of which are rarely seen these days. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Action Movies","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" All too often, a stellar cast betokens an inferior movie. But not this time.After a nice, slow, atmospheric rendezvous in a wonderfully-sleazy Parisian location, things begin to build quickly.It's a well-worn theme. A group of mercenaries are recruited to do something dangerous. They've been doing it since 'The Magnificent Seven'. Unlike that movie, non of the characters are evaluated in depth. They're tough individuals; that's enough. Each is self-employed in dangerous - almost certainly criminal - games. They're naturally suspicious and wary of too much familiarity. They may have to kill one another. And eventually they do. It's ruthless, cold-blooded and shockingly indiscriminate when it happens. The public get no quarter either. We sample only enough of their natures to keep the plot moving, which is something I like. There's non of the maudlin, peripheral, and largely irrelevant self-indulgence with which Hollywood so routinely spoils itself. Indeed, quite the contrary. During a couple of takes we almost relish their ruthless indifference a child threatened with assassination, and an 'auction' of wits in which an ice-skater is the prize or the price. There are nice little cameos of conflict too. I liked the character of Sean Bean; an inexperienced bravado punching way beyond his weight, and who, sickened by the consequences, is rejected. Or there's Natascha McElhone's 'Deirdre' steadfast and vixenish, always on the edge of a flaring confrontation. A good-looking woman who can actually act, and isn't just along for some eye-candy. All of the players prove more than equal to the limited depth required of them. I didn't spot a bad egg in the carton.There really isn't time for sentiment here; this movie is too often on the move. Emotion flickers occasionally - an injured or murdered companion, a little sexual chemistry - but otherwise fasten your seat-belts.Car-chases set a new standard in headlong ferocity. Forget 'Bullitt', Forget 'The Italian Jobs', forget 'The French Connection'; this is where it's at. The shooting is cut and edited to perfection. They really are edge of the seat. They're also set in interesting French locations instead of the usual humdrum San Francisco.The plot is convoluted. There's a lot of 'Mission Impossible' or even 'Harry Palmer' type double-cross. The twists are unexpected and keep you guessing. This movie does not assume you're a couch-potato, but still always manages to keep one step ahead of your expectations. A director smarter than his audience - how refreshing is that? Full marks to Mr Frankenheimer.Music and sound-effects mesh well with the visual imagery. It seems a small thing, but how often has a potentially good movie been screwed-up by such inattention to detail?The script, however, isn't particularly clever. Some of the verbal exchanges, especially those involving Robert DeNiro are actually pretty crass. There are no memorable one-liners. But it's the final denouement that's the real turkey. Jean Reno's rather clichéd little summary is completely unnecessary. An actor of his class could say as much with his facial expression and body language. Still, if you want entertainment, action, car chases, slaughter, enough twists to make you think, and some nice views of France; go for it. I did. "},{"Title":"The A-Team, for real!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Now this is what an episode of The A-Team could be like if it was geared for adults. With lots of bloody shoot-outs and some incredible chase scenes that rival the famed The French Connection one, this movie is slam-bang full of suspense and action.Set in the French Riviera (finally, a movie set in St. Tropez and Nice without any topless beach scenes) and with an international cast led by Robert DeNiro and Frenchman Jean Reno, the story involves a group of the best hitmen in the world hired by an mysterious Irish woman named Deidre (Natasha McElhone) to retrieve a briefcase for them. The men form an unholy alliance despite not knowing each other, sometimes even knowing each other from past conflicts, to retrieve the briefcase which contains something that other underground groups want. With violence, double-crosses, and the eventual trust of two of the characters, the movie explodes in a superb climax. A good suspense film with fine acting and great action. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"A smart action film in the tradition of 'Heat'","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  John Frankenheimer's Ronin may be  the last good movie of his long and  distinguished career. After Reindeer Games, I  doubt he'll get another movie offer, so this  will have to stand as his swan song. Anyway,  I felt the rather restrained action and script  in this film really added some intrigue to it.  I especially enjoyed the idea of not really  knowing any of the people in the film, but  knowing their entire history by simply  observing their glances or reactions to  certain situations. While most people would  find this boring, most individuals who  enjoyed the likes of Chinatown could find  many redeeming qualities in a movie like  this. Jean Reno, Sean Bean (though in a  short role), Stellan Skarsgard, Jonathan  Price, and Katarina Witt (attention Witt fans!)  all add a rich range of characters in the  beautiful country villas of France. A great film  with some even more incredible car chases. "},{"Title":"Gone in 60 seconds with guns!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a good action movie with fantastic high speed chases through the streets of Paris and Nice. The story was a bit too tangled for my taste. After the «Ronin» succeed in their mission, the movie falls into the typical doublecross situations some common in movies. Robert DeNiro delivers a top notch performance but is surpass by Jean Reno. I really liked this actor in «Les Visiteurs» and he's doing a terrific job in this one again.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I loved this film. Not only because it contains the most astonishing car chase I've ever seen, or because the action provided here is of the intelligent kind, complete with purpose and taste. It's the characters, you see. Much like Heat, the characters bring a certain depth to this movie that departs from other action thrillers.Just look at the calm way that DeNiro and McElhone fall in love. No music, no stupid scenarios that push them together - they just do it. Natural as hell.Or take the friendship between Reno and DeNiro. Calm, cool, they connect quickly, mainly because they share some experiences in the past.There's a natural feeling to it all, despite the looming threat of the contents of the suitcase the team is going after. Watch and enjoy. "}{"Title":"no no no","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  other than some excellent car chases, this is a poor movie.  boring and confusing.  characters not really believable for supposed experts in covert operations.  I didn't like it.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic action, but where is the story?","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I read the comments by Ryan Vooris before watching the movie, and he made me go and watch it.  Having seen it, however, I remain with a feeling of disappointment.  The action scenes are indeed fabulous. De Niro is convincing indeed his eyes are talking more than his words.  But frankly, such a movie is nothing compared, e.g. to French Connection.  The story is empty, the confrontation between the ronins (the beginning of the movie) is vacuous, and the music is only pounding at your ears, trying to hide that nothing is happening until the road scenes. To conclude, I think it is a good *action* movie, but -please- don't give it more. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I thought that such an excellent cast couldn't fail to entertain.I was wrong.Despite some magnificent action sequences this movie was let down by having too many characters, too poorly fleshed out. The plot was predictable to the point of being risible.A wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Car chases, shootings... and yawns","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Just one more movie in the genre of Mission Impossible and Heat. I'd even say that it isn't a movie, but a good show and more precisely a good car chase show. Half of the movie consists of never ending car chases across the narrow European roads. Reno and DeNiro play two mercenaries hired by the Irish mafia and their job is to recover a mysterious case. At the beginning everything seams simple and easy but then it gets complicated when one member of the team betrays the others. And guess where he comes from... well, nowhere else than the Russian mob (what a surprise isn't it). The rest of the movie consists in constant this one betrayed that one who loves this one but works for that one and so on and so forth.... However there is a tiny attempt to put some depth in all of it and that's where the title Ronin comes from (in the far east it designated a masterless Samurai). Pointless to say that it's a complete failure and that it drowns in the idiocy of the movie. Still, there are some scenes worth seeing (that's why I gave one star), which are the first shooting scene under the bridge and the first car chase (after it becomes boring and exaggerated). Once again I was deceived by De Niro who gave a completely usual and uninteresting performance and Jean Reno seems to be good only in Luc Besson's movies. "},{"Title":"DeNiro's the man but it takes more than a great actor to save a so-so film.","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro does a great job playing a modern day equivalent of a Samuri, but it's wasted on a film that clearly needed another 2 months in the editing room. Frankenheimer spends almost the first half of the film establishing that Robert DeNiro is the man. One or two scenes of him proving that he is the genuine article would have been enough. Once established more energy could have been spent on exploring the individual characters' motivations. The interplay between DeNiro and Reno was great. By setting up an instant rapport between the two characters a lot of time is saved. Instead of the two get to know each other Frankenheimer instantly sets up a friendship that is believable. Why couldn't he have taken the same approach with the rest of the movie? The action is impressive, but even some of those scenes went on too long.I think there is a good film buried here, it's just going to take a really good editor to find it. "},{"Title":"Successful, Machine-Processed Action Movie.","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm going to give it a 6 partly because it was shot in Paris, Nice, and Arles. It gives you a tourist's eye view of France in the winter, including a chilly, overcast Riviera and Van Gogh's Yellow House, morphed into what looks like an overpriced café.Other than that, this is an action movie stripped down to the bare bones. The characters are as rudimentary as the plot. A handful of unemployed professionals are hired by Natascha McIlhone (representing the Irish) to ambush a convoy of cars transporting a curious-looking case, the contents of which have been sold to the Russians. I think I've got that right. If I haven't, it doesn't matter. The conspicuously aluminum case is an operational definition of a MacGuffin. What's in it? Who knows and who cares? The whole movie is built around its action sequences and they are plentiful. There is a meeting between the professionals and the French gangsters who are to supply them with equipment for the heist. It turns into a shoot out. The convoy is intercepted and it turns into a car chase. It ends in a shoot out, during which one of the professionals, Gregor, turns into a cockroach. There's another car chase through tunnels and whatnot that destroys so many vehicles it surely would have cleared even the Parisian streets of traffic. The end involves a couple of murders. Even Katarina Witt gets it, which is a dirty trick.Novelties? Not too many. Well, I suppose that in the course of these pursuits and battles, it's a novelty to see innocent bystanders get plowed down or shot up or blown up. The zipping cars smash through the usual food stands and push carts but I don't remember their ever doing it on such narrow streets.There isn't any noticeable development of character. That is, nobody changes in any fundamental way. Michael Lonsdale, as a rich old man, and Stellan Skarsgard, as Gregor the dung beetle, give the best performances. Rober DeNiro, a fine actor, seems out of place in all this European company. Natascha McIlhone has a somber, angular, and sexy face but I wouldn't trust her as far as I could throw her, which isn't very far. I like Jean Reno best of all. Regard that face, that voice! The guy looks like he's coming down from a week-long bout with the bottle. There aren't that many international movie stars at whom I can look without saying to myself, I wish I were that handsome. Aside from bullets and baggage, what is the movie about? It seems to be about itself. There's nothing much behind what you see. It's like buying roast beef at a modern deli. Roast beef, my foot. It's machine-processed beef, scraped right down to the bone, then pureed and solidified and seasoned so that it looks a little -- just a little -- like what it purports to be. There's some phony philosophy from Michael Lonsdale's sage, who tells DeNiro the story of the forty-seven ronin -- who planned and waited for years for an opportunity to avenge their betrayed master -- but it has nothing to do with the movie. Lonsdale's thoughtfully delivered lesson might as well have been the Gilgamesh epic, or Huckleberry Finn, for that matter. It's an attempt to coat the plot with some portentous uber-meaning, but that just makes it the same processed stuff under a thin, negligible shell of pastry, like Beef Wellington.I've made this sound like a pretty crummy movie but it's not, if you like action movies. The director knows exactly what he's doing. The editing is superb, as it has to be to make this genre piece a success. The shootouts, collisions, and deaths are in real time, not slow motion. It may not be pregnant with meaning but it's diverting, exciting, and not insulting to the viewer who's willing to shrug and say, For an action movie, this one isn't too bad. "},{"Title":"De Niro and a Tired Plot.","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin (1998) Dir John Frankenheimer / Cast Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone, Stellan Skarsgard, Sean Bean Here is an action film that slaps Robert De Niro's mug on the poster with a gun aimed to fire, and it expects to hide the reality of an action film that is clearly not as respectable as it desires. Filled with action clichés with Robert De Niro leading an ensemble of freelance agents assigned to steal a silver briefcase. Trouble arises when De Niro suspects a double cross within the group. That always seems to be the case, right? Directed by John Frankenheimer with a terrific production but plot is standard and caters to action violence. Frankenheimer previously directed The Manchurian Candidate and the remake of The Island of Dr. Moreau that nobody seemed to warm up to despite Brando's wardrobe. De Niro is the sell but he isn't exactly playing a character of any great stretch. He basically heads a group of faceless fighters who will engage in combat at any opportunity. Among his teamsters are Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone, and Stellan Skarsgard although none of them have anything to work with. It is purely about the action therefore the characters are merely props for action scenes. It might have been more interesting had the film examined such operations but its purpose seems to be to display a big budget and as much action as possible. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hyped. Action is sloppy, plot is nothing special, movie is a little boring, but OK.","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" What is up with everyone praising this movie!?The action is sloppy, not that great at all. The car chases are alright, I would never have thought twice about them had it not been for everybody talking about them in the reviews here om IMDb. The story is alright, nothing special. The acting is OK. No one does any fantastic acting here, it's just OK. The only one that stands out is Sean Bean. The rest are pretty forgettable.I was hoping for some good action and an entertaining movie, what I got was an uneven, slightly boring thriller-drama.There is one shoot out with quite a lot of destruction, that was pretty cool. And I like the blood, even though it doesn't look very good. Looks like red paint. But at least it's there, amIright!?Also the movie is too long. It gets boring. I knew this wasn't going to be all action all the time, but I really expected the action that was, to be better, and the movie as a whole to be, well just better.There are some twists and turns, but never did I get the hey this is great entertainment-feeling, it was always just OK. Not horrible, not great. Little over the middle. "},{"Title":"Smart, Slick, Well Shot Action from Start to Finish","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer's Ronin has the best shootouts since Die Hard, car chases on par with Bourne or The French Connection, and as many twists, turns, and betrayals as the best classic noir, as befitting its setting in Paris. Add a talented cast led by the gritty yet unassuming Robert De Niro, and you one of the best action thrillers of the 90's.As the film opens, IRA operative Deidre (Natasha McElhone) has assembled a team of former commandos and spies, including Sam (De Niro), Vincent (Jean Reno), Larry (Skipp Sudduth), and Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard) to steal a heavily guarded steel case containing an unidentified object of immense value. The theft is spectacular enough, but the real action comes afterwards, as the team is struck by betrayals from within and above, and Sam and Vincent find themselves working against everyone just to get their paycheck.The term Ronin refers to masterless samurai, men who practice their trade as hired swords or bandits, fighting for money rather than loyalty or honor. And this is a perfect metaphor for the entire film. The people in this picture- hero and villain alike- are in it 100% for the money, and as far as they're concerned, there is little honor among thieves. The sheer number and frequency of double crosses and backstabbings is striking. It's like The Maltese Falcon, only with more factions in play. Even more remarkable is how ruthless many these people are. At one point a main character actually shots at children on a playground- just to make a point! These are folks you don't want to screw around with, and yet they screw each other over again and again.The other thing that makes Ronin stand out is the action; this is after all, a thriller. Bullets and car chases alone do not a good movie make, but the ones here are of such quality that they go a long way. That the staging, execution, and photography are exquisite goes without saying. Just as importantly, the filmmakers know the importance of building up to the action, without completely tipping his hand. By the time the guns come out, the tension will be so thick you can cut it with the proverbial knife, but you'll still be caught off guard by the suddenness and sheer ferocity of the gunplay.The staging of the chase sequences is also worth noting. Two of the biggest mistakes writers and directors make when doing car chases are to use endless aerial shots, or to go cheap and film the entire scene from a pursuit camera. Frainkenheimer doesn't make those mistakes. Instead he underlines the high speeds and frantic action by using frequent cuts and a variety of camera angles, including head-on, tailing, side, and reaction shots of the drivers.And forget the old cliché where the good guy never hits anything except fruit carts and stacks of empty boxes. These drivers ram into medians, sideswipe trucks and walls, and plow straight into each other. Glass shatters, hoods buckle, and if a car goes airborne, you can hear the suspension crunching when it touches down. It also helps that Frainkenheimer directed these scenes himself, rather than leaving it to the second unit director, and that he didn't use a single digital effect. Every wreck and explosion actually took place.I should mention that the acting was excellent as well, especially by De Niro. No-one can remain as nonchalant while firing a rocket launcher from the sunroof of a speeding car, or be ass likable racking up a body count as De Niro. Jean Reno also shines as the jaded Vincent, and Skarsgard is downright frightening as Gregor. If you like action, car chases, or gritty crime movies, you will love Ronin. It really is a shame it isn't better known. "},{"Title":"Great actors showing their skills","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is defined as a Japanese Samurai who has lost his master and must search for work as a sword for hire or reduced to banditry. A group of experts are gathered in Paris by Deirdre (Natascha McElhone) who is looking to steal a mysterious suitcase. The group (Robert DeNiro, Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgård, Sean Bean, Skipp Sudduth) don't know each other and don't trust each other. The plan is very sketchy, and Deirdre won't tell them what's in the suitcase.Director John Frankenheimer shows that he still has a bit of juice left in him. The best thing about this movie is the class of acting talents he is able to get. Robert DeNiro is superbly brilliant. Jean Reno is absolutely solid, and Sean Bean puts in a nice turn. The objective is almost unimportant. This is about a bunch of great actors playing around with some mysterious characters. Each of whom may turn out to be something less than reliable. "}{"Title":"Robert De Niro and Jean Mero are great. Action and Plot 85%","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is one of the movies I watch over and over. It has scenes which are memorable. The opening meet in the bar, the fight scene with the coffee cup and the line what color is the Boat House at Hereford ,also the meet with the gun dealers where De Niro says  why would I go in there? The chases are great - like Bourne. The scene with the girls where De Niro says get cleaned up we're going shopping. I loved the characters and the scenery. THE MOVIE STARTS GOOD AND ENDS THAT WAY. I WOULD CLASSIFY THIS AND THE BOURNE FILMS AS MY FAVORITE ACTION ADVENTURE MOVIES. Some of the plot is a bit contrived and there is a fight scene with the Russian that seems extraneous and just plain time consuming. But I am never unhappy after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Come for the car chases... then leave.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin has a huge reputation and it's for one reason - the car chases. I see now why it doesn't get a good reputation for much of its other qualities. Despite starring Robert De Niro and being directed by veteren John Frankenheimer of The Manchurian Candidate, Ronin is very bland. Granted, the car chases do live up, the first few feel a little ridiculous but its climactic one about 2/3rds in is terrific, exciting and entertaining. It's a shame the characters don't have the same amount of depth. They're mere cardboard cutouts of not even archetypes but international stereotypes of Irish, Russian, French, Swedish and many more. Its story is too simple to be satisfying and it tries to cloak it with convoluted twists or lack of exposition that are hard to follow. Personally, I blame David Mamet, who is notorious for these types of uninspired scripts. But it feels more like a throwback to the red-paint-blood violence of the 70s. Unfortunately it lacks all the grit, which is what I was expecting. Whatever tone it was going for, it didn't matter, because there's no way I'd take Jonathan Pryce seriously as a villain no matter what film it is.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nearly a Perfect, Smarter-Than-Average Action Movie","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A group of mercenaries/rogues/thieves each with questionable motives are hired by some well-paying & shady people to obtain a mysterious and highly-guarded briefcase desired by multiple factions. That's basically all the setup you get, and the characters & plot slowly reveal themselves into what becomes a very smart, well-acted, and intense action movie that keeps you guessing.The car chases are amazing, with a stunning sense of speed and gritty realistic sound that put you in the moment; the car scenes are worth mention on their own. There is a deliberate, gritty, realistic ambiance to almost every scene. The music score has 2 or 3 main tones or themes throughout, and always contributes to & enhances the scene at hand, never overpowering it; it is haunting & mysterious during slower, darker moments, and is pulse-pounding, adrenaline-pumping intense during the action scenes, particularly during the car chases.As a whole, the film is equal parts action & dramatic dialogue/scenes, and excels in each - it is at least as much of a character film as it is an action film. All of the main actors do phenomenal jobs in their roles, even & especially the ones that are annoying or who you are supposed to not like. The obvious mentions would be DeNiro & Reno, and even Bean, in a somewhat atypical role for him - but again, the entire cast is rock-solid.Ronin is not entirely perfect, but its flaws are minor and easily overshadowed by every other aspect of the film some of the violence is a bit cheesy in execution, particularly the manner in which a small handful of bystanders are shot; some dialogue is a little difficult to hear at times because of its volume or the way the line is delivered; and the movie loses a little bit of steam toward the end with a somewhat contrived situation that pales in comparison to some of the prior action - in that sense, the ending sequence it is a let-down, but ultimately it brings together the necessary characters, serves its purpose, and is far from anti-climactic. Also of minor note worth mentioning due to others' unjustly negative reviews a couple of plot elements or details are never revealed or fully spelled-out for the viewer, but this insignificant, as Ronin is a character-driven action film through & through - the depth of the characters and their developments are what ultimately fuel the film.I was floored by Ronin when I first saw it in my 'teens sometime in '99 or '00. Since then, I've seen it 4 or 5 times either fully or partially - it is the type of quality movie where if I see it on TV, I can't help but be sucked in and I have to watch it. When it was removed from Netflix streaming, I immediately bought it on BluRay for $16. If you are a fan of action movies and car chases, it is definitely worth a rental. If you are a collector and are not pinching pennies currently, if you can find it on BluRay for $10 to $16 or on DVD for even cheaper, it is easily worth the money and you will watch it at least twice. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies I have ever seen","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The name says it all. Ronin holds a special place in the movie hall of fame not for the fact that it was backed up by the greatest car chases in Film History but the fact that everything from casting to scripting to orchestrated performances given by DeNiro and Reno all cement its legacy.Frankenheimer's brilliance is noted here. There are roughly 4-5 car chases in the film. Each one is executed with utmost perfection . These days directors turn to green screen or to shaky angles OR to camera placement in awkward places to film their car chases .This leads to under par and really crappy and idiotic chases .However in Ronin each shot of a chase is cinematic . THe camera is placed at brilliant angles such that the audience can view and experience it while their adrenaline builds up. The final chase through the tunnels of Paris was a masterpiece that only frankenheimer can imagine.Deniro and Jean Reno's performances were reminiscent of two screen veterans .I need not say more .Their mere presence speaks for how serious the casting was taken. Sean Bean and Stellan Skarsgard held the story together as sides kept shifting. Skarsgard should be given a special mention for his fantastic performance as a double agent.On the whole if u haven't seen this movie u suck. If you don't like it you're either blind or stupid..Watch it..it'll blow your mind "},{"Title":"Interesting European espionage thriller but not great.","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" As shown in this film, Ronin, with the demise of the Cold War, spy stories as an espionage-based sub-genre of thrillers have been reduced to having to rely on terrorist organizations operating within a narrow regional locale, such as the IRA in this instance, substituting for the internationally significant, highly professionally subversive, and politically and militarily powerful KGB and the Warsaw Pact as the enemy organization/military bloc as the principal antagonist in European spy stories. While the IRA may be significant to Ireland and the Irish (and perhaps to a section of the British public, though I suspect that many Britons, including this English-born reviewer, are bored to the point of indifference with the Irish question and all that springs from it, including the IRA), it has not the same weighty international significance, and so literary appeal, to a wider international audience that International Communism's espionage arm certainly did in the form of the KGB and with the KGB, allied espionage organizations within other Warsaw-Pact countries.This is one deficiency, but there are others. De Niro's freelance/CIA tough guy is very exaggerated at times; indeed, in my opinion, he ought to have played his part far more subtly in various scenes than he did. And Sean Bean's character of a Brit SAS-wannabe fraud infiltrating the ranks of the film's rogue IRA unit for the operation, for which this gang of mercenary operators was specifically engaged, leaves one wondering why this irrelevance was introduced at all and how Bean's character managed to get as far as he did without being exposed for the obvious incompetent and coward that he was. On top of this, too, I'd have to say that Reno's acting is a bit flat at times in Ronin; he has the opposite problem to De Niro in various scenes in that he does not inject enough zest into his part as he ought to, which zest would have been well within the emotional scope of Reno's character and consistent with and fitting to the relevant scenes' circumstances.However, overall the story is quite interesting with the much sought-after and killed-for case being the MacGuffin, the object of interest for this group of rogue IRA operatives, their hired guns, and assorted Russian gangsters. There is cross and double cross and a good deal of professional betrayal worthy of a good spy story in Ronin, and add to this some really well done shoot-'em-ups and car chases and this makes Ronin an enjoyable enough film to watch. It is certainly worth a look and, to be sure, Frankenheimer does a quite competent job in directing it. But Ronin certainly could never be described as an extraordinary, great, or brilliant film, which another of Frankenheimer's films in the espionage-thriller sub-genre certainly was I mean of course John Frankenheimer's 1962 classic The Manchurian Candidate. Now there was an extraordinary, great, and brilliant film, in which the Communist-Chinese-Soviet espionage arms figured most prominently and with which the IRA pales in comparison. "},{"Title":"Much more than a bad-ass car chase!","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I have to admit I acquired this film because I heard it had the best car chase. I wasn't disappointed. In fact it has two of the best car chases I have ever seen. The realism is fantastic. Bullitt comes to mind as the only other film which can start a debate as to which has the better car chase. To be fair, Bullitt is 30 years older and although there is no sound sweeter than those muscle car V8's, the driving skill in Ronin is unmatched. No sped up film, computer enhancements or pounding music here, just real guttural sounds of engines and tires with stunt driving at the top of its game. Frankenheimer purposely filmed the actors in the cars (even if they weren't driving) and avoided all use of computer graphics or green screens. The end result is a realism that you can taste.The plot involves a group of mercenary types brought together to perform a job for a price. They are to snatch a suitcase which holds something which is obviously very important to some very powerful forces as it is protected by armed gunmen with skills to match our team of mercenaries. The twists may escape you if you don't pay careful attention, but even if you lose the substance in the story, you will certainly be taken in by the style of directing. Frankenheimer skillfully keeps you on the edge of your seat with a clean and efficient pace that radiates with gritty realism and intense action. The gun fights are amazingly well choreographed and edited. It is never over-the-top and the violence is never glorified with gratuitous amounts of blood or cliché slow motion. Scene transitions are clean and clever. There are no mandatory steamy sex scenes and this film never insults your intelligence. It is meticulously detailed and successfully surrounds you in a world of intrigue in the old medieval streets of the Riviera, and the shiny, dark, wet alleys of Paris. The score beautifully compliments the atmosphere with a mysterious and cold music which is another strong point of this work. The acting really is Oscar worthy by all characters. Bob DeNiro reaffirms his natural brilliance as an actor who commands every scene he enters. The very likable Jean Reno is perfect as the more human but equally strong mercenary who forms a professional bond with DeNiro. Other top notch actors include Stellan Skarsgard, Sean Bean, and Jonathan Pryce. All deliver a very, very satisfying performance including the rarely seen Natasha McElhone. She does an admirable job of keeping a strong presence amongst such powerful veteran actors. I saw her once by chance at a Marin County bookstore and immediately recognized her. She has an unforgettable chiseled face with large intelligent eyes.This is a movie that warrants repeated viewings to catch all the subtle brain food and double-entendres. It's an under-rated film which has established a cult following not just because of the car action, but also because it is superbly acted and utterly cool. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is my favorite movie. I will try to keep this review short but helpful. I first saw the first quarter of this movie on TV, then rented it shortly after. I was amazed how good this movie was. The action, the acting, the story line was great. The plot of the movie is somewhat vague, but this is what makes this movie a classic, you just have to keep watching. The main goal of the characters is to get a briefcase that no ones what's inside, and they never find out. This movie also has one of the top ten best car chases in a film, and that is an understatement. If you want a good action/suspense movie, then you need to check this movie out. It is also on iTunes for $9.99, and that's awesome. "},{"Title":"Great car chases, Good action, i liked it.","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is basically about a bunch of mercenaries or private contractors whatever you want to call them, who are hired to retrieve a case which is being transfered via car which is followed by other cars which are full up with men carrying sub machine guns. due to this fact, the Irish who want the case hire Robert De Niro and Jean Reno's characters and a couple of other guys with the right skills to get it for them, along the way through the job De Niro and Reno get betrayed and then have to go out and do whatever they can to get the guy who stole the case and complete the job.(they even bump into the Russian mafia)I would just like to point out this is my first review ever.Please don't be put off by my small explanation of the storyline, there is in fact quite a good story to the movie with some good twists in the middle, although some of the answers come out of no where, it still keeps you entertained and interested.Robert De Niro gives his usual grumpy but nice guy performance but does fit the character very well and pulls it off too, Jean Reno is very good in the role as is Sean Bean in his, although he looks like he was constantly taking heroin. the rest of the cast perform OK but i cant remember their names so won't say any thing else about them.Now i'll say this without a doubt, this movie has some of the best car chases ever put on film the different camera angles are excellent and the driving is brilliant. overall this movie is very enjoyable and if you have some spare time i would recommend it.I give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Stomach Churning Action Film !!","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer did the god awful Island of Dr Moreau in 1996, his final film Reindeer Games was almost as bad but between them two movies he made Ronin which makes up for his other two disastrous films as its one of the best action movies of the 90s and possibly John Frankenheimer's finest film featuring one of the best car chases ever placed in a film.The story may seem simple a group of ex special forces crooks try to steal a briefcase that is wanted by the Russians and the Irish but the film requires close viewing and viewers are rewarded with repeated viewings.The acting is of high standard Robert De Niro gives a strong performance that was probably one of his last good ones but hes upstaged by the supporting cast which includes a very good Jean Reno in his usual typecast role but playing it to perfection, Natasha McElhone who is great here and should get loads of work, Jonathan Pryce in a great performance, Sean Bean in a brief but memorable role as Spence who's harboring a secret and Stellan Skarsgard as a mysterious and very strange thief who is very important to the plot.The action set pieces are gloriously filmed and the film is a real visual treat especially the car chase through Paris which is one of the best ever filmed.definitely recommended and a very rewatchable film which is rewarding as it is entertaining 9/10 "},{"Title":"Happy Birthday Sean","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Great sound, great buy the CD soundtrack, a car chase that sets the standard, and great acting. This intellectual thriller may be slow at times to some as the characters seem to chat a lot, but look who's chatting. Robert De Niro, Jean Reno (great in Godzilla), Sean Bean (our birthday boy), Natascha McElhone (Laurel Canyon), Stellan Skarsgård (Bootstrap Bill Turner), and Jonathan Pryce (Governor Weatherby Swann). And, if that is not enough to get you interested, there's Katarina Witt.You have the IRA, the Russian Mafia and a superb intellectual thriller. This is what action movies should be. "}{"Title":"Overcooked","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Frankenheimer's somewhat overcooked thriller 'Ronin' is the story of rival criminal gangs, disputing possession of a mysterious case in a succession of glamorous locations across France. The film has some good points - a scene where Robert de Niro's character directs an operation performed on himself is memorable - and some less good elements, including an incomprehensible political twist at the end of the plot, Natascha McEllhone's role as an unlikely underworld boss, and video-game car chases that are actually much less exciting than the simpler (but more believable) chases in old films like 'Bullitt' or 'The French Connection'. Probably the film's biggest problem is motivation we never know what is in the case, or why the rival gangs want it so badly, and although the film's title sequence hints that this is going to be a film about the psychology of the mercenary, in truth, this is never a character driven movie. Overall, it's disappointing, although hearing Americans pronouncing Hereford add some unintentional humour. "},{"Title":"A tribute to Hitchcock","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie is doubly a tribute to Hitchcock the final scene in the Zenith with the ice-skating (doesn't this remind you of The man who knew too much ?And, of course, the case- what he called a Mc Guffin  it's just a pretext - who cares to know what's in it ? There were many Mc Guffins in Hitchcock movies. A device or plot element that catches the viewer's attention or drives the plot. It is generally something that every character is concerned with.' The McGuffin is essentially something that the entire story is built around and yet has no real relevance. It's he who invented the term Mc Guffin and not the movie industry as one comment said... "},{"Title":"Chasenheimer","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Frankenheimer gave us a lot of action movies with a lot of chases...many of them successful. And although I admire his acumen at producing these exaggerated car chase scenes, or people running scenes, they simply can't make a whole movie. This work was another case in point. I lost count of how many chases there were and all were certainly expertly accomplished with hair raising realism as the cars round hair pin turns. But there is no consequence to the arrogance of the drivers...one car of which is populated by supposedly good guys. Cars crash & fly in every direction, buses tip over, many burst into flames...etc. But we see little of what happens to the people inside and what it does to them. As such, these chases are little more than cartoons. Of course, in this movie, maybe there are no good guys... just floaters trying to pull themselves out of the toilet bowl. The acting is good, the plot is convoluted and rather implausible and after awhile I just didn't care what happened to any of them. My interest might have been increased if I had known what was in the case. We never find out. So all we know is they are fighting for something we are never allowed to care about. Not a good way to keep up my interest. For all we knew it could be the dirty laundry of the KGB. It's one way to spend two hours. I can think of many other ways that would have been much more fulfilling. "},{"Title":"Brought to you by the Hollywood stunt men's trade union","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Think about it This was about 110 minutes of stunt men bouncing around the screen and 10 minutes of not very good script, read by highly talented actors (maybe they were being paid by the minute). The cast was excellent, but we don't really get to see enough of them actually acting. Especially Jean Reno. This film is not Leon,but he is in real danger of getting typecast and stuck in this kind of film.Presumably stunt men felt that they weren't getting enough work, so they went on strike until Hollywood was forced to make a film especially for them.This film didn't make a big impact on me. The plot was interestingly tangled, but the over long car chases seemed boring, repetitive and clichéd. "},{"Title":"DeNiro Played a Cool Cat","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Always enjoy the great acting of Robert DeNiro (Sam),Hide & Seek,'05, who plays a very smart dude who has had lots of experience in the field of crime and deception. Sam is hired by Dierdre,(Natascha McElhone),Guy X,'05, who plays a sexy long haired blond who at first attends bar very briefly only to lead a bunch of hoods into a very secret plan in order to obtain a package. Money is no object in securing this package and there is a scene at an airport where Sam helps Dierdre from making some very bad mistakes as well as other members of his working crime family. There is plenty of mystery, foul language, but the film will hold your interest, only because Robert DeNiro does a fantastic job of acting and making this film interesting. "},{"Title":"Warrior code in the tactics  behind the scenes","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Too bad some of the comments concerning this film are pure spoilers.As explained in the beginning, Ronin is a word for a Samurai whose master has been betrayed despite of the samurai's protection and has to earn his living in shameful ways. These Sun-Tsu-ideals evolve throughout the film towards the connection to the present World in the wrap-up in the end.Ronin the movie is about specialist mercenaries paid for one goal to retrieve a package wanted by various international groups. The main characters Robert DeNiro and Jean Reno playing few of them are convincing cool operators and all in all, the film is full of tactics of the modern cold war and the little tricks of the spy games and twists of the international politics. If I didn't know better I'd think this was made out of one of the earlier Tom Clancy books.The plot line takes you to the international underground of France from Paris to the Meditarrenean coast with its beautiful landscapes and towns filled with this unusual action provided by the characters. This includes top-of-the-line car chases with a grip of realism rarely seen today (well, OK, some of the cars do explode but other than that..). The viewer is let into the World of these specialists down to the choice of tools involved. Might sound boring but this background information is given in a daily-basis-kind of subtle way.I believe that despite of its well-established cast this film must be an international co-operation which gives yet an extra bit of realism the characters don't speak English (or American) with dialects but actually speak different European languages, DeNiro French for a lot of time, for example. The main language though, remains English which makes perfect sense in the films context.All in all, I wish there were more action/tactics films like this. The layers of details in the film just keeps dragging me back to it. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" People tend to consider this a good film because of the impressive racing episodes. Or they like it for the philosophical appearance of the samurai/ronin context. But you can be fan of neither and still take 'Ronin' as one of the best films made in the nineties &#150; because it takes a new way to lead you back to the old days of storytelling. And that is why it is one of my personal favorites. Not only is the casting superb (take, for instance, the different accents spoken), the story is so thrilling you have don't want to miss a second, the build-up couldn't be better, the clichés are limited and the overall experience is more rewarding than &#150; dare I say so? &#150; any other film John Frankenheimer ever made. (Sort of spoiler to follow.) The ending sequence &#150; de Niro and Reno in the Café of the beginning &#150; most strongly underlines the melancholy that is apparent in the whole picture Reno walks up the stairs, Elia Cmirals great music comes to a rousing final, and you know you've witnessed the kind of film one actually tends to say that they don't make 'em like this anymore. Strongly recommended for anyone not thrilled exclusively by looks, but by the story. "},{"Title":"Samurais under fire.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Repeat Review. Reviews #1-97 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur3825387/comments Reviews #98-#100 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5060215/comments Reviews #101-#104 http//www.imdb.com/user/ur5339193/comments ---------- (Original Date of Review - August 26, 2004) Ronin stars Robert DeNiro and is directed by John Frankenheimer. In this case, the main characters are considered to be somewhat of Ronins, meaning someone like a samurai, without a master. Also starring are Jean Reno, Sean Bean, and many others.DeNiro plays a guy named Sam who takes a mission in France. Jean Reno plays a guy named Vincent from France and them two are the main characters for a big part of the movie. The employer, who is an Irish woman, assembles a team of 5 men and they meet each other from different cultures, DeNiro being American, Vincent being French, and so on. For the next 4 weeks, they're being paid $40,000 to retrieve a briefcase of some importance from the employer's enemies. The suitcase is needed by the Russians, the Irish, and so on. Later on, ignorance comes from the woman by not telling what's in the briefcase and they want even more money for the job. Tensions flare when any small suggested plan turns out to be a possible ambush and Sam takes care of it accordingly. The story continues to play out well. The finale is awesome.Overall, Ronin is a definite see if you're a fan of DeNiro. It's a sly classic killer of an action ride, filled with tons of thrills, car chases, gun scenes, chase scenes, car crashes, explosions, you name it; what more could you want from a DeNiro film. Probably the best film of 1998 and will only get better on repeat viewings.My Rating 9/10 Objectively - 9/10 Subjectively - 9.5/10 Eliason A. "},{"Title":"Ronin starring Peugeot and BMW!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Surely this is an advertisement for Peugeot! That the ultimate drivers' car is trumped by a Peugeot in one of the most astonishing car chases ever captured on film - and the second one in the movie! - is amazing. The rampant lion on the grill of the Peugeot, unknown in North America for decades, charges up through the carnage of police wrecks, Renault wrecks, truck wrecks, patio wrecks, pedestrian wrecks and the automotive equivalent of the Battle of the Waterloo. The director does an amazing job with these car chase scenes that make the ones in The French Connection and Bullitt looks like scenes from a parking lot. Are there any undamaged automobiles left in Europe? There are humans in Ronin too, some famous and normally skillful actors, but the stars have four wheels. This is hardly a ringing endorsement for a motion picture, is it? "},{"Title":"That car chase film","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I mentioned to a co-worker today that I had seen John Frankenheimer's Ronin over the weekend, she replied, Oh, that car chase film? While being a decent thriller that has its share of plot twists and intrigue, it really is essentially that car chase film.Set in Paris and featuring a great cast, there is no drawn out set up or exposition to Ronin. We are thrust immediately into the film, just as the characters are each thrust into the plan they have signed up to participate in. The plan is simple On behalf of an unknown organization (though we assume they are Irish) represented by Deirdre (McElhone), a group of men are recruited to obtain a briefcase from a man about to sell its unknown contents to the Russians. The group is headed by Sam (DeNiro) who is a former CIA agent and Vincent (Reno) who is a French go to man. When the mission is finally accomplished, one of the members of their team, Gregor (Skarsgard) procures the case for himself and disappears with it, causing the group to break into alliances, with each trying to outsmart the other.Ronin is a pretty fast paced film that features two prolonged car chases that are literally breathtaking. As someone who doesn't really prescribe to these kinds of films, I found that I got wrapped up in the action fairly quickly. The punching up of the dialogue that Mamet did was obvious, and if he didn't have a hand in the plot twists (very reminiscent of his films House of Games and The Spanish Prisoner) then I would be surprised. As stated earlier, the cast is wonderful, featuring three of my favorite actors, Skarsgard, DeNiro and Reno; all three put in good, solid performances, particularly Reno, who is always fantastic. Unfortunately, people will not stop hiring Natascha McElhone, who cannot act her way out of a paper bag. Also unfortunate is the really crappy ending (prior to the three minute epilogue) that was so formulaic and clichéd that I cannot believe that Frankenheimer thought it was a good idea to give the film that conclusion after making what was otherwise a pretty good product. If you see this on DVD, definitely check out the alternate ending; while I didn't have a problem with the epilogue, I found the alternate ending to be far more compelling. Apparently it didn't go very well with test audiences, however, so though Frankenheimer preferred it, it went another way.Given that the film's ending was so crummy, it went from a solid 7 to a 6/10 for me. It's still definitely worth watching, however.--Shelly "}{"Title":"A Powerhouse","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There is a marvelously simple exchange at one point in Ronin, where a foreign agent has Jean Reno's Vincent cornered in an amphitheatre in Arles, France. Where do I know you from? the agent asks. Vienna Vincent replies, as a look of recognition crosses the agent's face... before some more hell breaks loose.This exchange is so indicative of what Ronin is a study of the past. From the ancient locales (old Paris, old Nice, old Arles) to the way in which the car chases are staged with actual stuntmen, the movie reminds us that where we are seems never to be as important as where we've been. We certainly see it in the haggard faces of our protagonists, headed by Reno and Robert DeNiro with one of the best ensemble casts of recent years. They yearn to recapture the glory days, the salad days, the better days. They are worn out. They are weary. But they are good at what they do.Or perhaps, one should say, they were good at what they did. And what they did, one gathers, was open up neverending cans of government-sanctioned whoopass. Along the way, they learned many languages, visited many locales, made many contacts and, it seems, made many enemies.And then everything fell apart, and we join the disenfranchised many years later in this movie.In a very real way, this film is to the Espionage Thriller what Unforgiven was to the Western; an in medias res deconstruction of those who once wore the mantle of greatness and invincibility. As both films show us, time changes things. If not ability, then pride. If not pride, then fortune. If not fortune, then attitude. But things will change.The movie's feel is so delightfully European. It's as if it takes place in another world, much like The Bourne Identity seems to do. Even for those of us who have travelled Europe, there is enough of the unfamiliar to make us feel as alienated as the film's characters. Apart from Vincent, the other main characters all come from somewhere else, yet they know their territory. Watching them operate in the face of double cross after double cross leads to a numbing freneticism which ultimately slams us back in our seat to go along for the ride, ending who-knows-where.The films packs scene after scene of powerhouse performances, shootouts staged with an alarming realism, a subtletly which is often absent from modern day action films, and the car chase to end all car chases...That's right, let's just say it First there was Bullitt, then came The French Connection, then came To Live And Die In LA... and then came Ronin.Bar none, THE Gold Standard for all car chases to come. The Bourne Supremacy came close, but it still never managed to surpass what is surely the most breath-stealing sequence of its kind in modern film. And the fact that Frankenheimer used no digital effects for the sequences boggles the mind. And to be fair, there were two sequences in Ronin that deserve the praise. If you enjoy car chases and haven't seen Ronin... you truly have not yet lived.It was so unfortunate to see Frankenheimer follow up Ronin with Reindeer Games. He always was an extremely capable director who gave us the Manchurian Candidate, Seconds, and Black Sunday. Unfortunately, he also gave us Prophecy, The Holcroft Covenant, and The Island of Doctor Moreau (which at least had Fairuza Balk in it...meee-ow!). He will be missed, but his body of better works still packs a punch.If you get the DVD of Ronin, be sure to listen to the Director's commentary. There are many tantalizing tidbits therein.Overall, top-notch entertainment. "},{"Title":"A perfect action film from veteran Frankenheimer","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is an example of how great action film can be, it definitely has it all - an intelligent and interesting script made by David Mamet, some great actors led by Robert De Niro who gives superb performance as usual, and gets strong support from Jean Leon Reno. the action scenes are the most impressive I have seen in recent years, especially the car chases which are flawless. The story follows a bunch mercenaries hired by a beautiful Irish lady (Natascha McElhone), probably works for terrorists though that point isn't very clear. Those men are hired to get a valuable suitcase which we don't know what its content. The story is full of twists and surprises that will keep you at the edge of your seat and accompanied by smart dialogs (Mamet's trademark). The scene which De Niro's Character pulls out a bullet after he got shot is priceless. the filming locations are marvelous, especially those in the city of Nice. More than 30 years after his Manchurian Candidate Director Frankenheimer proves us that he still hasn't lost it. Overall a highly entertaining film that will please all of those who are looking for an intelligent action film. Highly Recommended 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, why not a cinema block buster?","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie really has it all. It has excellent actors, a plot that is not predictable, a realistic touch, and a combination of American budget and European realism. How come this movie did not become a modern classic? To my knowledge Ronin is a trend-setter, of Bullit proportions when it comes to car-chases. The introduction of opposite-lane car-chases has several follow-ups in later action movies. I am an amateur movie enthusiast and I watch quite a lot of movies, and in my experience Ronin is extremely under-appreciated. To add some words in order to produce a comment of sufficient line length I may say that Jean Reno, Robert De Niro, Jonathan Pryce, Skipp Sudduth, Sean Bean are with my gallery of favorite actors. They all perform excellently in this movie. My weak spot over the years are car-chases. In this move the subject is given new proportions. I love it. Tomas "},{"Title":"Thumbs down for story, thumbs up for action.","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The story is filled with way too many twists and back stabbing characters. In a way it brings down the movie's entertainment value.Ronin is filled with some famous actors like; Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Stellan Skarsgård, Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce. They all do a good job and they can't help it that the movie is at times unlikely and hard to follow. The many plot-holes, twists and unanswered questions don't really make this a pleasant movie to watch over and over again. It's hard to tell in the movie who really is who and who is working for who. The fact that the movie doesn't really bother to explain anything makes it even harder and unpleasant to follow.The action on the other hand is worth watching over and over again. The movie has some nicely filmed shoot outs and some really amazing car chases. Ronin really beats modern 'cool' movies like The Fast and the Furious on that front. Final conclusion is; director John Frankenheimer did a good job, writer J.D. Zeik and script doctor David Mamet did not.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Chase!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film is shot with beutiful locales and is packed with fantastic gunfights and car chases to keep the adrenaline running. It's some sort of Mission Impossible and Speed combo. Robert DeNiro headlines an ensemble cast. He's okay as a wisecracking ex-CIA agent, but it's not his film. With John Frankenheimer's assured direction, and an array of some of the best European actors working today, playing ex-intelligence and military personnel (CIA, KGB, British Navy, etc.) working with a rogue Irish rep. (Natascha McElhone) to retrieve a case from some French thugs en route to selling it to former KGB operatives. The case is wanted by a renegade IRA member, Seamus O'Rourke (Jonathan Pryce) who is in hiding in France.The other members of the mercenary team are Frenchman Vincent (Jean Reno, The Professional), a German ex-KGB agent Gregor, (Stellan Skarsgard) who is a computer whiz and is working an angle with the Russians, Spence (Sean Bean) an arms dealer, and the getaway driver, Larry (Skipp Sudduth, Third Watch).Gregor turns out to be a wild card, and the case turns out to be something people would rather kill for than bother paying money.The streets of Paris and other towns around the country and give the movie a hard-boiled look. The characters are trigger-happy enough to be featured as the villains in an episode of Alias, but they are not nearly as flashy as in that show. And the chase scenes rival The French Connection.On one last note, this was the movie where I first took note of Jean Reno (who I'd previously seen on Mission Impossible) and Stellan Skarsgard (who I'd seen already in Good Will Hunting and Amistad) as European talents to watch for. "},{"Title":"Average De Niro action film","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It takes a very special movie to top some of Robert De Niro's other works. Movies such as Taxi Driver, Goodfellas and The Deer Hunter come to mind. It would be unfair to place Ronin in the same ballpark as these masterpieces, but it isn't a poor film by any means. The movie takes place in France where several organized crime syndicates are all after a mysterious brief-case. The twist is that nobody knows who to trust and at any time somebody in your group could be working for the other guys. The movie sports a fantastic cast including Jean Reno (Leon) and Natascha McElhone (The Truman Show) of course alongside De Niro. Along with several intense car chase scenes in the compact city streets in France, several plot twists and above average acting, Ronin will undoubtedly entertain you. At the same time, however, the movie doesn't go above and beyond in any way, shape, or form.7/10  "},{"Title":"Extremely engaging, though a bit cerebral.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I LOVE this flick.  -Jut saw it on cable for the fourth time, and it's still completely engaging from start to finish.  Deniro is perfectly cast, as as are pretty much all the characters.  I can understand, though, why some don't like it.  The overall look is very dark and gritty, which is somewhat depressing.  It works in the context of this film, but it does look a little low-budget.Also, some of the characters are indeed underdeveloped, but that can't be helped, unless you're going to make a 3 hour movie.The ending is a bit deflating, but very realistic.  A big Hollywood ending would have been completely inapropriate, and I applaud the director for sticking to his overall concept.The car chase may well be the greatest one of all time, in any movie ever made, and yet the movie would still be great without it.  That's really saying something.If you lie cerebral thrillers, or spy movies, you will love this one.  "},{"Title":"One of my top 5","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is an awesome movie,lots of action, great plot and probably Robert DeNiro's best movie. I wanted to buy this movie so bad that I looked everywhere for it and did not stop until I found it. It is a different type of film for Robert DeNiro though, he doesn't normally do action films but he did a really good job in this one. Jean Reno as always plays a really good action star in this movie for his role as Vincent. All of the actors in this film played really good roles, Sean Bean as Spence, Natascha McElhone as Deidre and the best villain was Jonathan Pryce as Seamus O'Rourke. If you are looking for lots of action and great car chases, I strongly recommend this movie, I give it 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A successful combination of Hollywood and European films.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The opening scene sets the mood for this movie.  The location;  dirty back street of France.  The music; sombre and moody.  The costumes;  every day, dull.  The dialogue;  short, right to the point.  The characters; a perfect blend of misfits.  All these ingredients, combined with a strong story line, superb acting, realistic locations and nail biting car chases,(without the cartoon effects of computer graphics), attribute to one of the finest movies ever made.  It has the movements that satisfies the Hollywood action craving, and the acting and locale of an European art film. This movie satisfies on all accounts.  It is 10 plus. "},{"Title":"Deniro and Jean Reno deliver a great thriller; with one of the greatest car chase scenes of all time.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of my favorite action movies.  Robert De Niro and Jean Reno were a great team in this movie.  It is a very action packed thriller.  It includes a lot of good action sequences.  And a great couple of car chases. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes action and likes to have fun watching a film. "}{"Title":"Lame","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Good cast but a needlessly complicated story-line and totally implausible action scenes.  Most annoying of all, the action scenes in Paris all seemed to be shot on drab grey Sunday afternoons or early mornings (to fit into traffic licenses, presumably) with no real street life around.  Shops closed up, some fake extras here and there, changing atmospherics, and a twenty minute wrong-way car chase, perrrrrlease.  This film was a feeble attempt to make an American car chase movie set in Europe, and unless you're an American, you'll probably see right through it.  "},{"Title":"I drove very carefully home that night","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Anyone who has not seen this excellent movie in an adequate cinema has actually NOT seen the movie. The car chases are the best EVER in any movie and seeing them on the big screen comes close to a 3D-experience in an IMAX! As good as Frankenheimer ever got, as anyone ever got.My Top 5 car chasing scenes  1) Ronin Paris through the tunnels - in the wrong direction!2) Ronin The ambush chase 3) Blues Brothers Final chase  4) Blues Brothers Do you have a Miss Piggy, too? chase 5) Striking Distance The San-Francisco like chasesorry, Bullit didn´t make it!Macaulay Connor 9/10 "},{"Title":"Top cast, but highly overrated movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I watched this movie because several friends of mine recommended it to me. But boy was I disappointed by it. OK, it has a great cast and some nice car chases. But the story is simply not interesting and very unbelievable. The guys are introduced as being top-criminals, but over and over again they make very dumb mistakes. They keep losing that damn briefcase and for what reason? Nobody knows...As I've said the car chases are pretty well done, but after watching them for five minutes you'd wish they get out of their cars. It's very boring after a while. And why is the movie called Ronin? At the beginning of the movie it is explained what Ronin is, but I can't see the connection with the story. I guess they wanted to let the movie appear more interesting and intellectual than it really is.My advise rent the movie, watch in once (for the nice car chases) and forget about it... "},{"Title":"Realistic and humane spy thriller--great chase scenes","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  An extremely realistic and humanistic spy thriller starring Robert DeNiro and directed by the great and recently late John Frankenheimer. It combines Frankenheimer's passions for France and fast cars (he also did Grand Prix) in what turned out to be his last theatrical release.Not the most suspenseful story, but intelligent, well-written and well-acted, no special effects to speak of and an educational director's commentary track. Gets better with each viewing.  "},{"Title":"What the hell was this movie about? They explained what the title meant, but forgot to tell you what the movie was about.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Evidently a Ronin is a samurai warrior without a master. So I guess in Ronin and his buddies were supposed to be masterless warriors. However why they were warriors and why they were masterless I have no idea.The movie starts off with DeNiro and these other people getting together. No mention is made of who they are, but we get the idea they're all some sort of hitmen who do jobs all over Paris (and I'm assuming other places). Where they came from or anything about their background is never mentioned (except we find out that DeNiro at one time was CIA). So this woman, Diedre (Natascha McElhone) is their leader, and she says they have to go get this briefcase. This is when the movie started getting annoying.First, we never, and I mean never, find out what was in that briefcase. The way people were getting killed over it, you'd think the secrets of the Universe were in there. Second, you had this mix of French, Irish, Russian, and American accents all put together, which made it very hard to follow sometimes. It's hard enough with two accents, but with four of them, trying to figure out what people were saying was, at times, impossible. Third, was it just me or did everyone seem to mumble a lot? I found myself wondering what DeNiro was talking about half the time, and with a senseless plot to being with, this made the movie that much more annoying.Not to say that the acting was bad. When you could understand them, DeNiro and Jean Reno did remarkable jobs. The rest of the cast was just so-so. McElhone was just sort of there, not showing much if any emotion (and what was up with her and DeNiro getting it on in the car?). Jonathan Pryce's accent came and went as he pleased. And the rest of the cast was OK. The best (and worst) part of the movie was the two car chase scenes. I say they were the best, because they were very exciting and visually stunning. I say they were the worst because they ran way too long, especially the second one. While I really enjoyed them driving the wrong way through a lot of traffic, the scene just went on and on and on. I felt as though I could have gotten up, went to watch another movie, come back, and not have missed anything.So overall, DeNiro and Reno were the highlights of Ronin along with most of the car chases. But the plot was weak and wasn't explained very well, and the whole briefcase thing just p***ed me off. "},{"Title":"Great Car Chases - Average Crime Caper","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Masterless Samurai are called Ronin, viewers are told at the beginning of Ronin. We are further informed that once a Samurai's liege lord beats him to the Other Side, he's slime. But once disgraced, the Ronin is then free to do anything he wants, which apparently means hiring himself out as a thug or assassin. This analogy is supposed to apply to the motley band of ex-Cold War warriors of the movie who are planning a large and intricate crime caper. But the characters (and viewers) don't know exactly what it is they are a part of (Russian Mafia, Irish terrorists?). They only know that they must steal a special little briefcase, and it doesn't matter who gets hurt in the taking.  The script is well crafted, the acting above average, and the direction and cinematography passable. But Ronin clearly has the feel of 'been there, done that'. The only saving grace is the car chases. They are grade A great, but the rest of the movie get just a C+.   "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro and Sean Bean","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Just how does a gangster like Robert De Niro interact with a working class menace like Sean Bean? Quite frankly, he gets rid of them. 'Ronin' was an experiment to see how De Niro would interact with Londoners and the working classes. It appeared that he got on better with the Frenchman, and extended the same respect to him as he did to Al Pacino. "},{"Title":"Sleeper of 1998","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Its not John Frankenheimer's best film nor is it an excellent movie.  On the other hand it is an interesting film carried by the acting of Jean Reno and Robert DeNiro.  This movie has some things in common with Clint Eastwood's Eiger Sanction(1975), and Sam Peckinpah's The Killer Elite(1975).  Skating beauty Katarina Witt has a small part as a Russian figure skating star.  The title is a gimmick as the people in the film do not hold themselves to the same code of fatality(code of Bushido) that the masterless samurai strongly believed in...ala, The Lone Wolf & Cub comic series.  Ronin(1998) is filled with great talent and an intellegent script to make it fascinating. "},{"Title":"And the fifth lesson is?","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ever so often a film comes along that is so monstrous that you are almost paralysed looking at it in disbelief. 'Sudden Death' is one such film. And the whiff of sulphur is once more in the air with this gob-smacking picture. Things get off to a comical start with a portentous opening about Samurai something or other followed by ridiculous lettering exclaiming RONIN! But any suggestion that we are in for a harmless giggle-fest are premature. After a promising build up, any sympathy or interest in what happens to the characters is lost in a shoot out where a fruit seller is gunned down. The film ends here for the audience but the plot lurches sickeningly on. Civilians are mown down in succession while the only consideration and respect is only forwarded to each other by the murderers for hire. They are indifferent to public suffering. Faced with this conundrum, the film makers come up with a solution that takes your breath away. What's left of it while you're breathing through a respirator, anyway. It was all in a good cause, that is the final death of the Irish gunman helped cement the Irish peace process. Well that's all right then. I'm sure the people mown down at the cafe, those caught in the cross fire at the amphitheatre and elsewhere, the man burnt to death in the underpass not to mention the others smashed to pieces on the freeway will sleep happy in their graves knowing that they were volunteered for such a service by the assassins for a cause far away and of which they know little. It's called a 'disclaimer' I believe, for those in life who have sold their souls to the devil (or if you're not religious, money.) Half way through the film a little girl in a play ground is targeted for an execution which strangely is not carried out. Can't think why, the makers were not troubled by anything else in the film.This is an evil film made by an industry which has long ceased to own a conscience. "},{"Title":"Robert DeNiro International Man of Mystery?","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert DeNiro is best known for playing simple yet significantpeople, like a knife salesman (The Fan), a taxi driver (TaxiDriver, duh!), and a bus driver (A Bronx Tale). Hell, oldBobby even plays the nasty, gunslinging, bat-wielding gangsterso often, if seems like he's typecasted in being a mobster. Butthis time, in the new cult favorite spy movie Ronin, DeNirotreads new ground and enters Pierce Brosnan territory as asecret agent!!Bobby plays Sam, an American spy who has to retrieve a suitcasecontaining vital, extremely top secret information. Sounds easyenough, until Sam realizes that other snoops want the case aswell. And the chase is on through the rough and tumble streetsof Paris (I'm being sarcastic, ok?!)With a fine supporting cast (esp. by Jean Reno and Sean SharpeBean) and excellent chase scenes, Ronin is a nifty thriller.With the fact that DeNiro playing a brand new character, thatreally boggle "}{"Title":"Nothing like a good old fashion car chase through the beautiful towns of France.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  All that happens in this overlong classic piece of lets stick to what we know genre, is car chase... Plot .... Car chase... Plot... Yes we got it... No we don't... Yes we got it! Harmless thrills with a decent enough cast. Your Highness De Niro need not act for thou has the natural look of a thousand faces. The teaming between him and Reno works a treat. Frankenheimer loves to put the action amongst a crowded scenery where innocent people fall in harms way of the overabundance of shoot-them-up and smash-them-up scenes. As for the plot, well..... Something about grown men chasing an ice-skating case with plenty of double crossings going on. Go and treat yourself for a decent Weekend matinee that will keep your senses stimulated with a script that respects its audience regardless of the boys-own mayhem. "},{"Title":"Ronin, Ronin, Ronin Keep these films a coming!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is anon stop action movie off which you cant fail to enjoy. The story is from the top drawer and the acting is of the highest standered , which is no suprise considering it has the best actor in the world in it , Robert De Niro.The car chases are out of this world , it is just like we have been transported back 25 years to the days of the French Connection. If you like action movies you will be in for a treat. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fine Actors in Search of a Plot","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I didn't know it was possible to take actors the caliber of Bobby DeNiro, Jean Reno, and Jonathan Pryce, mix them together with John Frankenheimer, and still have a plotless mess.Don't misunderstand, the acting is excellent, and the characters are quite believable.  The problem is I'm left with the feeling that the writer never quite got a handle on the plot, never figured out where to take this, and so took it nowhere.  It's very chic to have a story about unanswered questions; an existentialist shoot-em up.  The gags are well done, and the cinematography was very good.  So, why am I left with a big who cares at the end of the film?  5/10 at best... "},{"Title":"Ronin 2 ???  Help us !","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The opening is interesting, then the movie lost its way! The second part is muddled and hardly credible. Of course, the wicked are the irish and the russians (an arab terrorist, that's all we needed!!!), while the goods (the ones who will save the world) are the CIA agents! Hope they won't come out with RONIN 2 - The revenge!  "},{"Title":"Don't try to think","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One user said that this was a thinking man's action movie.  I find that the more I think about this movie, the worse it gets.  The car chases were great, but the plot is inconsistent.  I don't know why the Sean Bean character is in the movie.  I don't understand the point of Katarina Witt being in the movie.  These are just a few of the questions I have from trying to analyze this movie.  Entertaining, but mindless at best. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Wow..what a dissapointment","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  After hearing a lot of good comments from friends, I decided to rent this one and I have to say...I'm dissapointed.The ony thing remotely good and intense is the car chase in Paris.For the rest it's just a terrorist rehash with people trying to do clever and make it a thinking man's action movie.I also thought DeNiro's performance was below what he's capable of. Stiff, boring, uninspiring.Too bad. "},{"Title":"Fast and loose","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Very well done, fine cast-DeNiro, Bean, Reno(the best!), Skarsgard, Pryce..Liked the intrigue and shifting sides, liked the great carchase up the wrong side of the freeway, thought that this was much like the French Connection. Nice to see a slightly old fashioned shoot-em up, without too much Hollywood razzle dazzle thrown in. Gritty, at times confusing(what is in that box again?)-and I don't Really think the skating rink would be a good place to make a Swap; but still....Good show!*** outta ****,  something to watch and watch again. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  To all of those saying that Ronin has no plot, watch Universal Soldier, Street Fighter or even Rambo First Blood Part II and talk to me again.Those who repeatedly ask, Who were the good guys? or What's in the case? are probably not fans of the spaghetti western, where there was often no such thing as a good guy.  Yes, the whole movie is a complicated, expensive and deadly game of American football with all of France as the field and where no one knows either who's really on their team or the true nature of the ball.  But the bonds and multiple betrayals within the team remind me greatly of LeCarre's work, and one would not have been too surprised if Smiley was somewhere lurking in the background, observing the whole thing.The characters make this movie great, just as Teasle and Trautman made First Blood great and the terrorists made Die Hard great.  Every member of the team is memorable, and ultimately the quietest (Vincent) is the most memorable.Spaghetti western fans rejoice There's Ronin, there's Legends of the Fall, and I'll have to see Three Kings before I judge it... "},{"Title":"Not that great.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a curiously uninvolving action thriller.It features a plot more complicated than clever and boasts some ill developed charecters and situations. It also feels like it was made ages ago,judging by the camera screen and lens.Director John Frankenheimer ,who previously made The Island Of Dr.Moreau ,handles the source material and coherency of the plot in a disappointing fashion.An all star cast struggle despairingly to fit in with the proceedings.Robert DeNiro,especially,feels hard pressed to keep up with his edgy action man persona. "},{"Title":"Action-packed excitement for the champagne crowd.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Void of any expensive visuals, RONIN does a good job as a decent action film by not emphasizing too heavily on these things. With that mentioned, it may lack a widespread appeal for many of us who strongly demand to get more for our money's worth. The secret to this movie is in the smart characterization of Robert DeNiro. Of course, he's no macho man, and his personality gives meaning to some new and wonderful ideas for Hollywood to embrace. A few interesting lines in the script are quite nifty, and a complex plot really helps. Sadly, the action scenes suffer from no originality, and will prevent RONIN from becoming a milestone DeNiro classic. They are very cliched up to the point that we've seen all there is to the action genre. What else can I say? It's simply another in a series of 90s productions that try to revive the spirit of the 70s by reincarnating British crime and American car crash movies. Even if you like action, there is quite a bit this movie can offer, but it's got an essence that's so vigorously casual, and yet elegant, that you might be put off with this one. Champagne, anyone? "}{"Title":"In which Hollywood toilet block is it written that solemn means credible?","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is boring. It's confusing too, but only because it's boring. I don't feel stupid because I can't explain the plot in any intelligible form - the confusion grew out of the boredom, and I was bored long before I was confused.David Mamet chose to use a pseudonym for his contributions to the screenplay, which is normally a sure sign that someone is not happy with their work (or at least with their involvement). In this case that would seem to be a good enough reason. The dialogue (filtered through about 20 highly-variable accents) is stilted and awkward. The early exchanges between Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are particularly stultifying - their dialogues consist of cut-off half-sentences which are so economical (and so desperately trying to be meaningful) that I was wondering if they were written in Haiku (except they aren't in the least poetic).There is one scene which is so ludicrous it warrants mentioning. Stellan Skarsgard's character is out to prove that he is badder-than-your-average-dude, and he establishes this by zeroing in with his sniper rifle on a child playing in a playground. He would gladly kill this child for no other reason than to prove that he means business. The contrast between the child's trusting innocence and Skarsgard's bitter and world-weary distrust is offensively cheap and totally ineffectual. This is closer to Andy Warhol's Bad than it is to Wim Wenders Circle of Deceit, but you get the impression that the filmmakers don't know it. It's played straight, like it's meant to be a defining moment for the character (unfortunately, it IS).The car chase sequences would be exciting enough, I suppose, if the film had a somewhat lighter tone. In this particularly solemn and pretentious context they simply seem ridiculous and unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"Car Chases Only","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A film needs much more than a couple of good car chases to make it a winner. Ronin fails miserably to entertain except for those few minutes. The plot makes little sense. The production values are even poor in its early stages with murky dialogue and grainy, jumpy images and even the car chases, although exciting, seem repetitive.How often in Ronin does someone jump out of the way just as a car flies past in a narrow alley? How often is the dialogue unintelligible? Why do cars always run into fruit carts? And why is that why that very intelligent screenwriter David Mamet (Glengarry Glen Ross, Accidental Hero) had himself credited as Richard Weisz in the credits?Ronin is about the attempted heist of a briefcase by a bunch of hired assailants. But that's about all that you'll figure out and certainly need to know. Robert De Niro and Jean Reno are two of the brigands and they're fairly interesting but the cast are really there to step away from the camera, have a cup of tea and make way for the stunt people to do their stuff.The car stunts were apparently done in real time and that's impressive but it also seems that director John Frankenheimer lost or never had interest or money or both when it came to the rest of the movie.Frankenheimer is a 68 year old veteran of, not surprisingly, other fast car films such as The Manchurian Candidate and Grand Prix. I bet he won't mention too loudly in his C.V. the mess that remained of the most recent version of The Island Of Dr Moreau which was made in Far North Queensland. You may remember that he took Moreau over after the original director departed.Perhaps Frankenheimer should have only been given the car chase stuff in Ronin allowing a more sensitive director to handle what really was a terrific cast.  "},{"Title":"One long car chase, but a good one","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Every once in awhile, it's nice to see professionals get together to do professional work, as is the case here.  Some critics have complained that this movie is basically one long car chase (actually, it has three of them), but when the results are this entertaining, it's hard to complain.  De Niro and Reno work very well together, as do the rest of the cast, Frankenheimer does a good job directing, and I hurt somebody's feelings once is one of the best lines of the year.  All in all, quite entertaining "},{"Title":"Can I have my money back please?","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had read a majority of the reviews posted on this database and after careful consideration I decided to give the film a chance. Who am I to ignore some great car chases!After five minutes I was left wondering if the director was just fooling around, starting the film with such a pointless build-up. Naturally I thought there was a reason behind it all and gave it a chance and continued watching.My doubts were then confirmed when the great talents of Mr Sean Bean were cast aside at the start of the film. I too wondered when he would reappear to save the day or mess things up. I was left wondering. Unfortunately.To my surprise I had paid 12 DM to watch some excellent actors chase after a silver box for a very long time. Even the reason why they were bothering to continue the chase was sketchy (until it was explained in the last second of the film!)I came away feeling very surprised that these actors had been fooled into taking part in such a badly scripted movie. I agree with the comments regarding the chases, but this was drastically overshadowed by the frustration that all these clever and skilled people couldn't get hold of one little box. What a pity. At one point it all reminded me of Tom and Jerry, with poor old Tom never quite getting what is so easily in front of him.It takes more than a few car chases to make a good and watchable film. This film left me fed up with the predictable twists and completely sick with the idea that once again the Americans had saved the day in Northern Ireland. Definitely NOT RECOMMENDED!!! "},{"Title":"Great car chase...","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The trailers to this movie got me really pumped about seeing the flick. The unfortunate part is that it was a big letdown. I thought it would be an edge of your seat movie but the only reason I was on the edge of my seat was because my butt hurt. DeNiro and Reno fed of each other well but besides them and the great car chase there was not much else to it. The storyline was  okay but confusing as they try to explain what a Ronin is but I lost the message it was trying to send. Not even the likes of DeNiro or even Katarina Witt could save this movie.  "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro tears up the screen in this smart, thinking man's action pic.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Finally Hollywood has given us an action movie that is really worth seeing.  The scenes for once are realistic in context, not superhuman in quality.  DeNiro brings immediate attention to this film, and a sense of respectability.  The cast from DeNiro to Jean Reno is flawless. Maybe one of the best ever assembleed for a movie of this kind.  I think it's safe to say that despite Ronin's possible classification as an action film it still will receive a few Oscar nominations.  Most importantly DeNiro as best actor.  Do yourself a favor and spend two hours watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Frankenheimer Film I have ever seen","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I saw this film, I was under the impression it was helmed by one of the new-wave of 1990's directors, Doug Liman, or Michael Bay, or John Woo. One of Those Guys... To my compleat and utter shock, as the end titles ran, the words Directed by John Frankenheimer roll by.My Jaw Dropped in Disbelief, the same director that gave us the Original Manchurian Candidate, The Train and Grand Prix directed this? Comparing this film to Grand Prix I can now see some similarities. On my first viewing of Ronin, I did not guess in my wildest dreams that Frankenheimer was involved.Robert DeNiro, Stellan Skarsgård, Sean Bean, Jean Reno and Skipp Sudduth are four Mercenaries, or Ronin, hired by Natascha McElhone (Dierdre) by The Man in the Wheelchair (An Homage to another spy thing, I'm sure, there are always guys in wheelchairs) to recover an aluminum box. Ronin - A Samurai with No Master who hires out as a thief or Mercenary. This film focuses on the Ronin(s) played by DeNiro and Reno and their variegated talents and abilities, mostly the ability to keep adapting to new situations.Nobody ever tells us what is in the box or what it's for, just that Thieves and Spies are lining up dead to get it. And so these five Ronin develop a plan to retrieve said box. As with any spy/heist flick there is a doublecross, a doublecross on the doublecross, and then there is a period of revenge. Nuff Said about that, I'm not gonna give any details Watch the film.In the traditional Japanese stories, the Ronin always perform Seppaku after their Revenge is acquired. But DeNiro (Sam) does not agree with the traditional Japanese ending of the tale, he calls the 47 Ronin stupid, in his POV they are idiots. He spends the rest of the film proving it. Mostly he proves it to fellow Ronin Jean Reno (Vincent).This film has more twists and turns than the Matterhorn or Space Mountain at Disneyland/World (Or, Mister Toad's Wild Ride)... I enjoyed the plain unpredictable story, at no time was I able to guess future events in the story, as with most Frankenheimer films. There is a car chase through the South of France that rivals any James Bond or Jason Bourne car chase.This fresh story was a marriage of traditional and new-wave spy stories, and I'm sure the characters of Jason Bourne and the new Daniel Craig 007 took some things from this film. This film uses the whole culmination of Frankeinheimer's extensive talents as director, using techniques he's even pioneered, with ultimate polish. This is decisively one of his best works. I double... Triple and Quadruple-Dare Liman, Caton-Jones, Woo, and Ang Lee to surpass this film.The Music is perfect and fitting written by Elia Cmiral who mostly works on Modern B-Monster movies, uses a haunting Celtic melody, which could be either Scottish or Japanese, and mixes it with Modern Jazz rhythms- The soundtrack is the second best thing about the film. What is missing and not missed, is the modern tendency to hire one modern Rock Band to play the Theme Song of the film, like Moby's work in the Bourne moovies (Although I like Moby's work) - Or, the James Bond Themes done by whatever Rock Band is a top-10 artist at the time of release. Musicians and Artists scrabble for Movie rights, and this film uses no Bands or Artists. Jivan Gasparyan plays the movie theme on a Duduk and Cmiral orchestrates around this simple erie melody. In this respect, makes the soundtrack for the film superior - There is nothing I hate more, after seeing a great flick, and then the feeling is ruined by inappropriate top-10 songs shoved over the end credits (Except for the use of Black Sabbath's Iron Man in the movie of the same name).Someone appropriately said of this film Great action movie, Hollywood should watch and learn from this - I wholly agree. "},{"Title":"The Poor People of Paris","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The sleeve attempts to explain The Cold War may be over, but a new world order keeps a group of covert mercenaries - whose skills in surveillance, reconnaissance, and attack are legendary - employed by the highest bidder. These operatives for hire, known as Ronin, are assembled in France by a mysterious client for an extremely dangerous mission steal a top-secret briefcase. This seemingly easy task soon proves explosive as other underworld organizations vie for the same prize. But to get the job done, this rag-tag group of misfits, led by an ex-CIA agent named Sam (De Niro), must do something they've never done before -trust each other! Head Ronin (think Japanese samurai) Robert De Niro (as Sam) and Jean Reno (as Vincent) are definitely a team you want on your side; the two actors have a cool chemistry, which almost makes up for the lack of an intellectually stimulating story. It can also be fun to guess where the team's traitors lurk - sometimes obvious, and sometimes not. Director John Frankenheimer and photographer Robert Fraisse provide you with wild, speeding car chases - which more than deliver orgasmic crashes. Hopefully, the citizens of Paris were advised to stay in their homes during filming.If filmmakers wanted to leave you with some mystery about the contents of a certain silver suitcase, they certainly succeeded.Probably, it was only a pair of silver ice skates.****** Ronin (1998) John Frankenheimer ~ Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone "},{"Title":"As R. Ebert says, bereft of plot","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" But that aside, turn off the brain and try to enjoy this car/people chase shoot-'em-up. Think of this as a slightly classier Transporter without the kung fu.Spoilers BelowIf you can't turn off the brain, you will see the movie has some really stupid and extremely unlikely scenes. Generally, every piece of advice that DeNiro's character gives, he violates later on in the movie.The characters have this unbelievably infallible ability to find each other as they run around from Paris, Nice, Arlen and back. But the car scenes are really the most stupid. They drive through traffic that would stop any car, no matter how well driven. The funniest part is watching DeNiro drive the chase car, he's scared witless.Oh and as the summary says, there is absolutely no plot. Someone should have taken the metal case that everyone was after and beaten it over the head of the screen writer or whomever made the decision to go with this screen play. "},{"Title":"Poorly written, unengaging, and unsuspenseful so-called action flick","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Did I miss something?? Awesome car chase scenes?? Good story?? Were we watching the same movie?? This is one of the most bland, unengaging, and unsuspenseful action movies I've ever seen!First, let me address the most pertinent issue&#151;for those of you wanting to see this movie primarily for the 'awesome car chase scenes' you've heard so much about, allow me to save you two hours of your life and recommend Gone In Sixty Seconds, The Italian Job, or even (dare I say it) Bad Boys II. Now THOSE were some awesome car chase sequences. However, for those of you who still desire to see it, please allow me to point out that this movie was released in 1998, prior to all the aforementioned movies. The car chase scenes may have been astounding for its time, but this movie in my opinion quickly became dated with the subsequent release of action films with much more elaborate car chase scenes in more intricate and visually appealing locations.However, suffice it to say that that was just one of my many problems with this movie. Being set in France, the movie is constantly dark and bleak, which was more than likely done on purpose, but in my opinion, this poor choice of location did not aid in creating the wanted atmosphere, but detracted from the film's visual aesthetics.The plot (if you can call it that) was very poorly written and extremely loose, as if only a few of the plot points were written and the rest was improvised. The case the main characters, as well as the Russians and the Irish, are after case changes hands so much, you don't know who's who and what's going on most the time. There is NO character development whatsoever, and the characters are sketchy at best, so you never really get a feel for them, and consequently, you really find yourself not caring in the slightest whether they live or die. To me, this is a fatal, inexcusable flaw. The one thing a movie MUST have in order to be able to communicate with its audience is believable characters. But this movie has anything but.I mean, mercenaries?? How are these guys mercenaries?!? They spent the whole movie jumping into cars and shouting 'hey' instead of shooting. The entire movie is spent suspending the audience on the basis of what's in this ever-elusive silver case, and in the end, you don't even get to know *that*. The movie feigns 'intelligence' by having De Niro and Skarsgard's characters link the case to ice skating&#133;ooh, I'm impressed. And as far as De Niro and Reno's characters, the brief attempt to incorporate a little romance in an otherwise DRAMA for all intents and purposes falls flat on its face. All in all, maybe this movie was decent for its generation, but it was clearly quickly replaced by later, better-written action movies with three dimensional characters the audience can relate to. I don't even consider this movie average, and as such, I'm not inclined to recommend it.4.0 out of 10.0 (factoring in for the fact that it's dated) "}{"Title":"Big Let-Down (warning may contain ending spoiler)","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  My brother and I rented this movie and had high expectations.  We felt the story itself was a little slow and we were bored with this movie (car chase not including) trying to figure out what was in the case kept us from turning off the video.  But when DeNiro didn't reveal what the hell all the fuss was about at the end DAMN... WE WERE MORE THAN P***ED.  We felt cheated and if we hadn't had to return the damn cassette we would have blown the damn thing up. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER car chase?","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is basically the latest in a string of movies where an elite team of criminals are brought together to plan an important heist. If you've never seen one of these before, I highly recommend Ronin, because if you have anything to compare it to you will be greatly disappointed.The criminals are barely more intelligent than the morons who hired them. The morons are some group of Irish folks who, while they don't have enough money to bid on the item they want stolen, are somehow connected enough to round up allegedly top-notch thieves.This flick is not slick, not intelligent, and the fact that Robert DeNiro is even involved with it makes me fear for his future choices. I felt worst about Jean Reno, however, because I believe he's constantly above the material he's given.The worst thing about this movie, though, is the fact that nothing really goes on except car chases. If you took out the car chases, the entire experience would have lasted a mere 18.6 minutes - roughly the amount of commercial-free time per half hour of MTV programming. Dialogue seems to be inserted for the sole purpose of breaking up the 20-minute car chases. This is a bad movie. Do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"Starts out as a smart film, ends up in cliches","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This could have been a brilliant movie, but the writers seem to have forgotten what kind of a movie they were making about 3/4 of the way into the film.  I found that I simply didn't care what was in the case after a while and just gave up.  The action became gratuitous after a while and, quite frankly, boring.  Yes, some of the case scenes were incredible in the technical detail -- travelling down the wrong way on a highway -- but I found myself yawning after 10 minutes of that stuff.  It was like the writers forgot about the story they'd initially gotten us interested in and just worked on how to plug one chase schene after another into the movie. I was highly disappointed that something with so much promise degenerated so quickly into action movie cliches. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Hideous beginning. Nobody talks that way.Two car chases and a people chase in the arena say there is no plot and we need filler.Awful ending. Why the skater? Was that necessary?Frankenheimer should retire.De Niro should be ashamed.  The best actor in the world made this movie better, but he should have turned it down. "},{"Title":"Nearly a great film, but, oh dear.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was very close to being a really good film - the car chases are great, the action is rather realistic (the body count for passers by is rather large), but you never get to see enough of most of the characters to feel for them - DeNiro is the only one with any background at all, and although Jean Reno is great, it's because he's Jean Reno rather than the script. As for most of the others - just cyphers to support DeNiro and Reno. Then there's the fake 'Oirish' accents of Jonathon Pryce and Natascha McElhone - couldn't they have got real Irish actors to do the parts, or just written a different script that didn't require them? The 'denouement' over the radio ruins the plot for anyone who actualy knows anything about the Troubles.  "},{"Title":"A movie with so many plot twists and complications that it confuses itself.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Usually, when you plunk down your money to see a DeNiro movie, you can rest assured that your money has been well spent. DeNiro is probably one of the greatest actors of all time and definitely one of my favorites. I've loved all the movies that he's been in. Everything from Mean Streets, to Taxi Driver, to Awakenings and Jackie Brown. I'm always left wanting more. Ronin, however, left a bad taste in my mouth. Before you pay to see this movie, realize that you may have already seen it. It was called Mission Impossible and Tom Cruise played the part that DeNiro plays in Ronin. Both films have similar espionage story lines, and both films were a little too complicated for mainstream America. Within the first 5 minutes of Ronin, I had already lost count of how many people around me had said  I don't get it!  or  I thought he was with them!! Robert DeNiro is excellent as always, but even his stellar performance can't save this movie.  The entire film centers around an elite group of spies and mercenaries who have been hired to retrieve a suit case. They try and try and try and try and try again. Like that last sentence, it too goes on forever. In the movie, DeNiro is asked if he has ever killed anyone.  I hurt somebody's feelings once. he smirks back. Well, this film certainly hurt mine.  "},{"Title":"Simply awful. A total waste of my time.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie had a good premise but is found short on every field. The development of the story feels without consequence at times as you never get to understand why certain scenes or events take place and it is certainly not a case of a deep hidden meaning for us to think about. As I was going through the movie I got the idea that in terms of screenplay and credibility it was almost amateur stuff produced by credited professionals. The car chase scenes are well done, but add nothing to the movie since the story does not put them in a thrilling place.I could go on, but this movie took enough of my time already. I just HAD to warn any prospect viewers of this one who are expecting to see Robert De Niro in a thrilling action set that they will either avoid watching it or will pay with heavy disappointment. "},{"Title":"Ronin is a smart action film in a long line of stupid action films.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is the Japanese word for a Samurai whose master has been killed, and who has been disgraced by this. He roams around the land, looking for hired work. All the men who gather together in John Frankenheimer's Ronin could be called, in fact, Ronin. There's Sam (Robert De Niro), who we suspect is ex-CIA, and who is definitely brilliant. There's Jean-Pierre (Jean Reno, from The Professional), who we don't know a whole lot about, Larry, a vehicle expert and driver extraordinare, and a few other men, including Sean Bean as a weapons expert.In the beginning of the film, we see all the men join together in an abandoned warehouse, where they are given an assignment by a mysterious woman. She explains that their target is a briefcase, which is being carried by a group of people somewhere. She doesn't go into detail, she just tells them she wants the briefcase.They setup the heist. The day it happens, one of the team members takes the briefcase and runs off with it. Larry is wounded. So Sam and Jean-Pierre try to find the man who took the case, but when they do, only more chaos ensues. Everyone starts turning their back on the other members of the team; the head of the team leaves Sam and Jean-Pierre in the dust, without payment. Using their expertise(s), they must find the briefcase, get their payment, and teach everyone a lesson. It sounds simple, but it isn't quite as simply as it seems.Ronin is a smart action film in a long line of stupid action films. In fact, to call it an action film is really dishonoring it. It's more of a thriller with streaks of action in it. There's a tremendous car chase, some great shootouts, but the film never loses its credibility.Sam is a pro at the game; it only makes the audience think he is ex-CIA even more. During a weapons trade, he spots a sniper on a bridge and using tactics takes out all the baddies. He uses a lot of stealth techniques, a lot of mind techniques, and it's much more than a slam-bam action thriller where they good guys go in with guns firing and manage to dodge the baddies' bullets. Sam even gets shot by a richochet bullet in one scene, and the operation to retrieve it from the side of his waist is almost gruelling to watch, but John Frankenheimer knows when to pull the camera away, then back on the operation again.Frankenheimer is the man responsible for Seconds, an old 60s thriller about a man who staged his own death and had plastic surgery to transform into a new man. The film was eerie, deeply disturbing and chilling. Ronin isn't disturbing, eerie, or chilling, but the solid sense of direction is still there. Ronin is worth taking a look at. Robert De Niro remains one of the top actors in Hollywood, and films like this show it.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"One Long Car-Chase","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie starts out with some intrigue, but you never get to know any of the characters, nor do you find out the answer to the most intriguing question What's in the case?  I was very disappointed.  The only good thing that I will say about this movie is that it would be great for a beginning film student who wants to make action movies Every basic shot, angle and result of a car chase is covered, including cars that explode for no reason. Very text-book.  "},{"Title":"Some funny dialogue for an action film","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This high of a rating is not for the movie which is just an action thriller with tight and thought out characters. The action sequences are very enjoyable and realistic. The plot provides mystery and tension - but like all action thrillers - a) everybody's so cool that it's disturbing. b) the repeated cliché of everyone's got something to hid and no one is giving anything away. So,it is not re-watchable a second time - cause the tension is ... gone!!! Think DeNiro made a whole bunch of movies during this time. And this is nothing special maybe aside for some nice locations shots in France - but it's not like it's Carcassonne or anywhere like that!!! Howerver the saving grace is the satirical dialogue that is laced through out the moving. Ar you labour or Management...., I'm sorry but I'm gonna pass out, and the answer to Have you ever kill someone... ... man those are priceless. "}{"Title":"Chasing around in melancholy France","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Gripping chase movie, set against down-on-your-luck cafés, with crosses and double-crosses. The protagonists Sam (deNiro) and Vincent (Reno) are a part of a band of soldiers-of-fortune of varying competency, hired by stunningly beautiful Deirdre (McElhone) to steal a briefcase. They are ex-military types that wander the workaday sections of Paris in the rain, in search of pay. Sam and Vincent hit it off.The two chases are just incredible. Mercedes-Benzes, BMWs Peugots, and Audis are wound to their red-lines and four-wheel-drifted through one-lane, Roman-era streets with people milling about. Watch the suspensions work--these cars are really moving at high speed. Thankfully they never fly or twirl. Director Frankenheimer loves cars that go fast.The dense plot has many betrayals; there are many faces to place. It makes better sense the 2nd time through. The moral is that genuine soldiers (or anybody, for that matter) need to serve something, other than themselves. A paycheck is not enough. The cast is superb; Reno is the standout. It was especially nice to see Michael Lonsdale (the detective in The Day of the Jackal) in the aside the explains the purpose of the movie. Unfortunately the ending didn't click. In the final scene, after Vincent walks out of the café, mute the voice-over (No questions...) to save your teeth. "},{"Title":"Idiotic but fun action movie.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The moment I saw De Niro & co., gathered around in a room planning a heist, I realized one of them is going to be a traitor, no matter where the plot heads. And sure enough, the most suspicious character betrays the group. However, little did I know that there would be no less than THREE betrayals of one kind or another, and within a space of only about 20 minutes! At that point the movie started to wear its plot on the absurdity sleeve.The far-fetchedness continues in the form of a series of unconvincing escapes. (It seems that every five minutes someone is escaping from someone, which in itself is okay.) The worst and dumbest escape is undoubtedly when McElhone's car makes a salto and then FALLS OF A BRIDGE, landing upside down - and guess what all three passengers survive, and without needing any surgery, without falling into comas, etc.! This part annoyed me a lot; to have one person survive that kind of an accident - okay. To have two survive - barely credible. But to have all three survive without major damage is utterly stupid and belongs in a sci-fi film, and not a spy thriller. One of the three even walks out of the wreck without help or medical aid of any kind and escapes. (Escape the theme of the movie.) The ending, with Pryce's escape (that's right another escape) is clichéd and too absurd; for example, De Niro briefly captures Pryce, and yet he forgets to take his gun away so that Pryce ends up shooting Reno.Also an incredibly laughable scene in which De Niro directs his own surgery, and without an anesthetic of any kind! What will they think of next?! A man without a head, running away from his enemies while gluing a new head on???...But in spite of all the incredible nonsense that goes on, the film is full of action, and some of the action scenes - in particular the first, long car chase - are quite spectacular. A good cast helps, too. I still can't figure out what the movie's title (masterless samurai) has to do with De Niro or anyone else. There is a pleasant scene in which Katarina Witt gets shot during an ice-skating routine. Why hadn't anyone done that to the commie whore in the 80s? Bodycount about 10% of the French civilian population. (These car-chases took no prisoners.) "},{"Title":"Some Amazing Car Chases, And Excellent Performances,But Other Then That I Found It Pretty Dull","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Some amazing Car chases, and excellent performances,but other then that i found it pretty dull.The story was promising, and the finale is fun to watch, but overall it had a blah feeling to it, although the great acting keeps it somewhat bearable. I have to admit the car chases, are incredible, but other then that there was nothing that really interested me, and i was quite disappointed. Robert Deniro and Jean Reno had awesome chemistry together, and a couple of the villains were great, but it was just a bit too dull for me. The Directing is okay. John Frankenheimer, does an okay job here, with tons of click camera work during the car chase scenes and keeps it stylish, but the pace is terribly inconsistent!, and okay job though. There is lots of blood. We get TONS of very bloody gunshot wounds, gory bullet removal,bloody wound,bloody gunshot wound to the head, bloody gunshot wound to the head with blood and brains spurting,slit throat (bloody but ATF),and bloody cuts here and there. The Acting is AWESOME!. Robert De Niro, is One of the best actors of all time and is AMAZING as always, he had awesome chemistry with Jean Reno, was intense, and as always was quite mysterious!(De Niro Rules!). Jean Reno, is awesome here, he had awesome chemistry with De Niro, was very likable, and i really dug him!. Natascha McElhone is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS, and is terrific here, she really was into her role, and always had her game face on!, great job.Stellan Skarsgård, is very good here as the weasel, and did his job well. Jonathan Pryce, is excellent as the main villain, and was pretty menacing. Sean bean is great in his limited screen time. Overall Worth one watch i suppose, but i didn't find it particularly exciting **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Another Slippery Briefcase.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A freelance U.S. intelligence agent (Robert DeNiro) and a crew of top-notch professionals (Stellan Skarsgard, Jean Reno, Sean Bean, among others) are recruited by a mysterious woman (Natascha McElhone) to track down a mysterious briefcase in Europe that is wanted for unknown reasons by the Irish and the Russians. The contents of the case are totally enigmatic and of course that makes recovering it all the more imperative. Crazed little action thriller from director John Frankenheimer (who does arguably his best work since The Manchurian Candidate) is not short on adrenaline, but lacks intelligence. DeNiro is excellent and he is able to improve the other players around him. A crazed car chase sequence that rivals that of William Friedkin's The French Connection is the one thing that most remember when thinking about this production. Overall not a bad little time passer. As an action thriller it definitely strikes a chord within its viewer. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Confusing and boring","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I tried to like this film, but it just couldnt figure anything out.  They were hired to retrieve a briefcase, but then what happened?, how did everything suddenly get so complicated?  It doesnt help that most of the film was shot in French, and was all of the subtitles began to give me a headache.  A good car chase scene is the only real attraction here.  Im surprised they cast DeNiro in this, it seemed more like a role for a foreign actor, maybe Gary Oldman.  Overall, this is a below average action film thats too smart for its own good.  4.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nuthin'","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For the first hour, I thought to myself, This is one terrific movie. I can't understand WHY this didn't win several Oscars.  THEN I watched the second hour of tedious, gruesome violence, seemingly endless car chases and, given the entire story, a rather pointless ending.CAUTION SPOILERS AHEADHere is just a sample of the film's inconsistencieso The suitcase, which may or may not contain a nuclear device, is   dismissed entirely at the end of the story.  If it is NOT a nuclear  device, why is DeNiro willing to see so many people killed or   endangered to recover it?  If it IS a nuclear device AND the real   object of the chase was the Irish terrorist, why not put a tracking   device in it and a booby trap to poison anyone who arms it with   lethal radiation? o  Why does DeNiro continue to maintain a cover AFTER the doublecross?    A real criminal would have been satisfied with the 50% he obtained    BEFORE the robbery, and have gone on his merry way.  A federal agent    would not likely risk his life to untrained individuals when removing    the bullet, since his death would have likely scratched the mission.A THINKING man's action movie?  Only if you are a liberal that STILL believes Zimbabwe and South Africa are better off under black majority rule, while Robert Mugabe murders white farmers and confiscates family farms; and black females, INCLUDING INFANTS, are gang raped in South Africa at a rate of one every 26 seconds.  What does this have to dowith Ronin?  The same thing that allows people to praise movies for their political prejudices rather than their artistic qualities. "},{"Title":"Cat and mouse movie, that never really gets it's bait.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Cat and mouse movie, that never really gets it's bait. Robert De Niro is hired along with other freelance agents to retrieve a package. Unfortunately things do not go according to plan.  The film never really gets going, very disappointing. "},{"Title":"If you don't mind R-rated language and violence, this is a great movie to watch and enjoy!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie because of De Niro, and he didn't disappoint. The movie is set primarily in Southern France which works perfectly for this story.  The plot twists keep you guessing until the end.  The car chase scenes are innovative and very exciting.  But you won't get full 'feel' for the movie unless you see it in a theater or your home sound system has a good subwoofer.  The very low frequency, picture-rattling sound is woven in throughout the movie and is essential for setting the mood. Don't see this movie if you are offended by R-rated language and violence, because there is plenty of it. I rate it a 10 for sound and action, a 6 for the storyline. "},{"Title":"Two pumping car chases surrounded by one hundred minutes of blah.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Robert De Niro. Jean Reno. Sean Bean three good reasons to see what should have been a hip and lively thriller. The script an even better reason to avoid this cliched mish-mash of Patriot Games, Bullitt and Mission Impossible.A thrill-free first half-hour had most of the audience eyeing the exits (some actually followed their gaze) until the first of two entertaining car chases screamed around the theatre. Giving the movie a second chance was not too bright an idea, as more incomprehensible post-Cold War subterfuge surrounding the contents of an ice-skate case (wow - a case with mysterious contents - what an original McGuffin) numbed both mind and behind until the second, ridiculously drawn-out, but still enjoyable car chase. Then another twenty minutes of nonsense rounded off by a cop-out of an ending.Incoherent, tedious, unoriginal. What critics refer to as a waste of talent all round. "},{"Title":"A technically well-made, moderately satisfying thriller","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Mechanically crisp thriller with fewer script flaws than most of the genre, but in the end, fairly empty characterization & thin plot. Great cast giving adequate performances. "}{"Title":"A pioneer movie?","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Last night wifey and I rewatched this old video that I've had wrapped in it's original packaging since 1999.Ronin is the story of some free agent crooks who are called in to help co-ordinate the theft of a briefcase. They group contains a mix of guys from other countries with different specialties. The team is headed by Robert DeNiro as Sam and Jean Reno as Vincent. A well planned job soon becomes unstuck when one of the crew is revealed as a fake and another a betrayer. Soon the job gets massively complicated and those left must decide if it's worth going ahead.I remember really enjoying it at the cinema, but rewatching 10 years later, it's not so good. Since this films like The Italian Job and the Bourne trilogy have come out which are done much better with better effects and dialogue. Put it this way- without DeNiro it would have been a train wreck. The similarities particularly with The Italian Job are creepy. I laughed quite a few times at the extras who were shot or ran for their lives during the car chases and shootouts, as well as DeNiro's face while driving. Still watchable, but it doesn't hold up when compared to similar movies of the last 5-7 years. It can though probably lay claim to being the inspiration for such films (except The Italian Job, which was a remake, or the Bourne trilogy, which was based upon a book written, like, years ago). "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I had heard good things about RONIN and Robert DeNiro is great, so when I saw it on the shelf at Blockbuster, I rented it. The premise as stated on the DVD box sounded very interesting, involving international terrorists thrown out of work with the collapse of the USSR, now wandering around seeking employment like the titular leaderless Samurai.Unfortunately, this premise is touched on only tangentially. In the event, the movie is a standard MacGuffiny action-thriller with a lot of car chases, explosions, and people being shot. They try to make up for the lack of interesting events or characters with plot twists, but they simply try too hard. By the end of the movie, it's impossible to care anymore who is with whom, or who will betray whom. The effect is magnified by the fact that the last plot twist--the big, climactic moment of the movie--is utterly lame, unoriginal, and unsurprising. The only good thing I can say about it is that in the end, the film rejects the moral nihilism with which it seems to flirt.The most interesting character in our band of freelance terrorists is Sean Bean as a guy who claims to be former SAS. DeNiro figures out that Bean is lying. This is meant to show DeNiro's brilliance, but since it's perfectly obvious (Bean's character is far too unstable and undisciplined to be ex-SAS), it doesn't quite work. Naturally, Bean's character is kicked out of the group before the main part of the plot even begins. I suppose it's better than unrealistically letting him stay around to screw things up, but it does make one wonder why they bothered with him in the first place. There's also a suggestion of a budding romance which goes nowhere.The MacGuffin (the thing which drives the plot) here is possibly the worst in cinema history. It's the case. What's *in* the case? We don't know, and they never tell us. This is, of course, much easier than trying to come up with something interesting to put in the case, but it also means that it might as well have MacGuffin stenciled on the side. It is a piece of obvious artifice. Even worse is the contrived and implausible coincidence by which our heroes figure out where they can find the MacGuffin.4/10. "},{"Title":"Great car chase, lousy story","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie seems like it had a lot of potential but acid destroyed some rolls of film.  The storytelling is awful.  BUT it does have the best chase scene ever.  Great car stunts that made me want to do go out and buy the car. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There are two good things about this film-- Car chase #1, and Car chase #2. I haven't been able to figure out how they were able to take a cast and crew of this calibre and produce such a mediocre film. "},{"Title":"The Long Bad Friday","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Not quite sure why this film was made, unless to make Michael Winner films look cleverly shot and masterfully directed in comparison. The film has its share of attractive locations, however the director succeeds in turning each & every one of them into a backdrop for his snapshot-quality cinematography.As for the acting? Well, my theory is that the film crew came across De Niro whilst on his hols, secretly filmed him and spliced in his performance to spice up an otherwise dull corporate training video for Securicor. Jonathan Pryce proves once again that he missed his vocation on the dole queue with an atrocious Narthern Oirlend accent.Not worth the popcorn - move on. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent involved","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I knew this movie was dodgy when 15 minutes into it I realised thata) the premise was struggling to be established. b) we hadn't really learnt anything about the characters in the movie.The script is REALLY bad.  David Mamet script doctored this?  God only knows how even worse this movie could have been without his contribution, which must have been the sublime exchange between Michael Lonsdale and Robert De Niro, and also the (only) two funny lines of dialogue in the movie (spoken by De Niro's character).The characters are risking life and limb to retrieve a case, the contents of which they aren't aware of, for next to nothing.  Big deal - it happens to baggage handlers everyday at airports, and their stories would probably make for a more diverting hour and forty five minutes than this garbage.MINOR SPOILER Sean Bean's character...  What was his purpose, other than establishing the De Niro's character could sniff out someone who's crap and a fraud?On the plus side, there's one wonderful car chase.   "},{"Title":"What ???","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well, what can I say? I watched this film on DVD thinking that i'll have a good exciting time and wow, what a total let down.True, the action sequences are impressive but that's it. As I was watching them thinking yes, but why is this happening?De Niro's character seems overly antagonistic. Why? It's not explained.Sean Bean's character leaves quite early on. Wasted talent time again.*** SPOILER ALERT ***De Niro yells at Sean Bean. What colour is the boat house at Hereford?. Hate to tell you this but I don't think Hereford actually has a boat house. (It's in the middle of Wales for anyone who want's to know).*** END OF SPOILER ***The director's use of long cam's for filming some of the car chases. Why? What purpose does it serve? Annoying myself it seems. It's totally pointless and spoils the timing of the sequences.Jonathan Pryce seems to be the only good thing in it. His is the only character that is actually explained to any length of detail.Avoid like The Plague. "},{"Title":"With Heat, One of the Best Action Movies of the 1990's","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A group of former worldwide agents &#150; Sam (Robert De Niro), Vincent (Jean Reno), Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard), Spence (Sean Bean) and Dapper (Jan Triska) &#150; are hired by the Irish Deirdre ( Natascha McElhone) to steal a suitcase from a group of very well protected men. They use their military skills to elaborate and assault the other larger team on the road nearby Nice. The action works as planned, except that the group is betrayed by one of the members. Then, they spend their abilities chasing the traitor, who wants to sell the unknown content of the suitcase to the Russians. Lots of action, with car chase, shootings and deaths, happen along the story, most of them in Paris and Nice. The important character Seamus O'Rourke (Jonathan Pryce) has a highlighted participation in the plot. John Frankenheimer shows `good shape' and offers one of the best action movie of the 1990's. Maybe, `Ronin' and `Heat' are the best ones. The movie explains that `Ronin' are former Samurais who lost their master. The team of former agents, who lost their jobs with the end of the Cold War, would be the Ronins of the story. It is hard to believe that a viewer can not like this film. My vote is eight. "},{"Title":"A boring movie","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ronin is a boring movie without any plot or tension. This film, which was directed by John Frankenheimer, who was a good director till DNA, tries to suggest tension by showing us sequences of action. But John Frankenheimer is not able to control the actors, actress and the action. He uses and needs the action in order to support the plot, because the plot is not able to stand alone on screen. However the action sequences are well done, and you can see the big budget for the sequences. But all actors play their roles without emotions and moreover you must listen Niro´s stupid dictums, but he has no chance, because the writer of the screenplay gave him these dictums. MARKING * (******) "},{"Title":"Dear Frankenheimer Get back on the junk","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Every movie since rehab has been a ferocious suckfest.I just saw a movie with a cast member who was in Ronin, so just for jollies I decided to check out the sentiment on what I remembered as one of the absolute worst movies in the history of the printed image. Imagine my shock when almost 90% of the reviews are raves!Let me just warn the movie viewing populace that the only thing I got from Ronin (besides the admittedly intense car chases) was a cure for insomnia. The movie is LONG, and feels even longer. IMHO, not worth the investment of time or money. I've seen many people refer to it as a thinking man's action movie. This is true. Upon leaving, I was thinking, 'why the hell did I pay to see that action movie'? There are many unanswered questions in the movie, but eventually (perhaps after the first 90 minutes drag by) you just stop caring to get the answers. The only reason I stayed to the end was because I've never walked out on a movie in my life, and I didn't want Ronin to be the first ANYTHING (and thus memorable) experience ever. Plus, I was with a wisecracking friend who was similarly underwhelmed, providing a large part of the entertainment for me.Another oft-cited positive is the cinematography and visuals. I'll grant this one, too, but with one reservation If you gave me a PixelVision camera and a flashlight at these locations, I'd give you some pretty stunning visuals, too. It's hard to make Nice look ugly.Does it make you think? Yes! Who are these characters? What are they doing? Who's screwing who (both in the figuratively and as a sexual euphemism)? What's in that case? Eventually, Why do I care? (none of these are answered, BTW) Ultimately, it turns out that Jean Reno is the narrator! Boy, what a twist! Don't walk out early, or you'll never know. I suppose I should be grateful he finally grabbed the mic and prompted the credits to roll, or I'd still be suffering today. No other conceivable conclusion to the film.My ultimate conclusion? Maybe you absolutely MUST see every movie Robert DeNiro is in. Then go ahead. Maybe you've seen everything else at the local video store. Rent them all again (even Last Action Hero). Then, and ONLY then, consider renting Ronin. And even then only if you're hopped up on stimulants or hallucinogens. "}{"Title":"Only for hard core DeNiro fans","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A dull boring movie.  I kept waiting for something interesting to happen. The best part was when the bad guys left the hotel with the mysterious silver ice skate case, handcuffed to a bald mean looking guy in sunglasses, in a black car being followed by other mean looking guys in 3 identical black cars.  It was a pretty obvious exit for hired guns who were transporting **uranium? drugs? secret messages? recipes? ...ice skates**  We never did find out what was in the case.The car chase was downright silly and never ending.  I managed to slip in 40 winks and it was still going on when I woke up.  I went out to get a drink of water and they were still hurtling through the same tunnel the wrong way.All I want to know is what was the point of it all.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I went into Robert DeNiro's flick Ronin thinking that it would be a satisfying action-thriller.  Boy, was I wrong!  A horrible script and awful photography and directing.  The one thing I can say for this movie, though, is that its car chases were some of the best that Hollywood has ever seen. The gunfights, however, were very bad.  Whenever they had a gunfight, you couldn't tell where everybody was.  Let me explain.  Near the beginning, there was a fight in a small tunnel.  When you saw one person shooting, you couldn't tell where, in reference to the tunnel, he was shooting.  All they shot were close-ups.  That problem could have easily been fixed by just having a few wide shots!  However, it was terrifically acted by Jean Reno and DeNiro.  I guess glitches in the script and bad cinematography can ruin a movie.     D+ "},{"Title":"A rental at best","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie while mildly entertaining at points was in my opinion a waste of 7 bones.  Although, it may hold the record for having the longest, most drawn out, car chase in the history of movie making, it had more loose ends than my old High School cheerleading squad.  About ten minutes into the movie I had 20 questions, and with about ten minutes left, I had 100 and no answers to be found among the six different plots going on simultaneously. I went into the theatre excited because of the great reviews, but left feeling dizzy from all of the car chases, and still having no clue as to what the word Ronin had to do with anything.  Anyhow, instead of watching this movie, you may want to ride on a merry-go-round for an hour and then watch Jeopardy.  It's basically the same thing... "},{"Title":"A flat, dis-jointed effort, painful & boring.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I sat with a bored yawning audience as we watched the poorest excuse for an intelligent action movie for years. A plot that meandered aimlessly for two hours, characters that were shallow and uninvolving, not to mention the wasted talent of Sean Bean being swallowed up by a lame-duck role that suddely stops a third of the way in. Two car chases ? The first mildly stimulating and the second only slightly better. This must have looked like a good project on paper, but on the screen it is flat (no pun intended), lifeless and over two hours too long. Jean Reno & De Niro will undoubtedly redeem themselves soon (I hope). The script was as intriguing as a block of wood - Avoid this like the plague. "},{"Title":"Boring B-Grade Movie","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" First off I thought this movie would be good because of the high rating, after seeing it I found out it was a B-Grade movie. If you already seen the bourne movies think of the car chases but without the story and there is your movie Ronin. Just watch 15-30 mins of it in the beginning and if you think its boring don't watch the movie any further you will be asking youself if this movie going anywhere. 2 hours later nothing else has happened except guys chasing after a briefcase which btw has never been opened or revealed what's inside. Why is it important, why do these people want the case it's never mentioned at all.There's no character background so we don't know why they are working or motives are. The title Ronin is misconception it has nothing to do with the characters or story, poorly chosen title. A minor role character was painting his samurai miniatures and talking about the 47 ronin which had little to do with anything. Even at the end of the movie its as if two guys shrugged their shoulders and walked their separate ways, even sean bean walked out the movie in the beginning. Even the women who was working with them just disappeared in the end.I like the actors but its no excuse to rate this movie so high. If you want to compare Ronin and Bad Company both similar movies, difference Ronin went for too long and the synopsis was without a summary, nothing added up to anything. "},{"Title":"Pre-Bourne, Bourne-lite thriller. I think","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm not sure why but, for some reason, this movie always gets mixed up in my drug addled mind with Léon, the Luc Besson movie which also happens to star super suave Frenchman Jean Reno. I guess it's simply the Euro-centric feel throughout. Anyway, that utter irrelevance aside, this is an intelligent thriller with a complex, meandering plot line involving a mysterious luggage case that two terrorist parties are desperate to lay their hands on. The movie focuses on one side of the scheming teams, the Irish, who will do just about anything to get their hands on the package before their rivals of terror, the Russians, manage it.With a veritable avalanche of muscular actors, this could be accused of being a boys film and, truthfully, the good lady I watched it with claimed it was 'boring' and, sadly, she might have a point. Whilst the action scenes are handled with a deftness of touch John Woo would be proud of, the dialogue interchanges become tiresome as, for even a seasoned boys movie watcher like myself, the plot became befuddled. Pretty soon you don't have a clue who is doing what to who or why and, whilst that may be the point, it is incredibly frustrating as a viewer. The presence of de Niro, Reno and Pryce almost makes up for the annoyance, but not quite.Whilst far from dreadful, if you want testosterone fuelled espionage I'd reach for Bourne over this every time. "},{"Title":"Not that good!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A pretty mainstream post cold war action movie, not a very trustworthy movie script and with little or no surprises. The fact that two accidentally open car windows actually change the whole story line cannot be noted as good movie making workmanship... "},{"Title":"A Muddled Mess","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A motley crew is hired to steal a mysterious metal case or kess as the Irish in this movie say. In the words of Buffalo Springfield, there's something happening here; what it is ain't exactly clear. With the muddled script, uneven pacing, and sparse dialog, a first-time viewer has only a vague idea of who's doing what to whom. Hardly anything is revealed about the characters, making it hard to care what happens to them. There are two extended car chases, with the second one particularly ridiculous, taking place against traffic. Frankenheimer has made some great films, but his direction here is flat, relying on spy movie clichés. A good cast is wasted. "},{"Title":"More loose ends than a pom pom ball","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Total rubbish! Loads of plot holes and just plain daftness. For instance near the end the main mans mate gets shot full of bullets and is lying on the floor dying. Next just as the main man is about to get shot the dying man shoots the would be assassin from high up in a gantry! Just how a dying man can climb up 30 foot ladders then run along a gantry beats me and its never explained. Another classic bit is when the group is trying to find a safe house belonging to the enemy. They simply go to some bloke who makes toy soldiers and ask him and lo and behold he finds out! This is not explained and the list goes on and on. Its just a load *rap. "},{"Title":"Deadly boring","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  OK, so its 4 or 5 years since I saw this, and I've avoided watching it again ever, so my memory isn't very fresh.All I remember is that this is the film where I started off annoyed at the people chatting near me; but less than an hour later, I joined in their conversation, and the whole audience was just entertaining itself any way it could.We did laugh when the skater got shot, but otherwise.....blaaahhh "}{"Title":"Can't Believe It Got A 7 (BIG SPOILER, YOU'VE BEEN WARNED)","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  At first I was interested in the idea of having this amount good actors in a thriller movie. It didn't start bad, but I realized it was going nowhere when all the main characters were portrayed as smart-ass guys who could do anything and knew everything (De Niro in almost every scene). The car chase scenes weren't bad at all, but the film must have been sponsored by the French tourism secretary and some major car brands who wanted to show their products as the fastest, safest and strongest. (almost) Everybody dies here and the switching loyalties make no sense and no good to the plot (which was already quite poor). But one thing got my attention and all of my interest in this lousy movie the briefcase. Who were this people and what was in the briefcase? I never knew, and probably neither did the writers, who should burn in hell as Jean Reno's (oops, isn't that a French car brand?) character found out what was in the god damn briefcase, but was never revealed. It's not a twist of the plot, it's simply playing with the spectators. I didn't cared if it had a teddy bear for the guy's daughter, but I wanted to know what the hell was in it, all those deaths just to bring some more millions to De Niro's already fat pockets. I course this movie and specially the writers who will always have a place in my black list of movies. "},{"Title":"Half-hour TV drama disguised as a movie","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There's not much to say about Ronin. It tries to grab you up front with a voice-over explaining the definition of Ronin. Instead of Ronin, the voice-over should have been defining the word Unrealistic. An Irish woman assembles a team of professional killers to retrieve a suitcase, the contents which we never learn about. Stop right there.Why not a team of professional killers AND thieves? Because that kind of team would have turned Ronin into a half-hour television drama. And that's what Ronin is, a half-hour TV drama stretched out with filler car chases, bullets flying this way and that hitting innocent people on the street with no repercussions, or even a bat of an eye.Ronin is full of clichés cliché plot, cliché characters, cliché car chases. Chases so long, I found myself fast-forwarding.By the end of the movie, I couldn't care less what was in the suitcase. And I'm glad I never found out.DeNiro disappoints as he walks through the movie as if he knows Ronin is a waste of time. Natascha McElhone is as bland as white bread. Reno, Skarsgard, and Bean waste their talent, but give it their all. "},{"Title":"Yawn!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It was hard not to fall asleep during this predictable yawn fest. Robert DiNiro seems to be taking any job he can get these days, his acting has become dull and most of the films he's in even more dull. The directing in this one is an unsuspenseful amateurish fluff job that holds very little interest at all. This film was even worse then DiNiro's last bore Wag The Dog. Ignore it! "},{"Title":"A waste of talent","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A poor movie masquerading as intelligent.  The use of the Forty-Seven Ronin is lifted straight from David Morrell's The Fifth Profession, but makes no sense by the end of the movie.  This movie is incredibly sloppy - every character except Sam is lobotomized and even Sam becomes a dunce by the end of the film.  Waste of cash. "},{"Title":"Longest most boring car chases","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The movie was too long, the car chase scenes were a real bore.  They went on, and on and on and on.  It was mind numbing.  They were well done, but when will film makers realize that a lot of us are tired of these long drawn out sequences.I did not like that innocents were killed in the movie.  Of course I know in real life that if these kind of shot outs were to happen that real innocents would be killed, but I would rather not see it in a movie. "},{"Title":"A watered-down version","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  of my original comments, rejected by the powers that be in IMDb, and very probably rightfully. I mean, I did go a bit over the top on this film.Suffice to say, on this second attempt to rationally and coherently say something intelligent on this balderdash, I am real glad that there are another 167 voters on IMDb that rate this film as 1 (awful). Cannot comprehend other voting decisions. Robert de Niro must have had an enormous debt in the tax office to have taken part in this one. Amid screeching tyres and endless shoot-outs, I tended to forget about the secret suitcase and its contents, as well as any other mind-numbing sequences which just did not go anywhere at all.A totally brainless assault on anyone foolhardy enough to watch this because de Niro is in it. Far better to pay attention to your popcorn, or, if you are a lucky one, the nice young lady you have sitting beside you, and you will not feel so insulted and offended afterwards. "},{"Title":"Roninane","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ronin is a genuine achievement and should be compulsory subject matter in every film school programme, for it is one of the few movies in the history of the medium to have no plot whatsoever and still be allowed to waste millions of dollars on cast, stunts, and locations.Instead of settling into one of Hollywood's golden gated retirement homes, Frankenheimer ventured out to dummy-direct this no-brainer and collect a fat check, propped up by a devoted cast of living dead eager to get a piece of the cake.In lieu of a film, this magnificent bunch turned in an elaborate ad for German cars, and everyone lived happily ever after. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time and talent","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A terrible film, but 1 out of 10 taking the car chases into account. What an awful waste of the great Jean Reno. Rumour had it that the film was a bit of a dog, but it was worse than expectations. "},{"Title":"Ugh. . .","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If I could give this piece of doody a rating lower than 1, I would.  This is one of the most incoherently written, dully acted, poorly directed movies I've ever seen.  Was DeNiro lobotomized?  Was there a reel missing, or was there really no actual characterization whatsoever?  Hideous!  how could John Frankenheimer have directed The Manchurian Candidate, one of the greatest films ever, and this, and the terrible Island of Dr. Moreau? "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I had a lot of candy I'd gotten from the bulk barn.  I was enjoying myself watching the movie but it turns out that was only the candy and when that ran out halfway through it really stated to hurt.  What a stupid movie.  Boom boom!  How about a plot guys.  Maybe some dialog.  Maybe some good action.  What a bad movie.  Pure garbage.  Total crap.  I'd rather have someone hit me in the crotch with a baseball bat again and again and again.  Take Mission Impossible, take all the nice style, cool effects, whity lines and neat technology out of it.  What's left?  Ronin. "}{"Title":"Ronin","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" From director John Frankenheimer (Birdman of Alcatraz, Deception) this is a fantastic retro (deliberately) thriller with plenty of eye-catching moments and some good choice actors. The title means Japanese Samurai without a master, so basically the lead characters in this are Ronin, outcast specialists hired for jobs. Basically Irish Deirdre (The Truman Show's Natascha McElhone) hires some Ronin to form a team with a mission to retrieve an important suitcase from a man planning to sell it to the Russians. These men are Sam (Robert De Niro), Vincent (Leon's Jean Reno), Gregor (Pirates of the Caribbean's Stellan Skarsgård), and briefly Spence (Sean Bean) - exposed as a fraud, and Larry (Skipp Sudduth). Also starring Moonraker's Michel Lonsdale as Jean-Pierre and Jonathan Pryce as Seamus. The main reason this film is unmissable is for the many exciting chases and almost never ending gun shooting sequences, and the actors all do very well, a very slick film. Very good! "},{"Title":"A simply appalling waste of talent","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A great cast squandered on a movie with a hair-thin script and plot line. Save yourself the trouble and watch anything else available in the video store... A Barney movie would be more entertaining. "}]