[{"Title":"Hey now, negative reception?","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had been aware of the gem, yes, gem, that is Small Soldiers ever since I was quite little. I had also always owned it, and had watched it on numerous occasions. Time went by without a watch for many, many years, as I lost interest in it for a awhile, and then later on, when I became more indulged in the film life, I saw it in my collection and decided it was time to freshen up on it. I popped it in and was ready to be overwhelmed with the memories of how great this film truly manages to hold up being over time.I thought this movie was overall just a really great and enjoyable little film that even though it was just meant for entertainment, ended up being so lovable and cherished, much more than I thought I would love and cherish it. What was really that bad about it, folks? I have heard a lot of negativity directed at this film for being a weak Dreamworks animation with practically no depth or originality. Depth? Originality? You were honestly looking for those qualities with Small Soldiers? Maybe if you would lighten up on it, you'd enjoy it for the truly fun and enticing film it is. Some I bet were already even doubting it from the start, which that's no way to enter with a film as lighthearted and good-willed as Small Soldiers.Most of the comedic antics were quite laughable, and that's laughable in the tasteful kind of way, especially the renovated Barbies and cowardliness of the Gorgonites. It completely entertains you, and it certainly keeps you interested through the whole movie with the fun characters and non-stop deliverance of toy warfare and excellent voice-overs. The fighting scenes were cool and amusing, and the script was pretty different and new, even though many think Dreamworks tries to silently and sneakily follow in the footsteps of previous Disney/Pixar films that are big hits, in this case, Toy Story.I don't see why this movie has the rating it does, for I thought a lot more people would've liked it better than this, but I guess not everybody can spot a great film when they see one. If you haven't seen this movie yet, I completely recommend it, because it is a nice little movie that I am honored to own. It is getting too much harsh treatment. I had loads of fun watching it, always have, and I'm sure you will too, in the right mood. Plus, I love the usage of the song Wannabe at the right time in this film; forever a Spice Girl fan. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"39 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Who would have thought? A family film that doesn't suck! Small Soldiers, while not perfect, is still great fun. It's success is completely down to Joe Dante, a guy with an obvious love of classic b-grade, sf, horror and exploitation movies. It's no suprise he started his career with Roger Corman. Small Soldiers is basically a variation on his previous Gremlins ( cute, seemingly harmless, kiddie-friendly objects run amok) but I enjoyed it more. You can always tell how smart a movie is by its supporting cast, and the presence of the legendary Dick Miller ( a Dante mascot), Phil Hartman, Dennis Leary, and Mr Show's David Cross, not to mention the terrific voice talent, emphasize just how cluey Small Soldiers is. And any movie with Bride Of Frankenstein references gets my thumbs up!I hope Dante brings Dick Miller back to the big screen SOON! We need him! "},{"Title":"Nostalgia at its best. Underrated and Forgotten.","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I found this movie in my attic recently. When I was looking at the VHS, nostalgia instantly flew back into me. I remember the toys, I remember seeing this is theaters opening day, and I remember me and my friends playing our own version of Small Soldiers at our local park. Great memories...I was SO baffled to see a 5.9 rating on IMDb. Why? This is a great family\action film. After seeing the rating and many negative reviews, I decided to watch it again on VHS. Well, I liked it then, and I liked it now! Still, it was a good film. What I liked the most was the music and the special effects. The musical score was outstanding and so was the War remix. The CGI in the film amazes me on so many levels...I thought they were real!Overall, if you like edgy family films, watch 'Small Solders'. I think you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers is good old fashioned, Tongue-in-cheek fun.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers is good old fashioned, Tongue-in-cheek fun.Regular movie watchers will see many of their favorite characters, all caricatured here together as either a Commando-Elite or a Gorgonite warrior.The names of the characters, particularly the Commando-Elite, are extremely good, and worthy of an award of their own.Although some of the animation is a little wooden, that just seemed to add to the whole flavour of the film.As long as you don't have any pre-conceptions about this film, and ignore the hype, you are in for some highly entertaining fun.  After all, who can watch a room full of bikini-clad barbie-dolls-with-attitude, playing with their owner for a change, without breaking into a grin...Favorite quote Lets see how you like being played with  "},{"Title":"Far Better Than I Expected","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ah yes a Hollywood family film in the same vein as TOY STORY , so expect some highly patronizing , derivative drivel , or rather don`t because I found SMALL SOLDIERS to be a far better film than I expected . Much of this was down to the fact that the movie doesn`t talk down to its audience and the fact I didn`t have to put up with a myriad of scenes featuring bad CGI. Okay fair enough , it`s very obvious that`s a GI Joe doll trailing along on a bicycle but in the context of the story that`s exactly what it`s supposed to be . SMALL SOLDIERS also makes witty references to the likes of PATTON and THE TERMINATOR , ( See if you can spot them ) and what a charming creature Archer of the Gorgonites is . Gorgonites ! You`ve gotta love that name I enjoyed this movie and despite it not being an all time classic I do recommend it as an entertaining family film   "},{"Title":"A Solid Answer to Disney/Pixar's Toy Story","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let's be honest, the concept of Small Soldiers(toys coming to life) came from Toy Story. However, DreamWorks came up with a MUCH different plot and the result is a great-and grossly underrated-family movie/action flick with top notch CGI. I'm sure many say DreamWorks is a poor man's Disney/Pixar, and I agree, but this one movie in which DreamWorks shines. One might argue that the Commandos are glorified G.I. Joes, but I will gladly look past that because, c'mon, they're awesome. Small Soldiers is a fine piece of entertainment and some of DreamWorks' best work to boot. I am begging you, don't pass it up. You won't regret giving it your time. "},{"Title":"Here's why it's good.","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When Small Soldiers came out, it was right after back-to-back school shootings (plus the murder of Phil Hartman), so there was some controversy about having a movie where toys get violent. But this movie is actually quite good. You see, it's not some ridiculous, rah-rah military movie; it sides with the Gorgonites (the soldiers' adversaries), showing how - whether or not they win or lose - they always remain supportive of each other.As for the cast members, this is a Joe Dante movie, so Dick Miller and Robert Picardo get supporting roles. In this case, they play a delivery man and clean room technician, respectively. Phil Hartman is probably the funniest cast member, playing the ultimate suburban consumer (he wants to remove his neighbor's tree to make room for a satellite dish). All in all, this is definitely a movie worth seeing. As far as I remember, Joe Dante always does a good job. "},{"Title":"Bizarre film, but still great fun!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not really sure who this film is aimed at.  At times it seems to be a child's movie and at other times it seems to be for adults.  But nonetheless, I loved the film.  I thought it was a fun story.The special effects alone are worth watching the film.  It's truly amazing how fluidly the toys move and life-like the little toys are.  Also, I really liked the various Gorgonite characters, they all looked quite unique.The cast is quite good too.  Phil Hartman is quite funny in the film, as usual.  Kirsten Dunst pulls off a great performance.  The rest of the cast is quite good as well Gregory Smith, Jay Mohr, David Cross, Denis Leary, and Kevin Dunn, to name a few.  I really feel that actors in films like this don't get the credit they deserve, because they are acting against small little harmless platic or metal animatronic toys, or, in some cases, against nothing at all.  So just keep that in mind when you're watching this film.  The voice talents in this film are also quite good, with plenty of big names to go around including Tommy Lee Jones, Frank Langella, Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, Bruce Dern, George Kennedy, Clint Walker, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Christopher Guest, Michael McKean, Harry Shearer, and Christina Ricci.This film is just a fun film, there's nothing terribly deep or mind-boggling about this film, just enjoy it for what it is.  I wouldn't recommend this to everyone, but if you read the plot description and it sounds interesting, then by all means, check it out.  If you do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Gremlins meets Toy Story","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When Joe Dante first started directing, he made two above average B movies, Piranha and The Howling. Run through with Dante's enthusiasm for the horror/SF genre, they make numerous references and in-jokes to other films of the genre. Then in 1984, he had a huge hit with Gremlins, one of the finest comedies of the 80s.But sadly, every other film he's made since has performed poorly at the box office. That's not to say he's a terrible director. I think he's one of the world's most underrated filmmakers, having produced gems like Matinée, The burbs, Explorers. And the marvellous TV series Eerie Indiana.With Small Soldiers, Dante has sort of remade Gremlins, where another small all-American town comes under attack. But not from little monsters. From toys fitted with military microchips that go berserk. Small Soldiers never feels as satisfying as Gremlins. There was something tremendously entertaining in watching a sleepy, sugary wholesome town get torn to shreds by malicious monsters. But Small Soldiers is still entertaining, and just as subversive as you'd expect from Joe Dante.Gil Mars (the fast-talking Denis Leary) is the conglomerate of Globotech Industries. Having just recently bought Hartland Play Systems, a toy company, he is looking to market toys that actually do what they do in the adverts. Toys that can walk, talk and even think for themselves. He gets his chance when two of his employees come up with the Commando Elite, soldier toys programmed to crush their enemies, the Gorgonites.The leader of the Commando Elite, Major Chip Hazard (perfectly voiced by Tommy Lee Jones) is fitted with a special microchip that came from the Department of Defence. Along with the rest of his troops, they actually believe they're in a real war, and when they're shipped to the town of Winslow Corners with the Gorgonites, led by the passive Archer (a dignified performance by Frank Langella) all hell breaks loose!The Gorgonites end up in the care of Alan Abernathy, a delinquent with a reputation for being a troublemaker. With the help of his next door neighbour Christy (Kirsten Dunst), they get caught up in the war between the Commando Elite and the Gorgonites, which leads to full-scale warfare within Alan's home.Small Soldiers was criticised for being too violent for a kids film. I'm not sure if such a thing is possible in this day and age of desensitisation. And while it is violent on a comic level, the humour is never as dark as Gremlins. That film was occasionally disturbing, but Small Soldiers never crosses the line into outright bloodshed.There is quite an eclectic list of actors providing the voice-work. Tommy Lee Jones has the perfect voice for Major Chip Hazard, who has down pat what it takes to be a drill instructor. The rest of the Commando Elite are provided by the Dirty Dozen, and make a motley crew of hardasses.Frank Langella makes Archer into a very likable character, and his friendship with Alan is handled well without being too mawkish. An added treat is the Gorgonites are voiced by Spinal Tap, making Small Soldiers one of the best voiced animated films ever made.But as entertaining as the film is, it never reaches the anarchic heights of Gremlins. It seems too watered down. Except for one scene that is inspired in its subversiveness. Christy is held hostage by a group of Barbie-like dolls that have been malformed, twisted and altered beyond recognition until they become insane freaks drafted into the Commando Elite. Voiced wonderfully by Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christina Ricci, that scene will stay with you long after the film is over.Dante also makes some very funny satirical observations over the toy industry and corporate politics, from the Stepford-like receptionists who work for Globotech, to the way they frown upon educational toys.But in some ways, although Small Soldiers never gets as chaotic as Gremlins, it borrows a little too heavily from it. There are scenes lifted right from it. Like a kitchen scene where Archer is nearly put in a disposal, bursting through garage doors, even the soldiers being wiped out leaving only Major Chip Hazard alive. Dante puts a new spin on the events, but it does show a slight lack of imagination on his part.The human cast are capably played by some good actors, including some from Dante's stock company, like Dick Miller and Robert Picardo, and a final performance from the late Phil Hartman. There are also numerous references to other war movies. So look out for affectionate nods to Patton, Platoon, Full Metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now.It's doubtful Small Soldiers will be remembered in 20 years like Gremlins. But it's still above average entertainment, the special effects work is superb, and it's interesting to watch films like Toy Story with their gentle ideals be subverted in whole new directions to create a film like Small Soldiers. "},{"Title":"good archetypal satire","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The characters were not well developed because of the archetypal nature of  the story, which was simple and insightful, with a lot of action and no  real brutality.  Filled with parodies and even musical quotes from other  films, this film has a plot similar to _Gremlins_ with the greater feel of  its sequel with its archetypal powerhouse of a Daniel Clamp (that is, sans Clamp's failings).   Dante makes the film comical and thought-provoking, with main characters  who seem like we are supposed to see ourselves in their place, rather than  learn about who they are.   There is wonderful use of a boat motif leading  to an ending straight out of _The Gods Must Be Crazy_, with its power and  charm.  Despite this, Dante realized he was doing somewhat of a retread,  hence all of the gremlin jokes.  Dante had a better portrait of younger  teenagers with _Explorers_ for those who miss the character development,  which really only seems lacking after the film is over.  "}{"Title":"Let me tell you a story.............","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I first saw the trailer to this film and little clips from it. I was dead excited. Never before had I hyped up seeing a film so long before it's release.I was just a kid. I loved Edward Scissorhands and I saw that when my mother brought it home never seeing anything of it before and adored it(I still do) I saw the trailer to the nightmare before Xmas and it scared the hell out of me, and has since become a classic in my heart This film was the film of my childhood, it was everything I wanted in a movie and it was if it was made entirely for me (i'm sure other people went through that) For most people that was Raiders of the Lost Ark, Star wars A New Hope/Empire Strikes back. Or some film that a lot of people hold as one of the greatest classics of all time I was never and never will be a Star Wars person. I'm a Small Soldiers person (the only probably?) I have seen this film more times than any other film in my life. I don't know how many but come the day I die I'm sure at least one hundred....not joking In that way it may be my favorite film of all time.It made such an impression on me I wanted to start committing crimes like Alan Abernathy because that might lead me to meet such cool friends as the gorgonites. Something I didn't have a lot of down on the lifestyle block here in New Zealand (a place I'm very grateful to live and love) I imagined a sequel, I played with my own toys pretending they could do the same. I wrote stories about the small soldiers and got as many of the action figures as I could. I attempted making a movie with a friend with my toy 'beast wars' coming to life.Whenever I feel like watching it, I always watch it the next day or soon after. It never gets old, it really never will It'll get called weird by people, a reviewer from my beloved empire magazine called it 'Gremlins with toys, but not as dark or funny' It remains a film that I love yet does not have the same enthusiasm shared by people all around the world like.....oh there's about one hundred of 'em Last Year I saw it on the shelf of the DVD store and bought it, telling myself if you don't get it now you might not find it again in your life It's the kind of movie people my age saw as kids and kinda remember whenever I bring it up to them, it doesn't have the classic status I wish it did, but maybe in a way that gives it a security.A lot of people who do know it, including a different writer in empire called it one of the most underrated kids movies of all time, better than nothing I suppose The truth is I have seen more artistic, meaningful, profound, original films in my life, the best being the one I returned as a member on the IMDb to spread my love with just by what my Username is (not hard to notice) But I'll never forget this film, I'll always get all teary-eyed when the boat sails off at the end, and so in a way yeah that's right people It is my favorite film of all time and if you watch and enjoy know you're doing a Kiwi proud "},{"Title":"Hey Chucky, eat this!!!","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know the summary doesn't have anything to do with this comment, but I thought it would be funny to start this review. Small Soldiers, believe it or not, it's more valuable that it appears to be. Yes, it may be a flawed movie, but considering that it is a movie born in the heart of Hollywood studios and intended for small audiences (and not so small), Small Soldiers takes his chances to create successfully a political satire, a very dark one.Joe Dante (a very underrated director) is a specialist in filtrating that kind of political message. And that's no wonder why decided to direct this movie. The best of all is that also works as a family flick, where the characters are likable enough to care about and it's really entertaining.Anyway, I really like it. "},{"Title":"Sappy mayhem","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    Since it's Small Soldiers Week on TBS I thought I'd stop by and toss in my two cents.  Likeable cast gets caught in cross-fire between lunatic toy commandos (led by Jones) and friendly if goofy toy Gorgonites (led by Langella).  Wierd combination of sap and mayhem with a cute finale.  Has alot in common with Dante's earlier Gremlins, although the over-the-top violence is easier for me to stomach in this one.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie! It was my second favorite film as a kid right next to Toy Story. Big Action. Big Fun. Big Movie! Small Soldiers is one huge adventure. Meet the Commando Elite-toy action figures with an attitude. They've escaped from their boxes along with the Gorgonites, kindhearted but unusual-looking creatures. Now teenager Alan Abernathy gets enlisted to help the Gorgonites and rescue the girl of his dreams before the whole town is turned upside down.This movie also led to an awesome action figure line.If you like, you can further discuss this film at http//generationz.b1.jcink.com or http//generationz.b1.jcink.com/index.php?showtopic=1499. "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We had digital cable and Small Soldiers was one of the free movies we had for the month. My 3 year old son watched it everyday. We no longer have digital cable and he asks to watch it multiple times during the day. He gets upset when he can not watch it. I was shopping the other day and came across the movie on DVD. I got so excited that he can now watch it again. I sit down with him and never get tired of it! The movie is great and my son will sit down and watch it from beginning to end without moving and when it is over he will watch it again. I do recommend this movie for parents of younger children as well as older children. This movie does not have harsh language or sexual connotations. Get it and watch it. "},{"Title":"A Film Which Made Me Feel Aged 10 Again.....","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The highly enjoyable Small Soldiers, is easily Joe Dante's best film since the over-the-top shinanigans of Gremlins 2 in 1990.The film is much more than toys going to war with each other in a suburban street, there are many different levels to be seen here. The constant references to classic films such as The Bride Of Frankenstein, The Terminator and Pinnochio, all films which deal with the idea of man-made-products. There are plenty of homages to great War movies, most notably Apocalypse Now, but especially The Dirty Dozen (even using five of the actors from The Dirty Dozen to voice the Elite Commando). Every war movie cliche is on show here, too. But, aside from the film homages, there are some quite severe digs at consumersim and corprate companies.One particular aspect that I enjoyed was that the toys originally intended to be the enemies, because of their alien look, end up being the peace loving, understanding good guys (The Gorgonites were all voiced by the members of Spinal Tap, something I hadn't even picked up on until the end credits rolled). Joe Dante's Explorers and Gremlins were two of my favourites when I was ten, and Small Soldiers managed to recapture that feeling for me - I really wanted to be in the role of Alan, just as I had wanted to have  been Billy in Gremlins and one of the boys in Explorers.Among Dante's usual film references, and small town setting, there some more of his recurring themes - For example, the inclusion of Dick Miller (who has appeared in every one of Dante's films) and the great Robert Picardo.So, while Small Soldiers is hardly the best film of the 1990's, and not even as good as Gremlins, it's certainly an enjoyable film (on every level). So, go forth soldier, watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"These toys are terminators!! Watch out, Arnold!!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  These action toys are never at a loss for a sharp quip or a fast jab and keep things humming merrily along in a film the kiddies should love. The toy soldiers steal the film from the adults--not too much of a chore since the main roles are strictly nondescript. But once the toys start to show some sign of life, the film moves along at a fast clip with some funny references to other films--notably Franz Waxman's Bride of Frankenstein music used for a portion where one of the Commandos cries It's alive! It's alive!Gregory Smith as the trouble-making teen and Kirsten Dunst as his girl-friend are pleasing enough. Phil Hartman has an inauspicious supporting role as her father. But it's the voice talent of Tommy Lee Jones as Major Chip Hazard and Frank Langella as Archer (leader of the Gorgonites) that provide the most entertaining moments as they give life to the toy figures.If you can suspend your disbelief long enough to absorb the silly premise of the story, you'll have a good time. Kids will probably be fascinated by the lifelike figures and adults might find it all highly amusing despite the silliness of the basic plot. All the production values and special effects are first class. Some scary fun and some clever lines all the way through. Not bad. And kudos to Jerry Goldsmith for a lively and pleasing background score. Once they punch their way out of their wrappings, these toys are terminators!!  "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Small Soldiers'","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" BAD NEWS - Typical Hollywood family in that the film features stupid parents, annoying teens who are too worldly for their age and think they get no respect from their parents. Also, there are the usual anti-military messages and anti- Republican cheap shots. The story has The Commandos (military, which means bad guys, of course) against the Gorgonites (peaceful, different-looking creatures.)GOOD NEWS - A very clever animated-live action computer animated film (at least for 1998) in which the toys come to life and look real. Once the action starts, it's a very interesting story with fun special-effects, some good, funny dialog and some neat references to past films. Sometimes it's tough to catch them all. "},{"Title":"Very cool","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Excellent story line, true it kind of stole the whole 'toys come to life' thing from toy story but since when did toy story ever have these kind of toys?! The acting was great, effects were good, had characters you cared about, the story wasn't too complicated topped off with a very good soundtrack that fitted the moment perfectly, this film has the full package. I first saw the film when I was about 7 and have loved it ever since. The characters are memorable and all have different things to bring to the film. I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a fun action/adventure film to watch with children, just make sure they are okay with watching the kind of stuff in it! "},{"Title":"Entertaining film for older youngsters","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A couple of toy developers have the bright idea of putting military computer chips in a new line of toys. Unfortunately, the toy soldiers in question thus become motivated to annihilate a rival range of toys and, if humans get in the way, that's just too bad.Director Joe Dante recycles the plot of his Gremlins movies, only with action figures instead of Mogwais and Gremlins, and the results are much the same - a thoroughly entertaining movie filled with masses of entry-level mayhem. The toys are well designed and brilliantly voiced by a voice cast which is far more star-studded than the solid and reliable, but low-key, human cast.It is perhaps a little violent and intense for the youngest of viewers, but otherwise it is a solidly entertaining family movie. "}{"Title":"Affectionately made and with a lot of charm","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SMALL SOLDIERS is, essentially, Joe Dante's third GREMLINS film, except that the antagonists aren't gremlins this time around but instead normal, plastic toys who have been brought to life via military technology. It's along the same lines as TOY STORY, which came out at around the same time, but I think the Dante movie has the edge; it's live action, for a start, and the special effects used to animate the soldiers are remarkable.The film goes for a light action-adventure template with plenty of laughs thrown into the mix along the way. Like GREMLINS, there's a lot of small-scale stuff going on here, like fireworks being used as weapons and characters encountering the dangers of garbage disposal units. It's a kid's film, with child actors in the lead roles, but one of those ones that adults are sure to enjoy too.Cast-wise, we're handed decent turns from Gregory Smith (before he won popular attention with EVERWOOD) and Kirsten Dunst (just before she graduated to adult roles in SPIDER-MAN). Elsewhere, we get Denis Leary chewing the scenery as the slimy corporate villain, and Dante lucky charm Dick Miller as an unlucky delivery driver. Best of all are the voice actors hired for the soldiers; they're led by Tommy Lee Jones but boast plenty of veteran talent, including Ernest Borgnine and Frank Langella. Overall, Dante gets the tone just right, leaving this a highly enjoyable family adventure. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully clever and interesting film plot.","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Small Soldiers, 1998. A comedy about a mix-up at a major toy manufacturer's factory that releases 12 inch toy action figures that have amazing capabilities. The mix-up is that military super chips from war weapons have been incorporated into child toys. The toys become intelligent and cause havoc.*Special Stars- Gregory Smith, Kirsten Dunst, Kevin Dunn, Phil Hartman, Ann Magnuson.*Theme- The military's progress is often dangerous or questionable.*Trivia/location/goofs- Funny man Phil Hartman's last film and the film is dedicated to him & his legacy. THe film's director Joe Dante is a huge film fan and his films usually cast the same major actors that have appeared in his past films. Look for familiar actor's faces. Shot at Universal sound stage and Warner Studios ranch for village scenes.*Emotion- A wonderfully clever and interesting film plot that develops some very funny drama involving a family and action figures. I'm a little biased on this point of this review. I worked on the film for many weeks and enjoyed the cast & crew. http//groups.yahoo.com/group/CheckingtheGate/message/8.*Based on- Recent toy and military advances in the news media. "},{"Title":"underrated film is very entertaining","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a very entertaining film. It is an comedy-adventure movie with a touch of horror, but mild than most other movies like it, not completely family-friendly but near it. The CGI effects are top-notch even now and really worked mixed with the robotic close-ups. Tommy Lee Jones fits as the voice of Major Chip, the general of the commandos. It is an interesting film and has it's own fun, classic feel to it. The names of the commandos and gorgonites were great. Gremlins may have inspired this film but it isn't just Gremlins with toys. This movie may not be a classic but it is very unique and a rare jewel in film making. The very high entertainment level and quality effects makes this movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Love the soldiers, hate the dopes.","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movies is a perfect by the numbers action kids movie. In addition it has great special effects. The weapons the soldiers came up with were great, and the soldiers themselves were creepy and psychotic. Perfect villains. Some of the behaviors of the soldiers was quite disturbing. I also enjoyed the way the action figures and dolls were able to overwhelm the humans.The problem I had was that the soldiers has a lot more screen time than the Gorgonites, leaving something wanting as far as the character development there. I felt it was unbalanced.David Cross was great as the nebbish, and Tommy Lee Jones as the voice of Chip Hazard. Kirsten Dunst was also great, as Christy, as well as the actor who played her character's younger brother. Dunst's character was shown to be capable without being over the top. I was also happy that the screenwriter or director decided not to make the boyfriend character into a creep, but a more realistic character. In fact besides the characters of Gil and Phil Hartman's character, the characters acted more believably than would be expected in such a sci-fi movie.Phil Hartman once again played the cheeseball American consumer neighbor which I suppose was his Forte, and Wendy Schaal was good as the annoying wife.What I didn't like was the characters of Stuart or Alan Abernathy. They seemed like they were just templates to be pasted in to the script. Liberal, idealistic, unrealistic (presumably ex-hippie) fattie dad and his dopey misunderstood kid, Alan who makes good. I couldn't care less for either, and truth be told, that kid would still get friendzoned no matter what he did to help Dunst's character. The wife character (Ann Magnuson) was pretty interesting, well played and her energy was good though. It's sad that I find it more unbelievable that the women in the movie would have anything to do with that father & son dope duo than their being violent sentient dolls which can terrorize a family.I loved the freakish Frankenstein Barbies, and found the ending to be very good (not the maudlin Gorgonite part), with Gil deciding to use the dolls as military weapons. Sort of reminded me of Phillip K. Dick fiction, and might make a very funny short movie on it's own. Over all I liked this movies very much and it is great for kids starting between 10 and 15 (some blood, and disturbing images though such as the death of the soldiers and people getting attacked with nail guns and knives). This movie is in the vein of the sentient violent doll, but is unique in that it is not purely a horror film. A great movie for young boys of all ages. "},{"Title":"Joe Dante's version of Toy Story","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't quite follow director Joe Dante sometimes. Dante has been known for making parody films or versions of other films before. Piranha (1978) and Looney Tunes Back In Action (2003) are a couple but what convinced Dante to make a version of Pixar's Toy Story (1995) into something not meant for children confuses me. Dante has a very creative mind yet it's weird that he would create a movie that pertains to children but isn't for them.Small Soldiers is the story of two toy designers' dreams brought to reality; a deadly reality. The two designers, Irwin Wayfair (David Cross) and Larry Benson (Jay Mohr), have created their own action figures. One group is called the Commando Elite, a squad of military tactful individuals who pack quite a punch. The other group is the Gorgonites, a humble race of demonic looking creatures that have no intention of creating war. All they seek is to find their long lost home world, Gorgon.The problem (in the plot) arises when one of the designers decides to implant an advanced military chip into the toys' hardware. But how did he get the rights to obtain that chip? Isn't it top secret or something? Guess the screenwriters missed that loophole. Turns out, this was not the smartest move. Not to mention that their boss, Gil Mars (Denis Leary), wanted to have the Commando Elite programmed to destroy the Gorgonite creatures! It is from there that these toys were shipped to the Abernathy toy store where things start to get out of hand when the toys are activated. What a mess (in a good way)!There's a small love story among the chaos that occurs through the story. The son of the Abernathy family, Alan (Gregory Smith), falls for his next door neighbor Christy Fimple (Kirsten Dunst). It's cute and makes the story slightly more amiable. The main attraction here though are the voice actors and action sequences.The majority of the voice cast for the Commando Elite was taken from The Dirty Dozen (1967), with Ernest Borgnine as Kip Kiligan. The leader is Chip Hazard voiced by the recognizable Tommy Lee Jones who sounds perfect for the role. Frank Langella voices the character of Archer, the leader of the Gorgonites. Langella is good because he makes Archer sound noble and trustworthy. My favorite Gorgonite was Insaniac, a purple crazed-eye huge grinning fast-talking blabbermouth who spins around like Taz from Looney Tunes. This guy has too many funny lines. And who voiced him? None other than Michael McKean from Short Circuit 2 (1988).Jerry Goldsmith composed the soundtrack for the movie and it sounds great as usual. It's hard to find a movie that Goldsmith doesn't produce good music to. What can be considered a turn-off is the action. I loved the action but for others it may be too violent or demented. Some people may associate it as being a dark toned Toy Story (1995) film and in this case, they're right. Some of the contents here are not for children because it really is...well violent.Small Soldiers lives up to its name for having the action it says it has. However, it may be too violent for younger audiences. Besides this though, the music is good and so is the acting. "},{"Title":"A solidly underrated action/comedy film and a childhood favorite of mine","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Overall, I like this movie and I don't see why it was seriously panned by critics. I mean, I used to watch it numerous times as a child and a few years later as a young adult. Yes, I'll admit that the story is apparently flawed and the dialog is sometimes corny, but at least it had some creativity to it. I liked the premise about the Commando Elite battling against the Gorgonites which is in fact very impressive. It's kind of like Toy Story meets The Gremlins with a mixture of action, science fiction, fantasy, and comedy and it works really well throughout the film.What really stands out the most is the characters because their personalities and interactions got me interested to like them as much. So is the cast. Gregory Smith did a decent performance as Alan, Kirsten Dunst did great as the love interest Christy and most of the actors including Phil Hartman, Denis Leary, Kevin Dunn, Jay Mohr, and David Cross did great with their performances. The voice acting for the Commando Elite and Gorgonites including Frank Langella and Tommy Lee Jones are the epitome of the term brilliant. The strongest aspects, however, goes to the solid action, the fantastic special effects and some great music from the late Jerry Goldsmith.In short, not a masterpiece, but solid and underrated in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Its not a blockbuster, but it's what a movie should be","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie isn't a blockbuster. The script isn't that great. The acting wasn't that spectacular either. But this movie really checks out in one key category its a blast! This film is a popcorn movie. It's cool. It appeals to the minds of teenagers but I mean come on, its a fun movie! Toy soldiers fighting each other? Even if you're 70 years old when you watch this movie, you have to admit when you were a kid you played with action figures. This film really brought back a lot of memories because it takes the simple idea of toys fighting...and really makes them do it. The voice actors were really great though. Tommy Lee Jones was perfect as Major Chip Hazard, and the Gorgonites had excellent voices as well. Overall, this isn't a spectacular movie. But its a fun movie, and worth the watch. I'd watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"Toy Story meets Gremlins","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Small Soldiers' delivers what it promises a good time for the whole family. There's multi-layered humor present, young ones will laugh at the wackiness, while older viewers will appreciate the tons of movie references (apocalypse now, Frankenstein, and countless others) and double entendre jokes. Frank Langhella and Tommy Lee Jones form the perfect voices for the main toy characters; Jones lends a very dark-humored touch to his square-jawed uber-American character, spouting sadistic jokes and Langhella warmly voices a kind yet cowardly 'loser'.The story's pretty much reliant 100% on humor, it's not as ambitious as let's say 'Toy Story', which was engrossing and groundbreaking, but never the less 'Small Soldiers' has a lot of hits and few misses. I particularly found the purposely clichéd dramatic scenes dead on, with the death of Nitro as an example or the fantastic scene where the commander removes the battery from a dead private's body. The insane fashion dolls were also a hoot, screaming 'Let's see if her head pops off!' as they attack Dunst' character.A great success in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers - Fun!","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was really surprised to come here and see the relatively low rating of this flick. I enjoyed it in 1998 when it came out, and tonight while watching it the second time, I think I enjoy it as much or more as I did then. It was a groundbreaking film for CGI with a fun plot that any age could enjoy. (Ok, so maybe the Barbie Doll scenes were a little creepy for someone under the age of 9.) Definitely worth the watch IMO, if you would like to have an evening of good, fanciful fun.Not a blockbuster by any means, but definitely entertaining.And besides, what kid wouldn't want to have a box full of toys that could actually communicate with him?? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough CGI filled kids action adventure.","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Small Soldiers starts as Gil Mars (Denis Leary) the billionaire president of Globotech buys Hartland Toys & demands a new, bigger, better & smarter toy. Larry Benson (Jay Mohr) & Irwin Wayfair (David Cross) are on the job & come up with the Elite Commandos & their sworn enemies the Gorgonites, to add a little realism each mechanical toy has an ultra smart micro processor chip inserted, a chip which has the ability to think & learn for itself. Unfortunately the chips was initially designed for military use only & has the ability to learn & develop only it's initial software which in the case of the Elie Commandos is to destroy the Gorgonites by any means, when a boy named Alan Abernathy (Gregory Smith) takes an advanced shipment of the toy's to sell in his dads toy shop all hell breaks loose when the Commandos activate & go on a search & destroy mission...Directed by Joe Dante who was probably looking for another hit along the lines of Gremlins (1984) Small Soldiers is a perfectly entertaining way to spend 100 odd minutes of your time in front of the telly but in the long term maybe isn't that memorable. The script by Gavin Scott, Adam Rifkin, Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio was probably written with kids in mind but I think Small Soldiers is maybe a film which will appeal to adults as well, it's a comedy action adventure film which works well enough & does pretty much what it sets out to do. Although having said that the technology on display here is nonsense, even if there was a microchip as sophisticated as the one featured in the film where would the miniature mechanics for the toy's bodies come from? I won't even mention the battery that never runs out... The character's take a back seat to the living toy's on show, the likes of Chip Hazard voiced by Tommy Lee Jones & Archer the peaceful Gorgonite have far more personality & presence than any of the human cast but then that's to be expected. The dialogue is alright, there are a few decent jokes & cheesy one-liners in here. The film certainly has a nice pace about it & it keeps moving along, there's some OK set-piece action scenes even if I thought they were a bit forgettable & didn't actually feel like they amounted to much. Not the worst film ever made but at the same time not the best, it's OK & entertaining enough for sure but it lacked a certain spark, a certain magic that all great kids films have.Director Dante does a decent job & turns in a good looking film, there's plenty of CGI computer effects most of which look pretty impressive. The design of the Elite Commando soldiers is cool, they look all macho with exaggerated body proportions & I'd certainly buy one, OK maybe I wouldn't. As I said before the action scenes don't amount to much, the Gorgonites do nothing but either stand there or hide for most of the film while the Elite Commandos walk around a lot & say lots of military type jargon & one-liners but they too just don't seem to do that much. It's interesting to note that the American toy soldiers are the ones who become the bad guy's, the aggressors & the warmongers, considering this is an American family film it's an unusual & somewhat unpatriotic stance to take. Then again maybe I'm just reading far too much into what is a very simple & straight forward film, then again maybe I'm not...With a supposed budget of about $40,000,000 this had a healthy budget & it looks very nice throughout, the CGI effects are good & it's well made. The toy Elite Commando soldiers were voiced by Tommy Lee Jones along with George Kennedy, Clint Walker, Ernest Borgnine & Jim Brown who had played soldiers the classic film The Dirty Dozen (1967) thirty odd years earlier. If your wandering about the other two Clint Eastwood would probably have been too expensive & Richard Jaekel was due to voice a soldier but he died during production. On the human side the acting is alright, Kirsten Dunst looks very young in this compared to her Sider-Man films while Phil Hartman was shot dead in real life shortly before the film came out.Small Soldiers is a fine film, there's nothing wrong with it particularly but at the same time I didn't think it was outstanding, it's just my opinion but that's the way I see it. Try & catch it on telly for free. "}{"Title":"Great Story Great Marketing","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Excellent story well executed with a lot of thought. Decent casting with no wood! Well marketed idea, following a toy format, that goes out of control. Strong performances from all the cast put this fun movie in a league of its own. The moguls got it bang on in this tale of Action dolls on steroids, going out of control, via some weird chip implants.Basically enhanced and launched the career of Kirsten Dunst ( Probably her best role to date ever). Greatly repeated on the box now and quite rightly so. One thats joined my collection for a rainy cold afternoon. Come on Hollywood go spoil it where's the sequel? If not how about a lobby for a much needed TV sequel variant. This is a great conceptual idea, which needs exploration and consideration for such a script. "},{"Title":"Irresistibly Screwy Killer-Toys-On-The-Loose Flick","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Globotech is a giant corporation expanding into the toy market which unwittingly creates a series of opposing supertoys (the gung-ho Commando Elite vs the peaceful alien Gorgonites) which contain highly advanced military chip programming, state-of-the-art artificial intelligence and everlasting power. Misfit kid Alan Abernathy comes into possession of the toys, and they wreck both his home and his chances of scoring with Christy, the cute girl next door, in their increasingly explosive power struggle.Joe Dante is the prankster par excellence of the movies, and he makes this goofy yarn about maniac toys on the loose a barrel of laughs from start to finish. As a wacky action flick in itself it's a lot of fun, as the toys get smacked about with everything from golf clubs to lawnmowers and they retaliate with customised staple-guns, tennis machines and aerosol flamethrowers. But it's also a wickedly funny social satire of toy merchandising and corporate ethics, and a bittersweet teenage angst picture. It even has a touchingly existential ending, as the likable Gorgonites sail off in search of a mythical homeland. I particularly like the way the jarheaded, killing-is-my-business Commando Elite toys are the villains of the piece while the goofy Gorgonites are the heroes; for Dante, the weird and misunderstood are always more sympathetic than the conventional. The movie also has not one but two great casts; the live-action actors are a lot of fun, particularly Dunst, Magnuson, Cross and Dante alter-ego Miller, but the voice-over actors for the toys are just sensational (the Commandos are mostly voiced by the cast of The Dirty Dozen and the Gorgonites by the cast of This Is Spinal Tap), especially Langella, whose rich deep tones lend Archer the dignity and pathos his character embodies. With great effects by Stan Winston, this is a clever, enjoyable, nutty and lovably mad little monster flick. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Excellent Movie. Kristen Dunst is marvelous! The colonel played by Tommy Lee Jones was great. Even the addition of Phil Hartman was super. And I liked the early appearance of The Doctor (Robert Picardo) was a nice touch. I hadn't seen the movie in years, but this afternoon I sat spellbound as it wound it's story.Kristen Dunst is an up and coming actress that I have liked since the two Spiderman movies. I have rediscovered several old movies with her in the them -- Small soldier and Interview with a Vampire chief among them. She is a great actress with a wide range of talent.This movie was GREAT. "},{"Title":"Great Soundtrack, Good Action, Fun Antics","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Small Soldiers is one of those movies I like to have on hand for the occasional visiting kids, but I enjoy it, too. It has more than family-safe appeal (which I don't need for myself); this movie has music, action and humor in all the right amounts which makes it watchable several times per year.I think the soundtrack can be described best as a multi-faceted feast, perfectly integrated. Other than the Gerry Goldsmith orchestration, about which I can say nothing new and/or better, the movie contains sprinklings of pieces both old and new. For people of my age I can say there is nothing insulting to the senses. Rather, the occasional modern song is used to punctuate perfectly the goings-on in the story, often adding a touch of humor.The Small Soldiers, themselves, give unforgettable performances, sometimes so engaging they seem just as alive as the humans. I did detect some similarity to Gremlin behaviors and voices on a few occasions, but that just added to the fun. And there were a few times when Tommy Lee Jones' voice stood out and reminded me of the actor, but that added to the excitement. After all, Jones is among the best when it comes to doing action conflict.If none of that grabs your fancy I'd say to watch this movie for Denis Leary; he plays his part to the hilt including one of his short speeches done at warp speed. And his lines at the end are both funny and possibly foreboding, just in case a sequel wants to happen.Incidentally, I want to say the effects were great, but that may be a function of my TV. Not everyone was pleased.I'd have given this movie a 10 for pure enjoyability, in comparison to my other movies, but I had to take off for ridiculously overdone parents, all of whom could have been killed by a rogue Chucky to make me happy. "},{"Title":"This movie was great fun!","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. A cool concept, more plausible in many respects than Toy Story (which I also enjoyed, don't get me wrong), and some very cool designs and special effects, not ALL of which were computer-generated, unlike most of today's movies.I visited Universal Studious Hollywood around the time they were promoting this movie. They had costumed characters walking around dressed as the Gorgonites and the Commandos (the Commandos were getting a lot more attention), and they had a soundstage with most of the toys used in the movie on display. This was VERY cool to see. The characters were amazing, and some of the Commando vehicles were huge!I wish there would be a sequel. I know one has been considered from time to time. I think the next time around, though, the Commandos need to be more heroic. They were certainly more popular than the Gorgonites. In fact, I wrote a fanfic story (never posted it anywhere) where the Gorgonites and the Commandos have to team up to defeat a third, more dangerous threat -- large toy dinosaurs. (Stan Winston, who worked on both Small Soldiers and Jurassic Park, would probably love this...)Eerily, real toy technology seems to be catching up to the Small Soldiers. I've seen a new G.I.Joe toy that not only speaks, but it moves its mouth when it does (with a little user help). It also looks faintly like Chip Hazard. So maybe the movie-makers should consider doing a sequel to this cool movie before the technology becomes old news!  "},{"Title":"a perfect mixture of Terminator2 and Toystory","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film was really good.Rewatched it last year when I got the DVD and I must say that it's one of the few movies I watched in the 90's that actually aged well, It is right up there with Terminator2 guys.So the premise, actionfigures made to hate and fight another, are upgraded with military chips to be badass and think for themselves.So it is basically a few inches away from a R-rated Toy Story with a terminator twist... and that's where the fun begins.Love the actors in this, the father in Trannsformers and Dennis Leary as himself... amongst some of the supporting characters. The lead was well acted, and Ms Dunst started her training for her spiderman years with this...Loved it. Brilliant, funny, Demented. "},{"Title":"Pacifist movie that champions the underdog","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The ideas behind this film are similar to the 1992 turkey Toys but this film makes much better use of them. It is an anti-war film and it also satirises commercialism. Gil Mars says early on in the film that he's fed up with adverts that exaggerate the products they advertise like shampoo adverts that indicate that women will look like Claudia Schiffer if they use the shampoo. He wants his products to do exactly as they do in the commercials. Irwin Wayfair feels he has a good positive toy idea in the Gorgonites and is dismayed when Larry Benson says he wants to see them programmed to be destroyed by the Commando Elite. The Gorgonites are homely looking characters but they have a child like curiosity about the world. The Commando Elite are psychopathically destructive. Alan Abernathy is, like the Gorgonites, an underdog and he is also a bit nerdy. He has a crush on the girl next door, Christy, and she won't look at him. However, he gets a chance to live out his dream of rescuing her when she's taken hostage by the Commando Elite. Christy's brother Timmy describes her Gwendy dolls as stupid (a word never far from most small boys' lips in relation to dolls) and the film has a dig at Barbie-type dolls as well as war toys. Chip Hazard recruits her dolls to his cause and they tie her down Gulliver-like when he wants to take her hostage. They come out with some good lines like let's play with her for a change. Maj Hazard has a brilliant line in I love the smell of polyurethane in the morning. As well as Apocalypse Now there are digs at quite a few other war films like Patton. The fight scenes are entertaining rather than exciting. A very good film for all the family which carries a few messages.  "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers is about a toy company who uses micro chips used for war in Toy Action Figures. The Commandos set out to kill these monsters,and anyone with the monsters. The Monsters are friendly. The Commandos aren't. They burn destroy things. I really liked this movie,because it was a satire on war films. Tommy Lee Jones is pitch perfect as Chip Hazard. The film has a a lot of fun with it's self. Pretty bad Special effects though. But it manages. Dante is a great director. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Yep, they're small, but boy do they pack a punch!!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I caught this film on t.v. over the xmas holiday's - there was absolutely nothing on, and I was in a weird, I'll watch anything mood!. This film surprised me, and I really enjoyed it.Some nut at a toy factory has installed these new toys with munition chips - basically chips that should be in army type weapons - as you do!! You get the idea? You see what's gonna happen?! good. So these new toys hit the market and basically they unleash a war on each other, and it all kinda gets outa control!! There are the Soldiers, who you would think are the good guys, and there are others, Gorgonites I think they were called (I can't be bothered to check!) And these are the ones we should care for.It's a good film with loads of sub textual reference's to other films, merchandise, marketing you name it, and it's probably got a reference to it here - even the Spice Girls for God's sakes!!!! Actually that bit is funny - the humans are trapped in a house and suddenly the song 'Wannabe' blasts out of a stereo systemWOMAN - What's going on??!! MAN - Psychological warfare!!Genius! Best line of the movie? Major Chip Hazzard (Tommy Lee Jones)He was a good soldier. His battery is dead, but his memory will live on, and on, and on! (Duracell if you wanna know!!)Yeah so, if your bored and fancy watching a kids' film, then watch this, it'll make you smile.On the whole a good film with great effects.6/10 "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I guess this is not safe to say, but I'll say it anyway this is an excellent flick. When I saw this movie, I was smiling and laughing the whole way through. Joe Dante is the master when it comes to When they attack movie premises. He is also the master at in-jokes in movies. With this one, I think he out-did himself (and topping the Leonard Maltin review of Gremlins in Gremlins 2 is tough). The vocal talents are perfect for the characters, the effects are very well done and the acting is in good form (I'll miss good 'ol Phil). Joe Dante is one of those directors that pleasures in giving the audience a good time. I only have one film of his I didn't like, but the rest are just terrific. Go rent Small Soldiers, and look for the jokes. "}{"Title":"Peter Weir & Joe Dante are the same person","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers is as fine,  thought provoking and disturbing as 'The Truman Show'. This years second and, probably, last 'Must-See'. "},{"Title":"Good things come in small packages","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers was a movie I had much anticipated.  As a kid I used to imagine my GI Joe's coming to life, running missions and fighting mock battles in my room under the cover of darkness. So as you could imagine this a movie that seemed to want to take me back to those hey days of my youth. Problem being that, I think I would have enjoyed this movie more were I a youth.  Let us make no mistakes this film is essentially a rehash of Gremlins.  Toys of artificial intelligence replace the Gremlins in this film and the cast is younger than that of Gremlins Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates.  The film's special effects are great and the toys that come to life though the marvel of modern military technology and more than a little help by the wizards down at ILM interact seamlessly with the live actors.  Kind of like a real world version of Toy Story.  This is the sort of movie though that could work really really well if just could decided on a genre, Kids film or horror/comedy/action, kind of like stuff Joe Dante normally turns out. As it stands it is an uneasy mix of the two. One moment its beating you senseless with fluff the next its being quite cutting and on the money with its humor and violence.  It was almost as if the studios were frightened no one would come to see it so had better secure the kiddy dollar whilst trying to retain some respectability with the adults.  The live actors are senseless and irrational in contrast to the methodical logical thinking that seems to go on in the toy's heads.  Unfortunately there is not much room for characters to develop especially with some of the toys.  But when your principal audience is too busy worrying about how they are going to part their parents from their money to purchase the marketing tie ins. You really don't need to worry about a  characters trails and tribulations.  There are enough jokes in here aimed at the Adults and the spoofs of classic war movies (Patton and Apocalypse Now)  to keep you interested enough.  Also trying to pick the celebrity voices behind the toys is lot of fun, but unless you're willing to let the film pamper you a bit you aren't going to like it.  At the end of the film you are left felling a little let down, because there isn't enough substance.  I think though what really annoyed me about this film was that I was too old to enjoy it to its full potential and were I a 12 year old I would have enjoyed it more. On final note what is it with Dante and short little destructive things?  Next year maybe should get him started on a Smurfs feature. "},{"Title":"an excellent hero toy movie","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw that movie it was a very excellent hero toy movie. Tommy Lee Jones as the voice of Major Chip Hazard was brilliant. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christina Ricci as the voice of The Gwendy girls where cute but dangerous. Frank Langella as the voice of Archer was excellent. Kristen Dunest as Christy Fimple was beautiful. This story is all about a kid name Larry Benson (Jay Mohr) has been selling new stuff at the store. There where selling Soilders and Gorginites. They must stop Major Chip Hazard the Solider (Tommy Lee Jones). This movie is excellent you will like this hero toy movie with the voices of the Gorginites and the Soilders. "},{"Title":"Clever references but not as good as Toy Story","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A toy manufacturer uses military surplus microchips in his latest range of toys - the commandoes and the Gorgons.  When a batch of prototypes are activated in a small town the commandoes begin to take military action against the peace loving Gorgons, much to the detriment of the residents who find themselves stuck in the middle.This fared poorly due to inevitable comparisons to Toy Story.  However this has a much meaner feel that makes it more suitable for older children and adults.  The plot is quite clever at turns, I honestly thought that the soldiers were the good guys and it was quite a mind switch to see the monsters be the more intelligent while the soldiers are the real monsters.  In the background you can see that the film has something to say about combat, but it doesn't manage to say it very well.  The story's main selling point is the amount of cinema references that are in it - the casts of the Dirty Dozen and Spinal Tap provide voices, Apocalypse Now's helicopter scene, Patton etc.  However these are clever rather than funny and have the down side of distracting from the film, you find yourself spotting references and voices rather than getting into the story.The cast are pretty good - the kids aren't too annoying and the adult cast are filled out with quality like Dick Miller, Phil Hartman and a great cameo by Dennis Leary.  The voices are where the real strength is - Tommy Lee Jones leads some of the Dirty Dozen as the commandos while Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christine Ricci provide Wendy doll voices.  The Gorgons are played by Spinal Tap, but are mostly uninteresting characters with the exception of the comedian style one.  Frank Langella is the best voice actor in the role of Archer and gives a real area of seriousness and respectability to what is essentially a hunk of plastic.  For once this is a role where Langella's woodenness actually works to his advantage.Overall this is nowhere near as good, funny or clever as Toy Story.  But it's entertaining enough to hold the interest and it does have some clever moments. "},{"Title":"Harmless and entertaining - above average construction as a film","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1. This is one of those movies I watched as a kid and enjoyed now for nostalgia purposes. I think the DVD I watched this on was one of the first DVDs ever made.2. Top notch casting, even if some of the voice acting doesn't have the heft of Inside Out or The Lion King. Tommy Lee Jones aces it as Major Chip Hazard.3. Add a star for the Patton spoof where Chip Hazard recites every single cliché American speech line and turns it into the most patriotic speech ever made.4. The screenplay never takes itself too seriously but at the same time doesn't feel cheesy. Its a tough balance to walk for a movie about killer army men, but they handle it well.5. Its a delight to see Phil Hartman on film (his final screen appearance). Of the on-screen cast, Kirsten Dunst charms the audience easily as Christy and Kevin Dunn makes a mark as Alan's father. Gregory Smith is adequate as the film's protagonist Alan, playing him as a T2- era John Connor. Ann Magnusson has a very memorable moment towards the end with a tennis racket.6. Dennis Leary absolutely owns the entire screen as Gil Mars. I don't use that phrase lightly, but when Leary is on screen the whole movie is elevated dramatically. It is a Velma Kelly level of screen presence.7. The love story between Alan and Christy is goofy. Her boyfriend is barely an obstacle because she doesn't seem to even like him that much. She flirts with Alan in the same breath as saying that she only dates older boys.8. The battle sequences are fantastic, a great blend of practical effects and CGI. The use of standard house tools and items somehow raises the stakes to an incredible level.9. Its a great family movie but above all else it is just a delightful movie to sit down and watch. Certainly above average in all respects. "},{"Title":"I love the smell of polyethylene in the morning.","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Extremely Entertaining amalgamation of Toy Story (1995), Gremlins (1984), and the popular Kid Toys G.I. Joe, and Barbie.Director Joe Dante Loves In-Jokes and this one has plenty. The Anti-War stance (making the Commandos Psychopaths) is a welcome Non-PC take, The Hero Gorgomites are the Awkward, Pacifistic Conscientious Objector Types (who hide) and are Born to Lose.All of these Political and Social Statements are really not that important because the Film is basically an Action Romp, sort of a Toy Story on Steroids. It never fails to be Fun and is a lively, quite visceral Satire on War and Horror Films. The Music Selections are appropriate and the Score manages to arouse.An Underrated Small Gem that may have caught Audiences and Critics off guard with its PG-13 Violence and Gruesome Visuals. The Barbie Doll-Bride of Frankenstein Chapter is the most disturbing. Very young and ultra-sensitive Children may be scared.Overall, the Voice Cast is excellent and the CGI and animatronics are superior. The Movie has a Heart that softens the Story just enough to make it rise above the standard Action and Horror. It's an overlooked Film that most likely will remain in the periphery of Cult Films but including it in that Off-Beat Genre would not be a mistake. "},{"Title":"Great idea that needs better execution","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" GloboTech Industries is a giant defense industry and consumer conglomerate which acquires the little Heartland toy company. Irwin Wayfair (David Cross) and Larry Benson (Jay Mohr) are two designers who come up with two new lines of toys called Commando Elite and Gorgonites. GloboTech CEO Gil Mars (Denis Leary) wants to make the most advanced toys ever and Larry uses an overly powerful government military microchip. Alan Abernathy (Gregory Smith) is new in town working at the family toy store after getting kicked out of two schools. They get a delivery of the new GloboTech toys. Christy Fimple (Kirsten Dunst) is his next door neighbor with a little brother Timmy (Jacob Smith). Gorgonite emissary Archer befriends Alan. Commando Elite Chip Hazard leads his squad to destroy the Gorgonites.The idea is great. It doesn't need the exposition of the military-corporate conglomerate. It just needs the toys, the kids, and havoc in a small town. The toy company is a waste of time. It just needs the military showing up at the end to clean things up. Cross and Mohr add nothing to this. It would be even better if they concentrated solely on the kids fighting the toys. "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this when it first came out in the cinema way way back in good old 1998, the air was cleaner back then. *Cough!* sorry!...anyway I didn't really like it as I recall, it was hyped up pretty strongly but didn't really live it up to it. Surprise surprise on a re-watch I have done a 180 and now do appreciate the film a whole lot more, I guess I didn't quite get the tone first time round.Set in small town USA two sets of brand spanking new hi-tec toys are due for release but a small batch get an early chance of sales in a local toy shop. The shop is run by a humble man who has a slightly rebellious son, naturally this lad gets into some small fry high jinx (that builds) with these toys as they break loose and run amok. One set of toys are the good guys and one set are supposedly the bad guys, one group has been programmed to destroy the other and the local family is slap bang in the middle.Basically this is a modern remake of 'Gremlins' and I never even twigged back in the day. The whole premise is pretty much the same albeit in a lighter tone of course, replace monsters with killer toys. Everything is very clichéd and pretty stereotypical of small town America, the film is actually a very good little homage to those classic 80's teen flicks that involved monsters/aliens/the supernatural etc...Hell they even cast classic 80's stars Wendy Schaal and Dick Miller, who of course has starred in some perfect examples of typical 80's trashy horror comedies, including 'Gremlins' (that's not trashy by the way). Miller even plays a similar type of role to his 'Gremlins' character, direct homage to the genre right there if you ask me.Had this been made back in the day it probably would have been pretty dark, but lets give credit where credits due, this film is also quite dark. Its not scary and its not bloody of course but there is a nice undercurrent of evil that lurks within these toy soldiers. You would think how can a toy injure me, but give these little guys a big knife or nail gun and all of a sudden you've got a problem. This is how the film works well in my opinion, they don't hold right back with the action, yeah sure most of it is kinda silly, almost cute, but there are some slightly nasty moments where they have successfully tweaked the hairs on the back of your neck.The sadistic knife wielding 'Barbie-ish' girly dolls are a good example of this. The sequences with them involved aren't scary but its certainly heading down eerie street as they scamper around with damage to their faces and no hair. Almost a PG version of 'Chucky'...almost.The toys themselves are a mixed for me. On the one hand the gruff, butch, muscle bound military special elite soldiers are really nicely. Love the clichéd cartoonish caricatures of the typical buzz cut 80's macho action man, especially the cigar chomping ones. Not only do they look like a typical dirty dozen team with each member a master in his own field (explosives, communications etc...), but they got Borgnine, Walker, Brown and Kennedy to voice them! awesome much?!. The other two remaining soldiers are voiced by Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Dern so really its nothing short of sheer brilliance. And again back in the day I didn't even realise. Of course you have to remember that even though these little guys have been deliberately designed to homage their voice actors to a degree (and the action man genre). They are also suppose to be stereotypical action figures within the film, the type of toys that little boys would clearly love, look at their their names...'Brick Bazooka' 'Nick Nitro'. The characters work on two levels of the conventional stereotype.On the other hand the Gorgonites are a very surreal bunch that didn't really fit the style of the film methinks. Their leader 'Archer' is pretty cool looking and sounds epic voiced by Langella but the rest are a crazy ass bunch of monsters that would feel more at home in a Tim Burton fairytale really. I'm not sure why they didn't keep all the Gorgonites the same type of creature as their leader Archer just with different colours or patterns on the fur (go down the Thundercat route). I did like the dark twisted appearance of one or two of them sure, almost a bit 'Evil Dead-ish' if you ask me but they just don't fit this flick.I do recall that a lot of the hype for this film was down to the Stan Winston effects for the toys. To be fair these effects still remain solid today, gotta give kudos to the actual design and creation of all those action figures because they do look great, I'd have one. The CGI is also not too bad these days, its used for the more obvious requirements but blends in well. On the whole they managed to use both real props/models and CGI effectively together instead of just relying on all out computer effects.This film shows me how you change as you get older, when I first saw it I couldn't care a less about it and didn't pick up on half the details. Now I can see clearly what they were trying to do and I think it works pretty well really. Its not anywhere near as good as some of the 80's classics but it can hold it head up high as a decent entry into the comedy horror genre. I say comedy horror with a pinch of salt as its not totally like that, more a watered down kiddie PG version but still good still good.7/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining without being spectacular","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As far as family films go, this one has enough to keep the kids entertained without ever really enthralling anyone else. There are no noteworthy performances, though no bad ones. The soldiers are pretty cool, menacing as they are, with their hardline military attitude showing in everything they do- then you have the good guys, a motley collection of creatures, who to be honest fall into that classic trap of never being quite as interesting to watch as the bad guys.Everything else is what you would expect from a film aimed at kids- nice set pieces, silly jokes, etc. Standard stuff.A nice effort, but it won't be remembered. "},{"Title":"better than many","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a one of the rare movies that ends better than it started out. it starts out in a pretty standard way, and you think it is reinforcing all the cliched marketing stereotypes out there  the might of the american army / soldier, their efficiency, ugly monsters as the villains to be destroyed. but by the time it ends, you are totally in the camp of the ugly monsters, and they don't look so ugly by then. the story is pretty straight forward  toys fitted with chips that are far too advanced for them; things go awry when the soldiers who are programmed for war want one, while those toys that are programmed to lose are forced into fighting, with young kids taking the underdog's side.nice friday night one, particularly if kids are around. the violence does seem a bit too much for a kids movie, but at least nobody dies or even gets violently hurt. and btw, it has kirsten dunst, much before she was neighbours to spiderman. and she looks cute.  "}{"Title":"Imaginative and fun - with one reservation","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My four-year-old son watches this time and time again and I often join him. It's a well-made, imaginative film with enough humour to entertain adults as well as children. The animated soldiers and Gorgonites are a marvel and I still can't figure out how it was done.But they somehoe DO takle on a life of their own. My one reservation is about a detail right at the end - when the tech firm boos hands out super-generous cheques to all and sundry to keep them happy. The implication is that money can solve everything which, in my experience just isn't true and not a message I should like my son and his older sister to accept. But I look forward to future films by Joe Dante who has a real talent for this kind of film. "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers, Great Movie!!!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoy Small Soldiers; it´s like Toy Story meet Gi-Joe For me, this movie represented the return of the great Joe Dante; the same director that made Gremlins, The Howling and Innerspace. Small Soldiers have all the right elements; it´s funny and exciting. The action sequences of Small Soldiers are great, sometimes better than other serious films. I´m sure than anyone can apprecciate this movie and everyone can enjoy, since the guy who loved Rambo until the child who loved a Disney film. "},{"Title":"where can i get these toys????","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  a great show!  one of those movies that you don't think to much while watching, and you will probably be smiling at the end of the show. the effects are pretty cool and the premise, while far fetched (now), is an original line of thinking.  my family and i have watched this show a few times, and always had fun.   "},{"Title":"Fairly good movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   It wasn't special, or nothing like that, but it was sorta funny. Not everyone would like it, and I'm sure a lot of people hated it. If you're just planning on watching a light-hearted, kiddie flick, then just go watch this. I watched it on TV, and I say it was pretty much a TV movie (I was surprised it wasn't).It was good, though. No question. If you want to know what's bad, go see my comment about Blade Runner.  "},{"Title":"Before you go harsh on this movie....","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before you go harsh on this movie, this movie is a really good movie for some reason. It made me smile all the way. I just wonder why does people take this movie so seriously? It's not like it's going to get a Oscar or anything or the producers were hoping. Despite the huge commercials I thought underneath this movie had some hope about friendship. I thought the cast was absolutely wonderful. Kirsten Dunst, Tommy Lee Jones, Gregory Smith, and Jay Mohr. They're all really fine actors. I thought making the things that are normally evil into good is a very good idea. It's always nice to make something that's not normally that kind into that kind of thing. It's really interesting to me. BUT this movie isn't really for like older people...recommend five year old boys. They might enjoy it a lot. Toys v.s. Toys. They'll love it more than Toy Story I bet because of all the intense action and kids love a little action involved. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good cast","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this last night for my kids.  I wasn't overly impressed with the plot or the animation.  It was no standout but it was OK.  It was somewhat funny.  The kids loved it.What I thought was really cool was the casting.  It pitted the Dirty Dozen against Spinal Tap.  George Kennedy, Jim Brown, Earnest Borgnine and Clint Walker as the Commandos, with Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Dern thrown in as well, versus the wimpy, whiny Gorgonites, Michael McKean, Christopher Guest and Harry Shearer.Christina Ricci, Phil Hartman, Jay Mohr and Dennis Leary round out a great cast of a so-so movie.  Worth seeing if only for the cast.  "},{"Title":"A great film, but more than that","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If someone told you this was a good movie, you would rent it and love it. But there is so much more.........Unfortunately, this was Phil Hartman's last film, which makes you appreciate it more. it's very unfortunate cause he was a funny man "},{"Title":"If you think it's a kid's movie - go back to school yourself","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Browsing through the numerous comments, one can understand why Joe Dante still needs to make a movie like this one. The movie does exactly what one can expect from a kids movie. It simplifies, it provides easy stereotypes and the plot is easy to catch up with. I can only think the studio-exec which had to approve of this film down at DreamWorks himself lacks a broader perspective. The thematics of the movie might even be called socialist. The anti-war and clearly anti-capitalist message are stronger than in Gremlins. The Gorgonite tribe that leaves it all behind and searches for Utopia refuses to live in an inherently violent world. Good strikes back, which is of course a completely accepted notion in Lockian America. The stereotypes operate in a confronting way, even though my wish always is to hit a person where it hurts; in identification with the character. In the end, you get the feeling that an independent project on the same basis would have been much more thought-provoking, but Joe Dante has succeeded in operating within the boundaries of the studio system and still being the critic he is. Thank god a lot of people don't get the message, through that mechanism he was able to make this movie. "},{"Title":"Eerie Connection","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I've read all the comments on this film and I can't believe NONE of them mentioned the fact it was as eeriesque as can be. By this I mean the whole film has the feel, look and wit as Eerie Indiana. Heck, even Gregory Smith looks like Omri Katz, it's directed by Joe Dante, who not only was creative consultant on Eerie, but directed many of the best episodes. The whole first scene after the exposition of how the toys get made is the opening titles of Eerie, with the main character cycling to the store (in eerie, cycling on his paper round). I love this film, i just can't believe no-one else made the connection! "},{"Title":"Gremlins 3","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Thirty minutes after this film began, I realized Boy, this is Gremlins 3. 8 years after, Joe Dante almost repeats exactly the same formula a teenager gets a little tricky toy that proves to be extremely smart and that comes out of control.  This is no to say this is a bad movie, which it is not. There are great dialogue lines (See memorable quotes) and plenty of irony around. It's a worth-watching flick after all. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kid dragged me to this. but, seeing it, i noticed  that some of it was actually good. i also noticed Denis Leary in it too. what was he doing in this movie? i wish MAD Magazine would've spoofed it. Dick DeBartlo could write a spoof with comments like Denis Leary must've been stoned when they shot this movie it's ok. but i still wonder why did Denis Leary make this movie? "},{"Title":"Toy Story meets Saving Private Ryan","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story of toys coming to life and starting a war is silly, but still a setup for a pretty good kid flick. The cast is above average and the voices are great. Tommy Lee Jones probably had a great time bringing Major Chip Hazard to life. The soundtrack also gives an added boost to the film. Unfortunately, all of this is brought down by a script that offers absolutely no surprises and explosive action too intense for the youngest children. Not a total disappointment though. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Cool movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is very exciting,and funny.I love the idea of toys that become killers,but i`m sorry to say this but this movie is not as these killer toy films  Pinocchio`s Revenge Child`s Play Dolls Dolly Dearest and Fear.  "},{"Title":"Not Dante's Best, But Still Good","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unfortunately, I missed Small Soldiers in it's theatrical run. I was aware that it was Phil hartman's last movie but wasn't aware it was a Joe Dante film. I am a huge fan of Dante and his characteristic in-jokes.This wasn't as good as the Gremlins movies or The 'burbs but was very entertaining. My kids loved as did I and I think we liked it for different reasons. As a film buff I always get a huge kick out of the in-jokes and references (often leaving my wife wondering what's cracking me up).The script is admittedly a little weak and at times dark...but not every kids movie has to be fluffy happy Disney dreck.As for the comment that anti-war sentiment has no place in a kid's movie...um, so, I guess pro-war is better?This movie is great escapist fare and fun...I especialy enjoyed the scenes of the soldiers fashioning their own weapons from household items.I also have to take issue with the Frankenhooker comment (BTW, Frankenhooker gets a huge 10 from me). I liked the Gwendy dolls. It was fun and added a scary (for the kids anyways) element. It added a sense of danger and was a fun little jab at not only Barbie, but girls' obsessions with them.Again, not Dante's best, but still great entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Childhood memories","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this movie since it brought back many childhood memories of playing with toy soldiers and making them fight one another in one battle after another. But this one has a twist - the toys actually fight the humans. Not really an original concept, but what is original is the use of realistic battle techniques in toys - thanks to the 'war chip'. Quite fun to see the tables turned on the players and how they react. Hope (like the little kid in the movie) I don't get such toys for Christmas! "},{"Title":"the Commando Elite kicks so much ass!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're an oddball like me who's in their mid-teens and has a strange or focused fascination with sci-fi and/or marines, you'll love Small Soldiers. I mean, this movie presents the thought of these toys raging a real war against each other in suburbia as frightening, but if this really happened to me, it would be the ultimate sci-fi/war gift from God!First, there's Major Chip Hazard, commanding officer. He plays a sort of father-figure for the rest of the Commando Elite, and yet he still seems like the toughest of them all, even though he's the oldest. Then there's Butch Meathook, sniper. He's the only non-white soldier in the unit, but definitely causes you to not notice something like that, thanks to his almighty strength that definitely represents the black soldiers of America as the toughest of all others. Then there's Nick Nitro, demolitions. He's got a crazy hairstyle and a crazy smile that symbolize his gung-ho kick-ass cool attitude. Then there's Brick Bazooka, artillery. He's the biggest of all the Commandos, therefore acting as the bones of the unit. Then there's Link Static, communications. He may seem a little wimpy, due to his slightly short height and slightly high pitched voice, but he's smart and just as tough as the rest of the team. Last but not least, there's Kip Killigin, covert insurgent (I'm not exactly sure on what that means, but I just consider him a knives and other stabbing weapons expert). He's mostly seen cooly chomping on a cigar, and he's got a way with the Gwendy dolls, his favorite reinforcement officers.If you're an oddball like me, go see this movie, for the Commando Elite. "},{"Title":"It's better than you'd think","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented the film because I wanted to watch something stupid. You know, when you're tired and don't wanna do anything. So I rented this movie.After 15 minutes of watching this I was already in the movie. It's certainly a nice movie for a bit older kids. Actually I'm almost sixteen, but I still liked it. But then again, I really like this kind of movies. Well anyway, it isn't as bad as you'd think. So kids of 10 years and older should watch it. It's really fun you know. Have Fun!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Vaguely entertaining, but all-in-all a wasted opportunity","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was vaguely entertained watching for the references to other films (of which there were many -- sad to say it, but nearly all the good stuff in this movie, such as it was, was stolen from other movies).  But it got old very quickly.  When Ride of the Valkyrie's played I wondered if we were going to see a helicopter fly in, a la Apocalypse Now.  And yes, we did! And just to rub it in a bit further, the pilot of said helicopter (Chip Hazard, voiced by Tommy Lee Jones) says, I love the smell of polyurethane in the morning.Ha ha ha.  We get it, Joe Dante.  We got it right away.  You didn't have to stretch it out.  Or maybe he did have to stretch it out -- filler to hide the lack of actual scriptwriting, perhaps?The late lamented Phil Hartman put in an excellent performance in this as the obnoxious, one-upping, technofreak, materialistic yuppy.  Indeed, it is a testement to his talent that he managed to redeem some small amount of the irony and social commentary that the movie was busy bludgeoning to death. It was enjoyable seeing Robert Picardo in his small but perfectly done role, and the good toy designer (I forget his name) was a joy to watch.The rest of the film, with a few very small exceptions, was utter dreck. The sledgehammer approach that this movie used was particularily offensive, as was the way that the movie worked so hard at hammering its grudges into the audience's collective skull.  I think that Joe Dante often mistakes the airing of his own private grudges for thematic development, and this hurts the movie very badly.  It comes across as a bitter, angry fusion of Toy Story and Gremlins, leaning far closer to Gremlins in its utter lack of decency and character development.(Then again, the lack of character development should be unsurprising considering the lack of character.)Messages from this film bribery works.  Money is more important than personal values.  Parents never understand their children and don't want to. War is evil and horrible unless small children are winning.  Defense contractors have the power to hand out DoD security clearances like candy. Children can reasonably be left in charge of a store for a whole weekend. A sleeping pill overdose (paired with alcohol consumption) will wear off with no ill effects in under an hour.  And it's funny to put said sleeping pill overdose into your parents' gin and tonic.  An electromagnetic pulse (EMP) equivalent to a nuclear blast can be generated by placing a small plastic toy between two random spots on a pair of relatively low-voltage transformers.  Said blast with neither electrocute a child attatched to the toy, nor wipe out all electronic devices within its operative radius, nor cause any other problems lasting more than a few seconds.  Oh, and a satellite dish is adequate shielding, but is apparently too expensive for military use.I am forgiving the magic microchips that power the toys.  Any movie like this requires a few leaps of faith, and I'm figuring that since the premise requires these magic microchips, this is the leap of faith I should make. The rest, however, is complete balderdash.One last comment some have spoken of the funny Gwendy doll scene. Forgiving the obvious plot holes required to make one chip power all of those dolls (and their total lack of armatures, power sources, etc), I felt the use of the dolls was despicable.  What could have been a brilliant jab at Barbie turned into a remake of Frankenhooker.  Nice going, Joe Dante. "},{"Title":"Wins a battle, while being clear about the lost war","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is zippily entertaining and overwhelmingly well crafted, with boundless visual imagination (for example in the soldiers' conversion of a kitchen into an assembly line for bringing Dunst's Barbie-like dolls to life; or in the use of everyday objects as military hardware) and an interesting enough execution that the more formulaic elements (such as the kid's strained relationship with the father who doesn't trust him) seem particularly grating here. Among the entertaining passing evocations of countless strands of macho, disposable trash-culture, it also succeeds as a passable satire on the	excesses of a corporate ideology obsessed with growth and synergy - Leary's unrepentant attitude at the end sums up the morally bankrupt strategic coldness of that ideology, effectively offset here against such symbols of a better age as Miller's old-time delivery guy and Dunn's quixotic business of a violence-free toy store. The film allows the latter forces to win a battle while being clear about the lost war; a worthy enough theme for a piece of goofy fun. "},{"Title":"telling how great it really is","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is one great movie.  one of my all time favorites right next to Bad Boys.  I love the Gorgonites and the Commandos.  Archer, Scratch-it, punch-it, Insaniac, Troblocon and Ocula are just magnificent.  Just like Major Chip Hazard, Butch Meathook, Nick Nitro, Brick Bazooka,Link Static and Kip Killigan. "}{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This certainly is no Toy Story knock-off. Instead of being a sweet kid's story, it's a full-fledged good guys versus bad guys war, where many of the characters are toys. Tommy Lee Jones as Chip Hazard is great. The animation and special effects are superb, you can't even distinguish what's real from what's not. Of course there are plenty of unrealistic moments in the movie, but they don't detract from the enjoyment at all. "},{"Title":"Felt cheated when I see commercials of it","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers is simplistic yet fun film.  It succeeds in entertaining me with toy violence and sarcasm against anything beyond my imagination with such talented voice work by Dirty Dozen cast members and Tommy Lee Jones.  I felt cheated though... I thought the Commando Elite were the good guys, and the Gorgonites were the bad guys (I thought Archer was just a sympathetic soldier).  Then HBO comes in and tells everyone that the Commando Elite are the bad guys.  I wanted them to win, I wanted them to succeed and then they screw up the entire premise of the film with that.  By the way, I like the colorful Human cast.  They're pretty good and very... Wacked at some parts.  It's a nice film, but don't be intrigued by good visuals, it lacks ooomph and development.  God bless your last movie, Phil Hartman, even if it is stupid. "},{"Title":"Everything else is just a movie!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of those who supposedly fall between two chairs; aiming for the kids, but made for the grown-ups. Never the huge hit it deserved to be, it's still the most fun I've seen on screen since Jurassic Park! And I'm 25. Could be embarrasing, but I really don't think it is. This movie is beautifully shot, good acting throughout, with Kirsten Dunst and Denis Leary as the greatest. The voicing for the toys... well, what can I say. Even Disney has to envy Dreamworks this cast of characters. Tommy Lee Jones, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Spinal Tap, Christina Ricci, and the original cast of the Dirty Dozen as the Commando Elites. As for the special effects; Industrial Light and Magic always delivers. Incredible is the only good word. Everything else is just a movie. This one is something special. I've watched it 5 times already, and I'm not through watching it yet. I recommend this one to anyone who like to be entertained. For the buyers out there; Get the DVD. It has all the extras you could possibly dream of.  "},{"Title":"Some fun, but lacks something... Phil/","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie because I learned that Phil Hartman was in it.  I have always been a Hartman fan, and I'm 15. When I saw this movie I was disappointed.  The only scenes remotely funny were the scenes centuring around the creators of the toys and some of the scenes with Phil.  Phil Hartman has proved time and time again that he is a great actor, and yet he appered very little in this movie.  I think it would have been more humerous if it was all adults dealing with these toys.  One of them happens to be a toy collector, gets this toy, and it starts trying to destroy them.   "},{"Title":"Big movie on both the big and small screen.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had to drag my wife kicking and screaming into seeing this movie, but I had just sat through Mary Reilly, so she owed me one.  And she's glad I did.  We both enjoyed this movie a great deal, probably more than we were supposed to (we are thirtysomethings, after all).  It was like Gremlins without the blood and gack factor.  Fun characters, fast pacing, and nice use of unknown actors (the studios should do that more often) grabs you by the corneas and doesn't let go.  Equally enjoyable on a television, which is a rarity in these big budget flicks.  Great movie for those who like (or can tolerate) a lot of activity.  Watch it with the kids . . . you'll probably find yourself yelling louder than they are.   "},{"Title":"Lighten up!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is escapist, and should be seen as such...I went with my niece and nephew (early teens) and we all enjoyed it.  It looks a bit corny compared to the animation available these days, but that doesn't detract from the sense of fun.  I must admit any movie references went right over my head, and I thought that the use of a Led Zeppelin song was typically American and lost on anyone under 30!Gone With The Wind it's not, but it works for what it does.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"superb Dante does it again!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The master of small town American mayhem is back with a vengeance  with this great film which combines the best elements of  Gremlins Innerspace and The Burbs to create Small Soldiers well worth seeing if your not a Dante fan but a must if you are. "},{"Title":"Sam Wood could do both Hemingway and Marx Brothers","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am sick and tired of everyone belittling movies because they don't compare to For Whom The Bells Toll or Scenes From a Marriage. If you want philosophical twists on life or eye soaking drama, don't see those movies. If, on the other hand, you are a man with a well nourished child inside, you definitely should see this one (I don't mean to be sexist, but boys have a thing for action dolls).It is true that children wouldn't care much for the referrals to films and events, made in this film. So what? Those kids I know would enjoy the movie solely for the havocy soldiers. I watched Bambi as a child and didn't understand a thing. I liked it because it was fun to watch, but not until seeing it as an adult, did I see the movie for more than an unsafe ice dance scene. It didn't improve, just change. Small Soldiers is nowhere near Bambi, but still qualifies for a good, entertaining movie which depending on your age can be seen as funny dolls doing stupid things or funny dolls doing stupid things while reminding you of something.Personally I favour Small Soldiers over Gremlins for it's slightly more colorful personages and less sweet story. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am from Argentina, so we can not produce this kind of films, but it is gorgous! I expected a film for children, hovewer I have seen a comical and very clever film. "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining...I loved it","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was very funny.  There were so many great lines in it (especially Chip's Patton-like speech, and the Gwendy dolls' one-liners). The movie moved along quickly.  One of my favorites in 1998. "}{"Title":"A fun movie, that's kind of funny.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must say, I found this movie to be quite fun. It was a great movie. It had Phil Hartman in it. Phil Hartman, one of the funniest guys. My favorite scene is when the boy's little, girlfriend goes postal, on the Gwendy dolls. If you liked Gremlins, and like a dark since of humor, and some funny scenes, you must see this movie. I liked it. I wouldn't recommend it for kids though. "},{"Title":"A Letdown","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this movie. I love Joe Dante films and I thought he could really make this into a good movie. I was not able to get into this movie at all. The soldiers were all just army cliches that got real tiring. Every character was really boring, especially Chip Hazard. Even Phil Hartman was boring..and making Phil Hartman boring is pretty hard to do! The only thing I liked was the Jerry Goldsmith score. I walked out of the theater not real admitting that it was bad. I later came to terms with it.  If you see it expecting something like Toy Story you will be very disappointed. "},{"Title":"A great piece of pure entertainment","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I just read most of what other people had to say and some people have either taken themselves or the film way too seriously. I don't think it's the best film ever made, but it is a lot of fun and wonderfully inventive at times. In particularly, for those people likely to read this, there are so many cinematic gags that you can't help but love it (in particular the Apocalypse Now bit with the helicopter). To the 19 year old who felt he had grown out of it, who are you kidding - learn to enjoy your life and not grow up too soon. I'm 27 I don't feel I've out grown it - in fact I might well have reservations about taking kids as I felt it was more aimed at an older, well cinema-ed generation. It's definitely not a film with much of a brain, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. "},{"Title":"Exciting escapism","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers is basically the film every budding director wants to make - it's fun, exciting, full of computer effects and, although as a 'film' it has several flaws, it's pure escapism. That's what most people want from a film - and with Small Soldiers that's what they will get. Funny, charasmatic and memorable, definitely one for the older kid though. Toy Story looks pale in comparison. "},{"Title":"Action packed movie","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie was superb, fully action-packed with missiles and fireballs, it was one of the best movies I saw. My ears were blasting, the sound was amazing and so much action. I liked major ChipHazard and all the Goronites, I didn't like Archer that much, he didn't do much than tell there will be no mercy. Anyway it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"War & Peace makes adventure a Breeze","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When they made this show, kids were targeted.  Yet this show points to the kid in all of us adults too.  This film is good against evil.  The good--Archer & the Gorgonites, the evil--Chip Hazard & his Marines.  When you view this film, you think the marines are good but then you learn that the gorgonites are the true heroes and thus some kids feel sad.  I felt this show rocked in all aspects and anyone would enjoy a heart-romping adventure of good vs. evil.  Ya all go out and get this film when it is released!! "},{"Title":"An exciting action film with 2 levels of humour","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film, about two groups of toys that are created to fight one another,  has two levels of humour. On the surface, there are the obviously funny  sections which children have no trouble laughing at. Above that there is an  adult level where several films (eg Paton, Apocalypse Now) are well and  truly spoofed. There are also other gems  for the adults of the audience to  enjoy regarding Barbie dolls (aka Gwendys in USA) and the UK group Spice  Girls. Tommy Lee Jones as the voice of Major Chip Hazard is perfect, and  is typical TLJ. The Sympathy generated for the Gorgonites (The toys created  to Lose against the Elite Commandos) is almost tangible. I saw the film  in a special preview screening, but I took my son (8yo) and one of his  friends. I found nothing bad in the film for them, with, perhaps, the  exception of one or two low-medium level expletives (nothing that they  wouldn't hear in the schoolyard). After the film I asked my son (usually an  army-mad camouflage boy) which toy he might like to buy when they  eventually hit the stores and he surprised me by saying 'The Gorgonites'.   Sure, this film has some violence and explosions but there is no gore. All -in-all, I thought it was an enjoyable romp of imagination which no doubt  the toy makers will try to emulate. The special effects were great but I  thought the ending could have had a little more guts. In summary, there are messages in the film at many different levels, and the  audience will take away with them the messages that they themselves seek  out. "},{"Title":"A good premise that just didn't develop well...","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a movie with potential.  I looked at Small Soldiers and thought,  Cool!  There's a real opportunity here to do some things with the animation that has not yet been seen...  Unfortunately, the only thing that wasn't seen here was a decent writer.  This movie was not very well done.  The character development was almost totally absent, not only on the Commandos  but also on the Troglacons.  Not even the HUMANS were well done in this film.  The few chuckles that came from this film were fleeting, and I'm not if they were actually funny, or if I was just forcing myself to be amused because I paid $8 to see this stinker.  The bottom line is that I came in with decent expectations and left thinking I'd wasted $8... "},{"Title":"good summer movie for kids and adults with a little strong language.","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cute film that all children will enjoy. Beware of a little strong language. The characters are just delightful. Take offs like the patton scene will keep all the adults laughing as well. I find it refreshing that they did not feel  the need for the human american soldiers to be the good guys. I didn't understand why they felt the need for the strong language in a film for children. It was not important to the script and was really out of place.  "},{"Title":"Bemusing movie with action starred by toys figures and aimed for teens","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thanks to error, a toys store of Winslow Corners - a small and quiet town from Ohio- receives a shipments of war action figures. Former defense supplier Globotech and his chairman(Dennis Leary) and employees(David Cross, Jay Mohr)have transformed into dangerous soldiers toys to being mistakenly implanted with military intelligence chips.Commanded by Chip Hazard(voice of Tommy Lee Jones)take under siege the town and battle their rival toys , the Gorgonites, led by the pacific Archer(voice by Frank Langella). Meanwhile the Gorgonites join forces two adolescents Alan(Gregory Smith) and Christy(Kirsten Dunst). The commando Elite create wreak havoc into town and besiege the teen's house.The film packs a combo of noisy action,thrills, spectacular images, and being quite entertaining. Nicely main cast and agreeable supporting cast with Kevin Dunn, Phil Hartman,Wendy Schaal,Robert Picardo and Dick Miller, a secondary actor usual of Roger Corman and Joe Dante, among others. The Commando Elite is attacking like the 'Dirty dozen' movie, in fact the voices are played by original casting, Ernest Borgnine,Jim Brown,George Kennedy and Clint Walker. Furthermore, an enjoyable homage to 'Patton' movie as on images as brilliant musical score by great Jerry Goldsmith. Colorful and evocative cinematography by Jamie Anderson. Special effects are top-notch, the puppets are well brought to life, they're made by David Andrews's computer generator and Stan Winston's animatronic. The motion picture is imaginatively directed by Joe Dante. Rating  Good and amusing. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable piece of plastic.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take Fine special effects and a few moments of cartoon excitement make up for weak storyline and broad satire. While it serves up as much fun as his previous works (GREMLINS and INNERSPACE notably), cult director Joe Dante has created what I'd credit as his weakest effort at a film that strangely but slickly fuses rather dark tones (violence) with the wackiness of a Looney Tunes cartoon. Still, considerably, SMALL SOLDIERS is a decent, noble effort at duplicating GREMLINS while knocking-off TOY'S STORY, erasing the feel-good image of smiling cowboy dolls and space toys of that animated film. The special effects work here (done by veterans Stan Winston and the gang of Industrial Light & Magic) are of the best quality, with a nearly indistinguishable alternation of CGI and animatronics. The film manages even to afford certain amounts of pyrotechnics and (literally miniature) explosions, especially during the near-end climax. The problem lies on the real aspects of the film human characters (hardly hooking) and plot (which this film hardly has any). The cast (Tommy Lee Jones and Frank Langella as the voice of the toys, and Denis Leary as a sleazy CEO poking fun on Donald Trump) are fine, but rarely used in the films weak writing. But overall, SMALL SOLDIERS delivers a fine, and thankfully short, 108 minutes. It's decent family entertainment, but parental guidance is strongly required.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"possibly Dante's best since Gremlins","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A pair of toy manufacturers (David Cross and Jay Mohr) make a two line of toys that are powered by a state-of-the-art military chips. They are so powerful and so advanced that they go to war with each other, waging carnage around town in this vastly underrated kid's film that is quite possibly Joe Dante's best film since the original Gremlins. And although the film never quite reaches that height, it's still a very fun, if slightly dark movie. The fact that some of my favorite actors (David Cross, Denis Leary, Phil Hartman, Dick Miller) have bit parts in this film is just icing on an already tasty cake.I'll even go so far as to say if I was just born a decade later than I was, this very well could have been one of my favorite films.My Grade B+ DVD Extras Around 6 minutes of Deleted scenes; 11 minutes & 20 seconds of Behind-the-scenes footage; Sneak peek at the Playstation game; 5 minutes of Bloopers (mostly Jay Mohr with David Cross); Cast & crew bios; Production notes; and Theatrical trailer "},{"Title":"Decent spoof of war movies","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie doesn't have very much going for it; it's based on a theme that, no matter how you view it, is pretty corny... toy soldier action figures, fighting like real soldiers. Even from the guy behind Gremlins, that's fairly corny. He pulls it off decently enough, though. The action scenes and the various actions of the toys obviously parody various war movies, and this they actually do quite well; the problem is, why make a war movie parody in the form of a teen-oriented movie? Most teens don't care about war movies, since most war movies are from before they were born, along with the wars themselves. Had this film been directed at the adult audience, and gone for social satire instead of simple, weird catchphrase fun, it might have been something much better. The voice work is all very good, there weren't really any of the toys voices that seemed miscast. I really enjoyed Tommy Lee Jones as the leader of the army toys, and Sarah Michelle Gellar did a great job on the Gwendy dolls. Apart from the great voice work, I thought the Gwendy dolls were fairly lame, though. That seemed a little like the director had run out of ideas, and just went with whatever came to mind. I thought the actors all did a pretty good job, I especially enjoyed Jay Mohr, David Cross and Phil Hartman. Unfortunately, the film has more low points than high points; the romance between the two main characters seemed unlikely and bland, like it was just thrown in for the effect. Also, apart from of course the basic idea of thinking action figures, the film has too many unrealistic scenes to be taken even the least bit seriously. Too much of the humor seems forced, only fairly little of it actually has the effect it's supposed to have on the audience. I also thought the whole idea of having the soldier figures build weapons out of power tools and the likes was a decent enough idea, it just lacks any good explanation of how they manage to build such impressive firepower from so little, and this actually bothered me so much that I at times sat there, being generally annoyed at a scene based on such an unrealistic premise rather than entertained by it. Half of the film goes slowly by, with few laughs, little action and very little excitement. The climax is decently made, and fairly entertaining, but all in all, this is just one of those films that you'll watch, and then pretty much forget about. It doesn't really have anything memorable. Even the effects look dated already. They might have been impressive back then, but they look so fake now. I recommend this only to fans of war movies who want to see a decent spoof of it, and maybe kids and teenagers who can accept a decent comedy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I love it!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was fantastic!!!!!!!!!! great acting, wonderful director, likeable characters--I don't see how people dislike this movie. This is a must see film that should not be missed by anyone!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Toy Story.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable.****Very Good.***Okay.**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead.*Avoid At All Costs.I found Small Soldiers to be one of those movies which trudges along for the duration.Sloppily told,poorly paced and totally unoriginal,impressive FX and catchy voiceovers from Tommy Lee Jones and the like just make up for these major derailments.The blonde chick (my favourite types)was okay,but the Alan Abarnathy charecter just did'nt have any substance at all to him.He was as stiff as bricks.I would recommend this movie to anyone who liked either the movies Rainbow or that Rick Moranis movie set in a toyshop.Or,you could just see Toy Story instead.*** "},{"Title":"Dante's had better success.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Special effects may be more advanced  nowadays, but I wonder if Joe Dante really  enjoyed making this film. Now I'm a big  fan of Dante's, I think he is highly  under-rated as a film-maker, and it seems  to me like maybe he just made this movie  as a favor. After all, it is a basic  carbon  copy of his earlier Gremlins pictures. The  special effects were very nice and some of  the satire in Small Soldiers has Dante's  name all over it. This film just felt  empty.  "},{"Title":"Gremlins like satire pretty good but violent.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Joe Dante who brought us things like Piranha, Gremlins, Gremlins 2, Explorers... mines the Gremlins landscape for another 12 year old boy movie that mostly works but is not as good as it could have been.It's a pretty good film though with good special effects, ideas, some clever jokes, good lines, and it's all packaged quite well.Parent's beware... this is a film appealing to 12-14 year old boys all the way and that means it's a little more violent than you would like and has a couple of inappropriate scenes for younger folks.  Nothing truly offensive.. but...Some of the subtexts in the film, intentional or not are quite fascinating and I wish more was done with them.  The military chip that creates havoc, does so in the modeled after U.S. Army military toys but not the freakish (minority) creatures the military toys are after.Don't expect too much... and expect some missed opportunities within the film and you'll have fun.Oh and for the all the hype about Phil Harman's appearance, he plays essentially the same unrepentant loud mouthed self obsessed, material obsessed jerk he usually does and isn't in the film all that much. He's good at this... but it's nothing you haven't seen before.  Bye Phil.... wish you would have done your private detective character for us fans who knew you when you were a Groundling. "},{"Title":"A really fun kid's movie","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie never really popped in my head to see, but my friend had recommend it and said that it was a pretty good movie. So, I decided to go ahead and give it a look. It does have Tommy Lee Jones, Frank Langela, and Phil Hartman, what could I loose? The only thing that scared me was that it looked like such a boy's movie, I was kinda a Barbie girl when I was younger, but Small Soldiers proved itself to be a great family film.Anthony, a pre teen, just got a shipment of toys he wants to sell so he can make his dad's store some money. These toys aren't like any others though, they have chips in them and never wear off. Until one gorganite follows Anthony home and it seems like he is alive and so are the commandos who want to destroy each other. After all, War is Hell! Small Soldiers is a good film for everyone, I was pleasantly surprised and I would recommend this movie for anyone, it was very cute and had a great look to it. Tommy and Frank made great voices for these toys, not to mention that the last war scene was so memorable and cool to watch. For a girlie girl, I loved Small Soldiers! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Child's Carnage","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" On the surface, this is a pretty good movie. It's the story of technology gone bad as robotic children's playthings go overboard and decide to start trying to wipe out basically anything in sight. Their supposed enemies, the Gorgonite toys, are peaceful so help the humans stave off the onslaught in a nice action/adventure setting. It has technophobia and adventure, so it's a pretty fun ride at the least.However, it kind of undermines its own themes in that way. We are treated to a generally high level of technophobia and antimaterialistic ideas (putting military technology in toys? My dad doesn't want any war-toys in his shop) plus a general disdain for the violence in children's entertainment, but then the movie proceeds to be a special-effects bonanza of explosions. In fact, while it seems to be mostly a sort of combined Child's play/Gremlins for children, it turns out to be probably one of the most violent movies they could watch.Some images are even a little disturbing, such as the Barbie-doll soldiers with their warped faces or the level of carnage that occurs to some of the individual toys. Indeed, it's hard to say quite what demographic this movie is for... probably for kids between the ages of 12 and 15. At any rate, for children younger than that, I'd strongly suggest parental supervision while watching it.As for the aesthetic values of this film, it's not much on the acting, writing, or directing brilliance, but it certainly is effective at what it does.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"A lesser version of Gremlins","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I think of this film, I usually think Gremlins as played by toy soldiers. And not surprisingly, the director, Joe Dante, also made the film Gremlins, so I suppose that's a good thing since we know it will be well handled. But if you do compare it to Gremlins, we find the hero less interesting, the parents less interesting, the good creature, in this case toy, less cute and lovable, and the girlfriend character more ordinary. Then again, the evil creature, in this case toy, is much more evil, the action/destruction scenes, are much more convincing, but then again in Gremlins they were way funnier, the Dick Miller character, truck driver in this film, neighbor in Gremlins, is even funnier, and the whole beginning point of the toys, or Gremlins, is a little more real. Still, the film isn't as good as Gremlins, but it sure did try to be something different than most entertainment back then. It was. "}{"Title":"A gremlins rip-off (trust me)","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At first glance, this movie doesn't look like a rip-off. Yet, from the password Gizmo, to the director Joe Dante as well as having to see Dick Miller in this, It becomes immediately known that this is a rip-off of everyones's favorite little green monsters!(At least, to the audience.) But I admit, this is a unique rip-off. Instead of little monsters like in Critters or Hobgoblins(Yeech!), we have intelligent toys. And also, usually when the other rip-offs( This is like the 4th time I said that.) don't have a gizmo of the group, this one not only has 1, not 2, not even 3, but 7 of them, The Gorgonites(voiced by members of Spinal Tap), led by Archer(Frank Langella). Anyways, this movie's about a toy company, now run by Globotech( which sounds like some sort of Cyberdyne rip-off), and 2 employees, Irwin(David Cross) and Larry(Jay Mohr) who both have new ideas for lines of toys and shows them to their new boss, Gil Mars(Denis Leary). He approves of Larry's idea, The Commando Elite(voiced by the dirty dozen), led by Maj. Chip Hazard(Tommy Lee Jones, voicing the Stripe of this rip-off), He wishes to alter Irwin's idea of the Gorgonites to be the CE's enemies. Later that night, when Larry is looking for micro-chips (HA HA HA!), he accidentally buys Department of Defense chips for them, making want to do more than they should be able to do as toys. The Gorgonites themselves don't act like enemies, but peaceful and intelligent creatures. Anyways, a teen named Alan Abernathy(Gregory Smith) buys them both for his dad's store and... Well use your imagination. But anyways, While this isn't the worst rip-off(I got to stop saying that.), a honor that goes to Hobgoblins, it's not that great. 6/10 "},{"Title":"No audience","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A couple of brainy toy makers decide to make toys that can think and move like humans. (2001, anyone?) When they are activated, everything goes wrong. The neighborhood is torn apart by the war between the Gorgonites, peaceful creatures, and the Commando Elite, soldiers determined to kill the Gorgonites.The plot for the movie is okay, but it is too simple for adults. The violence is good, but too violent for the kids. To ensure a PG-13 rating, useless profanity was thrown in to make sure it was even less kid-friendly. The only audience this movie could have is with 4 year olds who have already seen Pulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect.","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Directed by Joe Dante, my second favourite filmmaker (after Tim Burton), this is one of the coolest films I've ever seen.  I think it should be thought of more as a mild horror film than as a children's film. "},{"Title":"Great kids movie.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Entertaining movie that especially the kids will like.The story is simple and easy to follow without any logic. In other words a appealing nonsense movie for kids that want to have a good time. Luckily there also are some jokes for the adults. Especially the Patton scene in which composer Jerry Goldsmith spoofs himself is priceless.Director Joe Dante goes Gremlins style again, although he uses the same elements the movie is not near as good but it certainly has the same amount of fun, maybe even more.What makes the movie are the wonderful toys. The Commando Elite is certainly a great piece of toy that kids will find very appealing. The Gorgonites are pretty lame and a bit too childish at times but luckily the movie focuses more on The Commando Elite. What makes the toys really cool is the wonderful voice cast, Tommy Lee Jones is really awesome as Maj. Chip Hazard, the leader of the gang.The human cast is also great. It has a great kid cast and the parents are portrayed very entertaining especially Phil Hartman (RIP) and Wendy Schaal as Phil and Marion Fimple. Jay Mohr and David Cross are also good for some comical situations.The special effects are also wonderful. The toys really come alive in a way you couldn't possibly imaging.Stereotype kids movie with an easy to follow story that maybe at some points is a bit too childish but very appealing to kids nevertheless.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Ambitiously small, I suppose","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was just okay. I understand that I am not exactly the target demographic for this one, but, well, there were no standout acting performances, although all cast members were okay. Of course the animation and CGI were outstanding. It was awfully violent for a family genre, though. I got a few chuckles from the references to various war movies. Don't really recommend this one, though. Grade C- "},{"Title":"watchable but routine","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Toy Story meets Rambo in this conventional story about a manufacturing company looking for the next big thing. They design military action figures and brainy monsters hoping to appeal to young kids, but make the crucial mistake of programming them with state-of-the-art munitions chips. When a teenager unexpectedly acquires a set of the technologically advanced action figures, they get out of control then declare war on their enemies and all humans unfortunate enough to be in their line of fire. Cast is good, the voice work is done especially well, and there are some impressive visual effects, but there are no surprises and the premise is stretched beyond its limit. **½ "},{"Title":"Fun, Action, Explosions; What more do you need?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is for some reason regarded as a children's movie, but I found it enjoyable in all respects even though I am 20. It is funny and exciting, and the animations are great. Tommy Lee Jones' voice fits the Chip Hazard doll perfectly, and Denis Leary makes the end work extremely well. Some of the other characters have not been fully developed, but you don't expect that from a film of this type. "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers was a very disappointing movie.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It had the chance to be very good, but it turned out wrong. The story wasn't very convincing, which normally wouldn't be a problem, but what I found was the biggest problem, was that I didn't care about any of the characters. First you have this kid named Alan who works for his father in a toy store. He seems to have this reputation around school, but while that got fully explained really quickly, it was built up so much; you thought there would be more to it. Then you have this girl he really likes (for no apparent reason than because she's beautiful, but I guess that's not too much of a problem) named Christy. But she has a boyfriend, so you figure there'd be this love triangle thing going on, but it never happens. So then you have these toys. Toys that have been implanted with a smart chip built by the military. They have the ability to talk, talk back, and learn. So one set of toys (the Commando Elite) is programmed to attack and kill the other set of toys (the Gorgonites). Sound exciting? Well, it isn't.So what is this movie about? Is it about this boy Alan, trying to win the girl? Is it about him tyrying to win his fathers acceptance? Is it about these toys called the Gorgonites? What the hell is this movie about? It seems it's only about toys killing toys, and if people get in the way, kill the people. This movie was not funny. So don't go in thinking it'll be like Toy Story or Toy Story 2 because it isn't like either of those films. Both those films were entertaining. And more importantly, both those movies had heart, and characters you cared about. I could have cared less if Alan got the girl, or saved the poor little Gorgonites. And speaking of the Gorgonites, I was getting a little tired of the leader of the Gorgonites (Archer) complaining all the time of how they were programmed to lose. Did he lose? Hell no. He won! Not only that, while all the other toys seemed to get destroyed, him and his band lived. All because they were covered partially by a satellite dish? Please. The only redeeming thing about this movie was the computer animation. It is remarkable how they can make things look so real. The toys really did come to life on the screen. But other than that, this movie had the chance of being really good, but instead fell flat on its face. Give me characters I care about. Or give me a real story. Or give me a reason for all the violence. This movie seemed to be targeting kids, but I don't think this was a kid's movie at all.  "},{"Title":"Not As Big As Toy Story.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Small Soldiers (1998) Dir Joe Dante / Cast Gregory Smith, Kirsten Dunst, Jay Mohr, Denis Leary, Dick Miller Plays like an evil counterpart to Toy Story and no more acceptable to children than The Terminator. We witness a boy climbing hydro lines. We see flames and sharp objects hurled at a home. Kirsten Dunst is attacked and tied up by an army of naked dolls. Visually stunning film regarding smaller factors triumphant over big challenges. Plot regards action figures that learn through battery efficiency. There is the ugly yet peaceful Gorgonites who search for their home land while avoiding the vicious Commandos. They are discovered by a boy left in charge of his father's store but eventually they escape. Setup displays how violence is marketed but it is ugly. Directed by Joe Dante who also made Gremlins for which this film is quite similar. The difference is that Gremlins contained engaging characters and a lesson of responsibility while Small Soldiers is just plain violent with characters at the mercy of bad writing. Gregory Smith nearly electrocuted in power lines. Dunst slices Commandos via lawn tractor. Jay Mohr and Denis Leary appear as manufacturers who play off the marketing theme. Dick Miller is a Dante regular but not given a role as interesting as Mr. Futterman in Gremlins. The special effects are on target but for children, it is recommend the superior Toy Story. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Toy Story meets the Standard Action Film","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Small Soldiers is one of those B movies which you would probably skip if you heard the premise of it. I revisited it today since it was on the Encore Action channel at the cabin I am staying in, and I can say there's a reason I did not remember much of this movie since watching it in my childhood.So the premise is basically this take Toy Story, mix it into a live action film, separate the toys into 2 rival gangs who fight each other, and finally, make the toys dumber and more aggressive than they were in Toy Story. Oh, and make it PG-13, because if there's any way to improve a movie with a premise which should be kid-marketed, it's by making that movie PG-13.While the CGI is poor and the action of the film doesn't necessarily entertain me, Small Soldiers has some good thematic material, although it is somewhat typical of an action film of this nature. A good amount of the thematic material has to deal with not surrendering, fighting/violence is not the answer, and so forth. A good one that goes beyond the typical themes in action films is that a line is revisited Just because you can't see something doesn't mean it isn't there or something along the lines of that.The way they set up the premise for this film was pretty strange; two toy engineers came up with two different sets of toys &#x96; one alien, one a group of soldiers &#x96; and their boss had the great idea of making the two sets rivals. Then, the guy who created the soldiers ordered microprocessors for both sets of toys, which happened to be used by the military, which meant the toys became very dangerous once activated. They became a type of artificial intelligence, though one side character described it as being more like actual intelligence. To avoid the entire nation being terrorized by the aggressive commandos, the film conveniently made it so that one kid who worked at his dad's toy shop would be able to test these toys before their actual release. This kid is, of course, the main character of the film, and of course he got his own romantic subplot with a young Kirsten Dunst.This film was a little bit of an upset in my opinion &#x96; they could have waited a few years until CGI was a bit better, they could have made this more kid-friendly which probably would have made it much more profitable, and the plot was somewhat sloppily put together. This film has a good aesthetic and passes for a good B movie, but it is not a film I would revisit often. "}{"Title":"Below average Dante","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joe Dante is in Gremlins territory again, playing with some surprisingly decent late 90's CG instead of puppets. But Small Soldiers wavers between anarchic Dante and lame studio formula. The opening 10 minutes with David Cross and Jay Mohr is dreadful at best and a showcase of lazy writing for what should be an exciting set-up for the toys that will soon wreck havoc. What we get is bad dialogue and Mohr ordering defense chips online - oooo exciting! If Dante is going to be knocking off his own Gremlins, the film would have been much better served by terrorizing the whole town with these toys, instead the story is limited to two uninteresting families living next to each other. Cross and Mohr re-appear like bad writing magic just when the action is getting going in the last act. This will hardly be remembered as one of Dante's best and sadly remembered as Phil Hartman's final film. "},{"Title":"Quite scary for some children","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think the film was well put together, and it was also all over a good film, and the rating was of a good level.Kirsten's acting has improved over the past years, as this wasn't the strongest acting I've seen from her, but I didn't like Gregory Smith at all. It was the first film I have seen with him in, and it is an understatement to say it didn't make a lasting impression.I did find myself getting a little confused with the plot at times, but was able to catch up with the story. The prospect of action figures and dolls doing things like this, however, was a scary point to the film, and I don't reckon it should be classed as 'family viewing'. "},{"Title":"A Fun And Menacing Movie Full of Action Laughs.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Small Soldiers was a very funny kid's movie that had a lot of action and was surprisingly funny at times. The animated toy soldiers and barbies were very good, and the movie had a good cast with Gregory Sith, Kirsten Dunst, and Denis Leary. Small Soldiers is a fun movie. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another version of 'robots on the rampage'","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A highly entertaining movie of the genre where electronic hardware goes on the rampage (be they computers or robots).Much humour, but with a hint of horror. Fortunately, there is no gore.In my opinion, not quite worth a visit to the cinema, but very worthwhile on video. An ideal accompaniment to a tedious task like ironing. "},{"Title":"Tedious and humorless","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The best thing about this film are the Gorgonite characters, particularly Archer who is both motivated to act and instantly sympathetic - as much as any puppet I've seen since ET.  The human characters are even more stereotyped than the dolls.As for the rest of the film, it's probably director Joe Dante's worst.  It plays on a lot of the aspects of his other films, including Gremlins, but its humor is far too blunt and never hits target.  The Commando Elite dolls are an attempt to be warlike and sadistic without losing the humor of what is essentially a puppet show.  But they are so awful and even physically repulsive that you wind up questioning why the human characters don't grab some aluminum baseball bats and practice being Mark McGwire for a day.  Most of the other plot points are perfunctory.  Of particular note for repulsiveness is when the Commando's program a bunch of Barbie dolls to join their army.  If you like Joe Dante, Matinee or any of the Gremlins films are better than this one.  The plot holes could swallow Passaic, Elizabeth, Fort Lee AND Hoboken.The Kirsten Dunst factor calls to mind Jumanji, which is in many ways the same (but a much better) flight of computer animated fancy.  It may also call to mind another Jumanji-cast member (Robin Williams) film Toys, which is about on a par with this, although this one at least features some sympathetic characters (the Gorgonites).  If you like to see Kirsten Dunst squealing and  running away from special effects, this might be your film. She's still a good actress.Trivia note  Spinal Tap band members voice the Gorgonites, the Dirty Dozen cast voices the Commando Elite.  Tommy Lee Jones is the voice of Chip Hazard, the Commando leader.  His role is one note and without those basset hound eyes, he begins to grate.  Lou Gosset Jr. or the drill sergeant from Full Metal Jacket might have been better choices.  "},{"Title":"a small thin red line","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small Soldiers, with its numerous inside jokes and references to other movies, shamelessly invites comparisons with other movies. It has been compared to Toy Story, for obvious reasons, and Gremlins, an affinity aided by the fact that Joe Dante is the director of both Small Soldiers and Gremlins. I'm going to compare it to a movie most wouldn't think of comparing it to - Starship Troopers.I make that comparison because both Small Soldiers and Starship Troopers have a violent, ironic understructure its intended audience is going to miss. Let me clarify. Starship Troopers was a sci-fi action movie, with lots of blood and gore. It also had a vaguely Nazian, militaristic backdrop which was supposed to be satirical and ironic (look at all the pretty people marching off to their gung-ho death!) But the intended audience, teenagers, are not going to get that joke. Most teenagers couldn't you tell the years WWII were waged, never mind get the totalitarian overtones. Small Soldiers does the same thing - it offers a satire on militarism and violence, but the targeted audience of little kids is not going to get it. All they're going to see are dismembered dolls, life-threatening attacks on adults, and a lot of scary gunfire and fireballs. This movie isn't appropriate for little kids at all.That's not to say it isn't any good, just deceptive. Older kids, and adults with a touch of kid left in them, will enjoy it. The plot revolves around toys that come to life, and adjust and learn from life, because of an advanced computer chip rejected by the military (James Cameron, where are you?) The movie does a nice reversal by making the G.I.Joe - type good guys the bad guys, and the Gargonites, the ugly enemy, the good guys. They have to quit being losers and fight for themselves, and who can't relate to that? The plot is archetypal but solid, its fun, and the special effects are really good, by the inimitable Stan Winston. But its intensity and its targeted audience are way out of whack. But this movie will help accomplish one thing - the death of the idea that animated, and partially animated, movies are just for kids. "},{"Title":"A 108 minute commercial","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small SoldiersThis last weekend I crumbled to the pressure of my eight-year-old son and rented Joe Dante's Small Soldiers.  Like most video releases nowadays, Small Soldiers begins with a commercial.  Several manufacturers, including Hasbro Toys (creators of G.I. Joe), advertise their film-related products.  Unlike most video releases, however, with Small Soldiers it's difficult to tell where the commercial ends and the movie begins.  In its plot, characterization, theme, and, yes, even action, Small Soldiers never rises above the level of a 30 second toy commercial.  This is one movie conceived and created with toy marketing as a very definite goal. The plot is childishly simple.  If you managed to sit through Robin Williams' bloated Toys then this movie will look mighty familiar.  At the beginning of the film a small, Midwestern toy manufacturer is bought out by a large defense contractor.  One of the toy designers, in an effort to please his new boss, creates a line of talking, moving toy soldiers, the Commando Elite, using a microchip originally intended to guide nuclear missiles.  The outcome of this is fairly predictable.  The toys begin wreaking havoc as soon as they are taken out of their boxes.  A second toy designer, not quite as jaded as the first, designs the Gorgons, an enemy for the Commando Elite to fight.  The peace-loving Gorgons, we quickly learn, are the good guys.  They dress like TV's Hercules, carry tiny, little bows and arrows, and want to move to Yosemite.  What more could you ask from good guys? Alan, a 14 year old, temporarily left in charge of his dad's toy store, talks the toy delivery man into leaving him a set of the Commando Elite and Gorgons, despite his father's refusal to sell any war-related toys.  The commandos first wreck the toy store, then, after following Alan home, proceed to destroy his entire neighborhood.  In the process they employ a wide range of weapons including propane torches, chainsaws, and nailguns. Sounds like wholesome, family entertainment to me.  That, of course, is the most serious problem with this movie; it has no real audience.  Only a child could appreciate the thin plot and the talking toys, but the profanity and violence (for which the film received a much needed PG13 rating) make this movie questionable, at best, for children.  Adults watching the movie, on the other hand, will simply be depressed as they anticipate the unbridled avarice of the upcoming holiday season. Perhaps the most depressing thing about this film is that it could have been so much more than a 108 minute toy commercial.  There are hints throughout of a more thoughtful theme, a criticism of our modern craving for new technology and new levels of violence in our entertainment and in our toys.   Alan's peace-loving, old-fashioned, tree-hugging father, for instance, is contrasted with Phil, his technophile neighbor, played by the late Phil Hartman, who is seen cutting down a tree to improve the reception of his new satellite dish.  The same contrast is found as the low-tech, peaceful Gorgons are forced to fight the high-tech, murderous Commandos. All of this moral high ground is lost, though, during the brutal, albeit shrunken, battles that fill two-thirds of the film. So is there any reason to watch this movie?  Maybe one; those folks old enough to remember the original Dirty Dozen will recognize Ernest Borgnine, Jim Brown, and George Kennedy (along with Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Dern) as the voices of the Commando Elite.  That should be a real tip-off.  If you don't mind your kids watching Ernest Borgnine machine- gun truckloads of screaming German soldiers you won't have a problem with Small Soldiers.  Otherwise I would avoid it like I would a live hand grenade. "},{"Title":"Dante's Inferno","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this is a film with an intelligent script and clever satirical cultural allusions.  As such I must say that (aside from wishing that I had brought ear plugs to blunt its high-volume assaults on the ear) I rather enjoyed it. Yet it will appeal primarily to 10-14 year olds; and I shudder to think what we're coming to if this level of violence and aberration has now become appropriate entertainment for them. These folk will be in charge of the country and supporting me in my old age, if they let me live that long.  Does prudence demand being in the market for a bit of land on a small island halfway around the world?Perhaps what an ambitious and unprincipled manufacturer does to make toys kick butt is about what an ambitious and unprincipled movie maker does to rake it in at the box office. Let's hope that the latter act of pushing the envelope doesn't ultimately leave the same destruction in its wake.  From what I gather, the young crowd hasn't gone altogether gaga over this movie.  No thanks to Joe Dante, there may be hope for them yet. "},{"Title":"Disappointed...","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was disappointed with this film, I heard from people it was good, but it just didn't have what it takes to be on the top 10 list of mine, bad characters, and the toys weren't all that great. "},{"Title":"Dull, Flat, Lifeless","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You would figure that the three most talented men in Hollywood could create something better than this waste of film. When will they get a clue? I walked out 20 minutes into the movie and that was 15 minutes too late. Horrid stuff. "}{"Title":"Demented","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie scared the living crap out of me. I mean sure, I laughed, and yes it's star-studded and all that fun stuff, but it seriously made me want to throw away anything that even resembled an action figure! I went to this film expecting a fun romp... and for the first half of the movie, that's what I got. However, when the 'Small Soldiers' began to take action... that's when I almost wet myself.Corn holders, flamethrowers, masochistic Barbie Dolls, and mass destruction (As well as Phil Hartman's last film, God rest his comedic soul). I can't say I've seen many movies about toys that fire corn holders in to a kid's leg, blow up a house, or try and strangle a girl in a strange bondage type scene. The only difference between this and the Child's Play movies is that I've never owned a freaky doll that looked like Chucky. I used to have toys like in my room! Thankfully I played nice and they never tried to murder me with an apparatus used for holding maize.Overall, it's amusing so long as you can stand the bizarre violence of action figure toys, which we all know and love, trying to kill something. The moral message at the end of the movie sure inspired me greatly and made me wonder how much Microsoft paid to get the Keeper of Encarta plug in there. Anything to get my mind off those demented and masochistic toys.  "},{"Title":"Not for the kiddies - Not for grownups","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Reviewers and commenters bitched about the movie's inappropriate level of violence for the wee ones. So true, but that's not what sinks this movie. It's that the rest of the movie, outside of the violence is very much pitched to the level of little kids.  I mean the plot and characterizations are cardboard simple.  The good are very good; politically correct, caring, tree hugging and goofy.  The bad are very bad; warlike, martini drinking, tree cutting corporate baddies. And of course the plot is simple; the bad do bad things, but the in the end the good give them their comeuppance.  The problem for the kiddies is that this comeuppance is the toy version of the opening scene of Saving Private Ryan. If DreamWorks had cut out the toy violence and kept their mindless characters and story they might have made some money on this stinker.  Grownups avoid. "},{"Title":"YOU KNOW FOR KIDS","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Small Soldiers' drags itself in the first 30 minutes, but then picks up the pace and plot to satisfaction. The problem with the film is the film references are so obviously aimed at adults. However the thin storyline is aimed at kids. It will never really reach it's target audience. Not as cute as 'Toy Story', and not as clever. "},{"Title":"Typical Dante flick meets dirty dozen","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is a lot to like in this film.  The acting talents- (Gregory Smith, Kirsten Dunst, Jay Mohr, Phil Hartman in his last performance, David Cross of Bob and David and Denis Leary), the special effects (sometimes the action figures are real, sometimes they're not) and the story (commando elite are fitted with munition chips and go crazy in a fight against the gorgonites). But it is not completely great.  I mean, it isn't the best of the year, but at least it tries.  Good to a point, if you like what I've mentioned. A- "},{"Title":"Not small enough","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was cinema-as-garbage.  Do not go, do not take the kids, stay as far away as possible.  Mean-spirited, violent as hell, not a decent performance or line of dialogue.  Everyone involved should be ashamed to say they were connected  with this trash. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This one needs more laughs and other things...if it had them it would have been a very funny and good movie.  What we are left with is a comedy that in places takes itself way to seriously.  Missile chips are placed in this toys and it makes them respond to commands and the like.  Unfortunately, it also gives them a will of their own and they go on the rampage.  It would have been a funnier movie if these toys just overtook a town, or maybe they were harmless and just did stupid things, but instead they are after these other monster robots whose appearance in the film wrecks the whole thing.  The monsters are also smart as well and can move about, but they add nothing to the plot.  The human characters aren't the best either, with the exceptions of Jay Mohr, Phil Hartman, and David Cross.  The rest, including Kirsten Dunst are just not funny or good.  The whole premise of the guy with the toy store and not wanting military toys, but the son thinking he should was just bad.  I would have preferred some other device to get the toys in town.  Good for a couple of laughs though it is an ok flick...just not what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Lackluster Family Film","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Small Soldiers is something of a disappointment. For one thing, this is no Toy Story, which is probably what inspired this. What is the point of all of it, anyway? I'm serious. What is the point? Kid plays with toys. Soldier toys come alive. Then all of a sudden this kid's life is in jeopardy. Big deal. And even if this were on the same level as Toy Story, I still wouldn't be interested in it, because I have no interest or understanding of G.I's, Soldiers, or anything military-related. It's not my cup of tea, or my life. With that being the case, It doesn't help for this movie to not at least be much more interesting. There's a pointless sequence towards the end of the movie where these soldiers are blowing things up. This movie may be OK for the kids, but I'm not sure most of this material is appropriate for them. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Engaging animation adventure comedy","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A sort of spin-off from any number of children's suburban fantasy adventures, like Toy Story, Gremlins and Batteries Not Included. It's a competently constructed, often funny but limited animation. It's biggest draw is the seamless composition of motion picture and CGI, combined with the action figure animation - it's all very convincing. Naturally the fact that one is supposed to understand that these are toys that have 'come alive' rather than very small people means that the rough edges are as important a part of that composition as the rest. Nifty.The voicing of the characters is not particularly special, although I really enjoyed the clipped, dry delivery of the 'Commando Elite' which has just the right weight of irony. Naturally Tommy Lee Jones is in his element here and doesn't short change us just as it's a kid's movie. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Level Green","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've been classifying this kind of movie as a Level Green, that is a film with a unique or promising premise, yet doesn't deliver.  These are the interesting failures.Here we have the notion of toys.  In the wake of G.I. Joe, this doesn't seem too irrational, but the minor elements are what sinks this project.  Here's some details--The toy company is obviously derivative of 'RoboCop'.  Military and consumer goods combine, now where's ED-209 to emphasize the point?--The case made against the military-industrial complex the very group that marketed G.I. Joe nearly 50 years ago.--The Gorgonites aren't as useful here as the story necessitates.  In the end, we have Dante doing his 'Gremlins' thing all over again with less charm, less imagination, and less use of a better idea.  The Gorgonites substituting for Gizmo.Dante loves referencing himself, but he makes it too obvious.  Zemeckis was smarter about it with 'Death Becomes Her'.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Dante's Gremlins Rehashed, with No Depth, But Much Inferno","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In this tepid remake (rehash?) of the same themes from his 1984 Gremlins, Joe Dante proves once again to be one of Hollywood's greatest purveyors of in-jokes about movies and the movie business, but a hack filmmaker nonetheless. Violent, aimless, gratuitous on several counts, poorly acted  (the kids are alright, but the adults act, well, childish. Even poor Phil Hartman turns in a laughably stiff performance, his last, and the multi  -talented Ann Magnuson and Cheri Oteri--of SNL fame--are woefully wasted), and with all the dramatic energy of a battle between mismatched armies, even the special effects are poorly rendered in this, Dante's 13th feature film. Yes, Dante's inferno has some clever moments, even an impressive first 10 minutes, but after this snap-crackle-pop open its all downhill from there. Way downhill... "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was the worst movie I have ever seen. The acting was so bad I wanted to puke, the soldiers were so stupid I wanted to pass out, and the lines of this movie were so ridiculously bad I wanted to die. Just because you can't see it doesn't mean its not there. I mean what the ****! This movie SOMEHOW managed to get decent ratings. If someone says this movie was good, I am going to punch them. I hope this director never makes any movie again. This movie was so bad, if he made any other movies, the average rating would probably be -345671254312698215469. I hope they never come out with a sequel. If they do, I will break all of there cameras in half. They might as well record a coffee cup, and that would still be better than this movie. Unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Small in every way","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very average movie.  The story is touching but undeveloped. Children may enjoy it, but for me the only saving grace was the quality of its effects.  It is a typical adventure involving a pre-pubescent, potentially trouble-making American boy. "},{"Title":"Small Soliders, Small Heart","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went in expecting tongue-in-cheek and fun, but all I got out of this movie was mean-spiritedness.  Aside from the Gorgonites, none of the cliched, one-dimensional characters had any redeeming value. Everything was done to excess and though we are supposed to be rooting against the soldiers, I found myself being disgusted at the entire debacle.  As with Gremlins, the underlying tone of the movie is mean and nasty.  The special effects were good, though, but there is nothing in this movie I would recommend to anyone.  It is the Grinch without the humor. "},{"Title":"Infrequent Humor Doesn't Help This Dog.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNING  A review cannot be written without spoilers.  You have been warned.Ever since, 'Toy Story,' came out, we've seen many more cute flicks come out centering on toys, small bugs, or other minute little things which reside in the realm of children's imaginations.  Unfortunately, most of these films ('Toy Story' excepted) do not equal the imagination of children in their scripts.'Small Soldiers,' the worst of the lot, relies too much on grown-up dogma to keep the story rolling.  Almost every single adult versus child cliche is shown to the viewer.  Of course we are supposed to recognize the shallowness of the adults and side with the kiddos.  Or, on the contrary, kiddos are supposed to be ingrained with their moral superiority, after their dumbkopf parents drop them off at the cineplex.Worst of all, and what my deepest suspicions lead me to believe, the makers of this movie were attempting an anti-war film.  Hmmmpfff!  This is probably why this poor film came off very dark at times.  A kid's movie is not the proper vehicle to air anti-war sentiment.Imagine 'All Quiet on the Western Front,' mixed with sit-comesque gags, on the level of 'Gremlins,' and that is what this film delivers.  Sadly, this is what the makers were aiming for and they would probably revel in the above comparisons.  Unfortunately, Hollywood has a problem understanding the importance and non-importance of either serious anti-war films or sit-coms.  "},{"Title":"Small Soldiers","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is quite an interesting idea, toys that can play back, or rather go completely wrong, not be stopped and create chaos, from director Joe Dante (Gremlins). Basically Irwin Wayfair (Scary Movie 2's David Cross) and Larry Benson (Cherry Falls' Jay Mohr) pitch ideas to Hartland/Globotech boss Gil Mars (Denis Leary), and he creates the toys that can play with kids and run forever. These are The Commando Elite and The Gorgonites (the Small Soldiers) with the slogan Everything else is just a toy. Unfortunately these toys break out and create a war, and only Alan Abernathy (Gregory Smith) and his love interest Christy Fimple (Kirsten Dunst), with the help of The Gorgonites, lead by Archer (Frank Langella), can stop the really mean Commando Elite, lead by Chip Hazzard (Tommy Lee Jones). Also starring Ann Magnuson as Irene Abernathy, The Simpsons' Phil Hartman as Phil Fimple, Ernest Borgnine as Kip Killagin, Jim Brown as Butch Meathook, Bruce Dern as Link Static, George Kennedy as Brick Bazooka, Clint Walker as Nick Nitro, This Is Spinal Tap's Christopher Guest as Slamfist and Scratch-It, Michael McKean as Insaniac and Freakenstein and Harry Shearer as Punch-It, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Christina Ricci as Gwendy doll, and Scary Movie's Cheri Oteri as Globotech Telephone Operator. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"I wish I was younger","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this film,I was expecting the laughs I had when I watched Toy Story,I'm 19 years old and,this film just made me feel that I really was in the wrong place. Everybody seemed to be enjoying the film as I sat there contemplating going down the pub,then realisation grabbed me by the throat and shook me around quite a bit,this film was designed for youngsters and I had outgrown it,facing facts this film is awful,but if I was 10 then it would probably be one of the greatest films evermade,so my comment is really saying take the kids,but on no means take your mates as I did and got beaten by them for stupidly recommending it before seeing it first!!! "}]