[{"Title":"This is one freaky movie...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"238 out of 276 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a movie that explores human nature and our instinctive urges for survival vs our humanitarianism. Not a new concept, I know, however this movie does it in style, with a plot so simple that it could only be the work of a conceptual genius. I don't intend to give too much away, as the power of the film lies in it's mystery, but I will say that this movie could almost be classified as disturbing, not due to its content, but rather the thoughts that it instills in the audience. I found myself rather shaken as I left the cinema, feeling as though I had been exposed to an ugly, hidden side of humanity and society. Don't get me wrong, this movie is definitely worth seeing, I would even be so bold as to say that it must be seen! I must admit that there are few movies I have seen that have had such a profound affect on me, and I don't think I am alone in my feelings.  "},{"Title":"Low Budget, Does not have to equal Low Quality","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"170 out of 205 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It probably cost about half the budget of this movie, to make the opening sequence, which successfully gets your attention. Once it has your attention it simply refuses to let you go, it is compelling to say the least.The entire cast were pretty much unknown when the film was made (and most still are), but they all gave fine performances throughout. Without the successful casting this film could have easily been a disaster, as it is almost entirely character driven. I'm glad to say that definitely is not the case.Despite the low budget and practically unknown cast, the film manages to be clever, intriguing, thought-provoking and highly enjoyable. sadly, this film is probably a one off, i can't think of another low budget film that has half the impact of this one.8/10 and worth every point "},{"Title":"Low Budget Canadian sci-fi film worth viewing","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"160 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film has more in substance than most big budget hollywood event movies rolled into one. The film follows the perils of a group of canadian civilians imprisoned in a futuristic RUBICK'S CUBE style jail from which there is seemingly no escape. They have no idea how they got there, or who put them there, all they know is they have to escape.....fast.  This film is reminiscent of LORD OF THE FLIES, and how it showed mankind at it's worst when things go bad. The film chronicles paranoia, suspicion and fear. MAURICE DEAN WINT, gives a brilliant performance. In fact, this man's acting ability, makes the film worthwhile. The rest of the cast is fantastic as well.The neat thing about this movie is that the makers did it for relatively cheap (only having to make one set, that they constantly reconfigured) yet, the film works on many levels. This is without a doubt, a thinking persons sci-fi film. THE CUBE shows a level of ingenuity, and genius, missing from mainstream American big budget fare.  "},{"Title":"One of the most original sci-fi films of the last decade","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"155 out of 202 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you were to think about what situation would terrify you the most, Cube would be the ultimate challenge.  In a way, it is a predecessor to TV's Survivor in which the people each have a skill that can help them survive and possibly get them out.  It all comes down to human emotions and confrontations that get in the way of progress.  It's a talky film, but that's the point-- figuring situations and dealing with different personalities is inevitable to any group.  The solving of problems becomes very complex, but the viewer doesn't have to worry...let the characters figure it out as we go along for the ride.  While so many sci-fi films want to wow you with effects, this film does something more challenging--it makes you think.  With its limited budget and digital effects in use even before Titanic glorified them, Cube still proves itself as one of the more original and intelligent sci-fi films of the last decade, with a cult status already going strong. It is truly a nail-biter. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"113 out of 161 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best films I've seen in years.  Original, suspenseful, frightening.  The idea and execution of this film is so simple yet it's still a very complex and brilliant piece of work.  The acting is sometimes a little over the top but it still works.  The most amazing thing to me is that the filmmakers only built one cube and made it seem like they made several.  This is clever, clever filmmaking.  Whoever said there are no good ideas left hasn't seen 'Cube'.  Dig it. "},{"Title":"You ever get stuck in an elevator? Multiply that emotion by 1,000","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"73 out of 92 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great. Another shining example of how my inadequacy in mathematics could be the end of me. I used to skip math class. I took the bare minimum requirement expected of me and passed with something less than flying colours. The point is, math is all that separates our heroes from certain death in this arena.Cube is an innovative little thriller that can safely dodge accusations of blandness or mediocrity. The premise is simple and the plight of the characters is highly relative despite its surrealistic science fiction setting. Six individuals find themselves trapped in a cube comprised of many rooms linked together, with no readily visible way out, no rations, tools or explanation for being there, with traps set up in some of the rooms. An apparent experiment on how people think and react to certain situations and the transformations they might undergo.The simplicity of the film and the cube itself are the film's strongest assets and can probably account for it's international success, notably in Japan. It's low budget production costs came under $400,000. But they got a really good bang for their buck with some help from special effects houses that provided their services free of charge. As the director has commented on the audio commentary track of the DVD, one aspect they were going for was a way to have an action flick in one room. They pulled it off quite nicely. Another interesting tidbit brought to light was that each character's name is after a prison.A curious aspect of this Canadian film was its surprisingly short run in Canadian cinemas. In speaking with one of the film's producers, Mehra Meh, I learned that despite it's award as Best First Feature at the Toronto Film Festival of 1997, the film run in Canada came a year later and was just for a few short weeks before it was yanked from theaters and then showcased internationally. When time came for the DVD release, I found another perplexing development. It was only available as an import. A Canadian film only available as an import in Canada? It wasn't until months later that it was released domestically.In any case, the film is available now and worth checking out if you have interest in the psychological thriller fare. Those who work their days or nights (or both) in a cubicle may wish to pass on this one, as it just might be too close to home.  "},{"Title":"Cult Classic Sci-Fi!!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"68 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Vincenzo Natali. Funny sounding name right? Well just a little funny. Keep that name in your mind though over the next few years. After this film the Cube, Natali's follow up was the superb Cypher. He seems to be a master of a difficult genre, Sci-Fi. In a genre that is primarily known for having a high pap ratio, the fact that Natali's first two features have been cult classic science fiction movies then bodes well for Sci-fi fanatics who will eagerly anticipate his next movie. The Cube is a superbly crafted low budget film. On a shoestring budget and a dangerously basic premise full of intrigue, the film succeeds because of imaginative effects and taut directions as well as a superbly written script, delving into the human psyche in such an extreme situation. The plot is basically thus A group of strangers wake in a cube room. They don't know where they are or how they got there but they know they must find a way out. It also transpires that when they leave each room the enter another room that is virtually identical in look. There will perhaps be a different colour in the lighting. The must find their way out before they starve tp death or go nuts, but to add to their woes, it seems that some of the rooms are booby trapped, ranging from sound activated, to pressure activated traps. They soon discover that each of them has a specific gift that can perhaps hold the key to their escape. There is a maths genius who may hold the key to discovering a way out. The rooms are numbered and the numbers could signify the type of room but also a map. The film is excellent and just when they think they have figured it out the Cube bites them in the behind. The dynamic of the characters is excellent as inevitably some go crazy. I do think that for a film shot for less than 300,000 dollars this is amazing looking. It works well for a film that is set in the same environment for the 90 minutes of the film. I have to say this film is one of those pleasant surprises that comes from nowhere and when word of mouth finally gets to you, please listen! **** "},{"Title":"Incredibly original","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"77 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is one of the most original films I've ever seen.  On top of that, it is absolutely riveting and engaging.  It will have you thinking for hours afterward.  I highly recommend it to anyone who likes intriguing movies.  The acting is good.  Other than the girl who plays the student, I've never seen any of the actors before, which makes the movie much harder to predict than most.  The air of mystery prevails throughout.  The pace is perfect, which surprised me, given the limited amount the characters could actually do.  And the ending doesn't sell out the rest of the movie, which films with this level of mystery often do. "},{"Title":"Cube 7/10","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"58 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know about the rest of you, but I'm pretty tired of all these wanna-be horror movies that are out now. All of those movies are rated PG-13 and can't seem to scare anyone. But right at the verge of these so-called horror movies came Cube, a low-budget horror film with an original idea and a good idea of how to execute it. It could have gone belly-up, but it works for the most part and creates a suspenseful movie.A group of seven people find themselves trapped in some sort of maze of cubes. They're all different colors and to make matters more interesting, some are booby trapped. They have no recollection of how they got there, nor do they have a clue how to get out. It becomes a battle of wits to stay sane and survive.There's an overall sense of creepiness, doom, and claustrophobia that overshadows the whole movie, not to mention the paranoia that sinks into both the characters and you as you watch. You only know as much as the characters-you don't know how they got into the cubes, what they're for, or any of the typical exposition. And although most of the characters were annoying, it put you side by side with them, which helped a lot. If you get to be next to the characters, you can understand their actions more. However, you do (somewhat) find out what these cubes were made for, which kind of dampers the whole thing, but it's still very interesting to go through.But when the climax comes about, the movie descends into hokey B-horror land, with a terrorized killer stalking most of the people. When the original exploration of the cubes subsides and you get the people walking around, also, the interest starts to wane. It's often repetitive, but the booby traps are quite, for lack of a better word, fun. But that doesn't mean that the original creativity has gone away, it's just not as interesting. But I really liked Cube, and if you see it, you will too.My rating 7/10Rated R for some strong sci-fi violence/gore and language. "},{"Title":"This must be the coolest movie!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I didn't actually KNOW anything about this film, and it was showing at the Rialto (which is more foreign-filmish than mainstream). But I was surely not let down! I'm no film-buff, and I'm not experienced yet either (only 15 so far), but I definately recommend anyone to give it at least a chance! The fact that it's so low-budget, but doesn't really reek of it, and the simplicity of the setting, is quite refreshing from the typical films of today. At first I was rooting for the cop, since he had 3 kids, but... well, let's just say I didn't exactly want him to survive near the end (that bastard!) And also the actual scariest movie I've seen all year! I mean, actual covering-my-face muttering 'No! God! No!', especially during the silence scene... despite what some other people have said, I thought this movie wasn't predictable at all (I was totally wrong about who was going to die and what happened in the end). The ending was also perfect, and they should leave it like that... I came out of the cinema, speechless, only thinking 'Wow! What a cool movie!', and satisfaction that you have got your money's worth. The only thing that bugged me during the whole film was trying to remember what other things the girl that played Leaven had been in (Deepwater Black, and other sci-fi things - anyone else detect typecasting here? ^.^) Go see it if you haven't! "}{"Title":"Just keeps on going and going and going","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rented this based on the strong (7.5) rating here at IMDb. As a rule I find ratings here are pretty accurate, but this one however is way off the mark. Several characters stuck in a cube, some obviously chosen for their particular ability, but others seem to have just been put there to make a story, then have them blunder from room to room for a while, watch how they interact a bit, then kill off most of them at the end.Performances across the board are OK so my real complaint is with the writers as they take us through the cube, nothing is ever resolved or explained - yeah, we get to hear that no one is currently in charge of the cube, but please, don't insult viewers by simply asking us to believe that this thing just magically got built with no conceivable purpose but to zap people! Then there's the ending - talk about lack of resolution. This was definitely a case of 'ok, we have enough film in the can, time to quit' - and that's exactly what they do. Had the writers spent some time and come up with a creative ending, it could have save this film and made it a true 7.5. But as is, I'd say take a pass unless it's the only thing available. "},{"Title":"Senseless must see","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"86 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just doesn't make much sense and  leaves the viewer with many questions. It has almost no special effects, the actors are  unknown and the story can be told in two  sentences. Yet, the atmosphere is tight and exciting. It is so tight, that I rate this movie as  a must see! "},{"Title":"So Simple...Yet Very Complex!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"33 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A friend watched this for the first time the other day. I had seen it a few years ago. She was dumbfounded by this film and asked me what it really was about. She asked if it had a greater purpose.After I told her, she understood a little better. Here's what I said to her...------------------------------------------------------------------------The left hand didn't know what the right was doing as Worth put it. The Cube was something that never should've been built but it was.Worth says, There is no conspiracy. Nobody is in charge. It's a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan.He also says,This is an accident, a forgotten, perpetual public works project. You think anybody wants to ask questions? All they want is a clear conscience and a fat paycheck.I think one of the most important lines in the film is from Rennes (the escape artist) who says, No more talking. No more guessing. Don't even think about nothing that's not right in front of you. That's the real challenge. You've gotta save yourselves from yourselves.He couldn't have been more right.The end of the film and who makes it out was a lesson on social breakdown. The Cube should never have been built but when it was, the people who created it realized what they had done and simply decided to make use of it rather than let it sit unused. They put people in it.So in a way it doesn't have a greater purpose...but yet it does....in the lessons learned by watching the characters inside of it. The Cube is just a gigantic empty device until you add that human element to it. That's where the real fun begins and that's what makes it interesting.Quentin (the evil cop) was pretty accurate when he said,This place is... remember Scaramanga? The bad guy in The Man With The Golden Gun? It's some rich psycho's entertainment.And in a way he was right. The Cube really doesn't serve any purpose but to provide its creators with a sick form of entertainment.Cube, above all is a fantastic multi-character study combined with sci-fi elements. One of the reasons I like it is because at it's core, it is very simple...but yet it is also very complex at the same time. Kind of like a Rubik's cube. Sitting on someone's desk collecting dust, a Rubik's cube will simply sit there...it has no purpose. But when a human picks it up and starts turning and twisting it....well you get the idea. I wouldn't be surprised if the Rubik's cube was the inspiration for the writers to write Cube.Hopefully this helps.  "},{"Title":"Cube Full of Holes","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A low budget Canadian psychological thriller, Cube has garnered a cult following and something of a legacy in popular culture. After a long time, I finally got around to seeing this interesting looking film today.Deeply mysterious, Cube chronicles the story of seven different people as they travel through an apparently endless system of interlinked cube structures with six doors each to adjacent cubes. Relying on each others' individual characteristics and skills to get them through, they desperately attempt to escape their geometric hell.With a single claustrophobic set used for shooting , one undeniable thing about Cube is the originality of its premise. Reworking the concept of the maze thriller in all sorts of new dimensions, it brings an interesting newness to the subgenre. The potential presented in the early scenes of the film is large; the opening scene immensely entertaining and indicative of good things to come from the original and intriguing concept. The implementation of this idea is, however, cripplingly flawed. Suffering painfully all the faults of clunky and unrealistic dialogue, the film does little to improve it with some substandard performances. The characters, though mildly interesting, seem to react in entirely absurd ways at times, doing much to detract from the audience sympathy vote Kazan, an autistic character, is often just offensively portrayed; Leaven, the math whiz, takes her time in trying to decide if multiples of 5 and 2 are prime numbers. The film is full of holes and massive flaws, turning it from a film of considerable potential to, at times, an infuriatingly contrived work. All that aside, it is actually quite enjoyable once you accept and expect its regular absurdity. Plot twists are painfully obvious, but the path to them is at least a fun one to tread, some of the tensions rising between characters interesting, if not effective or believable. Though it does little to establish itself as a particularly good movie, it's at least not a terrible one.With flaws aplenty, many of them just silly and stupid, Cube falls flat on its face more than once, suffering regularly from its less than convincing dialogue and unintentionally funny developments. Entertaining all the same, it's certainly original. "},{"Title":"Cool rooms, ridiculous movie.","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm having trouble contemplating how this movie has a 7.5 after 32,000+ votes. The opening sequence has a man diced into cubes as he attempts to cross a room. I thought this part was very cool. Unfortunately, that was easily the sweetest thing in the movie. The only other death caused by the rooms was a spurt of acid that miraculously landed right on the guys face. Sadly, the sweetness of the room effects was overshadowed by the atrocious acting and even more pathetic dialogue. Perhaps the saddest part of the movie was its attempt to incorporate mathematics. This could've been one of the best parts of the film if they'd decided to have even a single mathematician proofread the script. Using the words 'prime' 'factor' and 'cartesian' doesn't make it mathematically profound or philosophical, or correct. Nor does mentioning Descartes' name. As the girl proved, wearing glasses does not make you a math genius. They were all terrible actors, but the doctor was so comically bad I couldn't help rooting for the psychopathic cop who dropped her off the edge. Was he supposed to be hero? But if they'd only stayed in the room, they wouldn't have been driven mad and perhaps the cop never would've lost his mind and killed all the people...are you serious? And the annoying autistic man is the only one to make it out? What? No matter what way you try to justify the characters motives they're all idiotic. If you have even a semblance of logic this movie will not make any sense. What would be sweet is if this movie were remade in 5-10 years with a decent script, some people who can act, and at least one profound mathematical concept. I swear, real ones do exist. Only someone 13 or younger could buy into this movie, but it's slightly too gory for anyone that young. So who is this movie for? In the words of Gene Wilder, you know...morons. "},{"Title":"Unique but ultimately unsatisfying.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is certainly a unique movie. The brilliant, absolutely irresistible premise grabs you instantly, and the production design keeps you impressed. The first hour of this picture was thoroughly engrossing and full of surprises; I would even call it astonishing if the actors didn't deliver some obviously forced, unnaturally profound speeches, and if the director didn't try to create dramatic moments by taking the easy way out - having the characters argue with each other all the time; if they acted as a team and tried to overlook their differences, THAT would have been the REALLY original approach. Still, the movie was fast-paced and fully engrossing.And then, about 20 minutes before the end, it begins to collapse! The mathematical calculations become IMPOSSIBLE to decipher and follow. A major character changes his behavior completely. And the ending is a real disappointment. Some people have said it's surprising; I think it's a total cop-out. It doesn't provide any explanations, and it doesn't provide any clues for us to try to figure it out on our own. I watched the last five minutes three times. They leave you with an intense THAT'S IT? feeling.Overall, this movie is definitely worth seeing, and the acting isn't nearly as bad as most people say, but be prepared for a HIGHLY unsatisfying ending. 6/10. "},{"Title":"amazing..","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"30 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have watched Cube many times, and every time it was amazing.  The acting in this movie is what amazed me most, next to the plot.  The characters are perfect for the roles they were assigned to.  I don't think there is anybody else who could have played them better.  If you watch it for the first time, you should watch it alone, in a dark room, without being interrupted. That is how the movie will have the best effect on you.  This movie really makes you think for a long time afterwards.  The ending of this movie would not have been better any other way.  It tells you just enough to feel like a right ending, and still wonder for hours about what, who, why.  This is definitevely one of those films you should see at least once in your lifetime. Just watch this movie! You will not be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Great premise, damaged by the ending","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Basically, this movie is exactly what the DVD box cover says 6 people are trapped inside a maze/death-trap. They try to get out.It isn't really about the prison, though. It's about how people react to stress. And it's about the design of the prison.The basic premise reads like a Twilight-Zone episode. 6 people wake up in a series of interconnected rooms. Some of these rooms kill their occupants in various ways.Each person was placed there with a specific function in mind. One person is a cop, who has leadership qualities. One is a doctor, able to treat the wounded. One is a high-school student, who's math knowledge is still fresh in her mind. One is one of the people who built a component of the place, who brings unique knowledge of the prison. One is apparently autistic, able to perform complex math computations easily. One is an escape artist loner-type who gets himself killed early on to remind the audience that anyone can die.The prison acts as a personality-conflict engine, as it forces people to interact to save each other's lives and their own.It's a great premise, the interlocking prison that they have to figure out the secrets to. And, as with any human endeavor, dealing with each other becomes increasingly hard as dehydration and stress wear down their patience.The problem comes when one of them, quite suddenly, snaps and starts killing them. For no apparent reason.I understand that tensions were running high. But when the most likable and reasonable character in the entire movie starts going nuts and killing people for no apparent reason, it kinda sullies the character interactions.Granted, this was a problem with the dialog as a whole. People thrust into the situation seemed entirely too unwilling to tell each other things. I can understand panic. But after an hour in the death maze, when someone asks what skills you could contribute, I would expect people to give a full resume/CV including personal histories, not, I'm a doctor, like 10 million others. There was a lot of confrontation in the movie, even at the beginning when dehydration and exhaustion hadn't set in yet. They just seemed to want to argue rather than attempt to reason a way out.Despite the ending and a degree of contravity with the dialog, the movie works reasonably well. "},{"Title":"Sub standard horror flick.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" People have a very bad habit of interpreting this as a 'philosophical film'. It's not. You want a philosophical film, go watch Solaris. It's a mystery to me why this film is so universally loved. The concept is fantastic, I admit but the execution is pretty lousy. The acting is pretty solid I suppose but considering the characters are all caricatures that really isn't saying much. People try to excuse the acting by saying that this movie is a critique of human society. That makes me curious to what sort of society these people live in. We live in a peaceful society where death doesn't wait round every corner. Not really like Cube then. The script needed a lot of work as well; whilst the first half of the film is actually quite well written, when things start to go wrong it falls apart. Especially the ending. **SPOILER**The cop coming back to kill those last two characters was, lets face it, because they couldn't think of another way to get rid of them. And the ending itself was another cop out. 'existentialist?' American Beauty is existentialist. Fear X is existentialist. This is just a mess.**SPOILER END**Cool traps and situations do not a film make. There is so much missing from this film that I really cannot find much to recommend it. And, after the whole experience, nothing is resolved, nothing is discussed, just a bunch of immature conspiracy theories that are supposed to make people think 'yes, they're being clever by not explaining things' whereas they are actually making extremely generalized statements and trying to pass it off as philosophy and social analysis. "},{"Title":"Like something a moderately clever teenager might write.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The best sequence in Cube involved the room with the noise-activated trap.  To avoid being diced up by razor wire, the characters had to shut their mouths for a few minutes.  It was a nice reprieve from the spew of shrill babble that fills the rest of the film.  There was a dim little glimmer of an interesting idea here, but almost every aspect of Cube was poorly executed.  The screenplay was atrocious--smarmy, sarcastic, charmless, nonsensical.  A typical episode of Gilligan's Island has much more to offer.  4/10 "}{"Title":"Group Theory","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I watch a lot of trash -- for a variety of reasons. One of them is that I am sometimes pleasantly surprised. I was blown away with the intelligence of `Ninth Gate,' for instance. I thought `Scary Movie' was a really clever goof on its viewers.This film pleasantly surprises. It is unremarkable in most of the normal respects the cinematography and most acting is pedestrian. The directing and editing is poor. So where's the reward?The conception is brilliant. The sets are Shakespearian, with no props, essentially no costumes. In fact, essentially the whole film is in ostensibly different, but identical small rooms. It is all pure drama which hinges less on what you see, instead the situation that is created by dialog. The center of this film is built in your imagination, on incomplete fragments rattling around in there -- paranoid fragments about the nature of fate, trust and a society allied against you.What really appeals to me is how much sense this world makes. The design of the maze makes great sense; the mathematics is accessible and correct (not like `Pi' or `Omega Code'), as is the visual notion of the rooms moving. The logic of the physical space contrasts with the total ignorance about who created this situation and why. Since the cinematic vocabulary is made so clear, the angst about the outside society is made more acute.I think the basic notion works a whole lot better than, say the second `Alien' or the first `Die Hard,' both of which are basically escape movies leavened by `Ship of Fools.'This is a likely target for a remake with a better budget, a much better candidate than, say `The Professional.' Imagine if these folks had the money and creative talent of the disastrous `The Cell.' If this was remade, though, the extra money need not go into more elaborate sets. The sparceness of the sets is part of its strength. Instead, the money needs to go into script dialog, better actors (but deBoer isn't bad), a real score, and some competent cinematography. This would be a natural for a real artist.As it is, it is still worth viewing. Think of it as slightly illustrated radio. Seen this way, it is worthy of a young Welles. "},{"Title":"What an overrated piece of claptrap","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"26 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Why let's see, the acting is awful, the script pretentious and laden with too many long-winded philosophical discussions of nothing, the characters less than one-dimensional, the story is full of holes and the vaunted mathematics boil down to prime numbers and Cartesian coordinates (freshman high school stuff). I don't know why so many people think this is great, to me it has less suspense and substance than a Twilight Zone episode. To be fair, there is some good suspense and the rooms show some imaginative set design. But that doesn't make up for all things that just don't make sense.It just shows that if you make a film obscure enough and tendentious enough some people will think it's great. "},{"Title":"Mindbendingly excellent flick...","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is art. Plain and simple, art. This film reminds me of Memento, a very low-budge film that is better than 95% of the high-budge films out there. Why? Because it relies on the story and the quality of acting to make it great, not C.G.I. and overpaid mainstream actors. Not only is it a well presented thriller, it's also a study of the breakdown of human emotions and sanity when kept in solitude outside of one's comfort zone. The cube tests the characters' ability to function and work together in alien territory while in constant imminent danger. This is just a brilliant film made by a brilliant writer/director. This movie is a must for any lover of psychological thrillers. - Rob "},{"Title":"Not worth my precious time","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why is this rated so highly by other users?  It sucks with a vengeance.  I have to admit at being intrigued by the trailer, because films with twists always amuse me.  But after leaving the room several times due to a) acting that wouldn't look amiss in an Ikea catalogue and b) special effects that wouldn't look amiss on an episode of Ren & Stimpy, I was merely appalled by every other aspect of the film.  The laughable mathematical knowledge of the hero was stupid, all the other characters didn't even go through the sane/insane stage, they just went mad from the off.  I can't spoil the ending, but that sucks as well.  Maybe I'm missing something.  I'm an intelligent, erudite man who can think rationally and enjoy a film for it's thought-provoking content, but Cube reeked of wee.   "},{"Title":"Not without merit, but it gets worse every time I see it","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I loved 'Cube' when I first saw it at the cinema but it's taken a tumble every time I've seen it since. It's certainly worth a look but its days on my shelf are over.The concept - six strangers wake up in a cube made up of thousands of interlocking rooms and have to work together to find their way out - remains a great one, and the movie is a classic example of how to make a low budget work for you the design is terrific, and director Vincenzo Natali and production designer Jasna Stefanovic are able to convey a massive structure with a limited set and different lighting gels in the wall panels. That said, the dialogue and performances are brutal at times and that's largely what weakens the film for me these days. The film relies on the strength of its characters and their interaction with each other to draw us into the plot, and no one here is really up to the challenge. Also, there are too many weird, distracting details like the plastic button that can scratch metal. It's certainly not a bad film by any means, but its flaws are too glaring for it to fully succeed. It is a lot better than the two pointless sequels that followed, however. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Great!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube had one of the greatest ideas for a movie I've ever seen.  Right up there with The Matrix.  But it was ruined!Don't read this if you haven't seen it.I loved the idea of people being trapped in this maze and not knowing why or how, superb idea.  Of course I don't know how one would react in such a situation, but why would this cop, a man who does good, go crazy and start killing and beating people for no apparent reason?  Kind of stupid if you ask me.  Also...as one of the other comments mentioned...how would this so-called cop get to the end of the maze on his own?  There is no way he could get anywhere without the girl genius or the autistic guy.  ...Ok, so let's assume that he does get to the end of the maze...why didn't Leavin and Worth hear the door opening when the cop came into the room?This movie went from a great sci-fi, mind-job movie to a retarded horror pointless story.Here's a question for the Director/Writer...Why on earth did you have these characters go through hell just to die at the brink of escaping?  What a let down!!!That's my two cents.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"Effective thriller that sticks close to the clever premise to keep it simple and very enjoyable","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Quentin wakes up in a square room with exits on each wall. Soon he is joined by other people, strangers, who also have no idea where they are. Looking around they find that each room leads to another one that looks just the same. One of the group is the famous prison escape artist Rennes, who realises that some of the rooms are booby-trapped but that he thinks he has got the solution. With no other ideas the group follow him and try to evade the traps and stay alive &#150; all the time with absolutely no idea of why they are here or who has imprisoned them.I heard about this film years ago but only recently managed to find it on television to watch. It is hard to think that it is almost a decade old now but that it is still effective and a regular cult movie that people will still talk about. Its power is in its simplicity &#150; every room is the same and every next room could be safe or could be a trap; there is no reason for any of it and there appears to be no way out. Usually this sort of stuff makes for a great pitch but not always a good movie because the idea can't stretch beyond a catchy gimmick, however here it does it and makes it look easy. The whole film is our characters trying to work their way through the rooms without getting horribly killed. This in itself is gripping and at times unbearable to watch &#150; horror fans may be disappointed that long periods go by without a lot of gore but personally I prefer tension to the delivery.At the same time we also get the characters feeding the mystery of the cube, building the tension and the sense of hopelessness without ever really solving anything. It answers questions with more questions and keeps things moving well. The development of the characters is better than I expected and I liked the way that the film played with the characters, changing them as the film went along. It isn't a fantastic character piece but again it is just something that helps keep the film moving and I suppose it was interesting to see the nature of people come out. In that regard I was also impressed by the cast. I had expected poor performances from a low budget film but actually they were all quite good. Wint is best but towards the end his performance became a bit too simplistic. Hewlett underplays and probably has the least character to deal with but is still good. De Boer was effective and interesting. Robson was a nice distraction. Guadagni was a good counterweight for Wint and played well to develop him and herself at the same time. Miller was good and the pace of the film helped distract from him basically doing a Rain Man impression.Overall an impressive low budget thriller that works because it sticks to the simple idea while building side issues with the characters and the cube around it but never actually solving anything. Perhaps it is better not to over praise it because I thought it was at its best because I didn't know what was going to happen. "},{"Title":"Could have been great","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that, in the hands of a more disciplined writer, could have been a sci-fi classic.  The premise -- six strangers awake to find themselves in a seemingly infinite series of interconnected room, many of which are lethally booby-trapped -- is intriguing.  And early on, as the group explores the rooms and begins to ask the obvious questions about their situation, the movie seems very promising.Unfortunately, that promise is never fulfilled.  Instead of exploring those questions -- where are we?  why were we chosen? who built the Cube? -- the writer takes the easy way out, as the second half of the movie degenerates into nihilistic pointlessness.  The mysteries that were developed in the first half are casually dismissed as the characters become steadily nastier and the plot becomes steadily sillier.  "},{"Title":"This was a terrible movie plain and simple","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The beginning of this movie starts off on the right foot. I really thought that the next hour and a half of my life was going to be entertained. Without giving away any precious details of this flick, I'm gonna say that the last hour of this hour and a half movie is hardly worth a viewing on the Sci-Fi channel. There are some memorable funny lines (watch for several funny jokes on boots)that you and your friends will be quoting on occasion. The writing is terrible as well as the acting. There is absolutely no rhyme or reason for the actions of the characters. You are left with blank personalities who you just want to strangle. I cannot recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Pseudo intellectual excuse for physical and emotional violence","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The quality of the dialogue in this movie rivals Plan 9 from Outer Space. The character development clunks along like a high school creative writing project.  One character Wren is developed in about three sentences and then killed off to create an irony that he was the escape artist and was the first to die. The cop inexplicably decides to let go of the hand of the doctor and let her drop to her death.  No explanation, no reason.  Solely to set up the irony of the protector being the killer and the shock of watching a character die. The movie still rates a four rating because the set design and the cube concept were interesting and the editing and camera work were excellent.  The acting, script, and plot line were abysmal.  As soon as the idiot savant character is introduced, you know that he will be the one to solve the mystery.  I was so offended by the movie I couldn't watch the end.  Maybe it suddenly got great in the last fifteen minutes, but I doubt it. "}{"Title":"Terrible Acting But an Entertaining Sci-Fi Premise","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An original sci-fi premise with some ingenious little mathematical/ logistic twists; a single scenario amazingly stretched out to a whole film, but surprisingly gripping despite its, in total, 1 set. Despite this, the film is hard to enjoy just because the acting is so awful. You can't believe that, with a film so under-budget in every other area, they couldn't have gotten some decent talent. The acting isn't just mediocre, its actively bad - which is even worse considering that the film expects you to be surprised when the black cop (another poor casting choice) turns out to be a misogynist, murderer and potential rapist and to care about the plight of sort-of-hot girl and ginger retard, Speaking of which, the latter was so poorly portrayed that it bordered on the offensive - he literally just shook his middle, ring and little fingers around and stuttered. The female doctor was the worst of all of them, however (watch the film and you'll know what a mean, it's infuriating stuff). It takes itself a little seriously, but if you can watch it for what it is, it's enjoyable enough. "},{"Title":"Blunt and badly delivered","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is one of the movies that brag being not what they seem. This sure is true, because one has to be insane to take a movie with such a bizarre and contrived setting at face value.And of course it's a metaphor. At least it's what the creators of Cube wanted to think they were making. When you do something utterly unrealistic and make your characters behave in the most unlikely and unnatural way imaginable, you must believe you're conveying some sort of a message via those acts.Unfortunately, the director and the screenwriter seem to forget what a metaphor is. Metaphor is a second layer, concealed and subtle, of anything that is still rather believable, albeit shallow, on the surface. You can't simply blurt out some message you consider important out of the blue and think it adds artistic value to your product. But here, this is exactly what happens. If the movie wants to make an allegory of society as a giant machine in which people are just little cogs, it does no more than just make one of the characters say something like we're nothing but cogs spinning in this huge machine. If it wants to claim that life is a headless beast with no mastermind but human stupidity, it also bluntly says it out loud. That's not a metaphor, and it's definitely not art. It's just ravings of a madman, which can be enlightening to some who are desperate to find a hidden meaning in everything, but are still more or less a pointless nonsense if observed on a long run.But the script is not the only weak point of this movie. The acting which starts as just blah, goes to laughable to hysterical to preposterous. Obviously, in a movie that views itself as a naked metaphor, the characters are all but walking archetypes, but, with the delirious approach the film has taken, they are hardly more than caricatures of the types they were supposed to enact. And that is really sad, because no matter how much promise your idea shows, when it's delivered that bad one is only left to shrug and wonder on what drugs the film makers were.Still, Cube undeniably has at least one true virtue. Which is to be an example for the new and aspiring cinema artists of what can happen when you take a promising premise and screw it up with a bland and uninspiring implementation. "},{"Title":"Sartre meets Prison !?","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Right now, Cube is being released in France with an  unbelievable success for a movie with no name actors and no hype, expect the numerous prices it got at the (formerly deconsidered by critics and audiences alike) Gerardmer film festival. It probably proves that the audiences are expecting  something else than stupid Hollywood blockbusters fare. This one  is very much a play on Sarte's Huis clos (L'enfer, c'est les autres - Hell is the other people) infused with thriller and sometimes basic horror overtones. The scenario seems to have been written by a philosopher and a mathematician, and the ending seems to enter religious parable territory (Happy are  the feeble-minded). I thought the pretty thin premise would wear thin after an exciting first half-hour, but the movie never lets  go, helped by a very strong cast. Sometimes, there are artificial or too obvious ways to highten the tension (Like killing first the prisoner who seems the most likely to survive and a sudden incursion in Friday the 13th territory, etc) but this is understandable for a first effort and gives some naive,  passionate flavor to the proceedings, compared to  computer-generated Hollywoodian scenarios. Besides, this proves you don't have to make a billion-sized blockbuster choke-full of special effects to build up a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Cube v. Hypercube","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched Cube and Hypercube both in the past two days and come out with the conclusion that Hypercube is by far the superior movie, and undeservedly underrated. Theoretically and cognitively, Hypercube pushes boundaries where the first doesn't tread; the first relied on shoddy plot devices and banal dialogue (You Nat-zee!  You!  Woman!) to further the psychosis, whereas the second used the unpredictability of the situation to develop plot. Granted, the second had a few lacunae in logic and plot, but it was far cinematographically superior.  The stark colors and environs conveyed a sense of claustrophobia that the original didn't; furthermore, the use of color was by far more symbolic in the sequel.  In the original, the color was simply random and chaotic -- and, worse, unexplained.My $0.02  Hypercube earns a 9 for imagination and scope.  Cube earns a 6 for slipshod photography, dialogue, and plot gaps.Buy, rent or download Hypercube if you want an immersing experience.  If you're reconciled with a couple hours of unintentional laughter, then watch the first.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ridiculous. Every time an actor opens his or her mouth it makes you wonder if a high school junior wrote this garbage. The opening scene was excellent, but after that it all goes to hell in a hand basket. The characters are stupid and unbelievable. The acting is horrific, and the story may have been good if there was a beginning, a middle, and an end - but all we get is the middle people are trapped in a giant puzzle. They go through doors to get to new rooms, and most of the rooms are death traps. There is no way out. Let's start killing each other! End of story. What a piece of crap! Don't waste your time. Minus 5 points out of 10. I've seen skin flicks with better dialogue than this dog... "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I cannot understand why some people have given this such a high rating, i thought it was absolute utter rubbish. Admittedly it has a fairly original storyline for its time(1997) but thats its only redeeming feature. It looked cheap and nasty, the dialogue could literally have been written by a 10 year old and the black actor (it made such an impression that i can't remember his name) obviously got bottom marks on his drama exam as the only way he portrayed emotion was through wild staring and pursed lips. I urge you not to waste an hour and a half of your life watching this tripe. I cannot express how much i hated this film. In the same vein of clashing personalities and/or confined spaces watch Devil or Buried instead. "},{"Title":"Cube - An Intelligent and Intriguing Sci-Fi/Horror","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Five people (later six) wake up inside a giant cube with thousands of rooms inside which are cubes themselves. Some of these rooms are trapped, some are not. These people have no idea how they got there and none of them know each other but they all have a purpose and they must use these purposes to try and escape the giant maze before they die of dehydration.....or madness.This low-budget independent Canadian film is brilliant and a very captivating watch. It's a fairly simple concept but at the same time it is very complex and deep. All the characters are there for a reason and the reasons are fleshed out and believable. The idea of how the cube works is also fleshed out and you can tell the filmmakers really spent a lot of time exploring it. It all seems believable which is important for a movie like this.But the thing I really admire about the film is that the ending doesn't try to explain anything. It leaves everything up to you, you have to figure things out for yourself. The ending leaves a sense of dread and paranoia and is very effective. The traps are also very cool and some of the resulting gore is pretty nasty.4/5 "},{"Title":"There is no conspiracy. Nobody is in charge. It's a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan. Big brother is not watching you.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS - Cube is a very interesting film, once you get past the first 30 minutes, but I don't consider it a very good film. We never do find out how this assortment of characters get into the cube in the first place. However, by chance we have a young lady who is a math and geometry genius, man who is an idiot savant and able to factor very large numbers just by looking at them, and the designer of the outer shell of the cube. And those talents, in concert, are the key to finding a way out of the cube. If, as the designer says, it is a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan, then the coincidence would be too great to be credible.  This film doesn't purport to be a fantasy, like Matrix or Pleasantville, so we are left to assume it attempts to represent a possible reality.  It doesn't work.Still, there are some moments of tension, as they try to survive and travel from cube to cube, hoping to find a way out. My favorite was when they found the blue room with traps activated by sound. So everything became silent as each in turn worked his or her way to the opposite door.  I was even afraid to make a noise. The key, of course, comes when they figure out the the 17,576 cubes (26 on each edge) are moving relative to each other, and they get into the only one which will have a bridge to the outside.  Only the idiot savant escapes, as the others are either killed or otherwise incapacitated. I think the film ultimately fails on two levels. First, we aren't able to have empathy for any of the characters. Second, although the premise is interesting, the writer and director had no meaningful way to pull everything into any kind of satisfying conclusion. Coming up with an idea is easy, all of us can do that, but to wrap up the story is a whole different complexity and, unfortunately, far too few professional filmmakers are up to the task.  About 4 or 5 is the right IMDb rating for this film.  "},{"Title":"Interesting but flawed","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The best thing Cube has going for it is the novelty of the plot; Besides this, the characters don't ring very true, the dialogue is unconvincing, and the acting is only so so especially the actor playing Quentin, who even manages to be unintentionally funny throughout most of the film. Overall it's not a very well written movie. Production value is relatively high considering the budget but the musical score is not particularly impressive and I also feel that the cinematography could have been more effective. Overall Cube is a good example of a film left hanging on a high concept plot with nothing much else to offer. Not very highly recommended but it's not completely unwatchable if you are into low budget horror/sci-fi, I suppose. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Probably the worst film I have ever seen. I was looking for science fiction, for thrilling content, new ideas. Maybe with energizing analogies to our real lives and catching dialogs between the characters. Am I asking too much?! What I found was the poorest and cheapest production of plan-less communication and a plot that wouldn't even make 20 minutes in StarTrek. From minute 10 on, it does not get better. I hoped for it continuously but was disappointed by the scenery and dialogs over and over. Not one scene is credible, not one solution to a problem is comprehensive. Watching this movie is a waste of time! You can't understand the Grand Finale unless you are an expert in math. In case you're not You will find yourself watching crazy individuals in a cube. Eventually, they turn into team players. Before that, several crazy individuals will get hurt. No, not funny, just bad. "}{"Title":"A Maze Of Technology","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Six people find themselves trapped in various small rooms, each in the shape of a 14'x14'x14' cube. They can walk around and talk, but if they try to move into an adjacent cube, they risk being annihilated by this or that unseen booby trap. They have no idea why they're here, or how they got here. Their obvious goal is to escape.Since almost all of the scenes take place in the cubes, the plot consists of efforts, and conversations on how, to escape. And there's lots of bickering. Dialogue is not especially clever or enlightening.Nor are the characters likable. A young girl is a too-brainy math whiz, convenient for trying to interpret various numerical digits in and around their confined space. One guy is a cop with an annoying attitude. An older woman is a doctor with a paranoid attitude.Given limited sets, the plot trends repetitive. Dialogue changes, but efforts to escape merely repeat, using alternate strategies. The film really, really wants to make a philosophical statement about modern human existence, but seems unable to express it. That humans are trapped in a maze of impersonal technology seems too obvious. I suppose viewers are expected to define for themselves the film's thematic import. Otherwise, the plot just seems to go round and round in a circle, then stops.A low-budget sci-fi film, Cube could easily be converted into a stage play. I didn't especially care for it. Characters are annoying. There's not much suspense. And the story seems somewhat pointless. Script aside, acting is acceptable. The background music is interestingly atmospheric. Sound effects are well done. And the constructed walls are pleasantly artistic. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its Time!","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seven complete strangers of widely varying personality characteristics are involuntarily placed in an endless Kafkaesque maze containing deadly traps.This film was a hit when it first came out. I do not recall if I saw it then or not. It seems familiar, but not enough to be certain. Regardless, it was clearly influential. Such films as Saw II used very much the same premise, though with a much smaller science fiction aspect. Was this conscious? Maybe, maybe not. But it was no doubt an influence.The weakest thing about this is how one-dimensional the characters are. The cop is as stereotypical as a cop can be, and the math geek and the Asperger's kid... but it still makes for a great story, answering just enough questions to keep you guessing. "},{"Title":"Right mood and atmosphere, but not so strong performances","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" That's the real challenge. You've gotta save yourselves from yourselves.Shot in only 20 days with a hand-held camera in a single 14'x14' cubical set and a very low budget, this minimalist Canadian sci-fi horror film has become a cult favorite for many. Directed in 1997 by Vincenzo Natali, this was his first feature film and it still remains as one of his most popular ones, although Splice has also been warmly received by critics and seen by many more people thanks to its much bigger budget. He's also directed several TV series, including Hannibal which in my opinion stands out for its cinematography. Natali also co-wrote this original script with Andre Bijelic and Graeme Manson (creator and producer of another hit series, Orphan Black). For its minimalist approach, Cube does manage to stand out and deliver several thrills along the way, but five minutes into the movie I feared I knew what direction the story was heading, and unfortunately it did, so it was a bit of a letdown. However the journey was quite a pleasant and gripping one, so the movie did flow at a strong pace and I was engaged with it original premise.The film begins with a man (Julian Richings) waking up inside a cube-shaped room without any recollection as to how he got there. There is one door on every side of the cube, leading to other same shaped rooms although with different colors. According to the suit he's wearing his name is Alderson. As he leaves one of the rooms and enters a new one he is sliced into small pieces by a trap consisting of thin wires. We later discover that there are more people in the cube when a small group of them find each other in one room. A police officer named Quentin (Maurice Dean Wint), an architect named Worth (David Hewlett), a doctor named Holloway (Nicky Guadagni), an escape artist named Rennes (Wayne Robson), and a mathematician named Leaven (Nicole de Boer) all seem to have woken up in the same condition as Alderson and they are fighting their way through this maze trying to avoid the traps hidden in some of the rooms. They seem to have nothing in common as their personalities completely differ from one another, and they have no idea who could've put them in such a place. They do decide to stick together and try using their different talents to avoid the deadly traps as they move along through the maze looking for an escape. As the story unfolds and these characters begin interacting with one another tension and suspicion begin to rise among them. David Hewlett who has worked with Vincenzo Natali in all his feature films gets one of the lead roles here along with Maurice Dean Wint and Nicole de Boer. The performances in this film are the weakest link. Some of the dialogue scenes seemed forced and most of the characters' interactions felt unauthentic. The greatest problem was that most of these characters behaved in an inconsistent manner and the pressure they go through isn't a convincing reason for it. Quentin's character is the one who goes through the strongest transformation here and I just didn't feel it was natural. Other than the performances and the predictable finale, I did enjoy this small film and found the premise quite inventive despite its simplicity. With a stronger cast this could've been a great sci-fi horror film because Natali excels at setting the right atmosphere which creates a thrilling environment. The mood of this film reminded me a lot of Saw and I'm sure it was inspired by Natali's work. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Has a lot of unused potential...","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a movie that apparently has a cult following out there. So is it worth watching? The movie is overrated if you ask me. The premise of the film is great and really original and the movie DOES do some things very well, some of these things are the creation of the set and the suspense the movie creates almost throughout. Also some of the kills were pretty awesome and original, so that's always good to have in a horror film. However, I do believe the movie does get more things wrong than right the acting is pretty terrible and the dialog clichd. Also sometimes it seems the writers rushed into getting the characters into certain situations too quickly, which creates some pretty weird and uncomfortable dialog. Another thing the movie does wrong is how they handle the moving through the maze and it gets way too brainy and illogical at the same time and it copies Rain Man. It does. The ending where the crazy black guy kills two of the other characters is also pretty unrealistic. I mean, how the hell didn't they hear him get in the same room as them? It was established several times during the movie that the doors are extremely freaking' loud when they open and close. By the way that guy's situation escalated pretty quickly he went from being the hero to Jack Torrance in like nothing. I have to say I did enjoy some of Cube and yeah Saw may be kind of a rip-off of this, but Saw executes its ideas way better than this. Cube is a let down and, although with potential, ends up being a pretty generic late 90's horror flick with bad acting. "},{"Title":"If you like inventive or intelligent films, than don't let the ratings here fool you","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You like Primer, Pi and movies like that? Chances are you stumbled across this highly rated flick in the suggestion bar. Let me ruin the dream for you don't expect too much of this. This movie certainly isn't 'dumb' in any way. The problem is that it pretends to be extremely intelligent while it's completely average. The story is in fact very basic, so are the mechanisms that are described in the movie. Nothing is mind-blowing at all, yet it pretends to be, which is frustrating to watch if it isn't really new to the watching audience. I don't think movies NEED to be mind-blowing to be fun, but this is pretending to be mind-blowing while it isn't at all. That combination is slightly awkward.Besides that, the dialogue is poorly written. Characters are written badly and character development is forced into conversations at cringe-worthy moments. It feels as if the writers didn't really know how to otherwise introduce the characters and it results in unrealistic conversations and confusing and awkward shifts in behavior. If you have any experience whatsoever in professional story telling, than safe yourself the annoyance of watching this. It'll just frustrate you.All in all, this was a real let down. I guess I should have let the ratings guide me a bit better, if everyone votes a 10, then that can't be realistic. I wish people would be a bit more critical. This is in no way a fantastic movie. Apparently it really amuses some people and I think that's a great achievement, but to me (and to a couple of other buried reviews here) this was really awkward to watch. In fact, I'd go as far as to call it extremely frustrating to watch. I think that's sad, because the concept is absolutely fascinating, and the actors seem to have some talent going on, but the story and the writing really brings it down. "},{"Title":"Complex but rewarding and under-appreciated horror movie","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A group of strangers are trapped in a giant maze made of cube shaped rooms with various deadly traps. They are trying to find their way out through the giant labyrinth of traps, riddles and twists which would make the makers of Saw jealous. The cube maze the characters are in represents this movie Twisty, dense, complex and pretty darn confusing. This is a critically ignored movie which later gained a cult following and deservedly so. Like many B movies, it starts out shaky. Its characters leave you cold and it keeps repeating itself. It also has its various detours into generic B movie clichs which weaken the film and it goes from set piece to set piece without ever delivering a knockout punch. However, the film improves as it progresses. The characters become more developed, different layers are revealed and information is revealed in a structured and clever way. The set pieces get more and more heart in mouth and ultimately Cube gets as much as it can out of its generic but brilliant premise.A mature decision was to leave much of what goes on ambiguous and the film thankfully doesn't have a major reliance on gore. It does get rather claustrophobic although after a while we get used to the setting. Cube is one of those movies where you're in the trap for the whole thing, and no sighting of the outside world means it feels a bit more artificial but this adds to the tension at the same time. The acting improves as the film goes on and although the cast still seem to be unknown, they do a good job. The director doesn't seem to be too prolific which is a shame as there's clearly plenty of talent here. The script doesn't do anything special but it tells the story decently and spits out the many twists with admirable effort. Cube is not a great movie but it is a very interesting one and a likable albeit sadly obscure effort. If you ever get bored of watching Saw, this would definitely be a good alternative and it's good for anyone who likes puzzles. I doubt you'll be able to solve the puzzle in this movie though.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating, but with a smart-ass and silly ending","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I found this film gripping and fascinating.A mystery and clues that emerge along the route.You see the dynamics of the group and how it evolves.How do people behave under pressure? But I had also expected that there would be some sort of coherent explanation.At the end it just ends and you are supposed to see that as clever.Really there is no explanation.Just a hint of an absurd answer which It spoiled my belief in the story as a whole.I did not believe it.Stylish but in the end incoherent. "},{"Title":"Enjoyment squared","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It was writer-director Vincenzo Natali's entertaining and bizarre Splice that drew my attention to his earlier work, and this is his debut feature a low-budget Canadian sci-fi set entirely in an enormous cube, containing a series of smaller, room-sized cubes. A group of strangers awaken with no memory of how they became trapped. They need to find a way out - except some rooms are booby-trapped. Tension, conflict and madness ensues.Some have remarked upon the acting quality in the film, although I rather enjoyed the larger-than-life reactions of the characters. The film unashamedly embraces its own B-movie silliness. As the post-Saw horror genre has seemingly become a contest of escalating cruelty and gross-out money shots, a film whose thrills rely on inventive camera angles, imaginative narrative twists, and scarily unpredictable character mood swings seems almost quaint. But it works, thanks to its devotion to the puzzle at its heart and the descending psychology of those trying to solve it.The production design is simple (Natali's team built one cube and changed the wall colour to represent different rooms) and the make-up is effectively gruesome. It's the kind of movie where you'll be constantly questioning character motivations, but surrender to the ride and you'll find yourself enjoying a very neat cult gem. "},{"Title":"Very original,very suspenseful","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know what to think of Cube before watching it,I stumbled across the movie randomly as I was browsing IMDb.After watching this movie,I was surprised how original and well thought out it was.Unlike many recent horror movies,Cube lacks any special effects and relies mainly on the unknown,the unseen as method to scare the living hell out of us,much like The Blair Witch Project.This method was very successful,as the whole movie keeps you in suspense.Another thing I found interesting was the way the characters develop through the course of the film,I won't spoil what happens,but let's just say the personalities of two specific characters change dramatically.Cube is probably one of the best and most suspenseful horror movies I have ever seen,I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Quite the mind bender","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the most original films in the nineties. A cube which has a mystery of traps and rooms which account over 17000. A group of people are trapped inside for unknown reasons except what they keep to themselves with secrets. One a Doctor, another a Cop. And a math wizard who seems to know how the cube functions for traps. But that is a one sided coin. During the groups travels through the cube they come across a savant. Now the fight to survive becomes even more desperate when the group begins to break down the moral barrier. Frustrations and anger fuel each member as they all come closer to the exit. Yet one member had the knowledge because he was the creator for the outer shell. Now as the race quickens, the cop loses his cool, murders and tries to take revenge for the group leaving him behind. Through this, the savant has a miraculous gift to see numbers to lead the less vicious part of the group to the exit itself. A cube, A bridge, and an exit makes this film more than worth watching, it has psychological aspects to delve into the mind, it has action of each trap which harbour the most cruel and gross ways to die. This is a very good movie to watch for those who like the mind teasers. Recommended. "}{"Title":"good movie, but I felt cheated","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  just caught this movie last night, and it was as good as people made it out to be, great story, good acting, very tense, the director shows from the first minute (so i'm not giving anything away here)that's he's not scared to kill off a character, this left me with the whole 'will someone die next?, who's gonna die next?, or does he want us to think someone's gonna die, but noone actually will' very well done, *but* this is one of those movie that ends leaving you with more questions then answering you can read my rant about that beneath*minor spoiler minor spoiler**minor spoiler*the end of the movie left me feeling really cheated, not *one* question was answered as to when did this take place??, who was behind it??, why are they doing this??, what was reason for these people??, and how did they kidnap them all and get away with it???, it was like reading a brilliant murder mystery only to find that the book just finishes without telling you who the murder was, when he did the killings, why he did the killings, not even a hint is offered, the closest you get is worth's speech...it's crazy!.*end minor spoiler* "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could have been","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A good premise and a plot thats starts out well but never quite gets off the ground.  Its a good movie, more interesting than many blockbusters and the plot is intriguing, different and poses questions.  Unfortunately those questions are neither answered nor engaging enough to make the viewer really care about it.In a way the plot is just too far removed from 'the real world' to reach the audience.   The incredible machinery of the cube demands more of an explanation than the vagaries alluded to by the characters.  No society could hide a construct like that, it simply cannot exist outside of any context.  In some shots the scale is shown and its bigger than a mountain!Although the mathematics are dodgy the idea of leaving clues for the 'prisoners' to decipher is good.   The characters are very stereotypical though, which is ok up to a point.  The movie loses its credibility with the addition of a token, straight off the shelf, 2 dimensial autistic boy who, of course, is able to supply the final mathematical solution.The ending is, unfortunately, entirely predictable after the first few interactions of the characters and when it comes its very dissatisfying. Overall though the movie is interesting enough to set it apart and above weaker mainstream sci fi contenders. "},{"Title":"Pandora's Box","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Stop. Before you think about what this movie means. Why are we here? What are we supposed to do about it? How do we master our own personalities and Why the Hell is everything so terrifying? How did we get here? Can we all get along for everyone's benefit?All questions you might ask yourself in the real world. The cube is merely a small test model version of the earth. And everything works out as if in the real world. Kind of a Lord Of The Flies type experiment. And that are looking for a way out of the Cube.Endless human stupidity on the inside and outside of the cube. "},{"Title":"Genius, the best film this year","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a work of genius.  The script is superb, the acting excellent, the camera-work and effects stunning and gripping.  But it is the depth of this film which make it so intriguing.  It had me puzzling over it until I realised it is a metaphor for our world and life itself.  There is no way I could go into it all now but if anyone wants to read a short(ish) explanation of this film then email me and I'll email it back to you.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM I'VE EVER SEEN !","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen CUBE today, and I'm still thinking about it! This movie is really strange, and it's very rare (?) nowadays... I like movies that makes you thinking about it after ...For those who regret that we do not know the meaning of th Cube, I would say that it is exactly the thing I have preferred! The director wanted to make you THINK !! (It's not Independance Day!) This film is some kind of mtaphore, a philosophical image...For those who still haven't seen CUBE I say GO SEE IT!!And Nicole de Boer is so pretty ! P.S.  Excuse-me for my poor english (I'm French so I can't speak english very well !  ) "},{"Title":"Rather good indeed","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A previous comment about this film by Frank T. saying there were problems with the plot. I think it was very good that it wasn't explained how they actually got into the Cube. That was partly I feel the point of the whole thing. The main essence of the film I feel was about the nature of people. The Cop risked his life as a reflex action I think and then changed his mind. Presumably thinking why should I save her? Certainly I would recommend this film to everyone as it is very original and cleverly implemented. "},{"Title":"Wasted time","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After a lot of hype I decided it was time to give this movie a whirl & went in with reasonably high expectations, but was sadly disappointed. I really am not sure why it's getting such good reviews. Yes it's basic premise has an element of interest to it and it's not bad for such a low budget. But I've seen far far better low budget movies than this and they don't have any of that pretentious arent we so gosh darned clever air of this one. And quite frankly, no it's not that clever.The characters were one dimensional and exceptionally annoying, the acting was terrible not helped by an abysmal script. Honestly that's gotta be some of the WORST acting I've seen especially from the cop & the doctor. Good lord. I partly blame the director who shoulda known better and either not directed them to act that way or prevented them from doing it. They were woeful. The others were hardly brilliant either but were at least tolerable. The basic premise worked for a while but then just got tedious and repetitious and ran out of steam to the point where I started skipping ahead & getting impatient for it to get to the point or at least some sort of new direction, development in story or character or resolution. Anything! The mathematical principles and so-called philosophy were laughable and the ending was absolutely ridiculous. Why would that guy do that? There was no reason to kill at that point. And yeah, you could argue he went nuts but that's really a cop out. How did he find that spot anyway? He had no mathematical skills & no genius autistic kid to help him. Plus he was nuts. How could he possibly have figured out something so complex without all the assistance and not been killed along the way? Ludicrous. Nothing made sense by the end of it and frankly I didn't care by then about any of them so it made no difference to me other than being a cheap way to treat the viewer after such a long tedious movie. The lone survivor clich was also tragically predictable. If you're easily impressed by gobbledegook masquerading as clever philosophy then you might enjoy this. But if you're looking for tension, atmosphere, thrills, suspense, horror, sophisticated plot, good character development, great cinematography or excellent direction go elsewhere pilgrim.Had potential - didn't go anywhere with it. "},{"Title":"squared","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wanted to like this. I thought this would be a feature length version of the 'Twilight Zone' greats dealing with paranoia and an unseen, trapping presence. Give me Kafka tension any day. But what destroys this are several inexcusable elements. The first is really, really bad acting, particularly that of the cop and the doctor. The second is writing that begins realistically, and then veers headlong into pseudo-meaningful rubbish. Most unforgivable,though, is the famous ending of nothingness. It is not interesting to leave your audience with not even a suggestion of an answer. It is lame. 'Cube' is plain adolescent, and its too bad. "},{"Title":"Great concept, boring film","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After waiting for so long to see this film, I finally saw it last night on IFC.  I hate to say that I was sorely disappointed.  The beginning of the movie was excellent.  The rooms of the maze were intriguing and created an eerie ambience early in the film.  The fact the characters didn't know how or why they got there was a perfect setup for a psychological thriller.After this encouraging beginning The Cube quickly plummets into the realm of trite and predictable.  The acting was terrible, the characters were unsympathetic, even the autistic guy.  I found myself wondering why I was even sitting there when I could be perusing the latest issue of Better Homes and Gardens.But I sat through to the predictable ending, hoping that the film would redeem itself. What could have been a film that kept you wondering for weeks and getting your friends to watch so you could conjecture with them about it turned out to be one of the worst 90 minutes I've wasted in a while.  I wish it would have left me wondering who was behind it all, how they chose their prisoners and how they got them there, where The Cube existed physically and all the other questions a skillfully crafted work can leave in your mind. Instead, I feel glad to have the whole experience behind me. "},{"Title":"great idea poorly executed","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has a very interesting idea behind it, but i think it could have been realized in a much better way. The first failure is the acting, i'm not sure if i can totally fault the actors though, because the script does not seem to be written very well. Though i must say that the acting of Maurice Dean Wint (Quentin) was particularly bad i thought. The mathmatical theme was cool, but in the end i think math gets boring, thats just me maybe. I thought the film was a bit predictable as well. I would have liked to see more explanation of the conspiracy (and make it an evil conspiracy) with better actors and a better script. also, some more creative sci-fi traps, come on, its sci-fi you can do whatever you want!! i think the film is a good example of a great idea poorly executed. i'd recommend watching it, but don't get your hopes up. "}{"Title":"A group of strangers find themselves trapped in a large cube.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A few minutes into this movie I was beginning to lose interest, by the end of it I was numb with boredom. The concept is hardly original as similar situations were explored to better effect on the old `Twilight Zone' and `Outer Limits' TV shows. Yes the cube set looks kind of pretty, but so what? Production design isn't  a substitute for a script and characters an audience can care about. The main failure of this movie is that the film makers are way more interested in showcasing how clever their gadgets and traps are than trying to create any sense of drama or character development beyond clich and stereotypes. A total disappointment.  "},{"Title":"This movie actually changed my outlook","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Movies hardly ever change me.  I am set in my ways.  I am usually a strong person and movies don't affect me after I finish them, most of the time. Last night, after watching this movie, I was afraid to close my door.  I wouldn't let my dog leave my bed.  I find myself sizing everybody up, seeing how they would react to the cube.  I know I wouldn't be able to stand it. "},{"Title":"One of those films by which you will judge others..","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic film.  Imagine going to bed, and then waking up in a futuristic cube-shaped room, in overalls, with odd faraway mechanical noises, and nearly (ingeniously) killing yourself when you try to explore/climb into the identical room next door.This film goes into a very short list of 'films you will forcefully drag all your friends to see'.  If they ask questions - slap them.  The people stuck in this situation don't have any answers, and you're supposed to be as clueless as they are. (That goes for a lot of films actually).I especially like the way your (viewer) loyalties switch as the film plays out.  And we can't not mention the astonishing first few minutes.If you call yourself a sci-fi or horror fan, there's simply no excuse for not seeing this.  It makes me physically ache when I see people browse past it in the music/video store.  I can't tell how mortified I was to see it reduced in a sale recently.  It's one of VERY few videos worth paying full price for. (I'm stopping soon).  What's more, it's one that you will understand on different levels in subsequent viewings, and despite the minimalism (of everything in the film!) you'll see little extras every time you watch.Can't wait to see what they do with Cube 2 Hypercube (but I am very glad it's not a prequel or sequel, rather 'another go from a different direction'). "},{"Title":"Involving and surprising treat","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With one set, a budget smaller than the catering cost for Phantom Menace, and a cast of unknowns, Cube has no right being as good a film as it is.On the downside, the plot is simplistic, the characters thinly (but well) written and there are no surprises in the dialogue.  The strength of Cube lies in its inexorable grind towards an inevitable human conclusion.  I found myself immediately hooked, then intrigued, then finally engrossed by the claustrophobic and oppressive journey through the Cube, a journey both in time and space and in the stripping bare (figuratively and semi-literally) of the protagonists.  Claustrophobics beware, this is a stifling film in every way.  But it's a powerful film, and well worth sticking with until the very last scene. "},{"Title":"This is a poor, poor movie.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Right after I watched this movie, having seen the high rating it received here, I registered with this site so that I could vent my righteous fury.  I think the idea of having this crazy homicidal cube be the setting for an isn't it interesting how we humans behave kind of thing was great-- don't explain it's origin or purpose, just consider what if....  Very cool.  And potentially very disturbing. But then comes the dialogue and the acting--  the whole people behaving, interacting, and subtly revealing their personal psychological worlds, thus hinting at greater universal truths about our wonderful and tragic existence part.  This element really, really sucked.  God bless anyone with the courage to be creative, but the final quality here is just soooooo poor.  A talented writer could remake this into a great thing.  I feel much less angry now. "},{"Title":"Please someone stop that guy Maurice Dean Wint from acting!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie (to be a low-budget one) was kinf of ok, I guess.The script had some HUGE plot holes and a lot of obvious turns, but then again, it was ok.But the one thing that I just could not swallow was the guy who plays Quentin, Maurice Dean Wint, the man can't act!! He has to be THE WORST actor out there. After watching him for 87 minutes, you no longer wonder how some people got to be big hollywood starts, because if he could make it... anyone can!You know what? This movie sucks, it's just pointless, but it's worth the rent because you'll have a lot of fun watching this guy trying to act! >)That's about it.Bye! "},{"Title":"A good idea, but...","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a weird one, but worth the $2 to see it.  You have an interesting idea of placing different individuals from all walks of like together in what turns out to be a type of Human-Rat Maze.What keeps this movie from being a 9 or a 10 is that the movie never really opens up on the fact of why the people that are in the movie were chosen, and how they got there.This movie will keep your interest until about 3/4 of the way through, when it starts to drag and the plot corrodes away to your basic bad guy. If you like Sci-fi, film-noire types, give this one a look, its surely worth spending a couple bucks.6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Intriguing premise, disappointing result","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I ran across this movie in the videostore and the unusual, intriguing premise caught my attention. Being a fan of low budget movies I rented it. However, I have to say that the movie did not live up to my expectations at all.Inherent to its simplistic makeup is that the film solely rests on the characters and their relationships to one another. Unfortunately they all were awfully one-dimensional. The smart college girl, the evil tough guy, the cynic, the conspiracy theorist, and worst of all the retarded number genius- puh-lease!! On top of that the dialogue and actor performances were horrible. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Idea, Appallingly Acted, Thus Ruined","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The premise for Cube is a quite brilliant one. It had all the elements for a first class, top notch sci-fi movie.Six people trapped are in a huge series of interconnected rooms, many of which are booby trapped. They having to rely on their wits and intelligence to find a way out, while also trying to deal with a slight Lord of the Flies type mentality.Unfortunately it is let down by abominable acting and obvious plot holes. Only David Hewitt (Worth) puts in a good performance, and is actually believable. The rest come across painfully staged and just don't convey the emotion needed.<very slight spoiler>The ending is also slightly disappointing. I'm all for ambiguity in endings, and I often think they make good films. The ending in Cube, however, was badly done. It  left dozens of questions, both stated and implied, unanswered and thus not making it a fully rounded movie experienceAll in all an excellent idea, which really could have been done a lot better.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well... This one was not too bad, it kind of messes with your mind. The autistic guy was funny though, This room is green!I will agree with many other comentators that the acting was a little weak.  Also they failed to answer the question that was repeated several times in the movie...Why?? "}{"Title":"Intriguing concept ruined by terrible script","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Interesting, suspenseful flick, with some great direction, hampered by terrible acting and atrocious dialogue. The overall concept is an intriguing one, and could have made for a better film in the hands of a competent writer, but instead the screenplay is filled with idiotic characters and ludicrous dialogue. Combined with some terrible overacting by most of the cast, and the dialogue-heavy scenes become painful to watch. Fortunately, the 'action' sequences redeem the film, as they are shot well and become incredibly suspenseful - especially the scene with the quiet room. Some great gore effects and a fitting ambiguous ending make it a worthwhile viewing. "},{"Title":"The good, the mediocre, and the very bad","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube has gained a sizable cult reputation, and I was pretty curious when I finally got to see it now, in 2008. Although I expected a certain amount of rough edges from its indie/low-budget background, I have to say the edges were rougher than I expected. There is a giant chasm between what is good about this movie, and what is bad about it. Personally I can handle movies that are wrong in some ways, if they have other things going for it. Lawnmower Man is an example of a movie where viewer forgiveness may go to such extents that the movie becomes enjoyable. Cube, unfortunately, didn't pass this threshold with me.To summarize my thoughts, top-down1. the basic premise of the movie is excellent, as is the set design 2. on a synopsis level, it's still pretty good, though some aspects (like the Rain Man type character) look contrived 3. on a script/chain of events level, it's decent, and explores the basic premise well. The complete lack of character exposition is problematic though. 4. on a script/DIALOGUE level, I think it's pretty damn weak, and the acting makes this problem worse.I don't think I've seen a promising movie with such awful dialogue in a long time. The characters, trapped in a hostile environment, start hating each other after about 2 minutes. Idiotic, and bizarrely lacking in psychological realism. And those lofty philosophical exchanges about society, responsibility, existence and so on -- which the characters launch into as if someone had suddenly pressed a button on their backs? If you want to insist on metaphors, why not use your brains and be elegant and original about it?The actors didn't help much. The cop guy lost all credibility after an OK start, but the female doctor was beyond belief from the first minute. I'm not sure the actors are to blame, as much as the director... but they sure didn't help.I wasn't very impressed with Saw (the first one), but Cube made that one look like The Shining. This movie should be re-made with a completely rewritten dialogue, strong actors, and a much improved opening and ending. Too bad. "},{"Title":"poor movie","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What can i say just watched this film for the first time,after reading so much about it and all i can think at the end is what a waste of time.Having seen saw and saw 2(and reading how saw 2 had copied it)i had high hopes for this film,both saw and saw 2 have great surprises for the audience the only surprise in this film is how it ever got released.The characters in this film are so one dimensional it should have been called SQUARE.I had no empathy with any of the inmates and we learn nothing about them,there is very little in the way of a plot and the ending isn't even an ending.We are led to believe that each character has a unique ability that will help the team but apart from the maths expert and the autistic boy what did the others bring?all in all a very poor film don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"The idea is better than the realisation","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really disappointing as the idea sounds much better than the realisation actually is. The characters are rather stereotypical and the dialogues convulsively try to reveal some sort of psychological and philosophical truths (which are only platitudes in my point of view). One of the most overrated movies I have ever watched. One could have made so much more out of it...*** SPOILERS The worst thing about this movie is that three of the six caged persons are killed by the protagonist Holloway, who turns out to be some kind of psycho at the end of the movie. I really found it annoying to see those characters escaping all those sophisticated traps just to be killed by one out of themselves. That did not make any sense to me. And it was quite unsatisfying for me, since the common summaries suggest that the caged protagonists are fighting against the traps and NOT against each other. *** "},{"Title":"Extreemly well written movie","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love movies thats are like this, this is in many ways an anti-Hollywood movie, it has a small cast, no extras and a small set, original screenplay that I though had to be based off of a short story or novel but it wasn't - it was just a really good screenplay, a great idea. This movie succeeds very well exactly becuz its not a stupid indie horror crap nor a blockbuster bloated Hollywood hunk of garbage. I mean how much better can you get - take a handful of people, trap them in a cube make them figure out a way out, good twist with the characters and who gets out alive - of course it could have sucked and been stupid and boring with a premise like that but it wasn't it was really well executed. I can't really say enough about it, things like this are so rarely done like this these days, I'm so impressed by Cube - go see it, now. "},{"Title":"Bollox","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the worst film i've ever seen in my life to be honest that's my opinion, live with it you can make your own -) God can i have those 90minutes of my life back please i'm devastated here after watching that utter dross.I've watched some utterly crap movies in my time but nothing and i do mean nothing has wasted my time like this film. There was no point to this film no plot no story we don't even know what it was about in the end nobody does i've never seen so many holes in a plot in all my life and the way they got killed at the end just as they were about to leave was unnecessary to say the least and predictable (altho i did feel a bit sorry for those 2 dying at the end they were so cool ') )Voted it a 1 since its rated at 7.5/10 by IN MY OPINION weirdos that like to see gore. / Thats my opinion... live with it ) and i'll live with yours! "},{"Title":"I see no movie in this movie","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube provides almost nothing to feed a curiosity for sci-fi. Almost because its context happens to be original, but inadequately shallow, as describe below.The context a maze made of cheap-looking cubic rooms rendered with basic CGI. Each cube may either have one mortal trap or be safe. Each cube has a coordinate printed in it.The story no story or explanations, just some characters randomly moving from one cube to the next and randomly dying one by one.The characters five stereotypic characters put in the maze, more or less. These are a cheap leader boss taking control of the group and killing those who don't obey; a cheap genius high-school girl computing prime numbers up to millions; a cheap autistic psychopath supercomputing numeric powers to help the above girl; a cheap jail-breaker with a pragmatic attitude, and some more characters I don't remember. Put these together in a film set made of one cubic box, let them say I'm scared, and you have Cube. "},{"Title":"A Cool Concept and Well-Presented Movie","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The concept of Cube isn't one that we haven't seen generally speaking, but it's one that certainly works. It follows 7 people who are trapped inside a giant cube filled with many other booby-trapped cube-shaped rooms and are trying to escape. How they got there is unknown, why they were kidnapped is unknown, and where they are is unknown. It's never explained where, how, or why, and it works quite well with this movie. The plot of Cube isn't particularly unique, but it's presented quite well. It's filled with great twists and turns that keep you interested and wanting to know what happens next. It's not a predictable movie typically, and there is some genuine tension throughout. The characters all feel expendable, so you never really know who's going to live and who's going to die. The characters are developed enough that you care about them, without going to deep to the point of being unrealistic. While I prefer deep character development typically, this is one movie where it's more realistic not to have that. And it did just that.Overall Cube is a great movie. The plot is, if not original, well- presented, the characters are good and realistic, and there is some very good tension throughout the movie. In the end I'd definitely recommend this movie, specifically to fans of the thriller genre. "},{"Title":"Loved the Movie, Hated the Ending","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was an intelligently written movie that probably took considerable time to write. This was a movie that movies such as Circle imitate but cannot duplicate.Seven strangers wake up in a foreign place wearing prison uniforms with their last names on them. They're in cube shaped rooms that have six doors to other like rooms but not all rooms are safe to go to. They must put all of their skill sets together in order to find a way out.The story was great even if the acting was so-so. The acting wouldn't have been half bad if it weren't for Maurice Dean Wint who played Quentin. He was so exaggerated with his speech and facial expressions that it became, at worst, a parody and at least obnoxious. He talked in a Christian Bale Batman voice without the benefit of a mask and the need to hide his identity. He also frequently showed the whites of his eyes just to clearly signal he was in fact crazy.The other characters were tame in comparison and far more likable if not believable. Having an unlikable character is no cinematic crime, but having a caricature is.Still the movie was great. The cube was the mother of all math problems with life or death consequences. Nothing I'd want to be a part of but it was a blast to watch others wriggle and squirm. "},{"Title":"No Exit","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Should I kill myself or have a cup of coffee? - Albert Camus21st century neuroexistentialism 101 as a result of arbitrary biochemical drives, you are spat out into a world. This world has no inherent meaning, objective or purpose. You have even less. Your thoughts, traits, actions and desires are imported from outside your body, such that what constitutes you is wholly dependent upon external programming. You are the result of an unbroken causal chain, (in)deterministically programmed from beyond.What you think of as a self is but the accidental product of recent evolutionary adaptations. Neural processes attempted to simulate the world, and inadvertently mapped themselves as you at the center of the simulation. You are a reference point in your brain's world model. A tag. A sign. A post-it note. And your existence is always after the fact, entirely dependent upon the external objects your nervous system exists to process. Existence precedes essence. They go, you disappear.Though you have thoughts and actions, they do not belong to you. Indeed, the eliminativist materialists insist that you are only conscious of your thoughts and actions microseconds after you have already enacted the thought or task; something is making your decisions, and it's not you. Raise your hand and its already long made the decision for you, moving on to the next task while you fabricate stories to explain the inexplicable dynamics of a subsystem you will never know. Don't believe? Still think you're in control? Please. The scariest monsters disappear before you turn on the lights. Doesn't mean they're not there.You're view of the world is itself severely limited, carefully whittled down to what evolution deems necessary for survival. Representational accuracy isn't important. The brain lies, cheats, deceives. Tells you only what it wants you to know or see. Consciousness is limited, your external world reduced to a slit, your internal, mental world more so. This isn't deception, just survival strategy.The Men behind the Curtain don't show their faces. When they do, you deny their existence anyway. You cite reasons and motivations, insist upon agency, but these are but post-hoc rationalisations of processes that happen mechanistically through chains of electrochemical cause-and-effect. If you exist, you exist only to overlay fictions about free choice. Rationales, values, opinions and explanations are your consolatory fictions. Your justifications. But justification requires intention. Complex machinery develops its own agendas; you're just along for the ride. Of course you don't see this. How can you, from the inside? How can any of them.You trek your zombie self through a world that is as grotesque, absurd and wacky as your own hardwiring. The whole world is an enigma made terrible by our own mad attempt to interpret it as though it had an underlying truth, philosopher Umberto Eco, a fellow zombie, tells you. In The Denial of Death, Ernest Becker says something similar Man cannot endure his own littleness unless he can translate it into meaningfulness on the largest possible level. It's a sentiment echoed by your great existentialists. Life has no meaning a-priori, Jean Paul Sartre utters, and nothingness haunts being. Compared to existentialists like Camus and Nietzsche, Sartre was a bit of an optimist.Directed by Vincenzo Natali, Cube distills 200 years of existential philosophy down to seven guys in a box. The film watches as these characters are birthed into a incomprehensible quagmire and then attempt to make sense of their situation. Understandably, these characters quickly construct various codes, superstitions and belief systems. Why? Because their box is dangerous. It kills. It wants them dead. Our heroes cannot bear such motiveless malevolence.The characters trapped in this box are fairly straightforward archetypes. One's an architect and so nihilist (he understands the system for what it is), one's a cop and alpha male (he attempts to order a chaotic system), one's a doctor and healer (she gives her life for others), one's a math student and disaffected youth (she sees patterns that may or may not be there) and one's an autistic man and idiot savant (madness seems the only rational response to the irrationalities of the cube).The Cube's highbrow minimalism, which is heavily indebted to Sartre's No Exit, asks a simple but profound question why are we here? Natali's characters spend much of their time offering different opinions. Is the Cube a government project? The sadistic game of a psychopath? An alien device? A dream? A nightmare? Hell? One character, an absurdest, offers a more disturbing explanation it's a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan! Natali's characters bicker, but cannot survive unless they work together. The cop can delegate tasks, can use his physical strength, but without help is totally lost. The mathematician, meanwhile, is smart, but emotionally delicate and relies on others. The architect has knowledge, but is too passive to actual utilise his wisdom. One character, an arrogant individualist, is the architect's opposite. Save yourselves for yourselves! he preaches moments before his death.Unsurprisingly, the film's imbecile/savant/madman is the only character to survive the cube. Innocence isn't transcendental, it's just too stupid to realise it's actually in a cube. Conversely, knowledge of the cube engenders madness, and only those who can cope with madness, can cope with the cube.7.9/10 &#x96; Poorly paced, poorly acted, overlong and at times hokily written, The Cube is nevertheless a low-budget horror classic. See Red Desert, Heart of Glass, Vanishing on 7th Street and Cries and Whispers. "}{"Title":"A Case of Rave Reviews Heightening Ones Expectations.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cult classic. Awesome. Brilliant. Riveting. Clever. These words all made Cube sound like it was going to bust open the roof with its fresh approach to tension and science fiction. It did not. The film proved incredibly boring and only showcased how dated it is. Perhaps watching it closer to the original release date might have influenced ones opinion on how unique this story is. But time would not be on Cubes side and this low budget indie wonder would not really cross over into the Cult realm as I don't think it will garner new fans. And a cult classic needs longevity or else its more of a generational film. I'd recommend other films in its place but coming on to 20 years from the films initial release there's too many films that are more awesome, brilliant, riveting and cleverer than this slow drab of a film. Watch it if you're curious but please don't think you've missed out on something if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"8 - Great","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's another solid psychological thriller horror-game movie for fans of Saw. In this game, the characters are placed in a giant cube which is filled with millions of room-sized cubes, with doors on all 6 sides. The goal is to escape before you die. And in some of the rooms there are deadly traps. One of the characters has a method of throwing a shoe into the room to see if anything triggers, but once he's fried, the gang realizes they need a new strategy.Thankfully, the doors all contain numbers and with mathematical equations you can navigate your way out. You can calculate which doors are traps and which lead you in the right direction. The whole game and system are mathematically coherent, unlike the contrived ones in the later Cube films. Unfortunately, there's also the human factor and one doesn't only have to worry about the traps, but the other players as well. "},{"Title":"A Thrilling and Surprisingly Thoughtful Little Gem","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I know that this film is very well known, but I don't believe that it is generally given due credit for its accomplishments, which are myriad. Despite the surprisingly low budget for the production, director Vincenzo Natali succeeds at crafting a very taut, interesting, and extremely well-paced thriller with very fleshed out characters, a rarity in the science fiction horror genre. Throughout the film's 80 minute runtime, not only is the audience able to observe the very well-designed, claustrophobic and surreal sets progress seemingly into infinity, but also the excellent dialogue between the characters further develop them as very believable people. While this film is replete with the usual scares and thrilling set pieces for which this genre is known, it goes the extra mile by remaining totally unpredictable on a story level throughout. From the beginning to final sequence, no character's motivations, backstory, or final outcome are known for certain. With the claustrophobic atmosphere and very good acting from all around, Natali invites the audience to dive deep into the depths of human suspicion, paranoia, and ultimate decline when placed in unconquerable situations. However, while this is a significant part of the film, what truly put Cube over the top for me was its surprising subtext regarding not only the typical topics encountered in science fiction horror fare, but also a far more broad and relatable human message of the struggle to maintain some sense of being and purpose in the face of purposelessness. Perhaps I am reading too deeply into this by making these claims, but I feel that the titular Cube may represent life as a whole; a series of seemingly pointless choices and pitfalls in the form of a puzzle. Only by perseverance through even the darkest depths of human psychology can anyone hope to escape the labyrinth and achieve transcendence. The film's ending, though I won't spoil it, gives new meaning to this message, and leaves much food for thought. Despite all of this praise, I can't quite bring myself to give this film a 10. There are a few very clichd moments in the film, near the beginning especially, and only around the 25 minute mark does it really begin to feel like something entirely original. However, once it does, it becomes an immersive and potent piece of science fiction. "},{"Title":"Chilled me to the core","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Not since I watched The Shining have I seen such a great movie about the human mind descending into madness. Cube opens with six people trapped in a cube shaped room with doors on every side. Everyone in the room is different there are no similarities between them. One is a doctor, another a police officer, one a math student in college, one a guy who just is, a mentally handicapped man, and an escape artist. Together they must uncover the mystery of where they are and what they are doing there. But it gets worse as they discover that some rooms are booby trapped and others aren't. The whole premise for the movie is simple and that is what I think makes it such a spine tingling movie. The characters and the audience don't know anything about what is going on, creating a never ending feeling of unease. The acting in this movie was amazing, and I really felt like I was part of the group in the cubes. I tensed up at the most tense scenes, I was horrified by the traps, and when the police officer went crazy I felt the fear of Leaven and Worth as he chased them through the cubes. But it's not just simplicity and the acting that make this movie scary, it's the deep look into the human mind and how it deals with terrifying situations. It was interesting to see the whole spectrum of how humanity deals with possible death spread out over all these characters. One other thing I liked is the ending it fit perfectly with the whole movie there was no tearful reuniting with family members or staring at the sun in amazement. Instead there is the last guy you would ever expect to get through the whole maze walking off into a bright light. There is no hint of what is beyond the cube, a mystery movie that ends with a mystery, perfect. Cube was a fantastic look into the mind of humanity and how long it can last. It may be one of the scariest thrillers I've ever seen even without an antagonist. So I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Caught in a strange maze","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This Canadian horror movie opens with a man in a strange room; before we can learn anything about him he is literally sliced and diced in a wire trap. We then get introduced our potential protagonists; Quinten, Leven, Worth, Holloway and Rennes; most of them awaken in a similar room and they are soon joined by Rennes; he has obviously been there longer and explains what he knows to them&#x85; and us. They are in what appears to be a giant maze made of interconnecting rooms, some of which are booby-trapped. He believes he has found a way to detect the traps; throwing a boot into the room sets of the sensors that trigger the traps. Unfortunately for him not all the sensors are the same and he is soon killed leaving the others to figure out a way to identify the trapped rooms. Leven believes that they are indicated by the code numbers on the entrance hatches to each room; of course it isn't quite as obvious as it first appears. As they travel through the rooms, tempers fray and they learn more about each other and the structure they are caught in; one of them designed the outer casing, for reasons he didn't know, so they know it is a cube. They also meet another person, the autistic Kazan. As tensions rise it becomes clear that it isn't only the traps they have to worry about; one of them will do anything to make sure they get out, including murder.The strength of this film is that we know so little about why these people have been placed in this strange maze and nothing about why it was built in the first place. It becomes apparent that each of them has skills that could prove useful; but why them and not someone with similar skills isn't answered. It is this that makes the set up creepy; if we knew who built the cube or why it wouldn't be as effective; all we need to know is that somebody had it built and now these people are caught in it. The cast of less well-known actors does a solid enough job portraying the varied reactions of their characters to the situation they are in. The use of different colours for the rooms nicely creates the idea that they really are in a huge maze of room rather than filming in a single room where the colours could be changed. The opening scene brilliantly grabs our attention and tells us just how dangerous the place is and the tension is maintained nicely almost until the end; then things get a bit too melodramatic as it becomes clear that one of them is very dangerous&#x85; we even get the clich of the bad guy, who we thought had been lost or killed, appearing again at the last moment to attack the survivors just as they are about to escape rather than getting out of the cube with them. Overall an enjoyable and creative horror film let down by the ending. "},{"Title":"An interesting yet predictable plot","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is an interesting title with some level of suspense however not enough to place it in the horror category, thriller seems like the appropriate genre for this title.The 5 main characters find themselves in cubes all surrounded by yet more cube rooms on each side. some of these cubes are booby trapped. And navigating through this puzzle soon becomes clear to be a problem.This movie has an interesting plot with some deepness to it. However the characters are not. Well played but nothing more than predictable reactions. in fact the whole plot even though more original, deep and captive than most horror genre type movies was very predictable. very obvious clue's are given and all plot twists can be figured out beforehand without much effort.All in all a decent movie that is not very scary with decent special effects, acting and a solid yet predictable plot. "},{"Title":"Nothing short of brilliant. One of the greatest cult movies ever made.","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's really inspiring how you can make such a awe-inspiring movie with a marvelously low budget.This movie centers between a group of people Worth, Leaven, Quentin, Holloway, Kazan, Alderson and Rennes. Or, well, they are all the people winding up in the cube at least. Two of them die pretty quickly.Having one of the most memorable and creepiest opening scene to a movie I've ever seen, the movie starts off doomsday-like already at the start. While this movie does have a mystery, it's not the main thing making this movie so fantastic. The visuals, the characters, the sharp and funny dialogue, the atmosphere... these are all the factors for a classic piece of horror. The color palettes and the cinematography is a joy to the movies. I could watch this movie plenty of times if just to look at imagery so beautiful I am irritatedly jealous. The music for this movie is good too. Out of all the characters, Holloway is my least favorite since Nicky Guadagni's acting is pretty inconsistent. But other than that, the acting is shockingly good for a B grade horror movie. Andrew Miller gives a great impression of a delirious, but still smart, autistic individual, David Hewlett is great as the anti-hero Worth, Nicole De Boer does a solid job as Leaven... and best of all is Maurice Dean Wint as Quentin. Not only is his character the most fascinating in the whole movie, but his acting is so versatile and believable it's sad how he never had a chance to win an Oscar. While this movie is not outright terrifying, the movie really builds up the suspense well. And while they are not many, some moments are quite startling. And how can I praise this movie without naming some of the hilarious lines? For not being a horror comedy, it sure is funny. The balance between pure horror and comedic horror is a fine line, but the comedy was never overdone, so it was a movie making me laugh while still managing to take it seriously.The best linesThe only reason you even exist is because I keep you! I know your type. No kids, no man to fuc'k you. So you go around outraged, sticking your nose up people's assholes. Sniffing their business.You're telling me telethon boy is a genius?This room is... green. I want to go back to the blue room.Give us the boot, you pig! You don't WANT the boot!See it if you are tired of mediocre clichd horror movies. You'll have a mesmerizing experience. "},{"Title":"Perfect concept for the independent production it came from.","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Out of Saw, Phone Booth, Buried, or any other independent thrillers, this one is by far the most unique. The concept alone is enough to give it the edge. With Night of the Living dead related cheesiness, lame acting, semi-lame screenplay, weird sets etc, the premise alone is enough for it to get by. 6 strangers wake up in a cube shaped room, with no idea how they got there. Every other room they visit via airlock hatch on the walls leads to an identical room with a different color. Realizing that most of the rooms are booby trapped, they must put their heads together to find a way out of the deathtrap.The characters, though aren't acted well, are entertainingly over the top. Worth and Kazaan are the best. The question of who is doing this and why pops up a lot in the group. Later on you realize that Worth was hired by an unknown to design the outer shell of the compound, and the original purpose is unknown, which is quite fascinating. It's a film with no answers, it's just in your face is all you get.The filming is done super quirky. It's got still shots of sets, and very draggy camera movement, it makes me feel like i'm in less produced and badly acted Stanley Kubrick film. The booby traps are pretty cool as well, making for some entertaining scenes. Even though it isn't the smartest thriller, it's definitely a fascinating concept that is carried by over the top actors, insane sets, and interesting concepts of humanity. "},{"Title":"Fun horror mystery with some intelligence","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't want to give much away, so I'll keep it shortThe characters are (somewhat) clichd, the setting is unique, the acting is cheesy and the dialogue is flawed. There are some attempts at philosophy here which are quite interesting and subtle (yes, subtlety in a modern horror movie, it exists), but do not fully grasp their potential. But it greatly succeeds at mystery and pacing, so I recommend it to any fan of the genre.And the less you know, the better.7/10 Great for a slow Thursday night. "},{"Title":"Not Bad At All","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A handful of strangers wake up in a room, not knowing where they are or why they are there. They soon realise that they are trapped in some kind of cubed contraption where all joining rooms appear to be the same. They quickly find out, however, that all the rooms are not the same as some are booby trapped and some are not. Not knowing if they are there purely for someone's sick entertainment or if they are part of some kind of government experiment, they have to try and all work together to figure out what rooms are safe and how to get out alive.OK straight to the point here - if you don't like slower-paced movies or films where you have to think about things then don't even bother with this one as you will not like it. Also, if you're hoping that it's some kind of gore-filled Saw lookalike then, again, you'll be disappointed.Cube is a pretty decent psychological sci-fi thriller and is actually an original and clever idea as this was done in the days long before movies like Saw and The Collector. As mentioned before, it is quite a slow-paced movie, but you don't really get bored when watching it because you get drawn into the story and it does tick along pretty nicely, gradually building up suspense as it goes along.Some of the traps in the movie are so simple but they work so well, especially the very first one you see in the opening scene, and some of the effects are really well done especially for such a low-budget film. The only real downside is that some of the acting from Maurice Dean Wint who plays Quentin is a little bit over the top, but it's not enough to really ruin the movie.Cube is yet more proof that a little low-budget independent movie can do just as good as the big blockbusters that cost hundreds of millions of $, if not sometimes better.A pretty decent film to watch. "}{"Title":"Already a Classic","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think Cube has become a classic at this point. It used a very clever premise that has been re- used a number of times now; people 'trapped' somewhere who are strangers, and they need to band together if they want to escape/survive.The nice thing about this movie though, for me, is the mystery of who made the cube and why - and it's never actually revealed. It seems the most obvious guesses would be A) a government experiment of some sort, or B) some super wealthy company or person playing games just because they can. I haven't seen the follow-ups films, but I'm going to put them on my list. I am curious if those films reveal who is behind the cube itself and if the technology advances along with each installation. Ideally those films don't end up souring my opinion of this one, because I enjoyed it immensely. Highly recommended to fans of sci-fi "},{"Title":"Interesting, if flawed","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While not a Kubrickian exploration of the human condition, Cube, a well-structured, suspenseful and legitimately scary thriller can be quite effectively compared to the maze-like halls of the The Shining's Overlook Hotel. It's not perfect in any way, but if you enjoy a slow-paced horror like The Shining but find it a little complex this works fine. The film's cinematography is as disorienting as Gravity's with clever perspective tricks used to confuse which way is up and down and the use of one single set throughout the film borders on repetition but never quite reaches that extreme, instead finishing at a reasonable time (roughly 90 minutes in) and giving extremely limited glimpses of what lays outside the cube.The main flaws are macro-elemental, with clichd writing, stereotyped characters and bland, uninspired performances. The actors are all unknowns and with writing as unfortunately bland as this film offers it's no surprise that their performances suffer also. There were also a couple of annoying plot holes which got strangely ignored, and although it is perhaps suitable to keep these mysteries as mysteries a greater sense of satisfaction at the somewhat unthoughtful ending would be apparent if there were some even subtle hints to what the secrets of the cube were.This isn't to say that the response isn't as intended - there are some standout sequences such as the incredibly tense scene where all of the characters have to traverse a room with sound-activated traps, and later on in the piece the characters do face some genuinely scary situations, the claustrophobia setting in on the viewers as well.So if you can put up with some uninspired writing it's not hard to like this film for its achievements. "},{"Title":"Original, complex, but not entirely engaging drama","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Original, complex, but not entirely engaging drama.Very original concept. A handful of people are locked inside a weird cube-like construction with interconnecting rooms, some of which have lethal boobytraps. They have to find their way out.Figuring out which rooms are safe, and where the exit is, proves to be a complex and intellectual exercise. Maybe too complex. Even mathematical people like myself eventually will have gotten tired of the twists in the puzzle and algorithm. Add in that you don't really care for any of the characters, and you're not really engaged. It's just a mathematical exercise, and an overly complex one at that.Not helping the engagement are some fairly weak performances. Nicky Gaudagni, as Holloway, is the worst of the bunch. Cringeworthy. It was very difficult to like her character at all. David Hewlett and, to a lesser extent, Nicole de Boer are the only ones who give credible performances.Intriguing, but not a must-see. "},{"Title":"A different horror movie, but still has horror movie flaws","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is something odd. You can say different things about it, but one thing for sure, it is different from other horror movies that came before it. Oh sure, the idea of putting people into a situation where they start getting killed one by one as they try to find a way to save themselves from a mysterious danger is not new, and there are other horror movie clichs here too, but there is enough difference to separate this from other horror films.Cube can strike one as both dumb and smart.It is about a group of people stuck inside a deadly puzzle. The way the story is handled in terms of the puzzle progression and the solutions to the puzzle is pretty interesting. The way the characters develop is interesting.However, the dialogue takes a dip in quality. It is not very original and just does not flow very well. It is horror movie writing, that is to say, not good.Visually, the movie is most distinguishable. The whole thing takes place inside the cube puzzle, which looks remarkable and gives the film a most alien look. This must have been money saving as well, because all you really need is 2 cubes and a few colorful lamps to light them.The film also uses some CGI, which is absolutely terrible most of the time, but was probably impressive when this movie first came out.The cameraman has a tendency to use angled or angling close ups of people's faces, which in combination with the bulging eyes of the actor Maurice Dean Wint further contributes to the alien look that this film has.I want to give this film a higher praise but some of the acting and the dialogue was irritating. It is however one of the better horror movies out there and definitely one of the more original looking ones. "},{"Title":"Life?","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube has been one of my favorite suspenseful movies since I first saw it, and last Saturday I just confirmed the reason why. This happens due to the GREAT storyline that has been written; the philosophical thoughts are extremely well done. I've read a thousand of theories throughout the years on the internet, and, until now, there is no official response to who was behind this big engineering. The main question that every spectator asks himself is What was it all about? And that's what makes it diabolically good the uncertainty. Also, the actors are very professional-- even if unknown in mainstream--, giving life to all the good characters that have been written. I have no doubt that Saw was inspired in this cult horror gem. All in all, Cube is an original, scary, suspenseful and philosophical film that deserves all the recognition it has, and I really doubt that filmmakers will elaborate anything as good as this picture-- mainly if considering that nowadays' horrors only repeat what has already already done. Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Still good!...","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love the ideas behind this film; a mystery combined with some sci-fi and more than a touch of horror is right up my street. Unfortunately the execution just fails to pay off sufficiently for me to call it brilliant. I think the dialogue comes over as a little dated and that does let it down somewhat. Also the twist at the end was a tad predictable. Even so, I can't help but like this film; I think it appeals to the mathematician in me (don't let that put you off by the way). You'll know what I mean if you've seen it. Over all; a decent enough film that's maybe becoming slightly dated, but still has the edge over many a high budget blockbuster or two.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.8/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"Who built it and where is it?","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyable psychological 'ordinary people caught in a deadly maze-like trap' horror &#x96; much better than the 'Saw' film series which followed this and borrowed ideas from it. Aspects of this film are similar to episodes of the Twilight Zone and the Outer Limits. Ultimately this is more about people loosing their humanity under extreme pressure than about the futuristic and Kafkaesque trap itself. The opening sequence is truly horrific. The cube itself is well realised and one really wants to know what's outside, where the cube physically is located (it must be vast in size) and who built it and why. None of these questions (naturally!) are answered during the course of the film and this only adds to the intrigue. "},{"Title":"I loved it,","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube (1997) I really enjoyed this movie, I love the nice gory start of the movie, people waking up not know how they got there and have to avoid traps. (SAW 2 must of been inspired by this movie a little0 There were some nasty kills in this movie, some good twist and turns in this movie, which keep little on edge.There were some really over the top acting from some of cast members. There were some really good acting from some of cast.I liked the how movie ended, I going to give this movie 7 out of 10Skip Cube 2, Good think about Cube zero that watch it before of after this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant concept, but suffers from bad/mediocre acting","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The plot in Cube is as simple as it gets. A bunch of strangers trapped in a huge cube-formed maze. But simple can also be good sometimes. I think this concept is brilliant and very original. If you're a fan of original sci-fi movies, I really think you'll enjoy this one. It quickly catches your attention, and doesn't let go until it's over.The only setback is the acting. In my opinion the acting is poorly done, or at least mediocre at it's best. Especially the Quentin-character kept annoying me. I didn't really believe him. This is too bad, because it takes some of the focus away from the plot.Still, I really liked Cube. If you don't mind the low-budget, and can live with some bad/mediocre acting, you should watch it. It's still a good movie, and it offers something different. "},{"Title":"Very interesting film","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first should note that I am quite rigorous in my rating system 7/10 means that the film is very good, though not a masterpiece. I found this particular film to be highly entertaining, but not the timeless masterpiece that some people might think it is. Its a highly entertaining psychological thriller set in a maze. It provides a good afternoon experience.Also, this film suffers from dated special effects computed generated images from 1997 look terrible compared to modern film, which severely detracts from the film's experience. This type of problem doesn't plague animated films or films that use other forms of special effects, such as 2001 and its models. "}{"Title":"Ambitious, though flawed...","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...this feature-length debut from storyboard-artist-turned-writer/director, Vincenzo Splice Natali, remains a notable late-90s cult classic, presaging the Grand Guignol machinations of the Saw franchise while drawing on a raft of cinematic and literary predecessors as diverse as Kafka, The Outer Limits, Waiting for Godot and Lord of the Flies. The concept is simple a handful of characters imprisoned in what turns out to be a matrix of cubes (that periodically shift position within a larger cube) who must find their way out before dying of starvation/dehydration. The whys and wherefores are only vaguely explained (one character apparently helped design this fantastical apparatus), and it doesn't help that many of the cubes feature deadly traps that aren't easy to detect in advance, but it's the clash of personalities that gives Cube its raison d'tre, elevating it above the herd of low-fi wannabees into the realm of cult status.The acting is mostly hammy, the plot has a tendency to derail itself in favor of melodramatic excess, and there are numerous flaws in the story itself (a math geek who doesn't instantly recognize obvious non-prime numbers, or how long it takes these folks to realize the cubes are shifting position), but in its totality, Cube still manages to hold the viewer. Ably lensed by Derek Resident Evil Apocalypse Rogers, suitably scored by Mark The Border Korven, and featuring some early fx work from C.O.R.E. The Tudors Digital Pictures, Cube achieves a good deal with its low budget, and certainly more than enough to justify a viewing by various genre fans. It's over-rated on this site for reasons I can't even begin to understand, but still worth the time spent with it. "},{"Title":"Excellent start, poor ending.......too bad","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie's was very original and had a really good start and even the middle of the movie was good but towards the end it's like they ran out of budget and so the movie just fell apart as the script went really shitty with a very poor ending. It's too bad because this movie had a potential to making it much bigger than it was because of the stories concept.Big SPOILERS BelowThe story would of being better if Don't have the cop guy go crazy and start killing everyone and don't have the disabled man all of suddenly being a super math genius. These two blunders really shot the movie down! Story Ideas Still have the escape artist guy get killed with the acid in the story but don't have anyone else get killed toward the end but maybe injured. Have much more coverage of the cube maze inside and then outside structure and have some of the characters manage to escape and go outside showing the structure and realizing how simple the complex was being much smaller than they thought when they were trying to get out as the cells moved.It's too bad about the poor ending because this movie had great potential. They really didn't finished this movie. "},{"Title":"Amazingly intense and ingenious thriller.","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Co-writer Vincenzo Natali's movie is one of those that achieves that beautiful combination of being both intelligent and visceral. Natali maintains an uneasy tension the entire time as we follow a limited number of characters through an insane situation. These are strangers that have been gathered for some unknown purpose in a structure that, it turns out, is comprised of a seemingly never ending series of gloomy rooms, some of which come equipped with truly sadistic booby traps. Unfortunately, the characters realize how hard it will be to rely on each other as they struggle to think their way through the maze. Not only does this movie provide some grim and gruesome thrills (and work as something of a forerunner to the Saw franchise), but it's an all too believable study of the dark side of human nature, the masks that people can wear, and the danger of ignorance when people don't bother to ask questions. Natali and co-screenwriters Andre Bijelic and Graeme Manson keep things nicely ambiguous as to why and how this group of people came to be there, never bothering to answer very many questions themselves. They also do a fine, fine job of keeping things mostly unpredictable, not killing off certain characters when we think they will, and using both script and performance to have the audience eventually realize that we had some of the characters wrong. There are also delicious jolts along the way in terms of gore, as one character is diced right at the beginning, and another gets their face melted right down. The design of the movie is absolutely incredible, with the various rooms enhanced by various lighting schemes; the wonderful production design is by Jasna Stefanovic, the art direction by Diana Magnus, and the cinematography by Derek Rogers. The music by Mark Korven is effectively sinister without ever becoming too intrusive. The acting is solid, with Nicole de Boer playing Leaven, the math expert who's the most likable of them all, the commanding Maurice Dean Wint as Quentin, David Hewlett (who also worked with Natali on Splice) as the cagey, cynical Worth, Nicky Guadagni as the nervous Holloway, Andrew Miller as idiot savant Kazan, Wayne Robson as a former jailbird, Rennes, now trapped in another kind of prison, and the briefly seen Julian Richings as Alderson. Horror and thriller fans tired of movies with the same old, same old types of stories are advised to check out the creepy Cube, a movie that holds interest right up until its decidedly grim resolution. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A whole new concept. Cannot be missed!","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are some movies which are to be smelled, some to be tasted, but this one should be chewed and digested until full. I have never seen this sort of a concept used in any other movie. There wasn't even a single instant which bored me. That is a very important thing for a movie. The science used behind the killings and crypts are all phenomenal. There is innovation in all the killing showed in the film. Well, don't watch the movie at night, you might have bad dreams for weeks. The only thing which the movie lacked was some more explanations (which is given later in the sequels) for the unusual stuff happening in the film. "},{"Title":"always on the edge...","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is one of the best movie i have seen where the audience have to understand the clues, the logic, the maths and other points to understand what is going on. The way characters portrayed their part, i found it awwwwesome. The ending , where only Kazan was alive and all other characters dies and the last scene where Kazan moves toward the bright light is really great. I think the creators especially the editor of the movie has done a brilliant job. Though I really liked the movie, a little explanation or hint should have been given by the director about the reason why these seven people are trapped here. But overall a nice movie which always keeps you on the edge. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is very underrated, and I'm surprised that not as many people have heard of the movie. The idea is similar to Saw in the sense where the characters have to think their ways through/around booby traps etc., but the plot in this film goes beyond evading traps. Rather, the characters are attempting to figure out where they are,how this giant cube was created,why they have been randomly chosen to be thrown into this trap, and who is responsible. This film will keep you guessing what's really going on, and how the people are going to get through each booby trapped room. If you like cerebral movies, this is a movie for you. Although the acting may have it's melodramatic moments, it is still a movie worth your time. Not to mention, you will never guess the ending. "},{"Title":"An Superior Horror, Thriller!","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube 7/1/2010American Director Vincenzo Natali's latest film Splice opened last month for a short time and is one of the better movies I've seen so far this year. Hopefully it will find a following on DVD. His 1997 debut feature Cube has become a low budget cult classic. This incredibly inventive and creative film holds you from the very first frame to the closing credits.Cube could be described as a thrilling and suspenseful mathematical mind fu*k. The plot revolves around a group of strangers who are being held captive in a maze of cubed rooms. Why are they there? Who is doing this? These are the two biggest questions asked, and I applaud Natali's decision to keep these questions ambiguous. The group of seven characters is composed of a cop, a doctor, a teen girl, an autistic man, an ex-con, a mysterious twenty something guy, and another older man. Although the acting could've been better they do the best with what they are given. Made for under a half million dollars, the production values and visual effects don't suffer. Some of the rooms are booby trapped, and this made me think that this film was likely a big influence on the Saw series. Although the Saw movies take the torture and gore to extreme levels, while Cube is more character driven. The rooms all have a certain color and ID numbers with which they must try to figure out what it all means in order to get out alive. The real genius of the film is that these people are just there for no apparent reason and they don't know how they got there. Nobody is watching them; they're no cameras in the rooms. Is this some kind of military experiment? Where exactly is this cube structure located? Who built it? This question is only slightly answered. The cubes eventually start to take its toll on the inhabitants and some start to lose their minds. Themes of claustrophobia, panic and paranoia run throughout the film. Of the seven people trapped inside only one is able makes it out. There was a sequel made in 2002 called Cube 2 Hypercube which is not half bad, it is equally mind bending as the original but with gratuitous use of obvious CGI, but in this kind of movie is just seemed to fit. "},{"Title":"A Good Study Of Group Dynamics, But It Lacks Any Real Resolution","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really more about group dynamics than science fiction, and it offers a pretty good portrayal of the dynamics of one particular group of people who find themselves caught up in an insane situation and have to learn to work together if they want to have any hope of escape. Everything about this is pretty simple - except for the solution of course. There are no big name actors, the story and the dilemma is straightforward, the sets are very basic. Basically you have six characters who without either explanation for the viewer or understanding for them awaken in a room that's essentially a cube. Upon exploring, they discover that the room leads only to other rooms shaped like cubes (some of which are booby trapped) and they finally realize that all these cube rooms are located inside what must be a gigantic cube. The challenge is to find a way out or die of starvation, because there is no food. Each of the characters seems to have a particular gift or talent that might be useful in finding a way out but that also leads to competitiveness and jealousy as the various characters vie for control.It's interesting to watch the group as it evolves. Starting as strangers who are suspicious of each other, they manage to meld themselves into a reasonably cohesive group, but as the situation grows more desperate that cohesiveness disappears, and they begin to descend into less and less civilized behaviour. All that is well portrayed and quite believable in the circumstances.The ending of this was disappointing to me. There was no real closure; no explanation at all of what this cube structure was or how these people were taken to it. Personally, I found that a bit unsatisfying. I suppose that leaves everything to the interpretation of the viewer. Were I to take a guess, I'd guess that these folks were like rats in a maze. They were placed there so somebody somewhere could see how they dealt with the situation. To me, that lends itself to a sense that somehow the viewer is supposed to buy into the alien theory, since there would really be no need for humans to study group dynamics in such a complex and mystifying way. But that's just a guess on my part. "},{"Title":"A great show but feels as if it were coming out of nowhere","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube's a very alternative style that totally separates itself from any major horror/suspense drama. That said, you get some really intriguing setting here - some people get trapped in a big big cube and they're trying to get out with using their wisdom together.Along the way, some situation takes place and that's where the human nature of different kinds unfolds. Sure it reaches some depth but is held back by the story's simplicity. However, perhaps nothing way too complicated can be expected from such an adventure set in a cube apart from the outside world. When you look at the bright side, the film offers you a lot of entertaining moments just down in its own special setting and it's rather focused on its topic - being atmospheric. If it were lengthier, it would probably be more classic, though that's just my guessing.The movie does have something to deal with human nature. More specifically speaking, there are selfishness, desire for revenge for some trifles, and warmth in our hearts of course. It's generally believable but sometimes is ruined by certain exaggerated acting. The music score intensifies mood at times but sometimes it feels lacking, when you feel that there should be some...In general it's a great film, especially considering how it explores human nature while serving as a horror film but the setting feels like it's coming out of nowhere and totally unexplained; that's the part where Saw does better. After all, it's a must-see for horror fans. "},{"Title":"A satisfying alternative to more mainstream fare.","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is original, uses no gimmicks or trickery, and doesn't dumb down anything to please the audience. It is by no means the best film going around or probably even in the top 20 films of 1997, but I thought it was worth a look then and I still do now.I view Cube as similar to Pi and Primer, two low budget flicks that took a risk and made strangely compelling and interesting films. They might not stack up to your Die Hards, T2s or Alienssss, but they give a bit of much needed variety.A guy wakes up in a large empty room with metal walls, floor and ceiling, he opens a door which leads into an exact copy of the previous room, walks into the room and is immediately and without warning sliced and diced, Resident Evil style by a booby trap that he triggered.Ladies and gentlemen, meet Cube.In other rooms more people wake up, each in their own room, it appears that all rooms are interlocking and one by one they meet. No-one knows why they are in the rooms, how they got there or what happens next, but they know this isn't the office Christmas party.Initially there are 5 inmates, three guys and two women, as they interact and query their predicament it becomes evident that there is no easy similarity between them all or reason for them being there, there is a doctor, a cop, maths student, an escape artist and a person who describes himself simply as an office worker.They ponder and plan how they might escape from the situation that they are in, theories and plans are hatched and most immediately shelved, but after moving carefully through a couple more rooms using a bait approach to show any booby traps their number is suddenly and graphically reduced to 4. More clues are discovered, more theories are introduced, and they come across another inhabitant in the maze.The new chum is best described as a more highly strung rain man type, capable of certain logical thought but largely useless for the group's short term goals, and in fact a hindrance in many situations.As the group don't know each other a certain level of snippiness and resentment is inevitable, though it does feel a little forced on occasion, even when their circumstances are considered. They continue musing why them? why there? and who did this? but no simple answer is provided.When a breakthrough is had, the group dynamic changes somewhat, as allegiances are formed and dissolved and paranoia rules, ultimately leading to betrayal, treachery and violence, as any good story should.Without going into who dies first, why they are there and if any manage to escape, I must give credit for the filmmakers efforts to at least try to make things interesting. This is obviously a low budget production but they manage to squeeze as much as they can from the limited sets and what is likely a minimal special effects budget. This is a reasonably smart, if sometimes baffling exercise in building tension and creating uncertainty and unease, and for the large part it succeeds. There are no explosions, no snappy one liners or gratuitous hotties, and only a few scenes of violence or gore, and so when they arrive they actually have a bit more impact as we are a little less desensitised.Final Rating 6.5 &#x96; 10. I can't unequivocally recommend Cube for everyone, but if you don't mind the odd experimental art-house-y flick, this is more interesting than 20 Transformers movies, despite an absence of Megan Fox's tanktop.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "}{"Title":"Great low-budget movie.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the best low-budget movie I've seen in a looong time. The acting wasn't GREAT, but Maurice Dean Witt could have a future ahead of him in acting, as could Nicole DeBoer(who already had a character on Star TrekDeep Space Nine). The main thing that kept me watching this was the suspense. This is one of those movies that keeps you on edge throughout the entire film like 'The Shining' did for me. Anyway, I give this movie a 9/10 and suggest that you rent it. (This is an older post of mine, from 1999. While my opinion of the movie has changed, this review represents what I thought of the movie Cube when I was 16 years old) "},{"Title":"Good and interesting movie, if somewhat flawed","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday, I got the chance to see this movie on the Sci-fi channel. I had planned to rent it at the video store but had never got the chance. Well, now that I've seen it I can say I could have spent a good $3 'cause the movie delivers on its premise.As has been said before in other reviews, some of the weak points of the movie are its far-fetchedness with math principles (I'm no math wiz but how the math girl wasted even 3 seconds to ponder if even numbers are prime? Hello?). Some of the acting gets sometimes too melodramatic for its own good, and they tend to overact.But considering this is a low-budget film, I think they worked wonders with the single set and the general atmosphere of the film was pretty creepy. Considering that nowadays it's difficult to see good horror anymore (although this movie it's more of a sci-fi/horror blend), it's great to see some explicit gore in a movie (the first death of the movie will quickly summon Hellraiser to mind).Remember that most of the good horror outings now are coming from the independent sector (Check out also The Ugly, which was released also by Vidmark). The Blair Witch Project is another recent example to remind us that the future of horror does not lie in Scream and I know what you did last summer, those pitiful attempts at the genre. "},{"Title":"Inflammatory Racist Images?","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am surprised to read a few comments here and not see this mentioned - the lone black actor just happens to be cast as a murderous sadist - the pale white canadians cowering and awaiting his execution of them. I wondered why I had not heard much about this movie - good or bad. I think this film has a kind of ambiguous shame which inevitably comes from this type of casting decision. I recognized this actor (Maurice Dean Wint) but didn't remember from where until I saw that he had been on Earth Final Conflict, suffering similar stigma. Man, this guy can't get a break! I cringed all throughout the episode in which Mr. Wint played a human whose body had been possessed by one of the ultra-pale ultra-evolved alien beings. This alien was experiencing what was referred to as a dark journey in the horrific animalistic world of Mr. Wint's life and body. I cringed throughout the episode, and had a similar feeling watching the ending moments of 'Cube'. There - I said it. Thank you.  "},{"Title":"Philosophy-friendly suspense yarn","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie has the taste not to overplay the potentially facile philosophical implications of its premise - a diverse group, in a stripped-down environment the origin of which they have no knowledge, finding that they each have a particular skill relevant to effecting their escape...if they can conquer their differences. Through generally unforced writing, canny acting, and surprisingly striking production design given the very low budget, the movie makes it as a suspense yarn. The limited possibilities of its premise start to become more obvious as it goes on, and it lacks the wild idiosyncrasy and fluency of something like Pi. But it's no surprise that it's reportedly been a big hit in France - it lends itself very effectively to a high-school essay-level of philosophizing; and it's no doubt canny (if dramatically a bit of a letdown) that the movie refrains from showing us what's outside the cube (except, as per one memorable exchange, human stupidity). "},{"Title":"S'wonderful, S'marvelous","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an example of a GOOD low budget movie- they make a wonderful, cheap set that looks fantastic & is versatile. The actors are marvelous, and the writing isn't stupid or padded. I wish I was a movie executive so I could give these film-makers tons of money.Also, Maurice Dean Wint deserves an award- his portrayal of Quentin. He starts off as a hero in the vein of Ken Foree in Dawn of the Dead, but his character changes and evolves amazingly, while being believable and convincing.Nicole deBoer is also stunning as Leaven, the beautiful math wiz.All in all, a wonderful experiment, although I would've liked  a more, uh, sensical ending. "},{"Title":"Good for Canada.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a Canadian movie.  I didn't know that until the end, when , during the credits, they mentioned some sort of Canadian Film Association or something.  My fiancee said she figured it was Canadian when one of the characters mentioned Saskatoon.  I noticed, but didn't think anything of it.I'm from Canada, and I think that this is a great movie, not just for a Canadian movie, but for all movies.  I've seen many Canadian movies, most of them I didn't like, for one reason or another.I really loved this movie.The idea of being placed in a deadly maze, not knowing how you got there, forced to survive by your wits and by the wits of others is a terrifying one.  I found myself totally immersed in the idea of the Cube, not caring about the feasibility of the deathtrap, but really identifying with the characters, and placing myself alongside them in the terrible situation they've entered.I really liked the character interaction, I thought it was believable, given the circumstances, and I like the idea that the characters were chosen (by whomever confined them) because their skills would complement each other. The acting was very good, and I empathized with all of them.I thought the death scenes and traps were suitably disturbing, evoking more terror and furthering the feeling of hopelessness of being trapped inside the giant machine.  The traps gave me sort of a medieval meets sci-fi feeling, and the effects were great.The movie progressed fairly quickly, and the final escape sequence was well devised, except for the standard villain-back-to-wreak-more-havoc device. Other than that minor tidbit of disbelief, the movie ended well, and I found myself crying out for more.  I wanted to see what would happen next, but knew the ending was better without any real closure.All in all, I gave it 9/10, and recommend it for anyone who likes suspense, sci-fi, math and to a lesser extent horror movies. "},{"Title":"great movie for that less money","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think that Cube is a great movie for the budget that was used. The acting wasn't always that good but I have seen higher rated movies with acting that really sucked (Jurrasic Park for example). For some people, the end was really bad but I think that it was really good. I like movies where you can think about for some time. And what for ending should these people want. I can't think some good one. My rating on this movie was 8/10. "},{"Title":"mainly praise?","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deliciously scary - one of the best horror-type movies i've seen for a long time. I loved the set...the only low point being that the maths explanations were a bit too complex and long-winded for my poor brain! "},{"Title":"A 1/2 hour plot stretched to movie length with a bad result.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an average flick.  Good points are an unusual (though repetitive) set that is well made and impressive.  Bad points are the acting, the plot is too thin for a full length movie (better as a 1/2 hour to 1 hour TV episode), and a disappointing ending. On a scale of 10, this is a 5. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic and sweaty","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was engrossed in this film from the first scene.  The no-name actors and cheap (but very stylish)sets made it all the better, focusing your full attention on the concept.  I enjoyed seeing a film with more words than action and how the characters reacted to each other and the situation.  I was also glad that an explanation for who was behind the cube was not given. The ending was a bit far fetched. A jolly good yarn though with lots of arty camera angles and stressed out sweaty people. "}{"Title":"Compelling, if flawed","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this film, I deliberately put my dinner aside for the first scene. I knew what was coming - I'd read about it in the few reviews of Cube that appeared - and didn't particularly want to be snacking on spaghetti pomodoro when it happened.There were a few more moments like that in the course of the film, where I was so tense I had to peek from behind my fingers. I was surprised it was only rated 15 in Britain, as it scared me more than plenty of 18-rated horror films.In between the moments of tension we're introduced (in some cases briefly) to a group of people who seem to be on the corporate team-building weekend from hell. The characters are not rounded - that would either require a long introductory segment in the world outside of the cube, or long periods of dialogue which would slow down the film. Whilst this has the effect of making a character's death cause you to wince rather than feel sorrow at their demise, if you try and bear in mind that this is more of an idea movie than a character study you can let it pass. The acting is competent, although due to the lack of major characterization the actors tend to be reacting rather than acting. Quentin, the police officer, is occasionally hammy, but his descent into savagery from his initial role as the galvanizing leader of the group is interesting to watch. As for the others, you wonder what the rest of the group would have done if the essential members - the maths student, the autistic savant and the architect - had bought the farm early on in the film; you also wonder what the diced guy at the start did for a living, and how he could have added to the skills of the group if he hadn't had that unfortunately cheese-wire accident.At the end you do wonder if you're going to get to see on the other side of the final hatch - but then sometimes too much explanation spoils things. I prefer the original version of Close Encounters when you *don't* see inside the spaceship, and believe me I was much happier pre-Highlander 2, before I knew Christopher Lambert and Sean Connery were aliens from the planet Zeist.Cube CAN be viewed just as a horror sci-fi movie, although if you feel like looking for an allegory between the cube as our society and reaching the outside as salvation/heaven, then you'll certainly find a lot here to back you up.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this one","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had no beginning and no conclusion. I felt very taken by the fact that I wasted money on the rental. There was no reasoning behind anything in the movie and no answers were given at the conclusion. I would not recommend this movie to anyone except maybe someone who had nothing in their life to draw their attention away from the screen. Very poorly produced, directed, and written (gee, maybe we could get a chimp to stamp out a few keys on a typewriter). It's amazing what is allowed to be seen by the public these days. "},{"Title":"Cubes a decent film","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film Cube is a decent film, but tries far too hard.  The film has high morality play asperations and wants so hard to have social commentary, but loses out by over doing it.  The acting is also generally horrid(save two David Hewlett(Worth) who does an excellent job and Andrew Miller(Kazam)).  But it's a highly imaginative and novel idea.  But it tries too hard to be deep and psychological and also wants to be original.  Not an overall bad film,though.  A good use of an hour and a half, I'd say. "},{"Title":"It's All In The Atmosphere or Nihilism, Anyone?","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hmmm. Very interesting little movie, this. The idea-put a few strangers in a life-or-death situation and see how they cope-is as old as...well, I don't know, but it's a pretty old idea. Some of the acting is good, some of it isn't. The much-maligned ending was the best part, I thought. The entire meaning of the movie was in that last three or so minutes, and the music is incredibly creepy. What's remarkable about this movie is the feelings it provokes. I was terrified. It indulges in a fair amount of gore and violence, but that's not what was scary. It's nihilism was what had been hiding under my covers, and *I'm* very understanding of the nihilistic viewpoint, even if I don't necessarily consider myself to be one.Cube has its flaws, but lack of atmosphere and the ability to provoke aren't among them. I had chills for days after I saw it. (Incidentally, the math does hypothetically work. The guys who made it went to their math professor, who has a Ph.D. in mathematics, and asked him to come up with a number system that would do all the things they needed it to do for the movie. He came up with a system that did all that for a cube that would be 25 X 25 rooms, but said that with the effort needed to progressively figure out if it would work for a cube the size of the one in the movie, he would be able to get another Ph.D. in math.) "},{"Title":"Good for those who can swallow it","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie for those people who can see past the obvious storyline and into the possibilities the movie sets up through its intentional vagueness.  It is however a very very bad movie for people who expect an omniscient POV of the goings-ons in a film.  This is definitely a movie without a guard rail; you are constantly expecting someone to get killed and wincing every time the characters enter a new room.  The irony at the end of the film is notable too.. "},{"Title":"Definitely Different","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be seen if you are sick of the standard cookie-cutter summer-blockbuster the-soundtrack-is-out-before-the-movie movies that I have gotten quite sick of. It is interesting, comedic at times and anything but predictable.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie with interesting ideas","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw CUBE and thought it was an interesting concept, and well done for an obviously limited budget, but the acting was terrible.The concept was pretty good and very interesting, however.Nobody has commented on the interesting naming of characters.Of the seven characters in the movie Leaven, Worth, Alderson, Holloway and Quentin all are prison names..  Leavenworth, Alderson, Holloway and San Quentin.Kazan escaped... Elia Kazan escaped similarly recently...But Rennes... I don't see the significance of the name. Any suggestions? "},{"Title":"Enough to give you nightmares for a week.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read so many people moaning about this films lack of closure, failure to answer some of the questions it poses. In my opinion, these people have missed the entire point. One of the characters actually says you can't see the big picture from in here, you gotta concentrate on what's in front of your face!. That's exactly where this films strength lies, you are trapped throughout along with the characters. You don't even get to glimpse the outside world at the beginning. Instead you are thrust straight into the disturbing and claustrophobic plot. If you thought that the truman show was smart or original then think again... If you are after gore then you'll get plenty of the red stuff. If you're after laughs then sure, there's one or two... but most of all, if you are after nightmares and thoughts plagued for days with the intricacies of a tidy, intelligent, and utterly edge of seat movie then this is the film for you. 5 out of 5 just for not pandering to the masses. "},{"Title":"Excellent sci-fi - engaged my attention completely","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was incredibly intense - when I talk back to the characters on the screen, I've been hooked.  I was reminded of a SF book from long ago - 'Cage A Man' with the premise of being in a prison for no discernable reason.  My teenage daughter didn't understand why no 'real' ending, I thought it was just right.  It would have taken away from the impact to have some trite explanation or happily ever after intrude on the mystery.  Watch and note the character interplay - those interactions will explain why a character succeeds or fails. "},{"Title":"you should have seen it!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Actually I think Natali did a very good job on that movie. He was able to bring something NEW to the screen and in my opinion that's hard to do nowadays. The story about the cube and the characters are real great - and if my English would be a bit better - I would write the same stuff here, I wrote for my review in the magazine, I'm working for ) But believe me - you should have seen it!  "}{"Title":"Little film; Big Ideas","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read a review of cube suggesting that it might play better on video. Having just finished watching the video I'm keen to see it on the 'big screen'. It struck me as a cool piece of modernist angst, obviously made on a limited budget but making the most of every penny. Great use of themes used by the likes of Kafka, Sartre, Ellison et al. I'm glad that they didn't seek to answer too many questions as the point of this sort of philosophical speculation is to ask those questions and to suffer the anxiety of not 'knowing'. Anyway it was a refreshing change of pace from the committee made dross that Hollywood churns out. Hell I love a lot of that dross but little films with big ideas like this one are always a pleasure to stumble upon. "},{"Title":"It Suddenly Came To Me","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is somewhat of a it suddenly came to me film, as it is full of stupid characters doing stupid things. It starts out as an incredible gore fest. We see the cube's powerful killing techniques (which I will say are creative) and then are introduced to a group of six people who have really complex, messed up lives. I need a cigarette! screams the doctor who is frustrated by the black policeman. Maybe I won't give you one, he shouts back. I see why your wife left you! Huh? The characters are introduced so that we know nothing about them except for anything they can use to get out of the cube. However, the film is extremely symbolic on not falling into's life's traps. While it has it's faults, it's still a film to see. "},{"Title":"Great piece of work!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't wait until Cube 2!I couldn't find any noticeable flaws in this movie, which is something which cannot be said for the latest and greatest George Lucus flick.Not only that, but the story is actually original and entertaining.Someone suggested bad acting was at play here.  I tend to think otherwise. The respective actors had to play out a wide range of human emotion, and were convincing enough for me.The only complaint I have for the movie is that Vincenzo Natali does not refer to Nicole de Boer enough in the director's commentary. She was perfectly cast!  "},{"Title":"A noble effort, but shallow","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film started off with great potential.  The setting and plot were intriguing and original.  The film requires thought as the viewer too tries to figure out how to escape the cube.  Yet, the film lacks humanity, as the characters seem to be cardboard cutout stock characters.  Furthermore, the movie lacks any real purpose.  The film fails to answer the very questions it poses.  Given more humanity and purpose, this film could have proved to be a noteworthy film.  It is still a noble effort, but walks too fine a line between surrealism and reality. "},{"Title":"Flawed Paranoia","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Half of this film is a poor revisitation of THX-1138, the other half is a ludicrously poor imitation of Sartre's Huis Clos. That is, a Huis Clos with comic book characters, and a THX-1138 without relevance.I guess that the guy who wrote this thing must have been a control freak as well as a bad D&D dungeonmaster. That's what this film is; a giant Dungeon.No thanx ... "},{"Title":"Not vague enough?","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some have complained that this movie left too much unexplained, providing too little background into why, where and how the characters came to be where they are. My complaint with this film is that it didn't leave enough unexplained. The anguished confession of one character's involvement in the cube's construction, combined with the conspiracy theories of the others, unpleasantly reminded me of The Andromeda Strain, another film in which what could have been an excellent science/philosophy thriller was spoiled by political ranting. I would have enjoyed it more if the characters had been in more of a vacuum, with less connection to the outside and more time spent exploring the nature of the cube and their place in it.  "},{"Title":"A very intriguing movie","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The basic idea of the movie itself is quite unique. There's not very much variation of scenes (only the colours of the rooms), but it's keeping you interested till the end; and that's a real ability!!This movie is really tensive, especially the scene where they must cross a room without saying anything and they're arguing whether they should take the retard with them!Nevertheless, there are still many questions after seeing this movie, but maybe that's also the strength of it. >  "},{"Title":"","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although the film suffers from a few beginner's flaws (unsophisticated characters spouting lyrical dialogue etc.) this film is clever, suspenseful and intriguing.  One criticism it DOES NOT deserve is that it doesn't make sense.  For some reason audiences (especially American audiences) feel the necessity to have things explained to them.  (For the record, I am an American.)  That isn't necessarily a bad thing but it shouldn't be the determining factor in your enjoyment of all movies.  As Roger Ebert has said, when you watch a movie you take on the responsibility of using your intelligence.  Cube clearly demands that.  If you come away from this film with nothing more than feelings of angry because you don't know why you've clearly not been doing this. It's like wondering what's in the briefcase in Pulp Fiction.  The whole point is to draw you own conclusion.A very clever, if not over-the-top, script is utilized as well as a concept that really took some guts and imagination to pull off - a science-fiction adventure film made on a single set.  Cube is graphic and surprising.  It establishes early on that anything can happen.  It also reveals something about human emotion and principal when placed in a pressure cooker.  This is what gives the film it's emotional spring.  The usual, linear characters would have turned this film into just another Alien type rip-off.  It's the greatness exposed in the meek and the tyranny brought out in the seemingly heroic that made this sci-fi movie a cut above the rest.  In this case less is more.  "},{"Title":"Captured my attention and allowed me to experience the characters dilemma.","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched 'The Cube' this past weekend on video.  In fact, I thought it was an excellent flick! Specifically, I enjoyed not knowing why the people were in the cube.  The logic behind this impression is that by not knowing I became more involved with what the characters were possibly experiencing by not knowing themselves.  It allowed me to have a greater depth of empathy by not having additional knowledge that the characters didn't have.  Plus, there's a point within the movie that the characters speak out their beliefs why they may be in the cube - it allowed me to participate by coming up with my own reasons as well.In addition, I believe that based upon very limited sets (so they changed the colors of the rooms with lights), the movie captured my attention the whole time through.  And for the part of the movie that takes place in the silent room, everyone that was watching it at my house ended up being really quite so as to not make a sound that could trigger something during that scene due to the fact that they too were very involved with the film themselves.Great Movie!!  "},{"Title":"definitely a movie you just got to see","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had pretty bad acting and was probably shot in one room but I couldn't stop watching it. It had major on the edge of your seat kind of scenes. It kept me thinking too. The director left it up to you to decide what it was that put them there and what exactly it was period. You won't be disappointed. Get it. Rent it. Watch it. "}{"Title":"It took me a while to figure this one out...","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you expect to be spoon fed an explanation of this movie, then you'll never see what I saw.  Who's to say that I'm right, but I thought the CUBE and its prisoners were very synonymous with life in general.  None of us really know who put us here, or why.  Even though some may claim to know why, they probably only know a small piece of the overall puzzle.  The only way we can get to our final goal, is to work together, using each person's special talents that they, themselves, probably don't even know the value of. Every one of us thinks we know exactly what we are, or are not capable of, but we will never really know until we are put into a situation that tests what we are made of.  There will always be those who do all the work, and those who just coast along, letting everyone else do things for them.  There are those who can't do for themselves, and those who take on the responsibility of taking care of them.  There will always be leaders and followers.  If you look closely at this movie, you will probably be able to find many parallels to every day life. To me, the most interesting thing was that the most simple and harmless person in the group was the one who effortlessly walked out of the CUBE and into the bright white light.  I think there are many messages in this movie, and my wife and I enjoyed it very much.  It took me a day or so, but I suddenly realized all of the above and made the connections. Of course, I could be totally wrong...  "},{"Title":"A Genuinely Intelligent Film!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Cube is by far the best psychological thriller/horror I have seen in years! The movie is fresh and innovative introducing the viewer into a new realm of suspense and horror!  Six strangers come together in a cube type prison.  Their backgrounds are diverse and intended. Each one excels in their field.  Two women, one a doctor and the other a student good at math. Four men, a thief, an idiot savant, an architect, and a cop. They all must work together diligently, as a team, to find a way out. Rooms are boobey-trapped, people are pitted against one another, tensions rise and people fall.  The Cube incorporates the viewer in the chaos, fear and paranoia that ensues as the six race against peril and time to find their escape.  This film is a MUST see!!!!!  It will hold your attention from beginning to end and surprises are in abundance. **Note that every character's last name in the film is a name of a famous prison.** I give this film my highest recommendation! "},{"Title":"Plot left room for imagination","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie truly intrigued me. I think it left a few details up to the viewers imagination. I felt the acting wasn't spectacular, but the suspense in some parts was good. I just wanted to comment on a couple of the other viewer's comments. There really was no explanation for why they were in the cube and how they got there. There was no explanation for why they were in the cube and how they got there I think because there didn't need to be. The main plot was figuring out how to get out. Nor was there any rationality for the killing of the doctor. Why did the cop risk his own life to save her, only to drop her?; I think the cop by that time was feeling quite a bit of hatred or anger at the doctor and being trapped; when he was pulling her up he just snapped...you could see it in his eyes. Anyway, I thought this movie was pretty good. I enjoy films like this (horror, suspense) immensely. "},{"Title":"It turned me off","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After getting a strong, yet vague recommendation to see this  film, I rented it. Unfortunately, I began watching during  dinner, and the opening scene (in which a man's head is unexpectedly sliced into pieces) turned me off so much, I  stopped the movie.The reviews on this site are mostly positive, yet few mention  this graphic violence. Is the entire movie this revolting? Did I  make a mistake in giving up so quickly? Some of my favorite  movies (Blue Velvet, Reservoir Dogs, etc.) have strong violent content, but wholly gratuitous violence like the opening of this movie just turns me off.Is there anyone out there who doesn't like violent films who  still found Cube worthwhile? "},{"Title":"like a rotten piece of number 2 that leaves the question where did it come from?","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't vague at all. Even after one viewing, I had no questions. Obviously there is the big one most people have how did they get there? Well, listen to what the characters say. A couple of them have their theories. The viewer might have another. It's like Star Wars. When the movie's over, you don't ask yourself how did they all get there? You just accept it. It's not important at that time. It's one of those things Natali leaves to your own mind.All other questions, including why he dropped the doctor, were answered immediately by the expressions on their faces, or other factors. Excellent film.  "},{"Title":"Like a good Twilight Zone!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm pretty picky about sci-fi/psychological/suspense films, which is why I loved this film. It's not the best movie in this genre I've ever seen, but it's certainly the best new one I've seen in a long time!Why did I like it? It didn't wrap everything up. It was vague, but creatively and purposefully vague. You don't know why they're in that cube, or who put them there. This *adds* to the suspense. It's such a welcome change from the endless stream of Hollywood films that resolve everything for you. This movie succeeds by being open to interpretation. "},{"Title":"from small acorns...","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This po-faced sci-fi thriller overcomes a miniscule budget admirably with its ingenious concept and slick pacing. True, there's some embarrassing 'kick-ass' dialog at times, and the acting is a little sketchy, but despite a slow start, the script begins to get more interesting once the more metaphysical aspects are introduced. As the film progresses, there are some genuinely gripping scenes which forgive the occasional lapse into melodramatic clich (and the rather confused mathematical premise on which the escape from the cube is exercised). Natali inventively overcomes the limitations of the cramped environment, keeping the whole film dynamic looking and visually interesting throughout. Sad it has to resort to a 'Magus'-style cop out ending. What is the purpose of the cube? What is the meaning of life? Who are we, why are we and where do we come from? Nevertheless, if Lucas could progress from 'THX 1138' to 'Star Wars', then I'm sure we'll be seeing some fascinating work from this guy in a couple of years.  "},{"Title":"what a low budget sci- fi movie should be","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  These people spent money in all the right places it was made for cheap, yet it doesn't look cheap. It was suspenseful without having to resort to music that tells viewers when something bad may happen. The script left questions to be answered, but it's better not knowing (I'm sure it was cost effective not having to hire more than seven actors). It's really well made for such a low budget.  "},{"Title":"What a wonderful analogy of life...","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I watch a movie for the first time, I take it for face value.  This movie is unbelievably suspensful and very intellectual... not just a gore movie.  The movie itself is enough to make me want to own it.  After seeing it I thought about it more.  Other comments on the movie stated that parts of the movie were unclear and that the vague ending left a bad taste in their mouth, but I think there was more to it than that.  I could be completely wrong, but I interpreted the cube that they were trapped in was actually life as we know it.  The different rooms represent the different paths we take in life.  The final room is a bright white seemingly infinite place... hmmm, I wonder what that could represent?  I believe that the director left the movie semi-vague so that we as observers would notice this hidden meaning.  The next time you see Cube, check for the subtle things. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say about Cube is this this film is a modern masterpiece. The characters' heroics weren't much, but they were right on the money with the paranoia and anger. The beginning and ending sequences were cool and left you breathless. Cube is a remarkable film. "}{"Title":"science fiction as allegory","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Fun, short film that reminds me of the creative power of the old twilight zone and outer limits episodes.  Not full of the sort of didactic crap that poses as science fiction these days, Cube is an allegory in every way. Back before science fiction was all about moralizing or political debates cheaply disguised as future settings, projects like cube could be made that simply offer a concept.  With the seven characters trapped inside a cube, trying to unlock the mystery of why they are there and how to get out, I was suddenly aware of how allegorical the whole story was, the whole point of solving a puzzle working on two levels (the scientific puzzle and the human puzzle). The characters had simple names and functions, reminding me of the characters in Stalker (writer, scientist, stalker).  Definitely an interesting film, and a must see for anyone who gets tired of going to the movies to watch Keanu Reeves blow up something for god and country. "},{"Title":"overall good flick","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah I too was a little upset with what I thought were a few plot inconsistencies.  Overall, however, I did like this movie.  I watched it a second time with my friend who was equally captivated and intrigued.  It was an interesting portrayal of human nature in the face of adversity, and how it manifests itself in different people. "},{"Title":"Pure supression","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into the video store and asked my friend for a freaky movie. I was still in the mood for weird freaky films (I had just re-rented Videodrome and my bizarre-quota still hadn't been met). He said they just got a new film, Cube, and I might just be sufficiently freaked out.With apologies to the previous reviewer, who did a great job at displaying just how much this film causes a queasy and slick feeling in your stomach, I must give this film a very high mark. It's stylizied, it's claustrophobic, and it's downright CLAMMY.That's about the best word for it. Clammy. That kind of feeling you get when you've had a bad dream, it's 448am, you're awake and trying to regain your senses, and you notice you're soaked in a film of sweat.Plot? Simple. People wake up inside a machine. What's its purpose? Why are they here? They did nothing wrong! Grrrr. Moreover, how the heck do they get out? They don't belong here. There's no plausible reason for any of them to be here.Cop, doctor, college student, designer, idiot savant (sorry if that's not the correct definition, I saw Rain Man and 60 Minutes, that's my background), escape artist, and man at opening shot who is the perfect advertisement for Ronco's Slicer and Dicer.They all have no idea why they're in this 14 feet by 14 feet by 14 feet room, with four portals in all four compass directions, and a very uncomfortable shade of light. Each room is lit in a Clive Barker-esque unstable shade of potential pain, and each room has rails on all six sides...hand holds, if you will.Some rooms are trapped (and by trapped I mean devices that make Clive Barker's Pinhead look like Angela Lansbury in Bedknobs and Broomsticks.), some aren't. You don't know unless you are smart enough to find a way to check. Yet, even then, the room still might be trapped. Mathematics becomes a very important part of this film, as both the college student and the savant try to figure out a method to this madness.They're in a place more vast than their imagination can possibly fathom. Each room only leads to other rooms. Traps, pitfalls, etc., everywhere. One by one each character's mental focus breaks down as they realize they are trapped and cannot escape. They're doomed to a small room. And even the most distinguished leader of the group loses reality and becomes someone who makes Nicolson in The Shining look like Mr. Wizard. Nothing is as it seems...As they work their way around the maze, inspiration followed by sadistic disappointment follow. And here's where this small-budget film that none of us would even know exists works its magic. It's one of the most blunt exposes on the human soul I've ever seen. Who leads the pack to freedom, who gives up and dies, and who is in the middle....This is definitely a MUST-SEE film if you are even in the slightest way interested in Foucault, the prison system, and studies in human psychology. Yes, there are twists and turns left and right. Everytime they open a new hatch and slide through the walkway to the next room, there's tension beyond belief. But more importantly, if you step back and take another look at this Cube and the effects it creates on those inside, you get an abject view of confinement.It's queasy in some parts, and after a while you get a blase sense of apathy. Near the end I almost wanted to just give up on the slowly dwindling number of characters, and just throw my hands up in frustration.But if you look at this film as a comment on the prison system in general, you get just a glimpse into the paranoid, confined, sickening sense of claustrophobia. Every character is trapped in their own cell, left to their own devices. There might be a glittering exitway somewhere in the not to distant future, but finding the way is a trial of the Biblical Job. It's an exercise in frustration.I'll be honest, this film really upset me. It's not the fear of death that scared me, it's the fear of living in a place you still don't know how to get out of; you're just hinting at ways of escape, and you have to rely on people you don't know to help you escape. The ending is as shocking as it is sad. This is a film that will make you think... "},{"Title":"One-dimensional characters trapped in a three-dimensional environment","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a concept piece. It thinks it can exist simply on the strength of its concept. It thinks it can ignore conventions like character, dialogue and dramatic momentum.The problem it faces is that because its concept is so minimalist it actually needs to pay even more attention to these other conventions than your average film - there is simply nothing else to keep you interested. The concept keeps you engaged for about five minutes, then you rapidly lose interest (the opening sequence would play very well as a short film, it's gruesome in an amusing way - unfortunately this sense of humor is not evident at all in the remainder of the concept).The dialogue and the characters are astonishingly bland. For a concept that prides itself on the complexity of its three-dimensional environment the actors are remarkably one-dimensional, capable only of spewing out existential platitudes.Obvious plot-turns abound, but you get the feeling that the concept-mongers want you to exclaim in surprise rather than groan in agony (the revelation regarding the autistic character is so long coming that it even loses its irritation factor, you can't even get worked up enough to be annoyed!).Even if you accept this concept on its own flimsy and pretentious terms, (I really feel that you have to have been to art school to fully appreciate its awfulness) the ending should still come as a bit of a shock. In what is probably the only genuine surprise in the entire concept the concept-mongers actually stoop to a conventional splatter-shock sequence. It's not a surprise in any interesting sense, it's just surprising that the concept-mongers didn't think they were operating on a higher level than this convention.    "},{"Title":"best original sci-fi of the year","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although I felt this movie lacked some action and maybe an additional twist or two, it was extremely fascinating and not to mention original; I haven't seen any movie that in the least bit resembles this one.  I like the movie for all the reasons the other guy who commented on Cube didn't like it. He claims that it left a bad taste in his mouth because the plot wasn't explained and the cop killed the doctor even though he had only saved her life earlier.  I'm not someone to look deep into a movie for greatness and answers, but one of the characters comes straight out and tells you why they are in the cube--he must not have been paying close attention and as for the irrationality of the cop, what does one expect from these people who are isolated in a cube for days on end. I'm sorry, but this movie left a GREAT taste in my mouth.  "},{"Title":"One of the truly great ideas","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Truly a great movie, if for nothing else, than an incredible premise. Recently, it has seemed as if movies have been rehashing old ideas, remakes of classic movies (Godzilla, Psycho, the seemingly millions of Scream copies). But, Cube is special and interesting to watch because it made me shake with anticipation. A thrill from the first to last scene.  "},{"Title":" Not since first seeing the early Twilight Zone episodes have I shivered like this.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ahh, the dread, the suffering.  Oops, wrong cube movie.This movie truly frightened me.  Not since first seeing the early Twilight Zone episodes have I shivered like this. In fact, I do believe that CUBE' gracefully takes its inspiration from one of my favorite episodes in which a Major, a Dancer, a Clown, a Bagpipe player, and a Farmer all find themselves inside a container of nothing and are forced to ponder their existence.  It's a wonderfully terrifying episode I will never forget.In 'CUBE', our poor cast has the daunting task of travelling through an endless series of traps, each designed to inflict a horrible death upon execution.  Some rooms appear safe, while others are simply lethal.  The faceless, ultra-efficient machine-traps chill the soul while the mysterious purpose of the entire situation staggers the imagination.It forces its occupants to ask the fundamental question of 'why'. Why am I here?  Why would anyone create such a monstrous place?  How can existence be so horribly unforgiving?  Is there an exit?  Is it even worth attempting to find an exit?  Is it testing intelligence?  Is it some sadistic rich millionaires idea of fun?  Or is this literally Hell?It is the unknown, personified by the Cube, which makes it so terrifying. It brandishes its own version of reality in plain sight while remaining ultimately mystifying. The two working together, set the stage for a truly memorable and horrifying film. "},{"Title":"Consuming","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just rented this film and AM GLAD I DID. The cast is very well chosen; Nicole deBoer in particular (who you may know from DS9 and The Outer Limits) is hardly recognizable. Don't be afraid of the fact that it is Canadian, or that you have not heard of it; the one is the reason for the other. The cube set is striking but not distracting (similar to the one in an obscure 60s TV film The Cube Jim Henson did), and the odd incident of very graphic but expertly done gore does not cancel out the intellectual and emotional elements that make the film good. For two hours you will be completely immersed, and it won't stop afterward; you can't get it out of your head. Kudos to the writer for not wimping out and explaining the cube. Every visual element of the film is unique and unintrusive, including the camera work. It has a very personal and closed-in feeling that is very appropriate. The FX are high quality and never overly flashy, as is the sound FX. The film makes no concessions to make us comfortable with the situation the characters are in; it comes out of the television to include you. Expect to feel frustrated at the end; it would have ruined the movie if everything was carefully explained. If you don't mind being disturbed and actually thinking during a film, you'll enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"Hell is still other people","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No Exit in a Rubik's Cube.  How quaint.  Though definitely a budget film in just about every aspect (nonetheless, the set was marvelous) I liked it quite a bit.  Further demonstration of just how obnoxious humanity can be. Looking for an explanation as to why the cube is there is pointless.  Like trying to find the meaning of life it attributes a purpose to something that neither suggests nor requires a purpose.  Lovely movie.  Somewhat underdone, but I'm very interested to see what the future holds.  "},{"Title":"Kafkaesque","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Only saw this recently at the Sydney premiere & didn't know what to expect. Certainly wasn't expecting the gore -)Okay - the things that seem to be missing from the other reviews that I've read the plot & ideas are so Kafka, which is not a bad thing.  In fact, it was nice to see a new version of it.Performances patchy, but basically okay.  Interesting what was done with limited sets. The dialogue inspired more hiding behind the seat in front, though there were some inspired lines!Finally, the cop character - in a Hollywood movie I see him played by Bruce Willis and certainly not going the path he did.  On reflection, I really liked that!! "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you ask me, the Canadian film industry is HIGHLY underrated. We just keep pumping out quality films that go largely unnoticed. Cube is a great example of this. I rented it last night and thought it was amazing. Any movie that can grab you right off the bat like it does, and then keep you there is rare. Although I do not agree with the one user's comparison to Dark City (also an amazing show). In short-go rent it, and don't wait for all the copies of Something about Mary to be rented before you do. "},{"Title":"Great premise, bad acting, very suspenseful.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube has a great premise.  Six strangers wake up in some big cube-like structure, without knowing why they're there or how they got there.  And that is never explained in the movie.  Why? It's an existential metaphor for life.  Why are we here?  What's our purpose?  So don't whine that you wanted to know why they were in the cube.The acting in this film is bad, and the script could use a bit of work.  We see Leaven go from talking about going out with her friends to orgasming over prime numbers.  I think the best actor in the film is Andrew Miller who plays Kazan, the autistic savant whose constant finger tapping becomes part of the background music!Reading other reviews on this site, I noticed that everyone refers to Quentin as a policeman.  I can't believe that anyone who has seen the whole movie could think that.  I'm certain he's a convicted murderer who lied at the beginning to protect himself.  He knows who Rennes is, not because he was a cop, but because he was a criminal too.  And while everyone else had a purpose for being the group, Quentin was there only to add conflict and distrust.  When he jumped out the window to save Holloway from falling, he wanted to look good to the team, but then he realized that Holloway was the only one who actually stood up to him, and with her out of the way he could rough up the rest of the group.  That's why he let her go.This film has a great premise and an amazing set.  It is entirely suspenseful.  If you can get past the bad acting, and the fact that it's Canadian, you could probably enjoy it.  I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Without struggle, there can be no progress - Frederick Douglass","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once in a great while, a movie comes along that makes us question our moral values and forces us to think about how desperate we would become if our very existence was threatened. Few movies can truly capture the dementia that comes with imprisonment - CUBE happens to do this quite well.The unknown actors in this film make a subtle and yet powerful statement ANYONE can be placed inside the cube. Students, savants, priests, it matters not. It isn't important to know who put them there or why - the viewer(s) simply want to see if they can escape.Another important point is that the journey through the cube was a constant learning process. The characters discovered which rooms were safe, which were not, who had something to offer and who could not be trusted. The true challenge for the characters was not to give up even when the journey seemed hopeless.In short, if you (the reviewer) enjoys films about the struggle for survival, I would highly recommend CUBE. If you care more about special effects or big-name actors, you might want to give this movie a pass. "},{"Title":"Good concept, terrible movie","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had an interesting concept, so thats why I picked it up to rent. But as soon I got into it, the acting was just terrible, the script was empty of any meaning, and it was incredibly cliched when put against other movies in the same genre.  "},{"Title":"Plotless or allegorical?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone looking at this film as a realist is going to see it as a mediocre film.  The revealing of the physical reality of the cube wasn't very climactic, some things weren't explained and the ending wasn't happy and final.  If you thought of this film as a plotless B-movie that left you hanging then I'm guessing you were also disappointed when you didn't see little green men at the end of Contact.This film is obviously conveying some kind of message or is at least throwing out some ideas for the viewer too think about which I see as a rare and wonderful thing in filmmaking today.  This could be interpreted as a statement about control, human nature, religion, life as we know it, survival of the fittest, or anything that an imaginative mind can delve into.As a whole I saw the film as a very frightening guess at evolution.  Kazan, the one who survived, had a dedicated and amazingly exact function but was hindered by his humanity.  Without the help of everyone else he wouldn't have survived.  Kazan emerged from the self destructiveness and creativity of a small representation of society, evolving towards what we see as logical perfection and away from humanity.I think the cube symbolizes the world we've created for ourselves, sterile and mathematical, inside another world we've completely forgotten about and probably never understood anyways.In regards to the cop killing the doctorWhy would the cop save the doctor and then drop her?  I think the director created a metaphor for the phenomenon of control or even government. Controlling parties put everything on the line to save their own kind and at the same time choose to be self destructive, she called him a Nazi remember?  "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi/Horror/Existentialism blend!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is an impressive blend of several genres, offering excellent tension and few answers.  A varied group of strangers find themselves trapped in a massive cube, where each room only has 6 entrances to other rooms which may contain lethal traps.  This deceptively simple device leads us down several roads (is this hell?  aliens?  giv't conspiracy?), the strengths and flaws of the people, and a climax that is intriguing without revealing.  With the sorry state of horror movies today, THE CUBE is a refreshing quality film.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic voyage into the human psyche","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a student of psychology I can really appreciate this film.  Watching this movie really makes me wonder how I would react in a similar situation.  I just think it's fantastic that such an intriguing and inventive story can keep you engrossed in a film while limited to only three sets (2 of which are only seen for a few minutes).  It's nice to see all the canadian (no-name) actors giving such steller performances. "},{"Title":"A Twilight Zone episode - revisited.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has watched the Twlight Zone may recall an episode called Six Characters in Search of an Exit. Where these six people are trying to escape this cylinder shaped room that they're in. The lead character was not a police man he was an army general. He was the one who took charge and motivated the other characters.Not at all unlike Cube. Virtually the same predicament and the same overacting (as a few people pointed out). Why were they in the cube? Well, if they didn't know why neither would we so I guess we have to go with their speculation that it was some Gov't plot. That's convenient enough.I had some problem with the characters inconsistencies in particular. Their personalities were all over the place.After reading the other comments, I guess I agree about the overacting, but believe me I've seen worse movies.  My main criticism was that it mimics a Zone I've seen before. The good part was they made the most out of a low budget set and they managed to stay one half step ahead of the boredom which was nipping at their heels. However it looks like this script was the first one this guy wrote (or sold) so I guess you have to give him a break.  "},{"Title":"This one will catch you up!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Cube is very good, evenly told well-structured tale that keeps you wondering right up to the end&#133; and beyond! It seems that people are being put into `the Cube'; a huge, man-made structure that was built as a result of the bureaucratic machine gone mad.  In fact, the Cube itself could be viewed as a physical icon of that bureaucratic madness.The suspense builds within the plot and within the characters themselves, leading to the end of the film which is as unpredictable as the story itself.  The main characters are antagonistic among themselves, but they have a shared goal of achieving freedom from the cube, whose rooms are loaded with death dealing traps that slowly pare the cast of characters down in various gruesome ways, leading to help from the unlikeliest of sources.I liked the Cube , even if it did have a lot of loose ends and unanswered questions.  I give it 3 booby traps out of a possible 5 "},{"Title":"A new cult classic!","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  a remarkably intense, dark work. A Twilight Zone episode with no holds barred. Couldn't find it at my local store for quite a while, so popular another patron begged me to return it as soon as I was done ;)Plot was admittedly bizarre to me, but the acting, setup and writing together created a movie that was spine-chilling without detailed gore...DEFINITELY frontal-lobe sci-horror. "}{"Title":"A surprisingly good B-Movie","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If I had paid eight bucks to see this in a theatre, I'd have more quibbles with it. But to rent it on 99-cent Tuesday made it a real find, a movie that sticks with you exactly because it doesn't try to explain itself.Various characters find themselves in a cubic room with doors in each of the six walls, each of which leads to another cubic room, some of which contain deadly traps (razor wire, acid spray, flame throwers, etc.)A group of five struggles to find a way out before tension and suspicion do them in. They don't know who put them in the cube, really, or why, and neither do we; we're left to ponder the meaning. This is a real B-movie, done cheap (just one set!) with no-name actors, but the FX are good, the gore is tasteful, and the lingering paranoia is good enough for me to give this a genre-grade 7. If you liked Dark City, which this somewhat resembles, check it out.  "},{"Title":"It's not about THE CUBE.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the previous review of someone saying it was interesting and vague, I felt compelled to comment.  Anyone who walks away from this movie wondering anything about the actual cube itself, has missed the point.  Why these people were in the cube is of no importance.  This movie is a symbol of many things.  I fear many people will avoid it on video, due to no major name recognition.  For those of us who still enjoy lots of dialogue and thought provoking symbolism, it was a breath of fresh air.  "},{"Title":"This movie leaves to much questions","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that leaves questions, like; why are these people in the cube or what is this cube? immediately after the movie I had an empty-like feeling, I wanted answers. So I was disappointed about the plot, but the atmosphere was terrific. You could feel the tension between the characters and you could almost understand the reactions of each character.I say almost because I didn't understand the policeman's actions. Why did he drop the doctor after saving her and why did he .....? So you see this movie leaves too much questions.  "},{"Title":"Almost as much tension as 'The Shining'","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cube is just great. You are gripped from before the titles until the finale. Admittedly it is almost completely plotless and there are a few problems with the action. But it's plotless in the same way that 'Lord of the Flies' was plotless and the problems are so easily ignored.This is a film that asks many more questions than it answers. It's a great film to think about and it's a great film to grip your chair to. My advice is ignore the cheese and the unimportant plot problems and watch the film.Be warned there are some horrendous scenes for a 15.  "},{"Title":"A great effort, but not a great success.","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No money to speak of, just lots of imagination and effort makes CUBE an interesting movie, but one where the implausibilities outweigh the plausibility. Not enough thought was put into the writing, and thus it never hit a true note with the viewers, who accepted it as a fantasy only. This said, they actually MADE the movie, while most of their harshest critics only talk about how they could make a movie if.... This is a good film for the student film maker to study for the economy of sets, lighting, and control of the process, even if the writing leaves something to be desired. The use of minimal sets with standardized lighting cuts the costs of shooting and, at the same time, ramps up the feel to make the viewer feel this is both the same place, overall, but a different place, in specific. The effects are used sparingly to avoid letting the viewer become familiar with them, the result is a well thought out shooting plan and great work. It's a shame it was not better thought out, but you can't have everything. Worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"An experience to be talked about","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw CUBE last night in downtown San Jose at an Art House theater.My observations At the end of the movie, no one clapped, no one booed. There was a pause as everyone contemplated what they had just witnessed.I think that the Art House atmosphere added to the movie. If I had seen it in some be 20plex I think that would have detracted from the experience. I also don't think your typical 20plex moviegoer will get it.As I left the theater I felt I had seen something special but I initially didn't know why. I went alone (wife hates sci-fi) and drove home contemplating the effect the movie had on me. As a typical American moviegoer, I tend to expect a beginning, middle and end. I expect clear good guy bad guy identifiers. I expect closure at the end of the movie. Does the lack of these things make the movie bad? I think I just learned that it doesn't. I felt uneasy during the movie, but I believe that was its purpose.I spent this morning reading as much as I could about the movie on the net and in old papers that I purposely waited until I had seen the movie to read.It seems to boil down to the fact that I think it takes a special awareness to realize what this movie says to you. If you get it or realize that there is something to get but can't quite put your hands on it then you will still say WOW that was something to think about. If you expect some typical sci-fi with all the expected plot lines and don't want nor can appreciate some of the cerebral intricacies of a story within a story, of purposely unanswered questions, of having to actually think, then you will hate it.  "},{"Title":"I agree totally with Frank di Martini interesting but flawed and illogical.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Potentially a cult film with a strong, claustrophobic feel and atmosphere. But on reflection, totally illogical both internally and more generally. Not being enough of a mathematician, I also wonder whether the use of Prime Numbers, primes, factors, etc., as a way of avoiding killer chambers and to navigate around inside the cube, of itself made sense or whether it too was a gimmick. "},{"Title":"Amazing what can be done on a low budget","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film begins as it goes on &#150; gruesomely. A man wakes up in a strange room in the shape of a cube. There are doors on each of the six sides which lead to other cube-shaped chambers. He enters one of these rooms and something very nasty happens to him. Various other characters then turn up in this maze of booby-trapped cubes and the plot centres on their attempts to escape.Cube is a long way from being a perfect film. It is plagued by the kind of melodramatic over-acting that would be more at home in the theatre and by some very portentous dialogue. And the concept of throwing a bunch of people into a confined and dangerous position and seeing how they react is hardly the most original of ideas. On the other hand I found this an impressively disturbing, intense and generally intelligent film. The low budget was probably a godsend as it restricted most of the action to one set giving the film a very claustrophobic atmosphere, and also limiting the amount of distracting special effects.The combination of characters in Cube might seem contrived &#150; we have a bullying cop, a compassionate doctor, a nihilistic `office worker', a geeky (but not too-geeky) maths student, an escaped escape-artist and an autistic man who, guess what, turns out to have amazing abilities that come in handy later on. While these characters are generally portrayed as stereotypes, the plot strongly suggests that there is more at work than a writer's wilful throwing together of a neat cross-section of society. Each character has skills or knowledge which could contribute towards the effort of escaping from the cube, and this sets up the central problem of the film. To escape they must work as a team, but the horror of their situation where a wrong move results in a highly unpleasant death, so alienates them from each other that they eventually become as much their own enemies as the monolithic cube in which they are trapped. Cube is clearly not a fan of the theory that people pull together in pressurised situations.For me the fact that no final explanation was given for the existence of the cube or the presence of the people within it was a definite plus point &#150; there are already far too many films in which (unlike reality) all the ends are neatly tied up. The possibility that it is all part of a government conspiracy is raised by one of the characters and thankfully dismissed. The idea of government conspiracies being behind everything has long ago ceased to be subversive and thought-provoking and has now entered the realm of banal clich. The notion that someone out there knows what's going on and can be held responsible for events is, like most other vaguely comforting ideas, absent from this film. The question of what lies outside the cube remains as disturbingly unresolved as the question of what is going on inside. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'Cube' seems to have gone down better in the UK than at home, judging by the critics.I was impressed enough to see it twice, at consecutive screenings. It's an intelligent film - the concept isn't novel but the setting is (and let's put in a word for the terrific design of the cubes). Sure, the characters may be stereotypes but their interactions are not so predictable (you don't expect the leader to lose control and turn nasty, for example). Similarly, the dialogue sometimes leaves a lot to be desired (too much oh my God!' and of course!) - but how would you talk in the same situation?As to the why? of it all, I don't see it as a cop-out, as some reviewers have suggested. The fact is, there IS no why, as Worth patiently explains. There IS no conspiracy, there IS no brain behind it - it's a big corporate mistake. Only those desperate for another X-Files Big Conspiracy Theory should be disappointed by this explanation.As for the characterisation, the film suffers (as does 'Seven') from not having enough time to develop its characters properly. But to do so would have generated even more talk, and would probably have got boring. Besides, nobody complained that we didn't really know who Mr Blond was in 'Reservoir Dogs'.'Cube' resembles 'Event Horizon' in its situation and the horror of its exposition - but where 'Event Horizon' just gave us a series of iconic figures to be dispatched in a 'Who's next? exercise, 'Cube' bothers to give us more. I found myself caring about the characters, I responded positively to the structural approach, I admired the production design and I was regularly surprised. You can't ask for much more from a first feature, and I look forward to seeing Natali's future work. "},{"Title":"Explanation not really needed as the film worked.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that it could have been explained better why they were in there, but then I figured that no explanation would be quite right, so it was probably better to leave it as was. Other than that I thought this was a very good film, if a little depressing. "}{"Title":"Great Indie SF film","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great example of SF writing that took it's small budget and did something with it. It's like an old Twilight Zone in color. And the effects shots are perfectly gruesome. I have rarely gone to a movie where the tone was set so well before the title is even shown. Kudos for this director and his actors and crew. Why this has not gotten a wide release is beyond me! I had to see it in New York City. The pay off could be asss tro nomical. He he.  "},{"Title":"excellent philosophical elements","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie for dark ponderings of our existence, but thin on storyline and content.  Characters are rather overplayed, but this seems intended. "},{"Title":"simple Kafkaesque concept","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Alderson (Julian Richings) wakes up inside a cubic room with exits on all sides. He climbs into the next room and is killed by a trap. Policeman Quentin (Maurice Dean Wint) climbs into a new cube and finds injured secretive Worth (David Hewlett) passed out. Then others join them. Holloway (Nicky Guadagni) is a doctor. Leaven (Nicole de Boer) is a fearful math whiz. Wrennes (Wayne Robson) is an ingenious escape artist. Nobody remembers how they got there. Leaven notices unique numbers in each cube. Wrennes gets killed. Then Leaven realizes only rooms with prime numbers are traps. They run into mentally challenged Kazan (Andrew Miller).It's such a great and simple Kafkaesque idea. There are minimal sets. The flashiness comes from the interactions. It's a good indie thriller. It's a bit pointless like the cube itself. There are some slow spots in the middle. I also wish the ending is more compelling. The numbers get more complicated and it gets harder to follow. It's still a nice little indie thriller. "},{"Title":"Insanely overrated","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yet another psychological thriller type movie that takes itself too seriously. This one presents a bunch of folks thrown into a puzzle with traps. The premise is fine, nothing new even for its time, but still fine if the acting/characters were not so bad. Sorry but the characters in this movie were completely unbelievable from the cop and doctor to the losers of society who magically happen to recall their math and grow a backbone. Not to mention that super computer brain savant. All the characters had personalities that were totally unbelievable. Even if we were to assume the cop was lying and was not really a cop, he was clearly lucid and his actions did not support his goal of survival. The doctor is your token extreme bleeding heart retard, which no doctor can be after a few years of work. The two whiny idiots turn out to be a number theory mathematician and the other does a full 180 in personality (yet remains completely mopey) going from passive a-hole to stud willing to stand up against injustice, in a matter of hours.Aside from the character, the premise (again) was actually OK. Its almost like a precursor to later movies like Saw and similar. If it were not for the horrible characters it would have been much better. "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Okey, what did i just watched? What is this? Movies can be taken with low budgets or etc. but what is this? You will not understand a single thing when you watch this movie because there is no explanation for any scene in the movie. Why are those people are placed on the cubes, how they are bond with each other, what is the purpose, what happens when they get out? There is no answer for any of these questions, you just watch a few people who are trying to pass one cube to another and try to find the exit. When one of them do, you don't see what happens next or why they were placed to the cubes. You only watch the fights they do because of desperation and the logical moves they do to get out of the hidden trapped rooms. Don't expect too much. There are no explanations, no reasons, and there is no ending. if you want to watch a 'half movie' feel free to waste your time. "},{"Title":"Is the Question 'Why' Relevant in out Struggle for Survival?","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To put it blunt this is a pretty good movie, though it is not one of those movies that you can watch multiple times. In a way it is like Buried in that the style of the movie and the ideas that it portrays are brilliant but it can also be so disturbing that you can really only watch it once. Mind you, I have seen this film three times now, and also own the DVD, but after watching it this third time I thought to myself that maybe I really cannot consider watching it again. Also, this film has spawned two sequels, though I am doubtful that the sequels will be anywhere near as good as the original, and the fact that Cube Zero actually answers a lot of the questions that the first film raises sort of destroys the mystery that the original movie creates.Basically a group of people wake up in a cuboid room in a massive maze which is made up of other rooms, some of them trapped, others of them not. While questions are raise as to who made this thing and why they were placed there, these questions turn out to be meaningless simply because there is only one purpose here and that is to escape. I guess that is one of the ideas that comes out of this movie and that is that to many of us the philosophical questions really do not provide us with any real answers as we struggle to survive. In fact, one will note that those who tend to dwell on the philosophical questions are those that are financially free to enable them to pursue these goals. Many of the writers and philosophers in the past all came from rich and affluent societies, and even today the bulk of the working class simply do not care about the answer to 'why' but are only interested in their next paycheque.Then there is the idea of the prison. One thing that I discovered is that each of the characters are named after a famous prison (though only San Quentin and Leavenworth ring a bell to me). While the Cube is in itself a prison, the idea of the prison is not necessarily always physical, and some cases can be social and even mental. Kazan for instance is imprisoned by his autism, however it is interesting that he is the only one who manages to escape, possibly because it is his autism that actually makes him free. Worth is a prisoner of his boring job, and Quentin is a prisoner of his rage, which results in his destruction in the end. While putting on the face of a cop, as the movie progresses we slowly come to understand the destructive nature of his personality. "},{"Title":"Creative paranoia, intense emotions","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's great when film makers are willing to take chances with their premise, to truly step outside the norms of reality and invent something that could never exists - well, almost never. The premise of this film could technically exist today. You could be knocked out one day and then wake up in a cubic metal room with six doors, one on each surface, with no idea where you are, where to go or even why you are there. You won't, but you could and you're able to imagine what that would be like. It's an extreme situation where the horrors and wonders of human kind will be unleashed, and that's the beauty of this film. It's a fascinating character study of people but into a situation that none of them ever expected, but which has become a reality for them.The film is able to carry its story through mood and tone alone. The use of lighting, shadows and colours masterfully strengthens the claustrophobic atmosphere and the illusion of walls closing in. Add in the grinding sound effects, the heavy breathing and the whispered dialogues and you have a setting that's impossible to escape. You, the viewer, are in the Cube, along with its inmates.Probably the only thing holding this movie back is the fact that while it has a very imaginative premise, nothing definitive is said about the human condition. The inmates will panic, they will flee, they will triumph, only to fail again, and so on, but the final point of all this is never reached. Why was this story told? What did the film makers try to convey? In the end, I'm not sure, but at the same time I don't really care. The journey alone was more than enough, even if the final goal was kind of vague.Any fan of thrillers and psychological horror should see this film. It's an intense experience and capable of transporting you outside of your everyday life, into an unbearable situation from which there seems to be no escape. "},{"Title":"Amazing original concept","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a low budget Canadian psychological horror film about a group of strangers who wake up in a mysterious cube shaped room with no recollection of how they got there. On each wall, ceiling and floor there are doors leading to identical adjacent rooms. They soon find out that some rooms have deadly traps in them and as a result they are killed off one by one as they make their way through the cube searching for a way out until there are only a few left.The plot is fairly straightforward and there are no major twists. While the concept of strangers waking up in a horrible place is not exactly original in the horror genre, the setting is well thought out and the viewer is kept longing for answers about the nature of the cube and who is responsible for it. The dialogue is a bit cheesy at times, but it is delivered well by the actors. The characters are a little on the two dimensional side and could have used a bit more exploring.The acting in cube is convincing. Stars David Hewlett and Nicole De Boer went on to make quite a name for themselves in the science fiction genre, but it is interesting to see them in an early low budget film.The direction in cube is superb. The tension is held throughout as the characters slowly go insane. Clever use is made of the limited production value. The whole film is shot on one set, the cube room. Each room is the same set, only lit differently and through clever use of cinematography and editing the characters' journey from room to room is believable.Overall cube is a very good film. Again a film where a strong script and good direction compensates for lack of extensive sets and flashy special effects. Cube is one of those films where, when it's finished, you find yourself asking for more. I definitely recommend checking this one out. "},{"Title":"I want that time back","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This may be one of the most pointless and unsatisfying films I have ever sat through, and I like B movies. The story was weak, the acting was.. not bad, but strained, as if they wanted to make up for the weak plot by trying harder to seem real.... if that makes sense...admittedly I am not a big fan of the horror gender per say, but I expected more from this...The was a brief moment early where it looked like it might get interesting, but that did not last, and the ending was welcomed as an end to my suffering, nothing more.If you are a real fan of sci-fi, or horror films you will find this lacking in most elements of either of those types of films, if you are a fan of films that leave you wondering what was the point of that mess, then have at it, you will probably find something to like. I read a lot of the positive reviews, and wondered if we were watching the same movie. "},{"Title":"Original thriller","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An original and thrilling indie Canadian mathematical and psychological thriller with some horror moments.A group of five people -4 males and 2 females- found themselves, like by magic, trapped in a cube-capsule within a gigantic Kubrik-ish labyrinthine cube, and are trying to escape from it. The presence of all the characters is necessary as any of their personal skills and personalities are going to be necessary to solve the mystery. Mathematics play an important role in deciphering how to get from a cube to another within being killed, and to escape from the big cube. The movie is claustrophobic, unsettling and full of mystery.The whole concept and idea is brilliant, especially if we take into account that was shot in 1998 and that is still refreshing and captivating today. However, the plot has important flaws. Who built the cube? Why was built for? Who keeps it running or it moves itself? Why were the members of the group chosen and not other people with the same skills? How were they taken to the cube? Who is responsible for this? Are they dreaming? Are they mice-like characters in an experiment? I found the general acting mediocre, with the only exception of Adrew Miller who is great as the autistic savant. Especially bad are Maurice Dean Wint as Quentin, and Nicky Guadagni as Dr Helen Holloway, their performances really ruining the movie and the believability of their respective characters.I enjoyed the movie tremendously, so very entertaining and mentally engaging, but the flaws in the plot and the bad acting are too important not to consider them when rating it. "}{"Title":"A surprising study","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story in this movie seems simple, but it's the kind of story that could go in any direction. Several people find themselves in a series of room, many of which are booby trapped. This fact is presented to us before any of the characters themselves, so there's no surprise to us that they face danger at every turn. The suspense of this, and the fact that there are no Hollywood stars around keeps the viewer not knowing who may die and how.Beyond this simple fact, there are the relationships that develop between and among characters. While a truly thoughtful writer could have carried this aspect in other directions, the story here keeps those moments restrained. The script is very effective in moving things along, with a few contrived leaps in logic, but it's all in the characters, and it just so happens that they're right. Imagining myself in the same situation, I can't believe that I would automatically assume myself to be inside a giant cube formation, but in this film, and each of the following ones, that assumption is made by the characters without enough clues to work with.The mixture of personality types is intriguing and turns out to be key to the movie. Each character is presented well enough, although none of the acting stands out. Then, this movie isn't about acting, it's truly all about the suspense of moving from one room to another, and trying to outthink the characters as they reach their conclusions about the purpose of the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Simplistic yet captivating","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube 1 is awesome. It's simple and captivating. The characters are dynamic and develop thoroughly throughout the movie just like you would expect them to. You are constantly bombarding your brain with questions like Who oversees the Cube? What is the Cube? When is this all taking place? Why are these people in the Cube? Where is the Cube located? And how did these people get there? The director immediately pulls you out of your comfort zone and really forces you to open your mind. I feel people that have trouble accepting irrationalities would tend to dislike the film while their counterparts would tend to enjoy the mysteriousness of the plot.Throughout the first half of the film I figured it was a game. I kept my cool and tried to solve the puzzle along with the characters until about half-way through when I came to a realization that maybe there was no purpose. Ironically I felt the purpose was to try and convince people that sometimes there just isn't a purpose/reason for why things happen. A buddy of mine suggested the movie was a metaphor for life.There were times when I wanted to end the movie short because I didn't want to lose the mysteriousness and anticipation I had built up throughout the film. I speculated the ending to be elaborate and informative but I was afraid it wouldn't live up to my expectations. A psychological experiment supported by Big Brother? Aliens? A rich and sadistic killer's horror house? Purgatory? A dream? The movie ended perfectly and I couldn't help but want more. I even watched it again 30 minutes later. The sequels suck. Not only were the poorly produced but the movies tried to answer questions I honestly didn't want answered. I don't want to say the sequels ruined the first film, but you'll definitely have a different (not necessarily in a good way) perspective of Cube 1 after having seen the sequels. "},{"Title":"Bang-up indie sci-fi thriller winner","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Six complete strangers with nothing in common find themselves trapped in an intricate hi-tech maze of interconnected cubes armed with lethal booby traps. This motley group is forced to work together in order to figure a way out before they starve to death in a few days. As their situation becomes increasingly dire and desperate, the group starts to turn on each other and prove to be their own greatest enemies. Director Vincenzo Natali, who also co-wrote the ingenious, intriguing, and unpredictable script with Graeme Manson and Andre Bijelic, adroitly crafts a strong, gripping, and suspenseful shocker that's brimming with oodles of nerve-jangling claustrophobic tension, a sharp sense of amusingly cynical humor, a few nicely gross moments of nasty gore, an extremely edgy and paranoid atmosphere, and plenty of astute insights into how a crisis situation brings out both the best and the worst in human beings. Moreover, the filmmakers keep things pleasingly ambiguous throughout We never learn who built the cube and exactly why these six people have been dumped inside it. This refreshing respect for the audience's intelligence gives this picture an extra potent and provocative edge. Kudos are also in order for the fine acting from the able ensemble cast Nicole de Boer as perky college student mathematics whiz Leaven, Nicky Guadagni as bitter, high-strung doctor Holloway, David Hewlett as sarcastic office worker designer Worth, Andrew Miller as mentally handicapped idiot savant Kazan, Wayne Robson as wily escape artist Rennes, and, in an especially stand-out turn, Maurice Dean Wint as tough take-charge cop Quentin. Derek Rogers' agile and vertiginous cinematography makes the most out of the cramped and confined spaces. Mark Korven's shuddery score likewise does the shivery trick. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Perilous Pythagoras Puzzle.","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seven strangers awake in a cubical maze, each with a different attribute that may or may not hold the key to getting out alive. For this maze is rigged with deathly traps, one wrong move or sound can bring a horrible death. They must work together or face the consequence, but why are they here? And just what is this point of this highly built construction?.We open with a quite brilliant scene that ranks up with the best of horror moments from the 1990s. We are introduced to the Cube and its intricate perils, it's the only set we are going to see for the next 90 minutes. Our characters start filtering thru, each of different social standing, and each with a surname linked to famous prisons. They argue about their reasons for being there, throwing up ideas on why someone has selected them for this atrocious game and who may be watching them. What we do know, is that it's us that is watching them, we are privy to human beings acting like rats in a fiendish maze.I would suggest any prospective newcomer to Cube do little to no research prior to viewing it. Knowing little can surely only enhance the experience. Not in anyway hindered by a marginal budget, and benefiting greatly from having a cast of unknowns fill out the piece. Cube is an intelligent, yes horrific at times, voyeuristic gem of a movie. The mystery element holds tight right the way thru, the characters get more interesting with each frame and the outcome does not annoy like so many other genre pieces have over the years. Co-written and directed by Vincenzo Natali, the film has gained a massive cult following since it's late 90s release. And rightly so. For this is excellent thought provoking stuff. The kind the genre could do with far more often. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Horror Movie with Good Art Direction","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Vincenzo Natali's Cube is a formulaic horror movie playing with the famous premise of getting strangers in a mysterious situation and see how they interact. It's Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None (I wanted to use the original title, but sadly IMDb believes in censoring certain words). Except instead of a mysterious man killing people who got away clean with murder, we have a mysterious cube killing people for no apparent reason.This pointlessness and randomness seems to be an element of high rating for its fans. It seems people like pointless movies more than I imagined. The complete indeterminacy (we're far beyond the level of ambiguity here) of the nature of the cube has generated more theories than the 17,000 cube rooms that constitute the Cube.The Cube is just a well-paced, suspenseful horror thriller with an art direction better than most horror movies (with the possible exception of Dario Argento's colorful '70s movies). I marvelled at the design of the cube room, its deadly traps and the shots of the outer shell.The characters are just one-dimensional figures going wherever the plot require them to go. Too many clichs abound, especially the one I most despise - the bad guy who seems dead but returns for one last scare.As an exercise in keeping the viewer on edge, this movie wins. Otherwise it's a one-time-only experience. "},{"Title":"12 Angry men with geometry and just a smattering of Lord of the flies","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The characters were badly drawn, the dialog inane, and if it weren't for the fact I wanted to keep watching just to see how the incredibly unlikeable people died, I'd have turned the film off at the halfway mark.I'm glad I didn't, because the last part of the film moved well enough to keep me emotionally involved. It was a decent film. Not great, but decent.A slow start and middle, but the film becomes in the end suspenseful. Not ground breaking, nor really thought provoking, but worth watching.I wouldn't have paid to see it in a theater, but was worth watching when it was... loaned to me. "},{"Title":"One of the most refreshing science fiction films of recent memory (slight spoilers)","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is one of the most inventive low-budget sci-fi films of all-time. It proves that science fiction is about ideas and not huge budgets and over-indulgence in CGI. Its not a masterpiece (in my mind it doesn't come close to the 90s other low-budget sci-fi cult favorite Pi), but certainly deserves much of the hype it received. Vincenzo Natali shows much promise as a filmmaker and a screenwriter. He knows how to maintain tension and stretch out what seems to be an overtly simple short-film concept. His screenplay is also quite good, remaining credible (something few sci-fi films manage to do) and intelligent with intriguing characters. Its a bit predictable at times (of course the autistic man is going to end up being a math genius) but never overtly so. Plus, for gore-hounds, the death scenes are absolutely phenomenal and innovative.Natali works well with the low-budget for the most part (using the same set with different lighting). However, the film's main falling is the acting. This is more forgivable because Natali didn't have experience actors to work with, but the amateur cast is often distracting and diluting of tension. The performances range from adequate (David Hewlett) to considerably inept (Nicky Guadagni and Andrew Miller come to mind).This is one of those films that the filmmakers could absolutely not offer a believable resolution to the concept. The open-ended conclusion will please some and leave many others unsatisfied. Just what the cube is is left up to the viewer. I found it to be rather unsatisfying. If Cube had better acting it could've been a near-masterpiece. In its current form, its still one of the most refreshing science fiction films of recent memory. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Pre-Saw","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The idea of sticking strangers in potentially life-threatening situations and seeing how they interact is essentially the basis of Saw. Cube is simply less gory and less frightening. Although certain plot holes made the acting slightly superficial (Come on? Not even the doctor could determine that Kazan was an idiot-savant?), the idea was very original for its time. I was extremely disappointed in the end, though. It took the easy way out. You mean the girl who solved the entire puzzle doesn't get to make it out alive? And all Quentin gets after being a horrible person the entire movie is a slight wait until the next bridge comes by? I thought he deserved a much more brutal punishment. Butother than that, the movie was fairly decent. It'll be interesting to see if the sequels will fall short. "},{"Title":"well...blow me goats into quantum flux","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Excellent film, as are the sequels (well sequel and prequel-we think..;))also has anyone seen Jim Henson's cube?please read my post on that movie (i think its on you tube and various torrent sites - i only say this as its old ans Definitely deleted - for all u conspiracy buffs to wax on (i smell my own ;))here is a link to my post http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0291118/board/reply/59719775as i said there, drop me a line on myspace www.myspace.com/severedfatehate the pop culture inherent thing but its a non invasive messaging system i can filter out unwanted attention...had some interesting occurrences while...doing various online research.....(there's that smell again)all the best folks...remember to think out side of it..Ed "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi at its best","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK lets admit that 97% of all sci-fi movies are terrible works of cinema, but the 3% really makes searching through the extensive sci-fi works at the movie store well worth it. Cube is most definitely low budget, but it is one hell of a movie. The premise is excellent, I love the idea of people struggling through mazes- it reminds me of life, and the coordination of the scenes are impressive. The acting is not real bad, which is good for a low budget film, and I think Nicole is so hot(even with the spots-DS9.) The ending was unique, and I didn't see it coming. They really have me by the b-lls on this one. They don't seem to give you any relevant information to the world outside the cube, so you will have to continue the series. The sequel wasn't too bad-they had a little more money but the old woman was too annoying to deal with for over an hour. The third release was pretty cheesy but I still enjoyed it. If you're looking for a good movie on a Friday night, pray your local movie store has it(unlikely-but I've found it once or twice.) "}{"Title":"The Cube","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Vinchenzo Natali's contribution to mind-bending Sci-Fi is, without a doubt, the best. The movie is nothing short of spectacular, with nothing being as it seems. Each character begins with their own set of characteristics and their own ideas about what they can and cannot do- by the end of their journey each will be irreversibly changed. The cast is composed of some of the strongest actors in the movie business, and each portrays both their original character and their later self in a spectacular manner. SPOILER ALERT Kazan is an autistic savant. This means that he's very, very, very good at math. Just letting everyone know that. ;) Not so much a spoiler as it is a hint. "},{"Title":"if you're looking for a good thrill, you've come to the right place!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am a big Cube fan, and I will say that if you're willing to be mentally scared....well, watch this movie. I don't know ANY of the actors, but I think the black guy did a good job. I like the scene at the beginning where the guy walks into a room and then......well, I don't want to spoil this for some people if they, (which could be you) haven't seen it yet. but if you're planning to see it, GOOD FOR BLEEPIN YOU. you might become addicted to the series. ...like me....but anyways, Cube has great special effects, a good gore factor, (which isn't too much), and a huge suspense build-up throughout the entire movie.If you have already seen this movie, then why the heck are you reading this???? no really, if you've seen Cube, and you hopefully enjoyed it, then I would recommend Cube2Hypercube, and Cube Zero. those movies have more of a storyline... it's not like a bunch of people die a lot of times in colored rooms.I sure hope this review helped you pick a good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Gem.","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've heard for some time how great this movie was, and have meant for some time to watch it. But after I watched Cube Zero the other night, I decided that I HAD to see it, and that the time was now. I expected a decent movie something atmospheric and intelligent, but largely nothing I hadn't seen before. What I got, instead, was an unexpected cinematic gem, far better than most other movies.The acting was great, not excellent by any means, but still of a very high caliber. The two most memorable deserve special mentioning.Nicole de Boer (Jone Leaven The Math Student) did an outstanding job. She had a solid and believable performance throughout the entire film. She was very steady, and even made actions as mundane as her thinking for extended periods of time enjoyable.Maurice Dean Wint (Quentin The Cop) gave a thoroughly enjoyable performance as a man who sinks deeper and deeper into depraved madness. in most cases, actors given this kind of role will make their characters descend into madness far too quickly. While he might have overacted a little from time to time, he gave a extremely well-paced performance and believably portrayed his characters increasing insanity.Personally, I found these actors/actresses all far above average and more than competent in their roles. I'm actually surprised that they haven't gone on to at least be recognizable mid-name actors. A special mention should be given to whoever did the casting. They did an absolutely perfect job at choosing the roles.The direction was simple, yet effective. It used a style that reminded me very much of Alfred Hitchcock minimalist, but maximizing every aspect of the film. Vincenzo Natali created a powerful and thick environment; tense and atmospheric. Even moreso than the crew, I would have expected him to have become a much greater success than he is now.Natali also wrote the script which, like his direction, is simple and effective. 7 people wake up in a labyrinth of trapped cubes and must find their way out. The cast is small, the premise simple, and the dangers evident. And yet these are all its greatest strengths. With a small cast, every danger, every death, means much more than if there was a larger cast. Also, with a smaller cast there's much more time to develop each character, which the script maximizes upon. The simplicity of the script, the almost bare danger, makes it all the more terrifying. You know the rules, you know what's going to happen, and you know that there's no way to avoid it.The emptiness of the cube, the isolation from anything and everything else, is felt in every passing minute. The utter pointlessness of it all is as thoroughly maddening to the audience as it is to the characters. This, however, gives every action more meaning, and adds to the film's overall tone. The dark colors of the various rooms add to heavy and dismal atmosphere. The emptiness beyond the cube creates a further sense of isolation. And the powerful message at the end of the film (which I won't spoil for anybody), the bitter-sweet irony of it all, is what makes this such an excellent film.Overall, this is a classic sci-fi thriller. It's a definite must-see for science fiction and horror fans, as well as fans of powerful human drama. This is easily one of the most original and successful films I can think of in any of those three categories. "},{"Title":"Great for the same reasons ppl hated it","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a great movie.I loved the characters and yes i too found it a bit weird that Kazan could suddenly do Einstein-Esq math equations and before he was talking about the rooms colors. Still, at some point you just have to buy into the fact that it's a movie.So the thing i liked best about this movie was the same thing that made a lot of people seemingly hate it. The ending? How can you not love it? While i hear people griping and saying that the ending was forced and stupid but i loved it because it leaves us wondering. Who is doing this? why are they doing it? where is it taking place? did Kazan get out? I think it makes it that much more creepy to think about, because answers would just give us ways to comfort ourselves and give ourselves excuses not to be afraid.Anyways i would like to offer an alternative ending in which worth, leaven and Kazan get out without Quentin coming back but when they step outside they find themselves in a gigantic complex made up of the seemingly gigantic cube they just got out of. How ridiculous and nuts would that be!? Great movie guys, watch it asap. "},{"Title":"Very interesting movie","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a very original and interesting movie.I have to say that the first two deaths of the movie are great and very original.The movie is very fun,too.But there are things about the movie that I didn't understandwhy and what for was the cube constructed? and why did were all that people in that cube?I think that to know that I have to see Cube 2hypercube and Cube zero.The movie is very fun and it has some unexpected things and tension moments.This is an independent film that made a lot with very little.I have to recommend Cube because it's original,it's fun and the first two deaths are simply GREAT.Rating9 "},{"Title":"Hilarious if you like numbers","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film was one of the best laughs I have had in a while, watching a film, and I watched the Princess Bride directly afterwards. For anyone who knows their low primes (up to 31), and can multiply, will find some of the mathematical assertions ridiculous - for example, that no-one alive could factorise a 3-digit number in their head (quite an easy simple task). The set is pretty, the actors (and dialogue) aren't that important, and you really get to cheer when a character you've taken a dislike to bites the dust. Slightly gory, though - watch with friends rather than family. I'd also recommend the third sequel - Cube Zero, although Cube Zero is significantly more graphic. "},{"Title":"The meek shall inherit the earth","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Somebody told me ages ago to watch this film, finally i got to see it and i have to admit, it was entertaining, kept you guessing right to the end, had a good premise and good acting. It's also one of those rare films that stays with you long after you've seen it. One of the biggest questions not only while you're watching it, but after is 'Why?' what is the purpose of the cube? Is some sicko watching? Is it a way to play games with mankind, to test our intelligence, endurance , tolerance of one another, humanity, and survival instincts?If so, it's a cruel but excellent way to do it. Does fear reveal the true us? If so, can we still care about others when we're on the edge? can we put others survival before our own? Can we maintain our humanity when we're almost certain we're going to die? Well, in this movie, some do and some don't. What is this film trying to say about the human race,is it that we instantly devalue certain people because they're disabled, geeky, or physically weak.What does it mean by showing that the macho hero type cop (usually a movies saviour) is the least human and the most destructive within the cube, and that the smallest, youngest person, 'the female geek' and the autistic boy are the two that figure the way out. The autistic boy is the only person capable of not abusing another, not being judgemental and being compassionate even to the nasty guy (remember him stroking the cops hair) Is that why only he survived? was he the only one who really deserved to get free of the cube? If so, is the writer saying the meek really will inherit the earth? "},{"Title":"Brilliant, absorbing & ingenious horror thriller.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube starts with a man named Alderson (Julian Richings) waking up in a square 14'x14' room with strangely decorated panels on the walls from which a white light shines through, he notices six hatches one on each wall, the ceiling & floor. Alderson opens one & enters the joining room which is exactly the same as the one he came from except a different colour light is shining through the translucent panels, inside he sets off a bobby trap that slices him into little pieces using razor wire... Six complete stranger's find themselves placed in similar cubes, a young maths student named Joan Leaven (Nicole de Boer), an architect David Worth (David Hewlett), a cop named Quentin (Mauruce Dean Wint), a doctor named Helen Holloway (Nicky Guadagni), an autistic boy Kazan (Andrew Miller) & an escaped convict Rennes (Wayne Robson). Each cube leads into another, some of which contain deadly traps while other's are perfectly safe, they have no food or water, no equipment & have no knowledge of the cube itself or why they are there. The six must try to work together & discover the secret of the cube & find a way out or die trying...This Canadian production was co-written & directed by Vincenzo Natali & is a simple yet superb film, I loved it. The script by Natali, Andre Bijelic & Graeme Manson is just so brilliant in it's simplicity. Who would have thought a film set almost entirely in various cube rooms that look exactly the same could be so gripping, engaging & so entertaining. The idea is just ingenious & Cube is really original & unique which is a hard trait to come by these days in films. The character's their emotions & personal struggles are very well written & developed & we really get to know each of them without long boring dialogue scenes. The film works wonderfully well & I was as puzzled as the character's on screen as they try to find a way out & I liked the idea that each one had a certain ability that needed to be found & utilised. Nothing in Cube is explained to any real degree of satisfaction which may annoy some people but I found the unanswered questions & mystery surrounding the cube added another layer to an already great film. On the negative side it can get a bit samey being set in exactly the same room for 90 odd minutes, I can't see many repeat viewings & the ending was maybe a bit too downbeat.Director Natali can't really do much to spruce things up since Cube is set in a single location although flashy camera work & CGI effect's isn't what Cube is about. He does manage to create terrific tension & atmosphere, I almost felt like I was there with them at times! There isn't much gore, someone is sliced into cubes & falls apart, someone has their face burned off with acid & there are a couple of stabbings.With a low budget Cube was shot entirely in one single 14'x14' room in which the lighting was changed to signify the different rooms. Technically Cube is fine with decent special effects & production values but the very nature of the film doesn't give much scope for variety. The acting is very strong by all involved & did you notice the relevance of the character's last names? They are all named after real prisons, Quentin is named after San Quentin in California, Holloway is a prison in England, Kazan in Russia, Rennes in France, Alderson in West Virginia while Leaven & Worth are obviously both taken from Leavenworth in Kansas. So now you know.I think Cube is a fantastic film that everyone should watch at least once, it's very clever, original, mysterious & totally gripping. I absolutely loved it. Followed by a sequel Cube 2 Hypercube (2002) & a prequel Cube Zero (2004) but I doubt either of them are as good. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Why movies like this don't get the acclaim they deserve is indicative of the stranglehold Hollywood has on modern movies and until we start to see other studios and directors with less money getting the credit they deserve movies like this will continue to be gems that only the die hard movie fans will discover.The movie is made on the cast performance and though there are a lot of special effects they are of the believable kind.This is what I call acting and though the scifi storyline may not be to everyones taste it'll have you on the edge of your seat. Notable characters are Stargate Atlantis's David Hewlett(Dr Rodney Mckay) and Nicole de Boer (Ezri Dax from DS9 and The Dead Zone) "},{"Title":"what would you do if you were trapped in an encrypted cube?","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" the cube, the film which opened a very big window for the most of futuristic film watchers and makers and put the experiment element into the film concept,which,i think,led by das experiment,battle royale series it's one of the pioneering films of future with the proof that low budget can make masterpiece out of only one small room... 6 people inside the game,each one is equipped with different skill to escape but at the same time each skill can turn out to be useless and basic human nature reveals itself in this dubious battle as the time passes and battle continues both against the external trap and also the human's basic instincts like hunger,thirst,and power...which one will survive?...just watch and find out.... "}{"Title":"Certainly one that I would recommend...","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" PLEASE NOTE &#150; MILD SPOILERS WITHIN 6 people wake up in a prison of multicoloured, CUBE shaped rooms, most of which are filled with traps. They have to escape.That's it? Certainly what I though when the film was introduced to me. Don't be fooled though, there is much more to CUBE than its concept would make you think.The focus in CUBE is not so much the story but the characters within it, how they interact and react to each other and what is going on around them. It explores how easily a person can 'turn' with the need to survive. CUBE is ultimately a look at human nature done in an interesting and wholly original way.Not that there isn't a good story as well, full of twists, revelations and tense moments, not to mention maths.The sets are imaginative (considering they only had one sound stage to film in and a limited budget). There are also great performances from all members of the small cast, while director Vincenzo Natali creates brilliant tension with his camera work, angles, and pacing.CUBE is probably not a film to everyone's taste, but it is certainly one that I would recommend to Sci Fi fans and / or psychological thriller fans alike, especially if you are looking for a relief from the action bred 'spoon feeding' that some films seem to provide these days. I certainly found it entertaining. "},{"Title":"lord of the flies","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I heard so much about the movie before watching it. Then I finally rented it out and watched it. I must say I was a bit disappointed. The authors of the movie, albeit very young and inexperienced, should have formed or decided on the genre of the movie more accurately. By that I mean that they combined a thriller with human psychology and the movie turned out to be rather weak on both parts. I focused more on the psychological part of the movie, as I am not really a sci-fi or thriller fan, but instead expected much more from the dialogues and cast performance. Actually, the dialogues were quite stereotypical and vague, I must say I expected them to be much profounder and thought provoking. The development of the state of mind of each character as they move through the cube should have been given more emphasis to, maybe more research should have been done ... This aspect of the movie really reminded me of the Lord of the flies by Golding, however the latter was much more interesting and enigmatic. "},{"Title":"ouch!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is to bad that this movie exists. Sort of like Waiting for Guffman, but sadly it's not supposed to be funny. In fact, these are real people trying to act, and in this regard, the movie could certainly qualify as disturbing. Since it was filmed in color I'll boost the rating to 1.1.Don't see this given the choice, choose to watch the glass of your unpowered TV before inflicting this upon yourself.It WAS a good idea, and the writer's have taken even that away. I hate to be mean, but then again only the cruelest people could make and release this intentionally. i am sure that all of the grand reviews must have also been written by these people...no one that can group letters into words could honestly say yes, that had some quality. I guess the Cube ravers are on a payroll. This should be banned from human viewing. "},{"Title":"One of the best Indie films ever made","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had seen Cube many years ago and was very immpressed at the time.  When it aired on IFC the other day I thought I'd check it out for a while before watching something else....problem was that I found myself watching the entire thing.The film is so simple, one set (lit many ways), seven actors, and a lot of suspense.  The most interesting thing about the film is that it wasn't even made by a major or minor studio, but instead by some students at the Toronto film school (run by Norman Jewison). The acting is not the high point but the complex storyline is a work of genius.Simple, yet amazing "},{"Title":"Claustrophobia & Maths... nightmare.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Struck real fear into my heart... There is nothing quite like edgy survival to bring out the basest beast in all of us, as this film shows. There also seemed to be a certain significance in that only the autistic character, whom everyone thought of as lack witted, was the only who provided the clue to the factors (and therefore the way out) in the end. How about the way the sunlight shone on Leaven and Worth's faces when they found the exit? Almost like an awakening or rebirth; yet both of them dies in the end anyways... The most final part of the film was (almost) symbolized by the smearing of the cop's blood as the bridge shifted. Brilliantly done, all in all!  "},{"Title":"Instant Masterpiece","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is very underrated movie! It deserves more good reviews than it has currently.The film is pretty intense and it holds your breath the whole time. You can't predict what is going to happen next. If you like The Matrix (1999) or Vertical Limit (year?), then you will definitely like this! But I should warn you that this is **strictly** SCI-FCI genre and if you are not willing to think during the movie, this is NOT for you, just stay away.What more can I say? You have to see it for yourself to experience The Cube!10/10 "},{"Title":"A Good B-Movie","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *SOME SPOILERS THROUGHOUT*The Cube was one of those films I'd heard a few good things about but I never actively searched it out. I recently spotted it at the local video store so I decided to give it a go. The first thing it is important to consider is that this was only a notch up from a student film, as it was Natali's debut feature after film school and had a budget of only $300,000. With that in mind, the film is quite remarkable.In many ways this is about as high concept as you can get - 6 strangers from different walks of life find themselves trapped in a giant maze of rooms contained within a giant cube, furthermore they discover some rooms are lethally trapped. Why or how they got there is never disclosed, which adds to the mystery. I first want to pick out the films merits. First, it is a great idea that because of it's dependance on character should appeal to a wide audience, not just sci-fi fans. The set design is excellent for such a low budget and the CGI work (apparently donated by CORE design in Canada for nothing) is also good for a film of this budget. The cinematography, though a little murky, is great at emphasising the claustrophobia through wide angle lenses and exaggerated camera positions. For a film mostly shot hand-held, many of the shots are extremely steady and smooth. The sound design is good as well with plenty of atmospheric rumbling as well as high-tech mechanical sounds for the traps.Where the film drops some points, however, is in the script and acting. I personally found only a couple of the characters likeable, and one, Holloway, was so irritating I cheered when she was disposed of. For a film as reliant on script and character as this, any weakness is sure to be particularly noticeable. I thought that both Nicky Guadigni and Maurice De Wint over-acted when some subtlety was required. The dialogue was also very patchy at times. (You beautiful brain!) Having said that Nicole De Boer as Leaven (very convincingly playing a high school student in her mid-twenties) and David Hewlett as the cynic, Worth, were mostly excellent and Andrew Miller does a good Rain Man impression.Although a film of this nature requires some suspension of disbelief, I thought that it was pushing it too far that Leaven just happened to be a high school student able to do PHD level maths. I also thought it was a bit messy to suddenly make Kazan, the autistic, also turn out to be a mathematical genius. If this was his 'gift' he should have been the one doing the maths throughout.I mentioned before that this should appeal to  a wider audience than just sci-fi/thriller fans. This is because being very reliant on character there are also some larger themes involving the nature of humanity and society. This film has intelligence and does open up some great philosophical points for debate.And the ending - You'll either love it or hate it depending on your outlook on life. Being a bit of a cynic I liked it. Although the final survivor seems to be quite arbitrary and there doesn't seem to be a clear message or final statement (unless it is that the mentally handicapped will inherit the earth!) the ending stays with the themes and tone of the film as a whole.To conclude - Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed the film as a whole and it was an original concept largely well executed which is always refreshing to see. However the few weaknesses I have mentioned do detract which is quite disappointing. Now the director has seen some  higher budget success with Cypher, maybe a remake with a better cast and a sharper script would reach the level of greatness this is tantalisingly close to.Verdict 7  "},{"Title":"W.E.I.R.D","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i watched this movie on a whim, there was nothing else to watch so i just put it on and expected little.  what i got was perhaps the weirdest movie i've ever seen! if the crazy plot or the characters decent into madness doesn't confuse you, the maths jargon certainly will! despite not feeling i'd really got anything out of the film, i had to give it a seven for its bizarrly original plot and the pretty decent acting (for a bunch of unknowns) the policeman who go's insane and the autistic kid are the best performances. most annoying thing however, the end....don't get it...what's it all about! who built it! aaaaaaaahhhh! "},{"Title":"Fluff & Rehash -- but enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Commenters rave about Cube's character development?  Puh-leese!  And they complain about the sets?  I don't get it.This film is a rehash of the old Avengers episode The House That Jack Built.  But instead of Jake Steed & Emma Peel, we have a set of caricatures (yes, caricatures, not characters!).  Among them, the waifish logical math whiz, the fascist brutish cop, the bleeding-heart liberal, the guilty engineer-of-death, and, of course, Rain Man.The set(s) and execution of the use of one repeated set (plus some edge-of-cube-work) works extremely well.  A bit of color and some different numbers, with a continually incomplete puzzle, makes for a continually interesting premise.Of course, the premise breaks apart if you actually pay attention to the math (in relationship to their actions).Aside from the caricatures in place of characters, what disappointed me was the implausibility of the ending -- who survives, and why.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing in almost every way","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie with an intriguing idea, but which fails in almost every specific of its execution. If this had just been done as a thriller, it probably would have been quite enjoyable, but it attempts to speak to bigger issues (e.g. the government's influence on our life, the idea of the cube having its own existence and development once its hypothetical creators are long-gone) and winds up horribly pretentious and talky as a result. The characters speak in unbelievably trite one-liners that sound like they came from the pen of an ambitious junior high school student (e.g. when the angry cop tells the liberal doctor I spend my days cleaning up the mess your bleeding heart made), and none of the character developments make any sense, or have any kind of emotional resonance. Without giving away anything, the ending simply left me shaking my head and muttering What the ****?, implying that the meat of the movie was intended to be the juvenile character interaction and dialog that preceded it. The only good thing about this movie was that it was relatively short.  "}{"Title":"What Do People See in This Movie?","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but there is nothing good about this movie. The plot is awful. Basicly, a bunch of people are trapped in this cube maze/jail thing and are trying to get out.  Each person has a different talent, hence if they work together using their talents, they'll get out. Who cares!? This movie is SO predictable, I knew what was going to happen a quarter of the way through. As for the acting...GAG ME! This movie is BAD ACTING 101. I've seen better actors in High School plays. I'm always anxious to see small budget films, or just films that aren't your run of the mill film.  Two movies that come to mind are One Hour Photo and Stolen Summer, both excellent. Not this movie! This movie is about equal to John Carpenter's Ghosts of Mars, as far as plot and acting goes. I would suggest not watching this movie because you're wasting your time.  "},{"Title":"Great concept is muddled by too many glaring flaws","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The premise of CUBE is an interesting, highly original one six complete strangers awaken in a cubical maze/prison with absolutely no recollection of how they got there. Each of the characters has his or her own unique talent, which helps the party in their quest to escape, avoid the maze's deadly traps, and find answers as to why they were captured and imprisoned. It sounds awesome, and the film's trailer is certainly intriguing, but you may be disappointed.CUBE's major fault is the overdone, unbelievable character development. Everyone in this movie seems to have bipolar disorder, as they all turn from friendly to hostile (or, in one particular case, downright evil), then back again without question. Even for a situation this serious, there's far too many unrealistic emotional loops for the movie's span of 1-2 days. Also, why doesn't anybody complain about being hungry or thirsty?Another area where the film falls flat has to do with its inconsistencies involving mathematics. CUBE relies heavily on math by assigning numbers to each of the rooms, which supposedly represent their coordinates on a three-dimensional grid. Leaven, this math-whiz character (who does virtually all of the work in the movie), can quickly and easily decipher their position, a process which is theoretically a long, draining, and frustrating one. Sure, she may be a math whiz, but then why did she have such a hard time determining if three-digit numbers were prime back towards the beginning of the film? She concentrates for several seconds on numbers that are very obviously not prime, such as even numbers and numbers that are multiples of five. Many people who have absolutely no mathematical talent whatsoever (take me, for example) are able remember these sixth-grade rules.Later on in the movie, she dismisses certain complex math problems as being impossible to figure out mentally due to the numbers being astronomical. Mind you, these are the exact same types of problems that she had no trouble solving earlier.Another gripe I had with CUBE is that it can't make up its mind whether it wants to be realistic or surreal. It's okay to blend the two to a certain degree, but this movie fails by resorting to an unsatisfying middle ground. If the movie lived up to its ideal surrealistic potential, then it would have been far more existential and reminiscent of the classic surrealist play NO EXIT than of some nameless suspense/thriller action flick. CUBE would have been so much better off not trying to give a concrete explanation about the labyrinth. The character's original thoughts and assumptions were much more exciting and thought-provoking than the dull, unsatisfying answers given by Worth, the character who, believe it or not, was contracted to draw blueprints for the cube's outer shell.Still, CUBE is not a terrible movie. At times it's exciting, it's unnerving, and it's fascinating. And visually, its a masterpiece. The single set used to depict all the 14'x14'x14' rooms looks terrific, the cinematography is really clever, and the gore effects (which are included but not really needed) are EXTREMELY realistic and disturbing. Plus, as I mentioned earlier, the basic yet innovative plot line of CUBE simply can't be beat. "},{"Title":"Weak attempt at an old concept","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film quite ridiculous, because it is so simple and scanty while the attempt to look deeper into human's mind and psyche, according to my impression, terribly fails to be more than a superficial overview. None of the psychological conclusions the viewer can gain from this movie haven't been available before in other (and much better) movies. By the way, I found it quite boring. A much better attempt (for speakers of German) at a very similar topic in human psychology can be seen in Das Experiment by Oliver Hirschbiegel, although published 4 years later. "},{"Title":"Stephen Kingish","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A few years ago a friend recommended this movie to me, but I didn't have the chance to see it until yesterday. I heard of the concept and being an enthousiastic supporter of intelligent SF, I eagerly sat down to enjoy a movie that would actually make me think. Well, I hoped it would.After what seemed like a very long time, disappointment reared it's ugly head. This was three minutes into the movie. The characters turned out to be 2-dimensional at best, the dialogue unconvincing and any thirteen year old school boy could have thought up the 'disturbing view of human nature'.If you're looking for a movie that rises above the level of a badly written morality play, try Ghost in the Shell, Donnie Darko, 2001 or A Clockwork Orange. The Cube is perhaps better left to those who prefer an easy-to-understand answer to a well-posed question.O, and about the bureaucracy bit; try reading Kafka and find out how it's properly done. "},{"Title":"Trite, predictable and wholly lame.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There was not one thing in this movie that I didn't see coming a mile away. The script is bad, the acting is pretty awful and the philosopy of human nature reminds me more of a bad college class more than any recognizable view of human nature.  This movie is laughable. "},{"Title":"When you see daylight - LEAVE THE ROOM","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The concept behind CUBE is not new - the exploration of human nature is, after all, the premise for countless films. CUBE, however, manages to do this with an interesting and highly claustrophobic twist.But that's it - there is a twist at the end of this movie. One of those awful, pointless, non sequitur twists that spoils the entire 90 mins.Some twists are clever, intriguing and thought provoking. The twist at the end of CUBE is twist for twist's sake.This is why I say, When you see daylight - LEAVE THE ROOM - because if you see the end of the movie you'll know you've wasted your time watching it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant idea. Almost brilliant execution but not quite....","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A perfect example of the fact that you don't need to have a big budget or big names to make a fantastic movie. My message to people who don't understand the plot of this movie or comment on the stupidity of people trapped in a cube or the fact that nothing is explained satisfactorily on how they got there or what the cube is there for, is this......none of that is the point or the driving force behind the story at all! This is a movie about how different people react when in a particular situation.....This time round it's a matter of survival... We get to see how different people with different personalities and driving forces react in a situation they all find themselves mysteriously stuck in. On this level this movie works brilliantly. Although for my money the performance of the idiot savant was overbearing and nearly always bordering on too much the rest of the cast were great. Sure some of the plot devices (such as them miraculously being able to decipher the meaning of the numbers in the cube) border on the Yeah right what utter crap side of movie cliches and suspension of reality, but if you can look past these small flaws and actually think (yes I realize that watching a movie and thinking are at odds with the mindset required for viewing the majority of big budget hollywood blockbusters) about the story and the way it is handled then this is a movie which WILL have much much more of an effect on the way you view many things than any 100 minutes of light entertainment movie ever will. Overall Great plot, good acting. At no stage did I ever have the slightest feeling that I'd be better off spending my time doing something else. Unfortunately has a few flaws and minor annoyances which let it down. 8 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Great Idea","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film's biggest asset is providing tension, enough to grip us for a hour and a half, with only one set. The idea is the best thing in the movie, and it succeeds in making us believe that the structure's that big. Unfortunately, it somehow ends up giving place to already seen situations and the ending is a little bit convenient. But it's already a part of my DVD collection, and it's a highly recommendable movie. Loved it when I saw it, and never get tired of it. Kudos to the directing and the editing! "},{"Title":"a truly ORIGINAL movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great.  10/10.  Among my all time favorites.At some points the acting does leave a little bit to be desired, but the feel from the movie is incredible.As is human nature, this movie explores the inevitability of our own destruction by taking an extreme view of just look what's right in front of you, don't ask questions, forget about the big picture and numerous other similar quotes made by the characters.This Canadian made film is a treasure, that is for sure.Now, the seemingly complicated mathematics involved can be completely ignored if a viewer chooses.. however, for those who would like a movie to challenge their intellect than this one if a fun watch.  I found myself watching particular parts over and over again trying to figure it out. Finally resorting to emailing the actors and even math advisor.Now the mathematics were mangled and lost somewhat in production, but the spirit and meaning was there.  The solutions and even terminology used in the movie don't exactly jive but is fun nonetheless.If you find yourself at the video store toughing out what might be your next pick, you will NOT be disappointed by cube.I can't remember exactly, but this movie was made on a very small budget (around $20k CDN?) and it does not show at all.  It is dark, gloomy, and evidently entirely filmed on the same single set..  but it is still gripping from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"People Can Ignore Movies Like This?","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Twilight Zone had one episode that involved five people finding themselves in a huge cylinder with no way out but the top. This, for some reason, sounds strangely familiar...Wait, I'm writing a review on the movie that takes this concept to another 3-dimensional shape, Cube, and also manages to make it more like a guessing game as to what will happen next.Six people (doctor, student, cop, escape artist, normal person, autistic person) find themselves in a maze of cubes, with no idea of why they have been imprisoned there or how to get out. They explore the cubes to get out.All these movies made with big budgets and no script are being noticed these days? (Especially 2001, where we got so few good movies that I get a headache thinking about them.) Movies like this, Arlington Road, Finding Forrester, and 2001 A Space Oddysey get little attention? (True, Arlington Road and Finding Forrester had big budgets, and 2001 is almost outdated, but AR and FF have scripts, and 2001 is still good and confusing.) No wonder. People are too obsessed with huge action movies with no idea of where to stop and not smart enough to get movies like these (that's the point).I saw this butchered on Sci-Fi channel, and it was still a smart, daring movie--how else do you explain things like the opening victim of a trap? Or the entire deal with (spoiler) the rooms going around in circles? Or things like all those traps (see first how else do you explain question) like chemical spraying to melt faces, sound activated spikes, and such?Rating 12/10 "}{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I often chose movies that I've never heard of.  I've found manyexcellent films this way, as well as some bombs.  I was highly pleasedwith Cube.  They did a wonderful job of casting this film.  The conceptis also incredible.  I'd love to know who thought of it!  I oftenrecommend Cube to people.  The characters are shown with depth andreality.  I think that everyone that watches this film would identifywith one character.  Which one would you "},{"Title":"Simplicity makes this movie unique and enjoyable.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw a flier for this movie in a pub downtown, and assumed it was just pretentious and didn't see it in the theaters. What a pity, because when I saw it on video, I was amazed. It was a beautiful, and very frightening film.A lot of people didn't get the point when *SPOILER* the cubes purpose was not clearly revealed. This frustration is supposed to, and from my point of view, adds to the feelings of anxiety which the film makers intended the audience to feel. This film is intended to be a thinkers film, and not a hollywood sci-fi revamp of The Great Escape.For a film with such a small budget, it did extraordinarily well. The cuts, with only minor exceptions, were very well done, as was the camerawork (which was done by a hand held for the most part!). The film is surreal, but at the same time coherent in its story and characters.The surreality comes from the environment that the characters find themselves trapped in. A simple regular structure of cubes, with mechanical doors leading to each one. Some are trapped. However, the cube 'plays fair' - numbers on the door reveal the location, and whether the rooms are trapped, and the way to the exit. There is, of course, no explanation on how to interperet these numbers. The prisoners must discover this for themselves.The simplicity of the environment is what makes this film unique and enjoyable. The environment is totally regular and very intimidating. It's alien nature comes from its mathematical regularity, and its uncompromising inhumanity due to this attribute.However, although the cube is the central presence in the film, it is mostly there in an ambient sense. The film instead focuses on how the prisoners deal with their abduction and placement in this environment. It is a film about how people deal with each other, and how stupid people can be.I loved the actors in this film, especially the woman playing Holloway -she played the neurotic hysteric with real flair. I just loved the line 'Somebody, builds a widget in Saskatoon without knowing what it's for, and then it ends up TWO MILES UNDER THE DESERT; AN ESSENTIAL COMPONENT IN A DEATH MACHINE!'. Of course, explanations on the cubes purpose are scant. The closest answer comes from one member of the group which worked on designing part of it (without knowing its purpose). And the answer is frightening.The sound track, if it could be called that is totally appropriate. It lacks melody and has a simple malevolent ambience, which I found a little reminiscent of movies like 'The Terminator' (I know they are very different movies). The sound effects inside the cube are frightening - strange mechanical sounds and reverberations add to its feel. Without them, the movie wouldn't have been half as good as it was.This movie is a one of a kind and is definitely worth seeing. I don't think I'll see a movie quite like this again - however I hope I will, and I hope I'll find one somewhere.By the way, when watching this movie, prepare to be disturbed.  "},{"Title":"Watch it once and forget about it.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the sad movies that is so promising, but in the end falls apart.  The tension the movie has is amazing.  The first half of it is done well, that is until the story falls apart, characters (and actors not just because of their dialoge but their ability as well) become ridiculous, and we get one of the most anticlimatic endings of all time. **spoiler**  Toward the end I looked at my girlfriend and said I bet you this movie just ends when they get out and guess what.....IT DOES!!  I am all for movies being ambiguous and making you come up with your own asumptions as to what is going on or what happened afterward, but with all the build up and all the agony the film makes you go through to get there, I have to say that I was more than disapointed.  I will never watch that movie again.  If I want to be tortured, like i feel this movie did to me, I would rather watch a 5th grade choir belt out tunes at the top of thier little lungs. When a movie is so promising and just turns to mud, it makes me feel worse than if it had sucked from the beginning. I would recommend watching it once if you are interested and make your own asumptions, but I feel it was a wasted attempt in the end.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What does it all mean?  After finding Cube on the New Release Shelf of the video store, I decided to hire it.  There were no famous actors in it and for this fact it appealed to me.  A group of people wake up with no knowledge of how they got into this square room.  From there, they try to figure out how to escape and try to piece together the whole reason behind being trapped in this cube.  The Audience is just as baffled and because of this, the audience is filled with the same sense of despair as it seems there is no way to get out.  This story leads to great discussion on the who, what and why.  Nothing can fully explain this story as it is one title one must see for themselves.  I recommend it to those who like a bit of cerebral exercise and won't pick out any shortcomings.  Best followed by another movie to stop you thinking about it. "},{"Title":"Highly overrated - nothing revolutionary","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to criticize this movie without giving away spoilers but let me just say that one cube in different colors, seven second rate actors, no noteworthy dialogue doesn't stand the distance for 1 hours. It actually gets rather boring.Other users comment on claustrophobia, humanity and society. I'll agree that this may be the intention of the director but I find this to be done a lot better in other movies.This leaves one new idea (the setting) and two nice special effects. Well maybe I just don't get the point - but now you've been warned!Rating 3/10  "},{"Title":"A very extreme movie that must be written by some genius. It's only feelable, not to put in words but I'll give it a shot...","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot stress enough that you must (MUST!) see this movie. It's brilliant, although that word might be too limited to describe the coolness of this film. It's multi-multi-layered, with a new plot in every Cube (I won't give away too much, if you see it you'll understand AND agree with me for sure, provided you have a brain). Every time, each new plot is surprising, ashtonishing, just a thrill. Sometimes so exciting you'll be pushing to keep your attention to the movie because you forget not to think about how cool and thrilling it is. The plot unfolds more and more but everytime you discover something new, you figure out something you already knew. Or the other way around... When you think you understand one thing, the next is even a bigger questionmark. That accounts for the actors to, by the way. They ARE their played personalities. I'd be very afraid to run in on one of them in the street. Their characters are just like you and me, but in circumstances you will try to imagine. You almost get there, but not quite.I could keep going on like this, but you now know that you want to see this movie (or, as I said you don't have a brain ;-)), so run to your local videostore and rent it. Now. Before it's too late... "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, disappointing result","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although my hopes were not that high I was disappointed with Cube. I would have hoped that a Canadian film would have more originality in its performance than an American. But that is not the case here. The actors with the exceptions of the two who plays Worth and Kazan are surprisingly bad! But then, the material they work with is not making things easier for them - the dialogue is sometimes embarrassing. I was surprised when I read that the film only was only 90 minutes long, it feels much longer, but in favor for the film it's actually not THAT boring.One can only fantasize how much better this film would have been in the hands of a director like David Cronenberg. Plus another cast and the occasional rewrite. "},{"Title":"Complete and sofisticated","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Cube is  a movie picture of human existence. What is it to be a human? One day you wake up somewhere, you dont know where, a you start looking this place through. You find it dangerous, deadly, you meet others who you can work with or fight, who can love you or kill you, help or use you. You try to find a meaning of all this you search and travel, but never can be sure. I guess that somewhere in The Cube lived people who could even worship certain rooms, finding them deadly.You can clearly see, that there are certain regularities, even may be laws of structure and architecture of your world-cube, but you are never sure, how to interpret them correctly a you are really really shore that your wrong interpretation means your not being alive any more.And finally there is a special place in the whole structure of moving rooms and dying people. It is a joker, a letter, that is here, but unvisible, empty place of structuralism. Finding this place means finding your way through, you dont know where to, there is just a light... "},{"Title":"Unique film...","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 3/24/2001 - 6 out of 10(Dir-Vincenzo Natali) Unique film about people who find themselves trapped in a contraption that turns out to be somewhat like a moving Rubik's cube. Personalities clash, people change both from good to bad and bad to good, from worthless to having much worth while the cube continues it's consistent pattern.  The people are left to figure out this puzzle.  The movie is worth something because it is very thoughtprovoking and you wonder what the thinking is behind the makers of this film. The playing out of the film is sometimes ok, sometimes not, but that doesn't really matter because there seems to be a bigger purpose to this whole thing(maybe).  "},{"Title":"By far the most original sci-fi movie I've seen!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The concept of this movie is far beyond anything I'd seen to this point. Way above my initial expectations, I can't remember when it last happen that everybody in the theater started discussing the movie during the break and at the end. A must see for everyone, even no sci-fi movie lovers. "}{"Title":"Has both highs and lows","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, if you have any mathematical skills, leave them outside the cinema. Everything that has to do with mathematics  in this movie is that inconsistent and illogical it offends your brain, so you should forget about it if you want to enjoy Cube. Second, the plot logic in general is very doubtful.The idea and visualization is great. The actors don't work Oscar-like, but they do a good job. Some comments on this site lament about the stereotype characters, but imagine you had a movie with six nearly similar characters, wouldn't that be boring? Apart from that, they are no stereotypes as some persons turn out to be completely different in the end; cliches don't undergo changes like this.Some scenes are extraordinarily thrilling. I have read The Process by Kafka and while watching Cube, I realized many parallels. So, if you like weird ideas like this, don't bother too much about logic and don't let some ugly scenes repel you, Cube might be a great enjoyment for you. "},{"Title":"Great idea, bad result","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie had a great setting. It could have been very good, but the end left me annoyed and somewhat disappointed.(* spoiler warning *)I think the atmosphere in the movie was very good. I liked the way the rooms looked, and i liked the thought of the seemingly neverending maze they were trapped in. The fact that there were no music, and only sound coming from the cube made me feel the characters could hear their own breath and heartbeat in their paniced state, and this affected the audience too. The panic and claustrophobic feelings in the characters mind melt over at the audience, and make you identify in some way with one of the characters. When they eventually turn on each other, showing us their true self, the tension get higher and you tend to cheer for the character(s) you want to make it out alive.But only one of them does.. and when he does, you dont get to know what happened with him, where the cube was, who made it, or why. There is a lot of questions, and no answers, which leaves me a little unsatisfied. Its atmospheric and fascinating in most of the running time, but I'd like to have seen a more revealing ending.  "},{"Title":"Engrossing concept.. but fails in the end.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'll try to be short but sweet.  *spoiler warning*The movie starts out very well.  Previous reviewers have explained the concept of the movie, so I'll be brief.I found myself extremely curious about what was going on.  The acting is very poor, but tolerable.  Unfortunately the cube itself was a bit predictable, and I had the various tricks in the cube figured out within the first 30 minutes of the movie.  The human interactions were very predictable as well.Unfortunately I could not pull my attention away from the movie.  I *really* wanted to know who had built the cube, what its purpose was, and who was controlling it.. where it was located, etc.  I am not willing to accept Worth's explanation.  Everything happens for a reason.  I figured the ending would give me a bit of the explanation that I so desired.  Unfortunately I was in for a disappointment.  I could have cared less what happened to the characters, it was the story behind the cube that I was interested in.So, when the ending came, and the escape was found to be a doorway to a 'exit of light', after which the credits rolled, I just left in disgust. Had I known about the ending beforehand, I would never have bothered to watch this movie.If I wanted a gripping story of human nature, interaction, etc. I would have read a good novel on the subject, not wasted over an hour watching this film. "},{"Title":"A genuinely disturbing film with a couple of weaknesses but some great strengths.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a brilliant sci-fi film with excellent direction, great production design, cinematography and teriffic sound. The main thing that annoyed me about it was its clunky dialogue and over-acting.Cube has a great premise Six strangers wake up inside a cube. No one has any recollection of how they got there, the only thing they're focused on is getting out. But some of the cubes are armed with booby traps (Check out the stunning death scene at the beginning of the film). Cube is so hard to stop watching. It has great twists and turns and the best thing about it is the way it doesn't give an explanation for the cube, and the ending is quite chilling. A truly underrated film.PLOT 9 DIRECTION 9 SCRIPT 5 ACTING 6 SOUND 9 PRODUCTION DESIGN 9 CINEMATOGRAPHY 8OVERALL 8  "},{"Title":"Good Premise - (Trite Ending + Bad Math) = So So Movie","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've read most of the reviews for this movie.  My vote goes with the folks who thought it was a good idea that just didn't work out.One comment I didn't see --  Was anyone else put off by the simplicity of the math element?  I'm trying not to be pretentious, but really, the girl is a math student.  Her first inclination is that booby traps are given away by the presence/absence of a prime number in the room's doorway.  She tests her theory, looking at a number -- 602.  Uh, let's see.  She thinks for a while, not prime.  Duh.  Didn't the girl learn in elementary school that any number that ends in 2 is divisible by 2?  Next number 905.  Hmmm. Maybe divisible by 5?  Now I'm thinking that if the girl is a math student, she's a really *bad* math student.Ultimately she defers to the autistic member of the crowd to solve a problem she should have been doing in her head by her freshman year.This might sound nit-picky, but the math turns out to be a big part of the plot.  For me, at least, it was a distraction.  Aside from the let-down slasher-type ending, and the not-quite-delivered premise, the movie fails to have a truly clever plot.  If you're looking for one, and you remember how to factor numbers, you're not going to find it here. "},{"Title":"what else is on?","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i made it through a whole 15 or so minutes of this and even at that early stage i could see evidence of the inept, intolerable acting, stereotypical, stiff characters, an overhyped premise, painful violations of physics and mathematics and a generally cheesy atmosphere that would probably gnaw away at the entire movie until it's rumored 'cop-out' (well-phrased, whoever that was!) of an ending. quite simply not worth it. "},{"Title":"not good at all","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is nothing but a (very) slight update of a hack Twilight Zone or Star Trek type premise, barely suitable for tv, much less a feature-length motion picture.  It wants to be a psychological study masquerading as a thriller, but it fails on both counts.  As a thriller, it's far too predictable (did anyone watching this, when the mentally handicapped boy very first showed up, not think that he would end up having math skills that would help save the day?  Talk about a cliched twist!), and as a psych study, it does nothing but establish cliched types that are moved around like chess pieces by a beginning player.  The acting is stagey and overdone (except for Hewlett, who does a nice job), and the script is ok at best.  The film looks good, but that certainly isn't enough to recommend it.   "},{"Title":"A poor example of a well-known theme","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a poor example of a well-known theme stick a bunch of seemingly unrelated, very different people together in a stressful situation and see what comes of it.  This is a risky thing to do because it requires excellent scriptwriting and characters. Unfortunately, Cube did not have these things.The characters are flat, two-dimensional caricatures that are irritating and over-the-top almost immediately.  The things that matter, ie a meaningful explanation of who built the cube and why (rather than the characters' own speculations) are left unresolved, which is unfortunate because this type of information, for this film at least, would have made it a much better movie. The set could only distract me from the characters, bad dialogue and plodding plot for a short time. I left the cinema with the feeling of having seen a pretty dull movie, and the gory opening sequence just seemed like a cheap shock tactic in hindsight.I agree with Steve from Queensland. Hitchcock did it better.  Go out and hire Hitchcock's Lifeboat, or the sci-fi remake from about ten years ago, Lifepod. Both are much better examples of this type of film than Cube is. "},{"Title":"A film as frustrating as a Rubik's Cube","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Remember the Rubik's Cube?  Remember trying to solve the Rubik's Cube?  Now, imagine being trapped inside a Rubik's Cube and trying to find your way out.That is the intriguing premise of Trimark's sci-fi film, Cube.  Five strangers wake to find themselves in a room.  The room is a cube, six walls, six doors.  It's a maze.  Enter through the correct door, you move on. Enter through the wrong door, and you set off a booby trap and can wind up burned, poisoned, or even cubed (trust me, it's not pretty).  Each room makes up a massive, giant cube containing thousands of identical rooms.  the five have no idea why they are there, or who put them there.  They must rely on each other, and their own individual abilities in order to escape.What a great set up.  Unfortunately, Cube the movie, unlike it's precision death devices in it, has a lousy execution.  It falls victim to being a low budget film that looks like a REALLY low budget, direct to video film.  the acting borders on camp, and much of the dialogue is laughable.  It also suffers from the worst film demon of them all.  The ending is downright horrendous.  Never have I been so disappointed, annoyed, and let down by a films ending than I was here.  The idea of the film is so bizarre and original, it could've been on of the most memorable sci-fi films of the late 20th century.If you don't expect too much, Cube is a mildly entertaining, albeit, forgettable film.  However, look on the bright side.  If your watching Cube, and hate it, much like that colorful '80's mind game, when you get tired of this cube, you can just set it aside and forget about it. My grade D "},{"Title":"A so-so movie","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie at the urging of a friend. I was not very interested at first, but then I became intrigued. The suspense was very tight, but I found the rest of the elements lacking. The characters (except for Rennes, who died too quickly) were flat, and the plotting became predictable after a while. I also found the reason for why the people were there to be weak (the cube exists to be used? Isn't that tautological?). I did like the idea that as a long-term project changes hands, it tends to have details lost in the shuffle. When it concerns human lives, that is a frightening thought.My friend told me about how they made this movie on a low budget mostly because they had special effects donated by two companies. And he showed me some commentary (this was on DVD) on how the film was made. What's sad is that I found the process of making the movie more fascinating than the movie itself.Oh well. If you like predictable thrillers, give this one a try. Otherwise, avoid it. "}{"Title":"A missed opportunity....","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of this film was genuinely intriguing - a fascinating set of characters and problems had been defined, and I was eagerly looking forward to the conclusion.Then it all went wrong.Irrational character changes, overly complex mathematical obsession, stereotypical pseudo-Rain Man genius, and perhaps worst of all, a complete failure of an ending - particularly when the essence of the entire film had been about achieving that ending.The hard film-making work had been done - all that remained to be done was to bring it to a finish to achieve a very good film.Unfortunately, they failed - and the result is mediocrity.Only 5 out of 10 (should have been 9/10) "},{"Title":"plenty to talk about, nothing to think about","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  > the players in the story kept changing their mind about who they were, why > they needed to get out, etc.  I stopped making sense;  of course they want > out, and why not stay together, but it seems the writers are trying to put > too much into the story and stay within a timeframe, so they skip the most > crucial parts of the script, like the how the..., and why the... did > they do that/act that way? > > the plot and storyline of Cube gets a 3 out of 10 in my > book. "},{"Title":"too one-sided (har har)","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A disappointing, frustrating movie.  It starts out like it's going to have a lot of cool effects and ideas, but that is soon disproven.  The acting's not very good, and the dialogue sure doesn't help things--the characters find themselves in this horrific death-trap, yet goofy little dialogue bits and mannerisms are supposed to be amusing in the midst of it. Doesn't work. The movie teases with various what-ifs and theories as to what could be going on--which is cool, and the only reason for watching the movie--but then it goes about negating all of the interesting possibilities, so that all the viewer's left with is a frustrated hope that something more will come out of the flick...but nothing does (except more frustration).  If the characters are annoying, the dialogue is stupid, the setting barely changes, and the plot/premise is barren and admittedly pointless, one can't really consider this a good movie.  Has some possibilities at the beginning, but soon sets about wiping them out... "},{"Title":"Simple and effective","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film in the FANTASPORTO (Oporto film festival) and was truly surprised by the constant thrill it provided with such a simple (and cheap) set. Many of today's Hollywood directors should take it as an example in how it is possible to make a great movie with almost nothing but a good idea. "},{"Title":"Those are *not* flaws","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am writing this mainly as a response to the comment left in which the person stated that this movie contained many flaws in the plot.  These were not flaws!  How on earth could someone just *forget* to explain how the people got there, or who is behind it all, or what is outside the cube? This movie is one after which the viewer is allowed to draw his or her own conclusions and use his or her own imagination.  This is not a common practice nowadays with the constant dumbing of society through television and movies, but it is a highly effective one when done correctly, such as Cube has done.  Anyone who thinks that those unanswered questions are mistakes clearly did not grasp the purpose of the movie. "},{"Title":"A concept without a purpose and annoying characters","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I recently revisited the Cube movie after seeing it once when it came out, and it holds up in some ways, but mostly it had a lot of annoying parts that I had forgotten about. The Cube concept is simple various people wake up inside the Cube, a 14x14x14 enclosure with various rooms which might lead to a way out. Each room is designed with doors on the walls, a door in the ceiling, and one in the floor. Aside from different colors, the rooms each have a number-marker on them, and they can either contain traps for unsuspecting travelers or are safe-rooms, allowing visitors to pass through them. We get to understand how these people in the film get from room to room by taking a look at their individual characteristics and professions.I love the concept of the Cube. Waking up inside a potential death-trap is frightening and is a concept used in the Saw series multiple times years later. Some of the traps are easily avoidable, as shown when one character slips out from being ensnared (and one unlucky guy gets taken out by the easiest trap to avoid), and others are extremely nasty (a whole room of giant spikes, anyone?). The Cube looks interesting, and the CG added to some of the scenes is simple but effective in showing the perilous traps in some of the rooms. Film buffs will notice that it's just one room being shot time and time again, but it feels like the characters are traveling throughout this larger place, so the effect worked on me.The characters got very annoying very quickly, and by the halfway point through the movie, I wanted them all to die, except for the student in the film, who was the only one not whining or being a complete jerk to any of the others. The actors were OK, but the believability of some of them were spotty, especially the actor who portrayed Quentin who has some severe mood changes that come out of nowhere and requires a pretty good actor to ebb and flow with these changes in subtle ways instead of ham-fisted deliveries and heartless, murderous changes in mood as he had. By the end, you feel somewhat happy for those who made it, but mostly, I was disappointed.The music was sparse, and the one main song that played during lulls in the story was a simple, Friday the 13th-ripoff, horror song using echoing voices, a screeching sample, and a few synth plunks making for an abstract and forgettable song. The sound effects, however, were very satisfying and were required to show the heaviness of the doors and the sharp, dangerous quality of the traps.After viewing this, the logic behind the story doesn't work for me. There are supposed to be 17,576 rooms in this Cube, so how did they all just happen to meet each other after the first day being there? I hated that everyone in the party blindly followed the math student from room to room like she knew what she was doing after seeing numbers on the doors for about 2 minutes. She basically quoted something out of a calculus book to confuse the audience into saying Sure, fine, whatever. Follow her. Oh, and NOTHING IS ANSWERED by the end. Where is the Cube? Who or what is it made by? Why are these people selected to be here? If it were made by blind-architects who didn't care about humans being harmed in various rooms, are they the creators of it with only one guy creating the shell that wasn't related to the rest of the architect- crew?It's a confusing watch for those who care about the story. If you watch it for sci-fi elements alone and the concept of the Cube, you'll get into it on suspense and design alone, but otherwise, there are a lot of unanswered questions that leave you wanting to understand more. Maybe answer why these individuals were selected, much like the victims in Saw are selected. I probably won't get around to watching this again anytime soon. Disappointed. "},{"Title":"Study Your Math...The Universal Language","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An anemic attempt at a profound story and a cool concept. The whole thing is forgettable and that is unforgivable. It manages to insult and irritate and has an ending that is lazy and is a realization that there was nothing there. The acting and the dialog are below any expectations of at least competency.To say that this is pretentious would mean that there was a pretense worth presenting. It seems as though this was a bloated effort at being profound and ground breaking but the only break here is the inability to suspend oneself from the disbelief.There is one neat design and for a low budget it has a gleaming look that would be an interesting modern photography template but this is all we get for the duration. This is a shallow film that is ostentatious and snobby. Way overrated with a conceited problem that is hardly worth the effort. "},{"Title":"Not rounded","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Cube is original and credit can be given for its clever resolving of how to escape the predicament of the Cube. However, for all its anxious interplay it just feels rather frugal both in script and appearance.The film is able to project the feel of claustrophobia and delusion rather well in its short period of running time, we are never able to escape the constant of the Cube and its horrifying predicament. The Cube and its purpose are never satisfactorily resolved leaving you to determine the where and whys, which may frustrate some.Unfortunately, the acting seems to be a contest of wills, each and every actor trying to out do one another with emotion. At points in the film you are at the opposite end to their projected emotional outpourings. The script is rather threadbare on providing a succinct or logical discussion of their predicament preferring stereotypical interplay and physical violence and language. More time should have been given to other areas of discussion if it was to propel itself to a sci-fi with more bite but maybe that was not its purpose.The Cube is an okay film but for all its hard-work it is rather frugal looking. The Cube tries valiantly to be a film with depth but its lack of purposeful debate, stereotypical characters and at times woeful acting make it a film which never fulfilled its possible potential. "},{"Title":"Great idea but no script really","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It starts with some persons that is trapped in a lot of cube rooms. No explanation but they guess they are meant to get out and there is some traps in some of the identical rooms, so they try travel through them to get out.This seems reasonable as a viewer. The prisoners had different abilities. So they chose somewhat to work together, some of them was more interested in annoying the others than doing anything useful though. But as the movie continues the persons become more and more unrealistic. And you begin to wish some of them would say I have the ability of spontaneous combustion and then use their gift. In the end some of them indeed suddenly change personality.I could have lived with those flaws if we had just got a reason or hint for what was going on. But soon you begin to wonder who build this? Who operates this? What is the purpose. You sit through all the movie to get these informations that will make the movie have a meaning. But nothing comes and in the you realize ohh the instructor and script writer did apparently not know what this was about either.So it ends with a good idea being wasted. Who the hell would secretly build a 100 * 100 meter secret construction to kill 6 indifferent persons when 6 bullets in the head could have done the same and was much easier to conceal. Since they give no reason whatsoever for the existence of the cube that is a very valid question.For me it is an attempt to make an intelligent splatter. If you love splatters then you can find a lot movies with better visuals and more killings.If you love a good story then stay clear. This one sucks big time. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable You just don't buy it","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" O.k so. looking around in the comments, I had a hard time both finding a good review on how bad this film is and also coping with the idea that SO many people find it mind blowing.Basically, the idea is one more of those enigmatic thrillers about strangers appearing out of the blue in the middle of somewhere and trying to find out where? why? who? and how... I know this was done in 1997, and back than (I think) the concept wasn't so burn out, but either way, a good idea doesn't necessarily guarantee a good movie.So for starters we HAVE to trash the acting, specially of the two characters who shine the most Quentitn (Sycho Cop) and the doctor which name I just forgot and don't care to remember. They REALLY don't no crap about interpreting a fictional character, it seems that, to them, acting mean being as melodramatic and loud as you can.But in general, all the actors and actresses in the movie sucked big time. But thats not the worst part, actually what makes it even worse is the senseless character development One minute I'm scared and almost numb, the next I'm a real bad ass and I ROCK. One minute I'm an idiot and, as if it wasn't very predictable, I'm a genius. Really, nothing justifies one thing or the other, there are no leading steps towards the next point, it all just happens, the characters just do what they have to do in order to make the movie go on, despite the lack of logic in there Acts or thoughts.Another real problem is the dialog, just plain stupid, clich, stereotyped and really not justified.It seems that one of the main problems within the script is the fact the the writers forgot to consider that it's in hard moments when the best of us comes out, and even if it doesn't, it wont justify the overall craziness just because... Things must be logic within the world that is being presented to the viewer, and CUBE really does a BAD work in accomplishing that. "}{"Title":"what if a writer woke up one day....","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What if a writer woke up one day with a premise for a scifi project and then became trapped hopelessly by the idea with no way to bring it to completion? Such is the dilemma in Cube. Although perhaps I'm underestimating this film maybe the idea that the people spend all this time and effort to end up in the cube they started in (and, indeed,should simply have stayed there all along) is an analogy for the audience having just wasted the last 90 odd minutes and, indeed, should have not bothered with the trip at all. Terrifyingly like something I wrote and later threw away when I was in high school. Two points for retro creativity in set design. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, poor execution","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I came across this title while searching for similar disturbing movies. The word disturbing did not come to mind while watching this, the fact that I was more occupied with should I make another cuppa? and should I put another load in the dryer? is sort of indicative of what I thought of this movie; it was BORING. The concept is interesting a bunch of people being locked in a maze, lethal traps etc. How would they cope? Would basic instincts come alive and would the thin layer of civilization yield to survival methods?In this movie the subjects are hardly touched upon. Acting is pretty bad, especially in the beginning and more importantly, while watching it, the characters leave everything in doubt. Most of them leave me in doubt as to why they are put in the cube. Later on they find out why some of them are put in, these so called explanations however I find hardly satisfying. Some of the character's actions in the movie hardly relate to what they had been doing before they were locked, I found their actions and motives (what motives?) very hard to grasp.Visual fx were adequate, not very convincing or impressive. How people die and how movies portray it is not related to getting numb to this effect, mind you, it's just that this movie had some gruesome ways of dying in store but they were not portrayed very well. The actual cube, the outer shell, the inner rooms did not really give me the impression of being locked in, being alone and desolate or anything. Poor effort altogether.In short; feel free to watch it, I suppose it's one way of spending your evening but if you are in for a disturbing movie go and see something else. I haven't seen part II or III, in a way I hope they are a continuation of pt 1, but I'm not planning to go and watch 'em. "},{"Title":"how did this get a 7.5","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" how in the world did this movie get a 7.5 with a great epic like gangs of new york coming in at a 7.3? the acting in this movie was mediocre at best, the script sounds like it was written by a 10 year old, and the effects wreaked of cheese. i just don't get it...maybe i'm missing something. it never gives any sort of explanation as to what the cube is. i can live with that. what i can't live with is a painfully predictable ending. is there honestly anyone that has seen this steeming pile of cow dung that didn't immediately know that the autistic guy was going to make it out of the cube with everyone else dead? "},{"Title":"Clever and Inventive.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was just introduced to The Cube, a low budget sci-fi film that had so much more to say than the standard sci-fi films that are put out recently. It's actually a relief to find a story with something to say other than total reliance on pretty CG eye candy.The Cube tells the story of a group of what essentially are prisoners trapped in an hi-tech deathtrap for no apparent reason, by no explainable jailer. And in that same explanation, the purpose behind the cube becomes apparent It does serve a purpose, whether it is merely to entertain the psychopathic whims of a person/corporation with too much time and money or their hands, or an experiment designed to foster the breakdown of basic decency in humankind, and bring out the worst in people. Despite all the numerous and gruesome traps in each smaller cube, they prove to be the least of the threats within.The story can be taken with a lot of meanings. Some literal, some double, and some are never explained at all. Some story aspects, like the Cube itself, just ARE. And instead of feeling like the story was underdeveloped, or shortchanged by the need of more explanation, you're left with a sense of curiosity as to what really happened to bring all of these characters and factors together. Just when the viewer thinks it understands something, the story, like the cube itself, changes and becomes deeper.All in all, The Cube was a fascinating film. I understand that it's followed by two sequels, and I'll be approaching them wondering if they'll add on or take away from the simplistic intrigue of this movie. But as a stand alone film, The Cube will definitely have you talking. And thinking.And it's good to see a film like that again. "},{"Title":"Living In A Box.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I agree with the majority of people around here in thinking that Cube is a fairly intelligent and well-constructed Sci-Fi thriller, but did it REALLY deserve all the hype and exceptionally high ratings it received? Basically, it's only the conceptual design and claustrophobic atmosphere that are unique here, while the evolution of the characters and their behavior certainly isn't new. Cube is not the first film that gathers different and seemly-unrelated characters in an unusual setting where it quickly becomes clear that not the location but their own personal difficulties and the urge for survival form the biggest danger. That's just stating the obvious. Force people to cooperate and depend on each other and bad things WILL happen, especially if the situation is life threatening. The whole success of reality-TV shows like Big Brother is based on this concept! So by now you already know that the story of Cube revolves on a group of people that wake up and find themselves trapped in a peculiar location. Six people, to be exact, with different backgrounds and occupations (a math student, a cop, a shrink, an architect, an autistic boy and a criminal) have to find their way out of a mathematical construction stuffed with codes and booby traps. Naturally, they're disorientated&#133; Unaware of what they possibly could have done to deserve this test or who's the evil mastermind behind this. Cube is a powerful motion picture with a truckload of tension, eeriness and ingenious camera-tricks. The budget obviously was very limited, but talented director like Vincenzo Natali largely compensates this by using simple eye-candy (the disturbing color shades!) and implementing psychological terror. Personally, I didn't understand one iota of all the mathematical mumbo-jumbo, but it was fascinating to listen to and it certainly kept me on the edge of my seat. Often read criticism goes out to the acting performances, but I thought they were very adequate, especially considering the faces were unfamiliar. Don't get your hopes up for a genuine and old-fashioned shock ending, though. "},{"Title":"An enthralling experience","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had only read a hint of what 'Cube' was about when it appeared on the TV schedule, and as I thought it sounded intriguing, I recorded it. The following day, from the moment I began to watch it, I was hooked.Being a sci fan and a student of psychology this film was indeed perfect for me. There were more twists and turns in some of the personalities than the cube itself. This is what gave the film its psychological and thought provoking value.The character that really shocked me was Quentin. Appearing as a headstrong do-gooder cop at the beginning to later become a psychotic killer was for me, unexpected. I was comfortable with Quentin the way he was to start with, before this alter-ego stepped in. Another interesting character change was concerning Worth. His stance to begin with was very negative (being a part of a team involved with the Cube's design), but as Quentin turned for the worse, Worth turned for the better. Nicky Guadagni's performance definitely deserves a mention, she portrayed her character Holloway with every ounce of believability.The concept of this film was brilliant, and showed that you do not need astounding computer graphics to create something special. The claustrophobic atmosphere was captured well by the screenplay and the design of the green, red and blue rooms, each one holding a new surprise for each individual.One of the other great things about the film, was the difficulty in predicting who would survive, and who would die. Many films and sequels make the mistake of making a hero obvious, thus making him or her immune to being killed off. In this film, however, the heroes became known only toward the end of the film, and thus you fear for each individual in the cube, not just one.Finally, this is a must see for those looking for intrigue and originality. "},{"Title":"Kind of a Waste","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You cannot help but be intrigued by the premise of 'Cube'; six strangers awake to find themselves trapped in a hellish labyrinth of booby-trapped rooms. They don't remember how they got there or why. Now they must find a way to escape. Awesome scenario, right? Unfortunately, what could have been an interesting thriller/character study falls victim to pretentiousness and a poor script. As far as pretensions are concerned, it is obvious that the film's creators intended it to convey some sort of message about the evils of the military-industrial complex, or perhaps comment upon Man's primal nature. Although these issues are sometimes touched upon, like the film itself, they are never explored to a meaningful extent. Further impairing the movie is its sub-par script. It is clear, at a very early stage, what will happen at least one character will go insane and kill someone. The survivors will then have to contend with this character and the Cube itself while trying to escape. While the story moves toward this inevitable stage, it throws in several superficial conflicts for good measure. Most implausible among these is the animosity between Quentin and Worth. No reason is given for these characters' mutual hatred for one another. Rather, we are forced to accept their vitriolic banter as the result of confined, incompatible personalities. In short, 'Cube' is a movie that tries to be smart but just ain't. "},{"Title":"Riveting, odd, complex, out of the ordinary!!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is perhaps one of the most unique films I have seen in a long time. Part of it's charm is that it has a very amateur film type quality to it. The story is very simple, and the cast very small and the setting so simplistic that to keep this film interesting would be such an enormous challenge and the fact that director and co-writer Vincenzo Natali pulled that off is a representation to how great a director he could be.Cube is never dull, and never slows down, and keeps you on the edge of your seat despite it's setting and small cast. The entire film takes place in various rooms, all basically the same, but different colors inside a much larger Cube, so they believe. Seven strangers find themselves locked into this maze of rooms and mechanisms and doors for no reason and seemingly no point. Each character discovers they have a different purpose for being there, a fate or destiny. The whole cast does a great job showing a variety of emotions particularly lead actor Maurice Dean Wint who plays the anti-hero/bad guy Quentin. He seems to be the sane reasonable one but by the end is the horribly crazed psychotic killer. It shows his downward spiral into insanity while being trapped in these spaces. The rest of the cast is no less great in their perspective roles. I was disappointed to see brilliant character actor Wayne Robson get killed off so early in the film. He has been around for such a long time and seemed to have such an interesting character but barely lasted any amount of time, although his death was very cool!! In fact the film is quite gory and the enormous variety of traps set in different rooms also gives you a serious sense of suspense and on the edge of your seat. The special effects are quite stunning considering such a low budget film. Cube brings out the fears in the human mind and each character shows a different range of emotions caused by this situation and setting. This makes the film very riveting and impossible not to watch. Unfortunately the film does leave you more than slightly unsatisfied with no real answer to any of the major questions. The plot really never thickens and never has a climax or an end. I hope that perhaps the following sequels to the film tie up some of that but by the sounds of it they really don't. They created something incredibly unique with this film and it's worth seeing just to see something completely out of the norm but still very compelling. I just think there was more story there to tell definitely. Check it out!! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was much greater than I expected.The story is genius. A lot of thought must have gone into it. Original plot twists. It is not really a horror movie as some people have said. It does have a lot of suspense but I still wouldn't classify it as horror. Probably Sci-Fi. It had a Sci-Fi feeling to it.Now the acting was OK. Sometimes it was good, sometimes it didn't seem very good. Sometimes cringe worthy, but the actors still did well. They made the movie what it is.Yes it does have gore but Sci-Fi gore, if you know what I mean? Not green blood etc. but not extremely realistic. Overall I thought it was very good. It may not appeal to all, but I still thought it was a genius movie. "},{"Title":"This Movie Sucked","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, the acting was horrific.  The only thing that could've even possibly been worse than the cop constantly snapping at everyone was the directing!  At least their irratibility could've been rationalized if we had seen them in there for an agonizingly long time.  This was a movie full of logical leaps, giant conveniances, and a really amazingly inane plot.  I can appreciate keeping the cube itself a mystery, but you have to embrace that facet of the story, not ignore it alltogether.  As it was, the entire thing was really just, RAH RA RA, LOOK AT ME!! RRR, I'M ANGRY, YOU'RE WORTHLESS, blah blah blah, READ A BOOK. "}{"Title":"Better with the sound turned off","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To begin on a positive note, this is a very beautiful film.  The sets are wonderfully made and fantastically lit, the costumes are great, the cinematography wonderful, the special effects top-notch.  The story's theme will be familiar to anyone who has read Sartre's No Exit or has seen the Twilight Zone episode Five Characters In Search Of An Exit.But where it falls apart is the writing. Characters in tense situations suddenly stop and make speeches declaring their personal philosophies, or criticizing the personal philosophies of the other characters.  Dialogue is wooden and pretentious, as bad as anything in The Langoliers (a movie which showed that good actors can't necessarily deliver bad dialogue convincingly.)  It wasn't just the dialogue - situations and events were at times painfully predictable, as though they had been taken from a handbook of cliches. And the characters were never really developed - I wasn't able to care about any of them. Maybe I had the misfortune of reading some very good science fiction at the time (the Dangerous Visions collection) and had developed a very low tolerance for bad writing, but my two non-science-fiction-fan friends who were watching the movie with me had the same opinion.This movie is so visually compelling, I realized that it works better as a sort of pantomime - more than eye candy, less than a visual feast, but still an interesting optical meal.  Turn off the sound, turn on some good music, sit back, and enjoy the show! "},{"Title":" What the...","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Out of all the movies I have seen, this one is probably the worst for many reasons.1. The acting was horrible with weak and unknown actors. 2. The visual effects were fake looking and are extremely stupid. 3. The story has no beginning and no end. 4. It is completely unknown how the 6 passengers got in the 'CUBE'. 5. And, the screenplay and dialogue is horrible.This movie is not worth watching and I would rather see some other movie instead of this screwed up spoiler.3/10  "},{"Title":"Couldn't stop watching! Doubled over with laughter!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This should have been an Outer Limits episode or a short.  Awful dialogue and terrible acting.  I only kept watching because I kept rooting for the worst actor left to get killed.  Hysterical!SPOILER AHEAD...So then at the end of the movie the script even tells you it was all pointless.  We should've stayed in the first room!  Then, after declaring it's pointlessness, they give you a pretentious leave-you-hanging ending. Wow!  My imagination is running wild with possible endings!  How deep!So the set is a nothing to look at box where they change the light color for each different room. The characters are not interesting. There's no plot - except to get out!  AAAGGHH! No good acting. No good dialogue. No deep meaning. No point. Why watch it?It would be more fun if you took the idea of the film - several people wake up locked in a sinister cube - and made up your own story. "},{"Title":"If one word could sum it up it would be 'disgraceful'","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This truly is a terrible terrible film which consists of no plot, storyline or interest for anyone with an IQ above 3.  If I was forced to either watch this film or bite off one of my fingers and eat it I would certainly choose the latter because-(i)  It would be less painful and quicker than watching utter trash for 2 hours(ii)  The ending would actually have a point(e.g. I lost a finger) I know this is not the best point ever made but it's a lot better than any point that the film makes.(iii)  There would actually be a plot-something would actually happen.Actually when I think about it I would probably rather chop my arms and legs off with a wooden spoon then watch the cube again.My hatred for this film stems from the fact that cube has no beginning or end just random stuff in the middle that has no point or relevance to anything else in the so-called film.  As for people who say it's original and innovative to have no beginning or end-HA you have all been fooled the writer of the shambles called cube just fooled you into thinking this when really he just simply could not think of one.  I also think the rating system needs to have a zero rating because I don't think a one star does this film justice.The actual summary of the cube-biggest waste of my time ever. "},{"Title":"Cube? More like square root...","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed by this film. The concept is a good one, and the booby-traps are in many cases very effectively portrayed (particularly the first one, but who the hell was that guy anyway?)I agree that it is reminiscent of The Twilight Zone, but certainly not the better episodes. There's an interesting premise with no real payoff. Clearly the Cube is supposed to be some type of a prison (clue #1, all the characters are named for famous prisons), so why should there be any chance of getting out of it in the first place? Where are all the other prisoners? I can understand no guards, but no food or water? While everyone has a 'special talent' that allows them a chance for escape if they pull together, what exactly is the purpose of the cop character? In the long run, he certainly does not assist in any way... far from it.For me, the really good Twilight Zone episodes setup a very interesting premise and completely change your initial impression by the end of the program. There was no 'twist', no 'startling revelation',no big 'payoff'... it just sort of ends. And to be honest, by that point I was pretty much glad that it did. Great potential, disappointing execution.  "},{"Title":"Big pile of tunky.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This 'film' was described as a nail-biter by someone on here, and I certainly can't argue with that. As I watched more and more of the film, I almost chewed my fingers to the elbow, purely to relive the stress of watching such a bad, bad film. Tunky is an under-used word to describe films these days. So is abhorrent, so I'd like to go on record as selecting both these words to describe 'Cube'. If, like I did, you're reading these comments and thinking hmm, sounds like a good film please, for the love of god, pay attention to this comment. The token 'autistic guy who can solve impossible maths problems' card is played once to often nowadays, and please could we have some kind of ban on it from now on. Think of all the good films you've already scene. Now picture one of those in your head. Got it? Well get that out instead and save your soul.  "},{"Title":"Excellent SciFi Thriller adapted from Harlan Ellison Novel!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SIDENOTE I am constantly amazed by how many IMDB reviewers don't know the origin of the films they review and consequentially misinterpret the meanings and miss the inspirations. See my review of Dark City for another example of IMDB reviewers missing the boat.Cube is indie sci-fi psychological thriller based on the Hugo award winning, 1967, Harlan Ellison story, I Have No Mouth, And I Must scream. This book has been translated into 16 languages and has also been adapted into a graphic novel, Harlan Ellison's Dream Corridor and a computer video game. (Before I get a thousand emails disagreeing with me; you might actually spend a moment with one of these three sources.)Clearly some changes have been made from the book which ultimately serve to better adapt it to film. For one, the novel is much more perverse than this movie which in itself has some amazingly graphic moments. The mood of both is the same with the book being darker and more nihilistic. (I know that's hard to believe) Additionally the books antagonist, the computer A.M., has been replaced with this unthinking, corporate, 'Cube.'The book like the film, places an unlikely group of people into this impossible situation and allows group dynamics and human behavior to take over. While A.M. actively sought to torture these humans we are lead to believe that the Cube was created by 'a failed human society' and that its killing of humans is more an act of committee rather than one of malice. In the book A.M. sought to keep these trapped humans alive even to the point of resurrecting them from suicide. The book focuses more on the interpersonal relationships as death would have been salvation to these poor souls. This change in direction for the film is key in that it allows for the generation of suspense (and thus excitement) through fear of death.Overall the simplification of the novel and the scenery are necessary, both for budget and time constraints. The excellent use of colored cube rooms undoubtedly affects our minds as much as the unwilling participants. The designs and traps seemingly inspired by Clive Barker bring a terrific sense of dread with wonderfully understated special effects. Some of the dialogue and characters are a bit over-acted but overall this is a terrific film. I am glad someone finally made this into a film and they did what they needed to in order to make it thrilling and thought provoking.I have not yet heard any directors commentary on this film but I imagine, like Dark City, the directors will deny any inspiration. This is likely a result of our lawsuit happy society rather than lack of character but I only wish they could credit the inspiration that made it happen or at the very least ask permission.Regardless it's a great film that I highly recommend - See it NOW!  "},{"Title":"Starts promisingly ends weakly.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can see how people like this movie, but it just did not work for me. Granted I saw it on the Sci-fi channel so maybe all the commercial breaks had a hand to play in how I feel about this movie. I thought it started out with a bang, person in a strange room checks out his surrounds goes into another room and instantly gets shredded. Suffice to say I was compelled to watch after that. Then a group of strangers gets together in one of the rooms and begin to work together to find a way out and to figure out just what this strange labyrinth is designed by or who made it. It is good for about the first thirty to forty minutes as we see a variety of traps take out a member and other traps our crew must avoid. At the end though there is just to much in fighting for my tastes as one of the party gets a tad to paranoid. So the rest of the movie the traps are virtually ignored and we are left with people who have the key to getting out spending all their time literally trying to kill each other. So there ya, the paranoia and such takes center stage and the cool traps which caught my attention in the first place are gone. Still I can see how you need something else to bring to the table as you need more plot than just trap room, death, and this and that...I think this would have been better served as a forty five minute short rather than full length movie. However, as a lot of people out there seem to like this movie I say give it a shot. "},{"Title":"An interesting movie","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  'Cube' is an interesting movie with thrilling moments and a great look. The movie looks so great that other things can feel a little disappointing although they are pretty good as well. The only thing that didn't impress me very much was the dialogue.A couple of people find themselves in a room in the shape of a cube. In every wall they see a door. Behind every door they find another room in the shape of a cube. Every cube has its own colored light, and every door has a number. How did they end up there, why are they there and why have some rooms deadly boobytraps? We don't know and the characters don't know, although they have their secrets.One of them is a cop, another is an escape artist. We have a doctor, a mathematics student, an autistic guy and someone who doesn't speak very much. Together they must survive and find out what is going on. Since the movie is set in a cube the entire time there are moments we can imagine what the characters are thinking and feeling. The dialogue in these scenes doesn't work because it doesn't add anything and therefore it seems in the wrong place.But like I said there is enough to enjoy here. The mystery is pretty nice and we only know what the characters know and that has its fun. Every time the characters enter a new cube we have a thrilling moment because we. and they, can't be sure if the room has a secret. Because 'Cube' is so different from the movies we normally see it is at least interesting to watch. Whether you like it as much as I did is for you to decide. In my opinion there is enough to enjoy. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't get it.  I rented this movie because I saw many positive reviews.  I was expecting an intelligent and intriguing sci-fi movie.  Instead, I was very disappointed.I will tell you why I am disappointed 1) The use of mathematics is a total insult to my intelligence 2) No beginning - how did the characters get there?  Why? 3) Weak ending - how could Quintin sneak up on them at the end without making any noise opening the door?  Why would Worth give up going outside?  Ridiculous. 4) Weak ending - who was responsible for the Cube?It definitely is not intelligently done nor intriguing.  I could guess at the ending 1/3 the way through the movie.  No surprise for me. "}{"Title":"Ugly film","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This ugly, pointless film was very boring and poorly made, filled with plot holes and absolutely predictable plot twists. Instead of explaining us what was that dumb cube (Another dimension? An experiment? Something made by aliens?) The director seem more interested in introduce us a lot of characters that eventually die one by one in the dumbest way, like many other dumb films as Final destination. This is just another Kill them all bore, absolutely horrible and uninteresting from beginning to end. The characters were annoying and uninteresting and you know from the very beginning who is the bad guy and who will die and who will survive. The performances were terrible and the script was lame. Some of the visuals were somewhat interesting, but eventually this film turns monotone and boring. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Best Film I've Seen in a Long, Long Time","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" **MAY contain mini-spoilers but nothing blatant** I was crying out for something original with depth and, with it's near 'Blade Runner' factor in the sense that years and years later this film will achieve it's proper standing, i discovered 'Cube'. There is just so much to enjoy about the film and it's 'hidden content' if you know your films. Top notch acting especially under such difficult circumstances, a simple but utterly compelling plot, very sound direction and overall first class on any budget. Some important moments in the film's beginning include the discussion about any of them knowing how they got there (crucial as it leads the way to the only plausible ending), as well as Quentin's comment which enlightens all that they have been given the means to escape with the skills each character has (Holloway being a Doctor etc). In other words 'they' (whoever they are?) have played fair but of course no amount of booby traps in a concealed space with time running out, highlighted early on by comments made by firstly Rennes and then Holloway, can prevent mankind's real enemy succeeding in it's demise and that is mankind itself. The longer the movie goes the more desperate the characters become intensified by the cop, Quentin. This film will become a classic in a few years to come simply because it has to. Important, Intelligent, Intense, Intriguing, Gripping. This is a film that needs to be seen with the mind. Best film i've seen in a long, long time and, like 'Blade Runner' many years earlier, has so much more to it than one viewing shows. "},{"Title":"The Cube Was Designed To DISAPPOINT!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Cube was a movie i wasn't holding my breath for. Although the concept of the story sounded interesting i could just tell it would be a major dissapoinment. So i sat through the movie and there's one thing i will admit and give this movie. The first 30 minutes are well done, you are drawn into the creepy world of the Cube. The actors are scared, and things seem in place. Yet as time proceeds past the half an hour mark the film just collapses right there- and i was expecting it too. There are many plot holes in the film. I mean i think msot people sat through this sorry excuse of a film to actually end up with a conclusion and to find out what the deal was with this CUBE. Yet our demands are unheard of in the movie.There are many flaws. Most noticeably was the acting. These bunch of unknowns couldn't act their way out of a plastic bag. Okay sure, the script they were given was pathetic but couldn't they see how stupid this film made them look? So the film had a budget i knew that- So the film was shot using the same one set, okay i'll buy that but WHY couldn't they add 5 extra minutes of dialogue to help explain what the hell the Cube is and how they go there? WHY couldn't they have added another 5 minutes of screen time for an actual ENDING? And WHY OH WHY did one of the characters absolutely lose my mind and mess the whole plot up? I guess the only answer i have for the Cube was that it was mainly designed to disappoint.Below Are my conclusive reviews.ACTING Terrible. The entire cast flunked. Even the retard was barely retarded. I dont even remember the characters name, yet the african/canadian man in the film was appaling. The Math Genius was really bad. Maybe if they were given better scripts....Oh no forget it! Thats just an excuse they cant act.ACTORS Sorry i don't know these bunch of so called Actors. Not only did the film have BUDGET written all over it, so did the actors. I mean no character was likeable not absolutely one of them. Either they didnt play their characters right or their characters simply had nothing going for them. Bad choice. Sad fact even a BIG NAME actor wouldnt save this film.SCRIPT Oh gosh where can i begin on this? Decent for the first 30 pages of screenplay- THEN it just falls apart right there and it hits you like a speeding bullet. There is no beginning and no end to this movie so dont expect and introduction or conclusion becase there is none. Dont expect to have the faintest idea what the Cube is and how the characters got there. Dont think you might as well sit through the whole movie for the ending because there is no ending, the film basically laughs at you at the end. Dont expect interesting characters, expect yourself to smile at their deaths. If you think you can figure out the reason for the box yourself or if the writer did it purposely for us to figure it out, not even Einstein would know this. Sorry the script is just horrid.CINEMA Finally something DECENT about the film. I only mean decent, nothing revolutionary or special. Just thinking it was all the same set made me feel that they did put in some hard work for the sets. Yet parts of the cube and its special effects look very fake. Other times the Cube looks very eerie and almost puts you there. Yet to make it short decent Cinematography- nothing special.HORROR Thing about The Cube was that it made me think it was stealing something from the Hellraiser films i cant exactly pinpoint WHAT it was copying but i got the scent of Unoriginal for parts of the film. There is good gore in the first half of the flick then they just try to leave you in suspense leaving the characters in many caught up situations, though i dont have time for that wish-wash, i didn't learn anything- so they all might as well have died in the most gruesome way possible but it didnt happen.MUSIC/SOUND Ummmmmmmmmmmmmm. I dont remember much music in the film, maybe it didnt need it. Only thing you will hear is annoying characters screaming at eachother, the contant sound TSSSSSSSSH of the doors opening and a guy acting retarted screaming Aahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh that it makes you feel like punching the screen- no pun.OVERALL Basically there is nothing that gives this film firm structure, theres no backbone- there is nothing that keeps it standing on both of its feet and thats what sucks. After such a promising idea we are given a poorly executed film that only leaves me feeling angry. Looks like they are making a sequel too- how could there be a sequel to a film that had no ending? It's too late to explain it- theres no saving this film. Thats a fact.* 1/2 Stars (Out Of 5) "},{"Title":"Simply...","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  amazing!! the tension this creates is awesome. sure, i was disappointed by the ending and felt a bit cheated at the time, but now i've made up with the movie. it took me a while and a second viewing until i could say that this is THE most original sci-fi thrillers of the last years and one of the most well done movies of the genre ever, especially if you consider it was done on a low budget, but the fact of the matter is it IS one of the most original films to come out in the '90s.hollywood loving people will be disappointed in this and call it the worst movie ever, what they don't seem to know is they aren't the only ones seeing movies and with the right to an opinion in the world (thank god!). the problem here is the film doesn't follow a normal story line, which will make these people mad. you aren't told how they got in the cube, and in the end the film-maker doesn't wrap it up for you, letting you wonder and come to your own conclusions.if you like original, tense and tickle-your-brain movies, this is for you. 9/10 (almost a tenner... almost) "},{"Title":"Some of the worst acting and dialogue ever. Boring in the end","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I know this is a cult classic and is supposed to be filled with deep meanings about mankind, but the dialogue and acting are so bad...in the end, I didn't know if it was supposed to be a comedy or what! It was just boring and I didn't care if they ever got out or all got killed. In fact, I was rooting for the Cube to end the stupidest acting I've ever seen.The characters are so wooden, so one-dimensional, it's maddening. And of course, you're never going to get any resolution on the story, because there really isn't much of a story. The math storyline is so full of hokey, that it's just a crutch for no plot line.Skip it. There's much better ways to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Amazing film!  If you like this one, watch...","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cypher and Nothing.  Cypher is an incredible film, and Nothing is one of the most inventive things I've ever seen.I'm so glad to finally see a director who really takes a chance with his subject material.  Highly recommend Cube right along with all of Vincenzo Natali's other films.Hollywood is filled with unoriginal ideas and boring directors.  I'm glad to see that this is starting to change with films like Adaptation, Being John Malkovich, and The Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind.However, skip Cube II Hypercube, Vincenzo had nothing to do with it, and it blows. "},{"Title":"Modern Sci Fi finally gets my attention!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films I have heard alot about but because of it's genre, I always found something else to watch instead.  For the most part modern Sci-Fi has fallen flat.  By modern, I mean post Aliens, Enemy Mine, and John Carpenter's The Thing.  However I finally caught this one on a late Friday Night playing on IFC.  I was astonished.  The tense nature of this film is quite unparalleled to films of recent memory.  The nemesis is unknown and the purpose of it is unknown.  This may turn off a few viewers but this film basically says, ok they don't know what the Cube is, they don't know why it is, and neither should you.  It is strange how Hollywood feels we need to know Who?, What?, Where?, and Why?, in every film.   What is the point? There are alot of everyday situations that go on in normal life that do not answer that question.  That is why I applaud this metaphorical middle finger at Hollywood filming.  This film is a hidden gem and worth picking up.  I wish I had been in on the gag when it first appeared, but with films like this I do not mind being a late bloomer.   "},{"Title":"CUBE--Makes you think, or lets you watch","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ok, before i get started, i must say this is one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. it so good, i recommened that everyone see it.now, let me get into why it is so amazing. you can watch this movie and be totaly confused the whole time and not understand anything thats going on, and come out of it totaly messed up, but in the end, u had a great time. u could also go into this movie ready to think, and become so engrossed in it that u probably wont sleep for a week.  now, being a  middle schooler when i first saw it, i had to watch it a few more times before i could understand the full picture. the music in this movie is soo good, and soo creepy that i mute the tv almost everytime. it adds... something very strong to this movie.  its sooo creepy, yet so simple, that i dont understand completely why its there, but i know the movie would be dead without it the lack of budget works for this movie. i must say that only having one room and just changeing the lights was so absolutly genious that i swear, if i were ever in a room that looked like that, i'd kkill myslef. they say canadains cant make movies, i say americans cant wacth movies. "},{"Title":"A True Twilight Zone of a Sci Fi Film","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (no spoilers)The best thing about CUBE is that like the characters the viewer is dropped into the bizarre scenario to fend for themselves with no explanation of what is going on .  And that is the best way to watch CUBE- with no previous information.  Word to the Wise avoid plot descriptions at all cost. The film stays true to its goal, never showing more than it has to. Looking forward to more original science fiction works by this director.  A tense, claustrophobic puzzle.  "},{"Title":"An insult to the genre.  So bad you can't even laugh at it.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  People stuck in a prison-like trap who have to get out.  But everyone can't work together.  Hey, big surprise, we have a scientist / mathematician who can help solve the way out, and a mentally challenged individual that everyone has to say ooh and awww whenever he is on screen.  Let's throw in the ever-important guy who knows more about the situation than he's letting on, the doctor, and the semi-psychotic guy.What more can I say?  This movie was a lame, poorly acted, predictable, poorly-written rehash of an overdone story idea.  I think the episode of Star Trek  TNG that I saw with a similar plot was better -- not exactly the greatest compliment.I predicted probably half of the plot details.  The other half was do absurd I couldn't possibly predict that the writers would insult my intelligence by writing it.  If you are the type of person who can sit back and watch a movie without thinking the writer, director, and all the actors are playing a secret little joke on you for having actually paid them for this heap of garbage, then maybe you will like it.  For a while I thought the IMDB voters were fairly intelligent in what they like.  The fact that this movie gets anything more than a 2 by anyone is testiment to the fact that they are in fact confused. I did have a very slight liking for the array of cool traps in the various cube sections.  Other than that I thought the movie was terrible.  Stereotyped characters, stereotyped plot, and general stupidity.  The lowest of ratings possible. 1/10 "}{"Title":"Whatever your station in life, your time is way too valuable for this movie ...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... you will never be able to get those ninety minutes back. Run.  Walk. Play in a park.  Do laundry.  Hug somebody.  Write a letter.  Clean out that messy drawer.  Do the crossword.  Surf the internet.  Just don't watch this movie.  I'm serious.Now, before the hordes of angry adolescents with Jessica Alba posters start coming after me (with the larger, more thoughtful general sci-fi set not far behind), let me say ... the IDEA of this movie is interesting.Essentially a takeoff on the disaster/Poseidon Adventure setup, where a bunch of diverse people who wouldn't normally hang out together are forced to get along in order to solve a big problem -- e.g., their survival -- I thought it wouldn't be half bad.  And it's not, initially.  But as this thing plods on, with some really poor acting performances, it really vacillates between two poles Oh, yeah, we've been dropped in a cube ... a giant series of cubes, actually, and we're probably going to die ... hey, how do we open that door?  Hmm, that's a nice shirt/pant combo he has ... and OMIGODOMIGODOMIGOD we're going to die! Die! DIEDIEDIE!!!!I've never been trapped in a cube, so this may be normal behavior.  But it's a little tired from an acting standpoint.So ... acting fair to middlin', at best.  But what really gets me is you watch this whole stupid affair, only to find out ... nothing.  Zip, nada, nothing.  It just ends.Now perhaps I'm accustomed to films and not self-indulgent class projects. But a little more than hey, the savant'll save 'em might be nice.  I'm not asking for the whole backstory -- I watch X-Files, etc., and understand the fun of keeping stuff from the audience.  But this is the sci-fi equivalent of one of those French films, where she might date him, and might not, and we don't know, and there's a lot of talking, and ... hey, it just ended. For those not into this sort of thing, it will leave you very unsatisfied. Trust me.However, kudos to the filmakers.  This had to be the cheapest set in movie history -- two adjoining cubes that light up different colors. "},{"Title":"It's a 90 minute Twilight Zone episode","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And if you like TZ, that's all well and good.  There's no real explanation for the goings-on (only a vague X-Files type conspiracy theory), but not a lot of TZ episodes stood up to rational analysis either.You do have to wonder who built this thing, since other than the Cube itself, nothing seems particularly futuristic.There are a few questionable premises.  The implication is that the characters all have skills that contribute to their escape.  Well, first of all the doctor doesn't.  Secondly...this implies this is a deliberate test that particular characters with particular skills were all placed together.  But then we're led to believe the whole thing is random.  So...which is it?There are also some minor nits, like who cleans up all of the many (presumably) bodies that have gone before?  Why does no one clean up Rennes' body, so that it is left behind as a plot point?Some of the math seemed a little shaky to me.  And I wasn't too impressed with the math whiz.  She has to look at a three-digit even number for a couple of second to figure out it isn't prime.  Ummm, hon, if it ends in an even number, it can't be prime.  If it ends in a '5', it can't be prime either, but she actually has to stare at it for a couple of seconds to figure this out??The characters themselves, however, are interesting enough, given that we're not seeing them in the best possible light.  Maurice de Wint, an underrated Canadian actor, probably gives the best overall performance.  His switchover to savagery is a little too abrupt (one second he's saving the doc, the next he drops her) for my tastes.  And the writers can't resist giving him a Jason-like return from the dead sequence.The other characters are an interesting lot.  I wasn't impressed with deBoer (but her talents on DS9 often escaped me as well), but David Hewlett is perfect.Overall, Cube is not your typical film, so going into it expecting a happy ending is probably not a good idea.  It does make you think, though, although its most important issues (Kazam's final escape) are not spoken. "},{"Title":"pretentious dung","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Warning *SPOILERS AHEAD*This movie sucked.  The script sucked.  The actors sucked.  The idea behind it all was great.  If you are going to have several people trapped inside a 14 by 14 foot series of rooms, for 90 minutes of screen time, they better have a good script, and they better know how to act.The only saving grace in this film is when the doctor woman gets killed. She was the worst of the worst, as far as these actors goes.This movie is a pile of pretentious dung.If you're itching for a strange, but good sci-fi film, go rent City of Lost Children. "},{"Title":"AAAAAAAAAAAAARG!!!!!","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've read that this should be a 'cult movie' but I'm sorry its one of the worst movies I've ever seen. And the comments of other people in the cinema said the same.I'm surprised there are actors on this earth which are able to speak such dialogues without starting to cry. They are so horrible, such a mass of stereotypes and so completely pathetic, I couldn't believe it.The story is completely idiotic. A number of people is caught in a labyrinth and seeks the exit. Ah, and some of them have to die because there are dangerous traps in some rooms. What is the sense for that story ?? Being the frame for those dialogues ???This movie is ideal for tortures and sadists, but not for watching it by themselves.  "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad Movie","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Poor script and bad acting.  The only character who seemed interesting was killed off very early in the movie.I watched the movie to the end (which was a mistake) in hopes that things would become clear at the end.  They did not.There was no reason to care about any of these characters and I didn't. "},{"Title":"Please DON'T WATCH this film. Your time is valuable","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have watched this film twice. Many years ago I watched it and I remember thinking how bad it was. Then it happened to be on again and I wanted to see if my hatred was still justified, so I watched it again. It is. The characters are entirely unbelievable and by the end I wanted them all to die. The plot is beyond ridiculous and pointless. The dialogue is utter tripe and I have seen better acting from drunk children. The cinematography is non existent, as is the score for that matter. What doctor would not realise the kid is autistic from the first minute? What maths geek takes ages to realize even numbers are not prime? How does the mentally challenged kid suddenly start communicating better at the end? The list goes on...I write this review because I don't want other people to go through what I did. Twice. If I could afford it, I would buy every copy of this film and burn it because I know I would be doing the right thing for humanity. Please remember, your time is valuable and this movie takes that from you. Honestly, I would gladly choose wandering that cube with no eyesight or legs than have to watch that film again.What hurts even more and even bring tears to my eyes is that many people have given this film a high score and it is now standing near 7.5! I usually have deep respect the IMDb audiences' opinions and I cannot fathom how there are people out there who think this is intellectually challenging or indeed, in any way shape or form, entertaining. Just because a film has rubbish special effects, lots of dialogue, 'people with diverse backgrounds' and a completely nonsensical plot (that only that autistic kid could decipher) doesn't mean the film becomes an intellectual challenge to work out. It's only challenging because you spend a couple minutes afterwards wondering if the film has actually ended, is it possible to sue to the television company responsible for airing this and how did you get yourself into this awful situation.Please, I plead with you, Spend your time doing something else. Anything else will add value to your life. This does nothing but suck value away and leave you feeling strangely violated and sad as you increasingly realize that no amount of money can buy back what this film has raped you of. "},{"Title":"Best horror movie I've ever seen","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think this is one of the top splatter films ever. Yes there are only 7 characters playing in that (splatter) film and six of them will die. So there is not going to show you much of blood. But here is the quality that matters and not the quantity. During the film most of them will die in a unexpected and awful way.In the silence room I am sure that someone will die but... Good dialogue for a Sci-Fi horror movie, clever scenario, the cube as an item/building is something original, and most important you really feel the action and the agony of the characters.10 stars for this film as is a masterpiece for horror movies. "},{"Title":"Very overrated","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a movie about several strangers who find themselves waking up an a cube shaped maze that contains traps from room to room. The movie describes their struggle and fears and they work together, or not, to find out the reason they are chosen for this horrible mess and to try and escape. The movie explores various personalities and the relationships that each character forms with each other and influence this has on their decision making.Personally, as a massive fan of the saw series, I thought that this movie was very predictable and underwhelming. I watched this movie due to the high rating it has thus far received but it did not live up to its reputation. I'm not sure if from watching the movie I have missed anything important, or missed the bigger picture but the movie does not contain the substance and twists it potentially could've delivered. All in all this movie was not very interesting and I would not recommend this to be watched. "},{"Title":"It has something to say...","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To start off, Cube is a really original movie in which my only comparison can be to the games of the film Saw. I think Vincenzo Natali did an excellent job in creating a unique plot. However, the acting was not good at all. Especially from Maurice Dean Wint. They should have done a better job in casting the villain because he can be considered the main character in the film.The film never resolves. It does not have an ending in which you can sigh of relief and go on with your life. In fact, it does the exact opposite. After viewing, it leaves you wanting more to which you can only depend on your own imagination to fill the void it left behind. The machinery of the cube can be compared to life itself. You can't know if someone out there is watching, or if something put you on Earth for a reason. You can't possibly imagine if there's a master plan for us all as to why we're here. The film teaches us a lesson. At first glance you see a mentally handicapped man like Kazan and think nothing of him, but who knows, he might surprise you and maybe be your savior. Live life to its fullest, never give up and always look for an outcome. The movie was entertaining with a good story and something to say.With that said, I give the film a solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"A wonderful little film that is both intelligent and entertaining","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Considering this was filmed in one location and also considering there were no major stars in this film, I thought it was a fantastic film which threw you into the plot pretty much straight away and never slowed down during the 90 minute running time.The film focuses on 7 strangers who end up trapped in a giant maze for unknown reasons. They find that they must work as a team to try and figure out how to get out of the maze. Of course, it isn't as straight forward as it first seems as there are thousands of rooms and when the team discover that some rooms are booby trapped, the task of getting out proves to be far more difficult than they ever could have imagined.The 7 protagonists are Leaven (mathematical whizz kid), Quentin (a police officer and self appointed leader), Worth (the man responsible for designing the outside of the cube, but has no knowledge of the inside of the cube) Kazan (a man who is mentally handicapped and also suffering from severe autism - he can work out astronomical sums in his head and is a very similar character to Raymond Babbitt who Dustin Hoffman portrayed in 'Rain Man') Holloway (a doctor) Rennes (a prison escapee) and Alderson (gets killed off in the first 2 minutes - no background info).The main strengths in this film arise from the characters themselves - right from the start there is an immediate sense of paranoia. None of the characters trust each other and you're never quite sure whether all of the characters are genuine or whether certain characters are 'traps' - this is what hooks you in. The very fact that you are never sure is what makes the film interesting and it ultimately makes the characters interesting as well. Although, there are no particularly 'big name' stars in here I felt that all the actors gave believable performances (particular praise should go to Miller in the role of the mentally handicapped/autistic character of Kazan). It's not easy to pull off this type of role convincingly, but I felt that Miller was right on the money and gave a truly brilliant performance. It's quite clear after watching Cube where Wan & Whannell got some of their influence when making the first Saw film - the booby traps, working out puzzles, strangers being trapped in a room together. Both films share similar themes and both of these films are intelligent and exciting.Whilst this film has many strengths and is both intelligent and engaging, there was one major problem; Why were these particular protagonists left in the Cube together?. It's a question that the protagonists ask each other at the start which we never get an answer to. I got subtle hints that some characters were maybe put in there due to areas of expertise (prison escape and mathematical skills) and other characters were placed in there as punishment (such as Quentin with his treatment of his wife and neglecting his kids). But by who and why? We're never given an explanation and that came as a big disappointment as I felt that there was no closure at the end of the film.Despite this gripe, this was a very impressive film. The acting was great, the direction was solid and all of the characters were interesting. The script (for the most part) was intelligent and the film is tense and engaging. It's a solid film that is definitely worth watching. "}{"Title":"What a movie...","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a low budget film with not well known actors, but it is a really good movie. Have you ever been stuck in an elevator? Well you'll feel the fear 1000x times more when watching this movie. The opening sequence of the movie makes it look like a bad horror film at first, but Cube has so much more to offer.One of the best things with this movie were the actors, they were all really good. I almost felt like they were playing themselves which I rarely feel while watching movies. The plot is simple, seven strangers wake up in an endless maze with death traps. But what Vincenzo Natali focuses on is how the different characters change during this time. That is what kept me worried, excited and scared all the time.Few low budget movies can build so much excitement as Cube did, and that's why I really liked it. I haven't seen the two sequels yet but you can't make sequels to movies like these. I'm happy with the first one and I think you should watch it. But as I said, the actors are really what makes this movie so good, I'm pretty sure that if there would be a known cast it would have been a lot worse. If you want an exciting adventure, then watch Cube. This is true cult. "},{"Title":"A really terrifying claustrophobic experience","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This a really terrifying claustrophobic experience. The idea of being trapped in a place like that is taunting to the limit. You keep on wondering will anyone be able to get out and in what shape?. It's just the b-movie effects that bring it down. The concept is great.If you ever want to see Cube Zero (2004) too, which I really recommend, then it is very important to notice the end of that film. The films are connected in a very surprising way.Forget about Cube 2, which only introduces more more bizarre traps, but adds nothing further.I didn't really notice the lack of budget until I read about it on IMDb. Given the setting it is very well possible to keep the costs down. "},{"Title":"Fear... Paranoia... Suspicion... Desperation","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the truly puzzling, brain-teasing and original films you're going to see, Cube is a cleverly written & directed film and a fantastic suspense-thriller with no certain explanation to its time-line, structure or anything else and that's what made it even more exciting. The performances by the cast is truly amateur, but the setting and filmmaking is pure craft.Putting up six different people from different backgrounds inside a cubic structure, the movie creates a tense atmosphere of claustrophobia, thrill & suspense throughout its runtime and ends as mysteriously as it began. A pure surprise of exciting suspense and mystery blended with a cleverly twisted plot, Cube is destined to please the fans of its genre. "},{"Title":"Original, compelling, excellent!","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Throughout the years, I've kept running into Cube on TV, but I've never watched it from beginning to end until just now. I'm not usually that big a fan of Sci-Fi films, but in this case I must make an exception, as Cube is simply spectacular. As a devout Horror fan, my favorite anthology is the Saw series, and watching Cube really give me a clue as to where it got its ideas from.The film has a very short exposition, basically showing us people stuck in the cube. Every room either has a death trap, or doesn't. The prisoners must figure out how to get out, or die trying. The screenplay/story is original, compelling, interesting and exquisitely smart, excellent job by the writers. We even get a few twists, though not really shocking ones, mostly about the group dynamics of the prisoners. Some smarter twists could have really made the film even better. The acting is excellent by the entire cast, all characters are portrayed perfectly. Personally I've been most impressed with Andrew Miller as Kazan. Making a single-location film is always a challenge, to which Cube has stood up in the best way possible.Cube leaves many questions asked, and I doubt the two sequels answer them. The audience is left to wonder, question, and fear. While not exactly a Horror film, Cube is definitely a masterpiece. Very very highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Pretty good mind-bending movie","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched Cube a second time, and was not as blown away as I was the first time I saw it.First off, I couldn't help but notice the TV movie style of the film. The lower quality, mediocre acting, and forgettable dialogue all kind of brought it down for me. However, it does kind of work, because it's about as thought-provoking a made-for-TV movie could possibly get.In terms of characters, none are too memorable. They are at least passable, but the mostly non-memorable dialogue makes them forgettable. And in the end, none are too likable. Although, that is the point.The story was a lot cooler when I first saw it, but on second inspection, it could easily be a Twilight Zone episode. Pretty much, it's about strangers that wake up in a cube. They find other cubes next to it, and they figure out ways of going from cube to cube by reading numbers and going past traps. And it turns out, it's all apart of some big cube that was built by a bunch of people who didn't know what the hell they were doing.And the concept of having strangers wake up in a room? I don't know, but it seems like it's been done before, and therefore making the message a little more obvious. The message, of course, is humans will turn into savages in morbid situations, which has been a somewhat common message ever since Heart Of Darkness and Lord Of The Flies, and probably even before then. Another message, which is slightly less obvious, is only the innocent are good. In this case, it's someone with the mind of a child. (AKA a retard.) As he is the only person to walk into the white light, and get out alive. What could the white light symbolize? Why, heaven, of course! Seems familiar? Same here. That's probably because it's been done before.Although it may seem like I don't like it, I do. It's still an interesting tale, with a message that at least slightly gets me to think. However, it is good when judged by the standards of a TV movie. If you are gonna compare it to some of the great mind-bending movies like The Matrix or 2001 A Space Odyssey, you're gonna get left cold.Overall, a good watch. "},{"Title":"Hyped","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I dared to watch this movie after reading the fantastic reviews on IMDb. But the it failed to impress me. Nothing was impressing except the opening shot were a guy in the CUBE is sliced into piece. And I thought the movie will be more horrifying later on.But I was wrong. Right from the beginning (after 5 minutes) you can anticipate the scenes and what comes ahead. Sorry, if you are going to watch this movie.Pros 1. Opening sceneCons 1. Irritating star cast. 2. Start and end leaves you wondering and makes you hate the movie. 3. Dumb ass retard is projected as a genius. 4. Background score is not impressive. 5. Many more....................... "},{"Title":"If you think this is a metaphor for life, have my condolences--because it is more likely one for mental illness.","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't like to brag, I'm telling this only because I want to make sense with my review, but in my life I have found myself in many different kinds of situations; situations in which I was put together, at random, with people coming from very different backgrounds, walks of life, educational levels, etc; situations at times very dangerous, even desperate&#x97;I'm talking life or death stuff--and in not one of these instances, even in the worst, I saw people behaving like they do in this flick. Not in one. The truth is, situations like the one we see here usually bring the best in people, not the worst, because their survival instinct then kicks up and makes them huddle together, work as a team, put all their hearts and minds together for the common good. Normally these people would have put everything else aside and focus only in getting out of there. That raises the possibility that the writers here had no idea of the subject they were writing about and that their whole plot may have been inspired by the twisted reality of some of those generic reality shows, which--as we know--have nothing to do with real life and everything to do with some TV producer obsessed with his ratings. A script that seems to have come from someone who has no inkling about how real people behave in emergency situations and who had no other source, experience, than what they had seen in Survivor or in something alike; someone who has no idea of the immense psychological resources we keep at hand for cases like this&#x97;just think of the 33 Chilean miners who survived for 69 days underground, in 2010, in almost complete darkness. It is evident that he characters shown here are not regular, normal people; they behave more like mental patients, even like borderline psychotics. If you think that Cube is a metaphor for life, I pity you, because your life must be really pitiful. As for me, the most logical interpretation I can find for this plot is that all this is happening in an isolation ward, in some mental institution where all these characters have been all put together and where the cubes, and the giant shell surrounding them, are nothing but the outwards projection of their phobias, fantasies, traumas, their own mental prisons. (I could go even further and assume that what's happening here is similar to what we see in Identity, where the different personalities of a single schizophrenic mind act out a particular psychodrama).Let's go beyond the lousy dialogs, the gross overacting, and let's wonder why these people are acting so aggressively towards each other. They are total strangers to each other, yet they treat the rest as if they hated them, as if the others were a nuisance. Furthermore, they are all very confused, mentally, and when it comes to bring to the open the more personal aspects of their usual lives all what they are able to display are phobias, traumas, frustrations, past tragedies and even some conspiratorial obsession that include aliens.(Where is the sheer enjoyment of life here?).So, there is absolutely no positive vibes coming from any of them, except for the Maths girl&#x97;and only when doing her numbers. We may easily conclude that these people have no lives. They have been fetched from their regular existences but we may readily assume that those existences are even emptier than the one they are having here. Like the men lost in the desert in Flight of the Phoenix, they want to go back to their regular lives but there is no hint whatsoever that those lives are in any way enjoyable, worthy of living them.In a perverse sense, the utterly unlikable characters; the terrible dialogs, the depressing atmosphere, the nauseous mood, the regular, perplexing, changes in personal behavior; the lack of logical explanations for their plight; the terrible, brutal, attitude of every one of them towards the rest; the fact that the mental handicapped is the only one coming out in the end--make all the sense in the world. (When the light finally comes and reveals what's inside, only a deranged mind shows up, got it?). It all provides for a plot where every part fit to perfection, in the most logical, consistent, manner. You just have to assume that these are a handful of psychotics who are having the common nightmare of being trapped inside a gigantic Rubik cube. Maybe it's an experiment after all, they were right on that but, if true, it was that of inducing a common dream sequence in them, patients of some mental institution. Or you may consider it as the workings of a single schizophrenic mind, take your pick. If you see it this way, this is a rather good movie and one deserving a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, entertaining and superb stream.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What a film.... Psychological thriller of the most intriguing type. Wonderful. Looking forward to see the prequel and sequels also. The scenes are superb. What an idea for a film. Congrats to the makers.Film takes you through some difficult but interesting turns where you yourself tries to solve the mystery. Wonderful. Like better than Shutter Island, or maybe not....The cast all worked/performed superbly. Even though they are relatively unknown and new, they performed like pros. Congrats to the team and crew on a wonderful job..The fact that the sounds and visuals add to the movies uniqueness is interesting in itself. "},{"Title":"It's like the Matrix, but not really.","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is a smart little sci-fi thriller out of Canada that is sort of like a low-budget, stylistic half-cousin of The Matrix. That doesn't mean Cube features a lot of kung fu and slow motion special effects. It means that, like The Matrix, this movie tells a gripping and engrossing story which has a lot of philosophical and even theological themes running through it.Cube is about 6 people who wake up in the middle of a death-machine. It's a giant cube made up of individual square rooms. Some of the rooms are safe and some will kill you in horrible ways. These 6 people, who don't know how or why they were put into the cube, have to work together to find their way out&#x85;if such a way even exists. It's a fairly basic plot but it's extremely well executed, leaving you never quite sure exactly what's coming.The meat of the story comes from the interactions of the 6 main characters and the larger social/cultural attitudes they represent. Rennes (Wayne Robson) is a hardened criminal and expert at escaping from prison who only cares about saving his own hide. Quentin (Maurice Dean Witt) is a cop whose aggression and determination both protects and imperils everyone around him. Leaven (Nicole de Boer) is a brilliant math student who mostly does what others tell her. Hollway (Nicky Guadagni) is a doctor and a leftist conspiracy theorist, always ready to blame the powers that be for screwing up everything. Worth (David Hewlett) is an apathetic office worker, the sort of guy who stands apart and watches life pass him by and inside the cube, he'll just stand and watch death run right at him. Kazan (Andrew Miller) is a mentally handicapped man who tests the limits and value of the others' compassion. These 6 characters in this fantastic circumstance are forced to confront the truth about themselves and question everything they believed about their lives and their reality.In addition to the conflicts between the characters and the challenges they have to overcome, Cube also raises broader issues of personal action and the purpose of life. Is this death-machine the deliberate creation of some evil minds or is it simply an idea that ran out of control because no one was willing to take the responsibility of stopping it? Does the cube represent a social order imposed on us by others or it is the product of our own actions and inactions? Is there any aim to how the cube operates or is it all meaningless? Does the way you survive inside the cube say something about the way you should live your everyday life? Is the maker of the cube a benevolent god trying to teach a lesson or a malevolent being who just wants others to suffer?There is uniformly fine acting by the cast, who all manage to give genuine human depth to archetypal roles. The dialog is direct without seeming contrived. The look and sound of the cube itself is tremendously impressive. Many films have spent a lot more money and not come up with anything as visually powerful and suggestive.This is a really entertaining, scary and thought-provoking movie. It's also similar to The Matrix in that Cube spawned two sequels, both of which seemingly didn't understand what made the first film so special and ended up sucking because of that. But no amount of lame ass sequels can take away from the fact that Cube is damn good. "},{"Title":"A great unexpected gem","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have to be honest these type of films rarely fascinate me, but a few people had recommended watching it, so I did. I was so surprised at the overall story which is played out in one set and I always found myself tense as the next part of the story was unveiled. The characters were portrayed brilliantly and makes you question how well you would cope if you woke up in their situation. The story does seem to get a bit repetitive at times Oh this theory doesn't work, lets try this one, oh that doesn't work either. but it's not really about the characters escaping but how they transform over the course of the film. Overall I would recommend this film only if you are willing to think deep and are willing to overlook the low budget and occasional clichd dialogue and plot points. If you fit into that criteria then Cube is one of those films that beats some of the newer phsycological films out there. "}{"Title":"Cubed","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the pre-Saw independent days of 1998 (actually, released outside of the USA in 1997) was a wildly original and inventive film called Cube. I saw this many years ago and loved it. However, after rewatching it, I feel it definitely deserves a solid eight out of ten stars.Why it lost the full 2 stars (I originally gave it) to drop it to four was just two factors serious overacting at times and the most depressing finale. No, I won't spoil the climax, per se, but you're grasping throughout the movie for an ounce of hope and need something to pick you up. The rug's pulled, so in a sense, you fall instead of rise.That said, and despite the size of the set the actors are all-but exclusively in, I loved the camera work/cinematography. Unlike Saw with its flashbacks &#x96; I think total now 900,000 from the first movie to date (Part VI), this movie shot in the metal rooms had to be a challenge. They did a great job. Also, I love puzzles, and this movie is full of them. Finally, (despite the sequels) I loved not knowing the big picture &#x96; I.E. how the characters came here, who built the place. This placed you in more tension like the cast.Several men and women awake in a puzzle of identical cubes or perfect metallic, square rooms, each side (including floor and ceiling) contains a portal to the next, seemingly similar dungeon. But, beware! There are traps abroad and it's these somewhat unrelated and unwilling participants must decipher a way out, room by room. And they must work together to achieve freedom as they start dying off one by one, each in a new and inventively gruesome manner. (I.E. the Saw reference. Saw's writers Leigh Whannell and James Wan must have got a lot of ideas from watching Cube.) As much as the movie contains suspense in spades, I am super glad they decided not to continue the movie past 90 minutes. It's obviously a two set movie (two cubes built side by side) and though they added depth to the characters, they really could only take this so far.For lovers of suspense, claustrophobic horror, character study, numbers (you'll have to refresh on your math skills before or after) and small, indie films with quality, I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Nail biting suspense and a lot of fun.","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the movie that pretty much started the whole SAW thing, along with David Fincher's Se7en, so you might be inclined to hate it for that, but it's just too good to argue with. First, the bad I thought this movie dawdled a little too much on time-passing sequences in which nothing happened, which could have easily been filled up with more of the edgy and dark character-driven tension the rest of the movie so thrived on. A few things seemed a little too convenient, too, like the retarded guy knowing how to square numbers or whatever (this is partially explained by Cube Zero, but that's no excuse; it was poorly written). And I did not think Quentin's character was as believable as it could have been - he switched moods a little too fast.However, everything else about this just rules. It isn't an amazing film, but it is really good, with the acting being surprisingly good (especially compared to Cube Zero) and the drama and tension being extremely well executed. The characters were given distinctive and interesting personalities and were only detailed enough for the story to work. The traps and the gore are well done, as they are not the focal point of the story and don't need to be - we're scared more by what's outside the cube instead of inside it! So this is a great film, immensely entertaining and always keeping you on the edge of your seat, certainly worth watching for fans of horror, science fiction or just gripping, nail-biting suspense in general. Get it now. "},{"Title":"So-so acting, writing, directing, and FX. So why do I love it?!?","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Under any other circumstances, I would give this movie a one. The acting is bad at times, the writing is nothing special, the visual effects are... Well, not good, and the directing was alright. BUT, you just have to love this movie. It has a lot of flaws, but it works as a sci-fi horror/thriller. The film never drops the tension and terror. After the opening scene I don't think anyone could help but be intrigued. It is a brilliant idea for a story, even if it does borderline on silly occasionally. It's a film where you need to leave all sense of logic and judgement, and just have fun! Sit down on a Saturday night with some friends and enjoy it. You begin to feel the panic and claustrophobia that the victims are feeling. It really is scary! CUBE is an absorbing, terrifying little picture that is one of the best sci-fi/horror films I have seen since the ALIEN films. "},{"Title":"this is a masterpiece","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i don't mean that the movie was so great but the way it was shotted i heard they only used one cube and just others color panels,that's impressive also i like the casting they where al unknown actors and layed of the superstar hype for once,i think this lead to some movies really similar like saw and hostel but in this movie they go further on storyline,like a saw movie isn't hard to write,these movies have little let stand non story compared to this one.actually this is actually a movie that had some good sequels like saw you have like saw v already but i think that one stinked but hypercube wasn't expanding some storyline it's starting a hole new one anyways i give this movie 8/10 due the great story awesome twists and great acting "},{"Title":"If you liked Saw, this is the film for you.","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Shot on a low budget and having the special effects done for free, Cube is a claustrophobic nightmare. A bunch of people wake up in a weird sci-fi style room with no idea how they got there. They then have to work together to find a way out of the eerie place. This film could have inspired Saw as it was made in 1997 with Saw in 2004. Despite some bad acting and a so-so script, Cube is saved by the mysterious plot and suspense which will have your heart racing. A good concept for a movie and well worth a watch. A must for fans of Saw and similar films with a claustrophobic feel such as Panic Room, Phone Booth and Flight Plan. Give it a try you'd be surprised. "},{"Title":"I'm not dying in a f*cking rat maze!","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" How did I get here? Why am I here? How do I get out? Can I do it myself, or do I need someone to help me? Sounds like questions all of us who are trapped in a cubical life ask every day. These are some of the same questions being asked by a group in a fantastic cube, where a mistake in a decision can cost you your life.Worth (David Hewlett) had it down. We are so concerned with our pathetic little lives that we fail to see the big picture. That allows others to manipulate and control us. It's not a conspiracy; it's just that we have ceased to care. Nature abhors a vacuum, so someone will take control while we look the other way.Kazan (Andrew Miller) is autistic, and shows how we tend to dismiss the less fortunate when it suits us.The cop Quentin (Maurice Dean Wint) and the social worker Halloway (Nicky Guadagni) showed the opposite sides of the debate over what our society values - people or order.Those are just my observations, and I am sure others will make their own interpretations. It is horror and drama and a thriller that really makes you think. "},{"Title":"A low-budget Canadian precursor to Saw","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The world of Canadian movies is usually highly unknown or...well....crap. Of course every so often something comes along to prove this different. First there was Heavy Metal, an excellent animated film, and then there was Cube.Cube came out of the Canadian government's plan to fund the Canadian film industry in order to increase quality and make a name for Canadian filmmakers. Cube came out of this, but was unfortunately under-represented.Cube is an excellent view of the human element, more specifically how people react when placed in a stressful and life-threatening situation. For those who have not heard of this movie before may find this sounding familiar The idea behind Saw.Vincenzo Natali created an excellent element of tension and mystery created simply in a 14' by 14' cube. For being a very simplistic and low-budget creation, this movie does not disappoint. And while the sequels are not of the same level, I highly recommend viewing them for the whole story. "},{"Title":"Time to weigh in","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm Canadian so I have a little more info on this film than my American or Euorpean counter-parts may have.First this is actually a remake of a TV play in the sixties not unlike Playhouse 60 or other live shows of the era.Second having said that it is also a complete re-imagining of the source material. In the original it was one man trapped in the cube who constantly receives visits from others who can get into the cube and leave at will. Now on to the film at hand Cube is a sci-fi film that is one of the most thought provoking films you will ever see. Six strangers with no recollection on where they are or indeed how they got there must navigate a booby trapped Cube shaped prison(pretty simple huh?)not.As the movie progresses the line between good and evil gets blurred as well as sanity.Completely character driven with often sharp dialog Cube offers much more than it's one set,yes only one,they revamp with lights and clever camera angles.Hard core sci-fi fans will recognize Nicole deBoer from Star Trek Deep Space Nine and the god awful Dead Zone TV shows.Insightful often suspenseful Cube is a must see for those who enjoy smart film making my only complaint was the ending I saw it coming 20 mins into the film which is why i'm giving it an eight. Worth a rent. "},{"Title":"The fragment and the whole","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When he was younger and suppler, Hewlett looked like MacLachlan and like Lemmon&#151;prettier than Lemmon, and subtler, brighter than MacLachlan (and, needless, I hope, to mention, a vastly superior actor). He certainly is an interesting actor. Extremely fit for slick, urbane, ambiguous characters, of subtlety. You see, the script seemed to require for underlined performances verging on overacting&#151;except for Hewlett; him, in part due to the nature of his character, maintains a soberer demure.Before this, I have seen an ulterior installment of the CUBE,one looking more futuristic. This one looks quite industrial, quite rough, like the deliberately worn&#151;out sets of the ALIEN.The first installment, that is, the original one, is hugely suspenseful, relatively well acted (Hewlett is the only distinguished performer), and quite violent. What sets apart THE CUBE is a sort of uncompromising boldness and force&#151;it's not exploitation, it's an ambitiously conceived movie. It's very concept is strong and bold. As a metaphor, it has the sense of keeping understated. It does not look, and, in fact, it is not the existentialist manifesto. If offers, delivers a small portion, a fragment of an unknown set. So that it does not look like the deliberate didactic illustration of a thesis. Such an _absurdist take is very vehement and efficient. Do not patronize the audience, let them get only a fragment.Fast&#151;paced, this thriller is wise in not pretending being able to say more about its characters than it's possible at such a pace. Some of them are merely sketched; others, are deepened. This depends on the performers, too. Such movies are less riddles, and more shocks, punches. THE CUBE is relatively smart; but it's good that it does not turn out being too smart. Because its strength is its fundamental honesty. It's very scale is intended as small, unassuming and fragmentary; at least, this is how I figure it. I liked the fact that it seemingly did not attempt to force one take it for what it's not .At certain turning points, the script is unafraid of taking unexpected decisions. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, dull and almost unwatchable","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is definitely a let-down without a whole lot going for it.**SPOILERS**Awakening in a strange box, Quentin, (Maurice Dean Wint) Leaven, (Nicole DeBoer) Worth, (David Hewlett) Holloway, (Nicky Guadagni) and Rennes, (Wayne Robson) realize they're trapped in a gigantic maze with no memory of what they're doing in it. When they realize that there's traps inside certain rooms, and that the rooms are all apart of a gigantic cube, they begin to wander through to safety. As they wind their way through, they start to realize a distinct pattern through the way the cubes are designed, which they believe is useful in getting out. Finding Kazan, (Andrew Miller) also stuck inside with them, they find that the numbers are getting lower due to the fact that they keep wandering into traps, which leads them to the secret that could lead them out of the deadly contraption.The Good News There's almost nothing worthwhile about this one. One of the main reasons to see this one is the first two kills to this. There's a couple of them spread throughout, but the very first ones are the most important. The first one is really impressive and incredibly gory, which is just the right way to get the film going off to a great start. The next one is another really brutal one and actually has some really great moments in the set-up for it, which is a nice twist that produces a fun kill. The only other area that works to this is the way it handles the character's transition, which is done nicely and comes off rather well and as surprising. These here are all that work for this one.The Bad News This one had a couple problems with it. The main one is that there's hardly anything going on in here. There's an extreme avoidance of the traps in here merely because it decides to focus on the rather annoying habit of having everyone yell at each other for trying to solve the riddles or just plain doing math to begin with. There's not a whole lot of exciting scenes of people yelling math solutions at each other, and that this takes up the entire middle segment of the film, lasting close to the hour mark, and these really start to take a toll on the film. At the end, these simply use up the time that could've been spent on luring those into the traps, the real reason for this one. Seeing only a couple fall to traps and most of the time ignoring them is something that doesn't sit well at all, ruining the film of it's main attraction and completely undoes most of the good it had, what little there was to start with. These are the film's biggest flaws.The Final Verdict Not a whole lot to really say about this one, some good things and a couple flaws, but nothing that really sticks out. If you have to see this one, then do so as well as fans of the others in the series, though those looking for something other than what this provides should ignore altogether.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence "}{"Title":"A metaphorical nightmare","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Imagine... you wake up in an unfamiliar, almost alien, place with no recollection of how you got there. No memory as to why anyone would put you there. Then you find out there are lethal traps in certain rooms and all the rooms looks exactly alike...That is about the extent of what this film tries to explain. The rest of it is up to the viewers and the keen ones will undoubtedly notice many hints beneath the surface narrative as to what is going on, but in the end, this is best seen as a metaphorical nightmare. Whether it is one that H.P. Lovecraft would have or one that George Orwell would have is really beside the point and it can easily be seen either way or even both at the same time. It is that lack of explanation in a well made film that can render it powerfully symbolic on many levels. It is a nightmare that scares many people and scares each one in their own way. Interestingly it is not really the film that scares you directly, it scares you indirectly. It is your own mind that scares or better yet, frightens, you as it searches for possible answers as the protagonists search for essentially the same thing.Cube is so effective, because it pulls you right into what is going on screen. It forces you to think like the people on screen and in identifying with them, you identify with their fears and thus the film gets you.Lastly, consider the opening shot. That could be anyone waking up. --- 9/10BsCDb Classification 16+ --- violence "},{"Title":"Mysterious but intriguing thriller","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is an odd little movie which you could describe as a high concept film. In other words, it was probably made on the strength of a pitch which went something like this Seven people awaken and find themselves inexplicably trapped inside of a giant cube. They have to navigate there way to the outside, but find many compartments to be death traps. Who will make it out, alive, from&#133; THE CUBE?!. Sound interesting? Perhaps you could view this thriller as an inverse scenario to the classic horror movie Hellraiser which I've also reviewed at this site.Anyway, this movie fortunately gives a wide berth to any humbug about the nature of the cube these seven people find themselves in. If it had gone down that direction, I'm sure it would have been laughable, but you can imagine your own scenarios&#133;something of a scenario like in the Saw franchise of splatter movies? Another possibility is hinted at when the film ends, which I won't go into, to let you come to your own conclusions. All very mysterious, which is as it should be for this kind of stuff.Since I've given this film a score of around 6/10 (and I'm going on memory to rate this film), why should you see it? Well, it has the most aesthetically pleasing scene of human butchery I've ever seen. Hmmm&#133;sounds bad&#133;well, it's not really that bad. Right at the start of the movie, there is a scene which is sort of realistic and sort of cartoony, which provides the Wow!! factor. And if Windows' Vista made you say Wow!, you really should get out more! So, 6/10 for a wondrous death scene that will have you reaching for the freeze frame, frame by frame or slow motion buttons on your remote! Intriguing movie. "},{"Title":"Not For The Squeamish","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I only intended to offer 6 or 7 stars, but its simple audacity moved me to give it more.This is very much a 'what would I do in the same place' movie. And it's shocking. I begin to wonder if some people do not spend their spare time imagining increasingly bizarre and monstrous ways in which to kill. That is certainly the case here.The set is fairly straightforward. It's a sort of prison-cell with trapdoor openings in all of the walls, ceiling and floor. Each gives access to a seemingly identical cell which may be illuminated in a different colour. That obviously keeps production costs to a minimum as one set fits all. In fact, the cells are not quite identical. Some contain the most diabolical booby-traps imaginable.A group of inmates, or guinea-pigs wake and find themselves inside this grotesque maze and it becomes evident that their combined skills and abilities are their potential salvation. They work from cube to cube attempting to discover how to escape. It should also be mentioned that each cube is part of a complex in which they frequently move like a colossal Rubic Cube.Naturally, tempers fray and conflicts develop. This is especially so when those who think they are inevitably suited to leadership and command, find that in truth they have little to offer, and instead the least likely members are the more needful. It's a clever little observation about human behaviour, but which is not very well evaluated or explored. The script and acting are all a tad stagy, but the oddness of the whole situation still carries the movie forward and the viewer watching.There is no explanation or overview to their plight or the nature of the hell in which they are plunged, and this may disappoint those who like things cleared-up at the end. You take it for what it is; a bizarre idea, ordinary people, life and death.Weird and Wonderful. "},{"Title":"A sublime trip of paranoia.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Cube was one of the most ingenious films that i've ever seen.The color mix along with the caged sterotype that the plot and the characters are involved with transmits the claustrophobic terror that an actually situation like that would bring. The special effects for a low budget movie like this one are okay and in some point they reach some realism that the movie needs to succeed.I found the acting very amusing and every single actor was a key to keep the suspense and the mystery going on pushing you every minute more closer to the screen. Sometimes the movie can be very irritating or may cause you a slight symptom of claustrophobia and edge paranoia,but thats the point.Get you out of your limits so that you can't beat the cube enigma. "},{"Title":"Tom Keogh","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If Clive Barker had written an episode of The Twilight Zone, it might have looked something l...(read more...)like Cube. A handful of strangers wake up inside a bizarre maze, having been spirited there during the night. They quickly learn that they have to navigate their way through a series of chambers if they have any hope of escape, but the problem is that there are lethal traps awaiting if they choose their route unwisely. Having established some imaginative and grisly punishments in store for the hostages, co-writer and director Vincenzo Natali turns his attention to the characters, for whom being trapped amplifies their best and worst qualities. The film is, in fact, similar to a famous episode of Rod Serling's old television series, though Natali's explanation for why these poor people are being put through hell is a lot closer to the spirit of The X-Files. Cube has some solid moments of suspense and drama, and the sets are appropriately striking one is tempted to believe at first the characters are lost inside a computer chip. --Tom Keogh "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this fascinating sci-fi thriller, six people are trapped alive inside a rotating cube who's various compartments hold lethal booby traps. Slowly loosing their minds & without food, water or any memory as to how they got there & why they are in there, they must find a way out & figure out what's going on before they all die of thirst & starvation or worse, kill each other. I've heard many good things about the movie CUBE throughout the years, so I decided to give this one, it's prequel & it's sequel a try. I saw CUBE ZERO before seeing this & found it a fascinating movie & the original CUBE is even better, the acting is really strong & the direction pretty good as well, Director VINCENZO NATALI has created a very tense, claustrophobic environment for his film & never bores his audience by always offering something new & several neat plot twists. Highly recommended by those bored by more current Hollywood product, CUBE is a breath of fresh air & very inventive. Definitely recommended especially if you liked TWILIGHT ZONE. Followed by a sequel CUBE 2 HYPERCUBE & a prequel CUBE ZERO.**** stars "},{"Title":"Mindf*ck","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Thats the only way to describe this movie. Strangers wake up inside a cube and then have to work together to get out in one piece. Various traps are set and they have to avoid them. The thing pulling this movie along is the incredible acting by all the cast members. They are all believable and fit their roles like a glove. There isn't much gore at all but we don't need it. The film survives on its interesting premise and great acting. If I had one complaint it would be that the film repeats itself a lot....going to each room for an hour and a half or so is quite tedious and also the movie felt a little long. Despite these flaws, it is still one of the best sci fi movies to come along in a long time. A cult classic. "},{"Title":"a Science-Fiction Character Study","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is one of rare films that highly pleases me. Despite having many clerical errors throughout, Cube is an example of Science-Fiction at its best.Throughout the film, we find ourselves constantly asking thousands of questions, about the origins of the Cube and the People inside the Cube. It becomes apparent, that these questions will never get answered (unless you watch the sequel, and prequel, which are highly dissatisfying) Cube is known as a Science-Fiction movie, but some people don't realise that it is more of a character study. As the film progresses, we are shown different characters, and how their situation shifts and changes them, until our own views we had at the beginning are completely transformed.So, in conclusion, if you have not seen this film, i highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Canadian Cube of terror","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This low-budget Canadian science-fiction movie is truly one of the most original thrillers I have ever seen. It deals with a couple of people each with their own specific talent imprisoned in a world of deadly rooms. The many boobytraps hidden in each cube are enough to alarm even the bravest person and they soon begin to lose their patience as well as their hope in getting their lives back.The entire movie is basically one huge mission to make it out of the huge cube alive. The fact that each room has a devious trap in store and the wide diversity of the many characters make up for a very enjoyable movie. Every now and then you are presented with unusual camera shots which adds to the already creepy atmosphere. The movie begins for example with a close-up shot of someone's eye. Near the end you do happen to have the feeling that you've seen everything and any presentation of a new room actually feels more like a stretch than an interesting plot development. Fortunately they don't drag the movie on for too long and the ending has an okay twist.Being a low-budget movie in Canada, one might expect that Cube doesn't have a single famous actor. Not to worry, because all acting is quite good. There are at least two performances that are worth mentioning here. Maurice Dean Wint plays the part of Quentin the cop and he's quite good. The best acting however is by Andrew Miller who plays the role of Kazan the autistic man. Andrew Miller is no Dustin Hoffman so don't expect a Rainman-performance, but his acting is easily the best thing alongside the eerie atmosphere and originality of this beautiful thriller.In short If you want proof that good movies don't always come from millions of dollars - check this one out! It's as good as any low-budget movie could ever be! "},{"Title":"A Sci-fi/Suspense Movie","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was okay aside from the fact that there was some poor acting and dialogue. the ending was disappointing and not really a happy ending. I mean its really sad that all the characters, except for the disabled one and police guy, did something helpful with the plans of escaping the cube, but in the end they all died except for the disabled one, which I'm sure he will die soon since it's hard to believe that he will be able to find his way home. Most of the traps looked pretty deadly while some were just plain enough so that they could have been easily avoided, if the characters were smart enough to move (acid spray trap). overall, this movie was pretty suspenseful and keeps you awake making you think what's going to happen next. "}{"Title":"A great film that leaves you wondering! *SOME SPOILERS!*","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember about 4 years ago watching the beginning of this movie on one of the digital cable channels. I wanted to watch it SO BAD, but my dad was in the room and he didn't like me watching graphic movies. But now I'm older and I rented this movie, and watched the whole thing, I loved every minute of it, it makes you feel paranoid and claustrophobic, but the story is great too.*SPOILERS IN THIS PARAGRAPH!!!!!!*So, basically 6 people of different corners of life wake up in a weird looking cube, who go through what they remember, who they are, and what they do. There is a math-whiz, an escape artist, a doctor, a guy who BARELY designed the exterior, a big cop, a mentally handicapped man that will later be the big help. Let's say, the guy who thinks he's ALL-THAT gets killed first They go through rooms at one point thinking about prime numbers is not-trapped, then they will be proved wrong, and they somehow die not by the traps, but by the members of the group going crazy and killing each other in a way. Near the end, only 1 man makes it out, and that scene will have you wondering for a very long time.If you're hoping for a non-stop gore-fest, don't get this. If you're looking for a great story and plot, and a good movie that will be well worth your time, THAN GET THIS! Overall - Plot - 8/10 Casting - 7/10 Violence/gore - 6/10 (For this type of movie) Music/Effects - 6/10 Stayig in your mind - 11/10 "},{"Title":"science fiction or horror or drama..whichever way u call it...it ROCKS!!!","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Its too good a movie...i don't know why it didn't become popular overseas..!!! I watched this movie after having watched the SAW Trilogy.....this movie makes SAW a toddler on comparison....Saw was successful in the sense of intelligent ways of dying/killing people.CUBE is thrilling because at the end when the school student figures stuff out....anyone(including me) will get chilled to the bone.The last scene made me shudder....my only request for new viewer's is that to WATCH THIS MOVIE PATIENTLY(listen to the dialog's).The medium pace of this movie is what makes it interesting to watch.Too good...! "},{"Title":"It's a cult movie that has clearly inspired other pictures&#133;","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The CUBE is a cult movie that has inspired many other films since it was created. One I can easily remember is SAW - the similarities are just too obvious. However CUBE has one thing that SAW hasn't an incredible capacity to abstraction! In fact, if SAW has a plot and settings which we can easily understand, based on a psycho-game in the real world, CUBE is passed on a gigantic cube full of thousands of small rooms (also cubic). It's really based on an abstract concept and it keeps it until the end. We start to know nothing about what's going on, and we finish the same way&#133; All that we can find out along the plot is the stories and the personalities of the characters. And the intention of the movie is just that to be an abstract mortal game to watch Human's emotional reactions fear, despair, paranoia, suspicion&#133; I found this movie very interesting because of that. It might be a little boring that the scenarios are always these Sci-fi cubic rooms, but the tension and the suspense created are enough to maintain viewer's attention until the end. And the ending was great too, because it doesn't give you any answers but just proves that sometimes innocence and weakness can be stronger than anything else. "},{"Title":"You don't need to have a lot of money to make a classic","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS In The Cube* Seven strangers (played by then-unknowns among whom there are now-famous Nicole DeBoer (The Dead Zone) and David Hewlett (Stargate Atlantis)) find themselves trapped in the Rubic Cube from Hell, without any memory of how they ended up there, and try to find a way to escape, understanding that maybe, the Cube isn't the only thing they should worry about...'Cube' was made almost ten years ago, with a tight budget (the set is always the same one, only lit in a different way) and mucho creativity, with a cast that is a real find and a tightly packed script.'Cube', an instant classic, like 'Session 9', 'Se7en' and 'Saw', is not to miss! Cube 9/10. "},{"Title":"a template for Saw?","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube is an example of minimalist film-making at its best.this movie may have been the template for Saw.the plot is very simple.basically,a group of people find themselves in a labyrinthine maze full of rooms,many of which are filled with lethal traps.the group must then try to to survive and find a way out.there is an interesting group dynamic going on as each person reacts differently to their predicament,each offering their own ideas of why they are there and how to escape. naturally paranoia sets in affecting each person differently,with conspiracy theories abounding.the acting performances are solid.however,there is never any clear reason given as to why these people are there,and who or what may be behind it all. this is the only complaint i have of this movie.it would have been nice to know the purpose of it all and the motivation behind it. this a minor complaint though.this a very thought provoking film,which does not rely heavily on special effects,or gore,though there are two gruesome scenes.this is more of a study of psychology and human relations.it is a very low key movie,which works in its favor. 6* out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant concept but... (Spoilers 2nd para)","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Definitely a budget release, set in a series of identical cubic rooms identified only by a series of numbers and the colour of the lighting, the set budget must have been one of the lowest of all time, but it works. The feeling of claustrophobia engendered by the seemingly endless series of cubes becomes quite palpable. There are, of course, traps to be avoided, or the film would have become very boring very quickly, and the idea is that all the characters need to combine their skills in order to find their way out. The idea is unusual and bursts with promise (If you can endure the characters occasionally becoming uncharacteristically verbose), then it begins to unravel...It won't be long before the word 'Rubic's' springs to mind. Certainly you'll catch on much faster than the characters involved, and since the idea is that the characters should assist one another you are soon left wondering what skill the very first victim of the cube might have had, since he dies before meeting any of the other participants, and although it isn't stipulated how long the survivors slept for, it seems unlikely that they were in the cube for more than maybe a day, so why, having reached the exit, does one of them panic because he's suddenly scared of the outside and wants to remain where he feels safe? (Safe? With no food or water?... Duh.). Since no tools or weapons were allowed in the cube, where does the crazy cop suddenly get his spike from? If the entrances make so much noise, how does he sneak in to a cube without anyone noticing? and how does he get the young girl out? Then there's the ending... It's really a little depressing that such an involving and well thought out movie can be spoilt by a mind-bendingly idiotic conclusion, but unfortunately that's it. If you switch off when the designer-guy starts to panic at the exit and make up your own ending, you'll enjoy it SO much more... "},{"Title":"Careless but fun!","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sure, the characterization is a little heavy-handed, but isn't the math concept pure excitement? If only they were a bit more careful with their numbers... And as for many, many reviewers who went huh when the prime numbers were presented... hello, people. I don't know what about the US, but in most European countries, this stuff is taught in basic schools. By the way, 4 cannot be a prime number. But, in the movie, it is. Obviously, the screenwriters didn't go to school either.But aside from that, it is a fun indie movie that squeezes everything out of its potential. The eerie and futuristic cube is pretty, the traps are maybe not the most original in existence (although the first scene was good enough to get ripped off in another, much more expensive and wide-released film), and the low budget doesn't keep it from being highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"XX if you have not seen The movie THE CUBE (on DVD since '97) don't read the following XX","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie in many was just like Alien. The title sequence, lake of music & a lot of ambiance, claustrophobic environment & claiming through shafts & airlock doors, friction & paranoia, in Alien by not showing the creature it created fear and loneliness and in The Cube it the writer does it by not giving the audience anything about WHAT? Where? by who is the cube being run. In both movies there are 2 women & 4 men (not including Ash). In any case I think the movie THE CUBE is a very well done piece of Anthropologic science fiction. Everyone in the movie except for the retort was guilty of being ungrateful. They had exceptional talent but they all griped about how bad there lives are & meanwhile here is this wiz kid that is a space out retort. When all them are put to the test the retort won. Ladies & gentleman great writing & Screenplay (not so crazy about the editing) but what was up with the ADR!!! it kinda look like a old Kong fu movie. Rent it, its a interesting one "},{"Title":"Coulda been a Crapfest. Shoulda been a Crapfest. Woulda been very hard to not make it a Crapfest. And guess what...IT'S NOT A CRAPFEST AFTER ALL.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie. it has it's bad points as do all movies. but in the end its good. the idea is in truth original. but it is hard to make an idea like that into a good movie with decent acting. its hard to build up the idea. once you give them the idea and lead them through a few rooms, it all starts going down hill and gets boring. But this movie is not like that. this movie provides enough twists to get you through the whole 90 minutes. the acting isn't bad either. Nicole De Boer is excellent, and Maurice Dean Wint is perfect for the lead role. Not a lot of bad points either. its minimalist. doesn't cost much. which in some cases adds to the creepy effect. some characters you will fall that its a shame that they killed off. but thats about it. advice from me View and Be Amazed. "},{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible, TERRIBLE acting, but cool story.....","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When you watch this movie, if you are somehow capable of ignoring some truly godawful acting, you will enjoy it. it is pretty gory, and has some cool stuff that happens, but the acting is just horrible.there are MANY plot holes, and the fact that the good guy turns into a villain so darn fast leaves me gagging but still, it is worth seeing. 6.5/10 holloway and quintin are terrible actors, whoever they are. be prepared for it, and you should be OK.I would suggest also that you pay attention to the major plot holes of the moving cube that is nice enough not to make you feel like you are moving until you know that you are actually moving, and the cubes rattle like crazy, how handy is that! "}{"Title":"Could've been so much more","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Creating an unreal sense of dream like paranoia, Cube had me enthralled. Expertly showing group theory, Cube opens with six individuals awakening in separate cubes. These cubes are connected via doorways on all six sides leading to other cubes, but some of them are trapped with death enducing blades, acid and so on. And therein lies the simple chilling mindset of the movie. You awaken in an unknown world with several other people using each of your skills and knowledge to survive. The cubes the characters travel through offer no answers to why they are there, no solace in their quest to survive. The movie had me picking sides with characters from the get go and showed the breakdown of the human mind under such conditions. But all this added up to what? Nothing and that's it. The ending is non-existent. There is no final explanation or grand scheme to it all, the movie jus stops from story telling and quits. I was waiting for a government cover up or something along those lines, but no, nothing. I guess that goes with the theme of cube, know little and show little, but either the ending p*ssed me off "},{"Title":"Odd Idea, But Not A Bad Idea","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first came across this movie while browsing thru the new release section of a video store and decided to give it a try.Needless to say, I was not all that disappointed.The movie wasn't all that bad for a B movie, to be honest, although it was quite odd.I was a fan of Nicole de Boer's from her time on Star Trek Deep Space 9 and I remember watching Maurice Dean Wint on television's Psi Factor, so seeing them together in this movie  made it a little more worth seeing, in my opinion, because it gave the movie a little more credibility, even if it was a direct-to-video flick.Eventually, the Sci Fi channel and a few other cable stations began airing it. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, although characterisation is shallow and rushed.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had been told great things about this movie, and things started well. It was claustrophobic and tense, with confusion and suspicion rife among the characters, a few fantastically fiendish deaths, and there it stopped for me.The characters were extremely stereotypical, and they were revealed all too quickly it seemed rushed. There wasn't any feeling of any kind for the characters, good or bad, and no empathy means that the key plot points are lost as this film is all about the characters and their interactions.With a more carefully selected set of characters, this could really have been a great film. As it is, it's good, but you feel it's missing it's point. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly scary psycho horror.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Since the entire movie set probably consisted of two rooms with red, blue, green and white lights behind it, this is probably the best basic horror idea I've seen made into a movie in years. Simple use of contrast techniques make the characters look awfully surreal and ready to lose it in a second, making you pretty much uncomfortable from beginning to end. People probably do strange things when they think they're going die for no particular reason at all, and it's good to see that none of the psychological problems the characters face are far-fetched. They're ordinary everyday-life kind of problems. It's just that the movie's not set in everyday-kind-of-life circumstances. Pretty believable I should say. (Not counting the cube-thing...) Really worth seeing. Makes it hard to open doors the first few hours after you've seen it. "},{"Title":"It's claustrophobic","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most original movies in years. Although the acting could have been better, it's really worth watching. A chilling thought wondering why you are placed in a cube! It's great seeing how the story evolves between the characters. My final comment is A must see movie!!! "},{"Title":"Better than Sphere","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One set.  About six lighting options.  A handful of cast members.  No budget.  Sounds like the perfect formula for a classic indie horror movie to me.  This often gets pigeonholed as Sci-Fi...is it?  A bunch of strangers are dumped in a huge cube in the middle of nowhere filled with deadly traps. In the end, how many - if any - will get out alive?  And which among them will be the first to crack?  Oh, there's a mildly offensive portrayal of a sub-Rain Man autistic.  If that sort of thing p***es you off, give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Beautiful little nightmare of a movie","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Gripping entry in the trapped-in-a-room horror subgenre that also includes classics like `Night of the Living Dead' and Carpenter's `The Thing.'  It's not quite up to the standard of those two films--the script is in places talky or heavy-handed or cheesy, and two or three of the performers are unfortunately hammy.  (Actually, in the case of Nicky Guadagni, replace the words `unfortunately hammy' with `unforgivably awful.')  Still, the overall effect is very good, and the film (rather surprisingly) stands up well to repeat viewings, too.  It's not so much that the paranoid premise is appealing (though it is), but rather that director Vincenzo Natali really seems to understand how to pace this peculiar drama of his.  It's hard to imagine another film essentially set in a single room that manages to pull the rug out from us so often.  From the prologue on, we are presented with shocks and twists that keep our allegiances shifting from character to character, and our rumps balanced uncomfortably on the edge of our seats.  The design and lighting are more than striking, and if in the end things don't make a whole lot of sense, one gets the impression that that was never the director's aim in the first place.  Instead, he seems to have set out simply to make a beautiful little nightmare of a movie, and at that he succeeded well.  8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting smart sci-fi.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So many movies are re-done, dumbed down, car chase explosions, and no more. The Cube has some original ideas, great use of an interesting set, and is well acted.  Although not without flaws, it held my interest from beginning to end because it challenges the viewer.  One actually has incentive to think.  All in all, I might even watch it again someday.  I'd encourage anyone who likes sci-fi, or plays like Waiting for Godot, to give this unusual movie a viewing. "},{"Title":"Good plot but bad acting and predictable","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I have to say that the plot is quite good, people awake trapped in a cube and they make no idea how have they ended there, but I heard that there was already a movie with this conception, so have the director stole it ? Anyways, I think that the plot was ruined by such bad and predictable actors, and like somebody said before, all them are too much steriotypes. The Cube keeps trying to give us a message but never quite reach the point, so in the end I wondered - What was that all about ? 5/10. "},{"Title":"Low budget at its best","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can you do with a small group of actors, one set and a small budget? Just watch this and you'll see. By far one of the best thrillers I've ever seen. Natali has really put himself at the forefront of Canadian mainstream movie making and set the bar high. Find it at your video store and prepare yourself to enter this maze or brilliant movie making.9/10 "}{"Title":"Original and thrilling, what more could you want?","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a thriller filmed on a low budget with a great idea, that of the unknown.7 people awaken in a room on their own, each room is a cube and has doors on the roof, the walls and the floor. As we see in the first minute, some of the rooms are trapped. The people have to try an escape from the building - because there is no food or water. As the survivors proceed through the rooms they start to crack up leading to fueding and death.The film has it all, social commentary, extreme tension and some good shocks.Certainly a unique film and I would say a film you certainly should see.R-T-C "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube creeps me out and I mean that in a good way.The movie has this dense air of futility to it.  I can't think of any other films that are so  permeated with the sense that there is no way out, or that the force behind the plight of  the protagonists is so indifferent.  The characters do begin to act in increasingly paranoid and frustrated ways, but I took  that as naturally reflecting what anyone would go through in their circumstances.  I'm willing to forgive the few plot conveniences, in light of the mood that the movie  establishes.  It's a smart film on the whole, brilliant actually.Nicole De Boer turns in a nice performance as well. "},{"Title":"Short but Sweet","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'll keep this short.. but...... I saw this movie the other day on Austar in Australia.Before it even started I sorta um'd and ar'd but like a good Sci-fi fan decided to give it a go.... and the damn thing got me in RIGHT from the start... I mean the opening sequence of that guy getting....er... cubed??........ TOTALLY sucked me in..........The rest of the movie was brilliant.... Yes it wasn't an over produced Hollywood movie... but who bloody cares???...It was fantastic and I was TOTALLY shocked by the ending.....Cheers Wandaful "},{"Title":"Excellent, intelligent sci-fi","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess if you're looking for STAR WARS full of action and lasers, then you should stay away from this one, because it's filled with tension throughout, with no intentional humor involved.  There's also some CGI in the film but it's kept to a minimum.  Most of it looks like it was done the old fashioned prosthetics way.  Yes !A group of people are placed are placed inside a large complex filled with thousands of movable cubes, that move around in a Rubik like fashion.  If you remember Rubik's Cubes from the late-70s, early 80s then you'll get the idea.The opening scene where a prisoner is sliced in a grid like fashion by a razor sharp, faster that a speeding bullet grid, is awesome!  You can actually see big chunks of body parts and organs falling and hitting the floor, with the slippery sounds of meat going 'thunk, thunk' in the background.  Slice it and dice it, baby.  Cool scene.Another excellent gore scene is when we see Rennes the escape artist get it in the face with a stream of squirting acid as he drops down into an adjoining cell.  The front half of his face starts to melt off with his front teeth exposed.  No CGI.  It's one of the best prosthetics effects I've ever seen in a film !!They all work together in order to break the code in order to get out of there.  That is, until Quentin the cop loses it and starts killing off some his fellow prisoners, like Dr, Holloway for one...  You see, the authorities (who we never see) put them all in there for a purpose.  To see if they can get out by placing not only the cube's mechanical obstacles in the way, but their own personalities and backgrounds as well.The whole set has a cool techno-industrial look to it, with lots of colored ambience and plot cues that are intelligently written.  I fully recommend this to anyone who wants a mature sci-fi plot.I didn't care for the ending so it knocks it down a point, but it's still something that I would consider keeping in my DVD sci-fi library.8 out of 10 .  "},{"Title":"A movie showing that a good story is 90% of the total","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fantastic as it is produced with such a low cost, but by that also showing that a good story is the main thing.The effects (yes there are ones) is good and gives a just right touch to the movie without taking over. The story is good and is a thrill.When seen it you understand that they could keep a low budget, but that is not on expence of low quality. It's more of the kind that they did not have to spend more to fulfill the goal - a good movie.How ever, the thing that will going on in my mind is - How the heck built that thing and why?See it! Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Less is more","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The premise is taken from a 70's Jim Henson TV show. The set consists more or less of one room only. The cast is entirely made up of stereotypes, not very convincingly portrayed. Effects are sparse, and so is the musical score.So why the #### would you want to watch the Cube?Well, because it is a very good film! Being in an allegoric frame of mind will help you enjoy it. Not to say that it is entirely without other qualities. I also liked the creepy, claustrophobic feel, the constant guesswork, and moments of nihilistic despair.Now go see the movie!Oh you did? In that case... *** SPOILERS AHEAD ***The Cube has similarities to Night of the Living Dead, in that it is a chamber play - that is, an examination of group/character development within a confined space - set in a genre film (survival/horror) context. They both offer a very dark view of society as a soulless machinery, in which the individual is forced to retreat to her most primal survival instincts. It all comes down to kill or be killed, and so the threat ends up coming from within rather than from without.I have seen several posts claiming to have The Answer to this film, or indeed that there is none. To me the film makes some very obvious points, some delivered more subtly than others. And those are very relevant points.The most obvious message is of course that we need each other to get by through life, although our own spiritual qualities are the only thing we can rely on in the end. Another is that you shouldn't judge a book by the cover, as illustrated by the development of Worth, Quentin and of course Kazan.But the most crucial point is the one delivered in the final scene The meek shall inherit the earth. Kazan is a child, but a wise child. He is the one who has been closest to the solution all the time, simply by not going anywhere. He is the only one remaining untainted by the suspicion, hatred and retribution which ultimately destroys his companions.You may see the characters as representatives of different ways of life. You have Randomness (Alderson), Cunning (the Wren), Strength (Quentin), Knowledge (Worth), Reasoning (Leaven) and Compassion (Holloway). Each one of these is flawed and/or incomplete, and thus doomed to perish. They can compensate for each other weaknesses, but without Enlightenment (Kazan), they are all meaningless. Kazan is the weakest, obviously, but being dependent on others is also his largest strength. The last becomes the first. The fool becomes the sage.Anyway, that's my truth. Tell me yours. "},{"Title":"One good thing out of Toronto","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   I wanted to write this film off immediately upon hearing that it was Canadian,and was produced through gov't grants,which usually means propaganda,but this was an intelligent and deep,spiritually metaphorical mind-fu__er of a movie.For those who find Canadian films tedious,check it out.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I'm no movie specialist and I don't know english very well, so excuse me about my english, but i'll try...Since I'm no professional movie reviewer, I won't discuss the technical qualities of this movie... OR the actors acting... let the people who really understand about movies do their job... BUT In a personal point of view, I have to say that I loved EVERYTHING about this movie... I loved the original idea, I loved the actors, I loved the effects, I loved the sounds, I loved EVERYTHING... and for me it's one of the best movies i've ever seen.It's really difficult to explain what's so cool and interesting about this movie, but I guess it's this mystery that makes this movie so great! If this movie had an explanation in the ending, It would have lost all its magic... thank God it didn't!For me 90 minutes of this film was too short...it seemed like 10 minutes...Overall the greatest strenght of this film is the idea of the cube... a cube that has no purpose or explanation... just a place with 6 people on it... does we need anything more to be happy?????? Brilliant...10/10  "},{"Title":"A heck of an achievement","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading pages and pages of commentary over this movie, here's my contribution. Contains minor spoilers.First, I'd like to point out that whether the movie is a cult classic as some claim, or torturous drivel as others claim, it was nonetheless stimulating enough that 434 people have felt compelled to comment on it, despite it being a no-budget, independent Canadian film made in 20 days some 6 years ago. That should count for something on the worth seeing scales, whether you ultimately wind up loving or hating it.I really liked it. Those who say it's flawed have some justification. However, it's not as flawed as Toys, for example. I also don't feel that the flaws are as critical to the coherency of the film as some did. I found this movie quite tense, and I'm still thinking about the issues it raised a day later, which I haven't done too often since Se7en.The plot summary is readily available, so I'll move on.The non-ending was not a flaw in my opinion. Cube reminds me of The Quiet Earth (a favorite) in that way. I loved that the light beyond the last door clearly implies somewhere else, because it's *different*, which is an extraordinary relief by that time. But there's no indication if it's normal daylight or simply the illumination of the outer shell, which might contain only new puzzles/traps, and no exit.Many complained about the 'stereotypical characters'. I felt that this was a logical extension of the basic idea.The characters have been suddenly and inexplicably thrust into an environment so unfamiliar and featureless that the only element that provides any context at all is the other humans. Like Rennes, who can at least identify a prison and provide valuable advice about escaping one.They're also in completely unexpected, urgent, mortal peril. They must instantly redirect their frame of reference to a guerilla mentality and move quickly and undetected through an uncharted, dangerous area, where a single mistake is fatal. Only Quentin and Rennes are used to such a swift and radical paradigm shift and might resist disorientation to some extent. But even they would normally know how they went from being safe to being unsafe, and would have some idea what the rules of engagement were. No one knows that, in the Cube.Disorienting and stressful seems an inadequate description of this situation. Humans focus on the familiar to cope with disorientation. There's nothing familiar in the world, so each must rely on previously-developed strategies for making a chaotic world comprehensible. However, it's clear that these people were not particularly successful in comprehending the real world, even before the Cube. No surprise, then, that their compensating strategies consist of trite, simplistic world-views, which ring even more hollow than usual under these conditions. This is likely the root of the idiotic dialogue complaint. I was so anxious during Cube that I took off my headphones a few times, and didn't hear every word of dialogue, but it definitely wasn't as bad as some of Danny DeVito's lines in Batman Returns. I'd say that Cube's hackneyed contrivance meter averaged at about the Star Wars A New Hope level, but here I think the idiocy of the dialogue was perhaps somewhat intentional.I noticed, when Holloway called Quentin a Nazi, that every cultural association that popped into my head to explain why that word is insulting either made me miss what the characters missed, or distracted me from the concept/goal of escape. War (people!), history (irrelevant), Europe (Earth!), fascism (government? won't help, responsible?), religion (God??!!! definitely not helping)...  Abstractions and metaphors are meaningless inside the Cube. Why does Holloway think she has brainpower to spare for them? How could Quentin take the insult to heart as if personal judgements mattered, as if *anything* mattered but getting out, and freely walking a single step without risking poor Alderson's fate? Then I realized-- this distracting pseudo-relevance was their only defense against overwhelming horror and despair in a nearly-hopeless and essentially meaningless situation.The character Quentin displayed this fundamental desperation most clearly, even if Maurice Dean Wint's acting is sometimes a bit over the top.As for the math issue-- hey, maybe Leaven's not a super-genius. Some people train for years, but still achieve only mediocrity in their chosen field. She's also hungry, thirsty, exhausted, terrified, and disoriented. Could even a super-genius quickly do complex, life-critical math under those circumstances (without being autistic)? Later developments with her abilities seemed fairly reasonable because she began by grouping the numbers into 3 sets of 3 digits, then appeared to need to solve the full 9-digit numbers, but I'm no math whiz. Maybe her brain gave out because she was hungry, thirsty, exhausted, terrified, and disoriented. That's possible, too. I found the autistic math genius too convenient, but felt the character ultimately served a worthwhile function in the setup.It was easy to guess accurately when something was about to happen, but not so easy to be accurate about just what. And the last twist actually caught me off-guard despite being the oldest trick in the book, probably for the same reason it caught the characters off-guard. I was captivated by the light.The characters weren't interesting or sympathetic, except Leaven (I just like Nicole de Boer, from her work on Star Trek Deep Space 9). I did want them to get out, though. Not even Ally McBeal deserves to die in the Cube, and I really dislike her. It was interesting that I still found this movie compelling despite being indifferent to the characters and expecting many of the plot points.If I had to guess the theme of this film, I'd say that Cube is a speculation as to what rats in a lab might be thinking when they are placed in some featureless maze for reasons unknown/meaningless to them, and attempt to achieve whatever uncertain reward the unseen controller has (or has not) placed somewhere within. And despite its flaws, Cube manages to convey that.That's a heck of an achievement. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Display of Claustrophobic CHaracter Development.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I took me a good couple days to decide if I liked Cube or not.  It was definitely a tough call.Cube is an intrigue movie which is basicaly Character development, some action, and a huge sense of claustrophobia.  Definitely explores psycology and human nature.Not for everyone, but a good bet for movie geeks looking for something different.P.S. The sequel has a better ending, but is not as cool or fascinating. "}{"Title":"Slightly Above Average","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is nothing more than a decent way to kill time.  The general plot is not innovative in any way, but it is a least more creative than most horror/ sci-fi films these days.  Though the film itself suffers from one serious problem  Repetition.  It's people walking through a series of booby trapped cubes.  It's cool at first, but after a while it begins to get tiresome.  The writers probably figured you wouldn't notice because the film is supposed to be a character study of people placed under pressure, but that aspect of the screenplay is terribly cliche.  All the characters are generic and possess no real traits we can latch onto as an audience.  The screenplay is not necessarily bad, it's just not good.  It fits nicely in the average category.  The acting wasn't that bad.  I don't know what you people want, but I can think of tons of actors who could've done worse in the movie. They are a bunch of unknowns, sure, but that doesn't mean they are bad actors.  It's not oscar material, but it's far from bad.    I like and am annoyed by the lack of closure in the film.  On one hand, it lets you the viewer develop your own decision about the meaning of the cubes, but it also demonstrates an element of languor on the part of the writers.It's a nice idea that burns itself out too quickly.  The screenplay is average, and the acting likewise.  It has some nice cinematography, and it entertaining enough to keep you awake.  It's not a masterpiece, but it is a little better than average.6.5/10* * 1/2    /   * * * *  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Four #351?","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Is it just me or does this movie seem like the plot is taken from Fantastic Four #351 released in August 1992?  Anyway, the plot of that issue is the Fantastic Four are captured by these entities testing their abilities, removing their super powers.  They put them in a cube (sphere?) where they need to escape deadly traps and get outside.  They must use their unique abilties in order to overcome each obstacle.  I only saw half this movie, but it reminded me an awful lot of that issue.  Or at least the premise of it.  Kind of like the Matrix reminded me of Dark City. "},{"Title":"Genuine Craftsmanship","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love the experience of watching a low budget film that succeeds in outperforming its big-budget brethren.  It just goes to show you don't need big-name talent from Hollywood to make a good film.  Shot in Canada? People I've never heard of?  Who cares - I've heard of George Lucas and Star Wars, but his latest entries has made this fan abandon the force.  After viewing Cube I think Lucas needs to move to Canada and find what he lost 20 years ago.I didn't think anyone made films like this anymore.  I thought the day of good low budget horror took a fatal blow in the 70s, slowly dying out in the 80s and 90s.  All the low-budget franchises have gained a significant budget now (not Matrix 2 huge, but way larger than Halloween's $300k) and all the horror films still operating on a tiny budget are too deliberately campy for me to enjoy.  But here we have proof that good horror can be made on a shoe-string.  Granted I have a number of reasons to not like Cube, I found the film rather charming and intriguing.Despite the set consisting of one room made to look like an entire maze, it succeeds in never boring the viewer.  The cube has a very raw, industrial, and enigmatic feel in the same vein as the original Alien film's set only here we have cubic rooms with monochromatic lighting appropriately color coded with the walls, giving each room its own flavor and atmosphere. It's actually one of the better uses of color onscreen that I've seen, and it's an extremely simple effect seamlessly integrated into the plot.As simple as the set and its lighting is, it's more convincing than the vast amounts of CG that fills the Star Wars prequels and thus easier to get into Cube's world.  With Star Wars you needed the force to believe the videogame graphics all around was more than an ILM pleasure cruise.  But here the actors can actually touch and interact appropriately with their set.I've read a number of complaints about the acting, and took a bit of amusement reading Muskewitz's comments at E-Film Critic where he states he'd like to see the film remade Gus Van Sant-esque and just replace the actors .. . and immediately my mind again jumped to the big-budget films Star Wars I & II.  I definitely have to disagree with him and the number of people who gripe about the film's acting.  While not the greatest performances in the history of Sci-fi, I still found the characters and their portrayals superior to the later Star Wars cast (with the exception of Ian McDiarmid and an elite handful of others).The characters themselves, while borderline clich with its diversity in their backgrounds - a collection of people from all places of society to be slaughtered - it didn't bother me like HyperCube's characters did.  The writers used just enough restraint to never push their characters over the line and again monotony was cleverly used to tone down the clich factor. All the characters are dressed the same so we rely more on their physical appearance and personality to reveal who they are versus `Okay, she's dressed like a geek.  She's formal.  He's a bum.  That guy's a loser.'  So now we have real characters, some more fleshed out than others, but now we have a reason to worry if the traps kill someone.And then there's something I really appreciate - a film with a premise but no explanation.  Some call it a cheat, others call it a cop-out, I call it `Not cramming every major plot point in simpleton idiotic terms so the average moron can understand.'  Finally, a movie that doesn't kill itself with explanation after explanation.  Finally a film that lends itself to the audience's imagination.  Orson Welles once said, `Give the audience too much and they won't contribute anything themselves.  Give them just a suggestion and you get them working with you.  That's what gives the theatre its meaning when it becomes a social act.'  If you enjoy being talked down to and everything explicitly written out, don't even bother with Cube.Besides, not one character in the film is ever in a position to know anything about the Cube.  The film obeys its own logic, pulls no punches in its reasoning, in that regard, and I found it refreshing having a movie where no one truly knows anything concrete.  The writers didn't stoop to the half-ass conceived `Someone just happens to have the answers to the universe in this group and is 100% right.  What a coincidence!'  Every explanation is conjectural and abstract at best.  It goes for a more realistic approach. And really, if you're stuck in a booby trapped Cube, do you need to know everything about its origin to try and save your ass and get out?  Cube gives you what you need and goes from there.  I also liked how the characters depend on trial and error since most revelations on how to escape end up as a failure to include all variables.  They don't just magically have the answer.In the end, Cube succeeds in building atmosphere and suspense quite impressively given what it had to work with.  While not without its disappointing moments (usually when they do bend to Hollywood formulas), Cube is a triumph of low budget craftsmanship.  I hope Natali proves to be more than a one-hit wonder, because I'd love to see more films like Cube.  "},{"Title":"Seriously flawed, but still some fun","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about this film, I was intrigued by the original premise. 6 people are trapped in a gigantic maze of cubical rooms which themselves are arranged in a giant cube.  Each person has a skill needed to escape from the mysterious cube, which is filled with booby-trapped rooms.  So I give the film some credit for simply attempting to create such a neat idea.And I thought that the filmmakers created the cube itself quite nicely, especially as they were on a low budget.  Even though the film is almost entirely confined inside rather smallish, cube-like rooms, I really didn't get tired of looking at the same set again and again.  Another commendation I can give to the film is that I truely did feel the suspense, the sense of paranoia, etc.  At least I was entertained.But the movie is deeply flawed.  First off, the acting is poor. Considering that the only thing to look at for 95% of this movie is the acting, I'd say this is a serious problem.  Not to say the actors had tons to work with, since the script itself wasn't so good.  The whole mathematical premise that the cube is based upon is rather shaky -- if it actually DOES make sense, then it is explained very poorly and clunkily.  And the ending was a big let-down.  Terribly disappointing, and it really didn't make so much sense.Also, I went into watching Cube thinking there would be some kind of dawning and horrible realization as to what the cube's really was.  This is never adequately explained in the movie.  Rather than focusing on the nature of the cube itself, the film centers almost entirely on the breakdown of the characters inside the cube, with some nifty traps going off and killing or hurting people in neat ways every so ofter.  This isn't necessarily a bad thing -- it's just not what I expected.  And it's also kind of tough to pull off without really bang-up acting, which I reiterate, this film did NOT have.Cube is some fun, but a let-down.  If the plot really intrigues you and you think you can get past all these flaws that I've mentioned, knock yourself out and rent the movie.  Otherwise, you'd probably best just stay away.  It leaves a bitter taste, but you wont hate yourself for watching it.5/10 "},{"Title":"Made good use of my imagination","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Though the acting in this movie was near terrible at moments, I managed to look past that (partly because I understood it was produced on a low budget). The premise was unique and I definately enjoyed the hellish feeling of being in the cube with them.  A cool movie indeed, though not for everyone... but what movie is. "},{"Title":"flawed but entertaining","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I think you have to give this film credit right off the bat for being so  incredibly different.  These filmmakers tried damn hard to show you something you  haven't seen, and in many aspects the film succeeds. First, the bad news.  Some of the  acting here is sub-par.  Some of it stands out in stark contrast to the professionalism of  the rest of the film.  The actor who played Quentin has a few particularly stagey  moments. His crazy-eyed stare could've been taken down a few notches and been more effective.  He tries so hard to act insane; it feels like acting.  But those are only a few  moments.  Overall, the guy's pretty believable and carries a good portion of the show.Directing, editing, cinematography - all well done.  I was told that, in reality, only one  room existed, but was shot in such a way to make you feel as if it were an endless maze.   Very clever.  The movie contains a surprising amount of gore.  Several scenes took me  back.  I didn't expect this level of gore in a small independent, and smart, film.  Nonetheless, it's effective gore.  It ups the stakes. 'Cube' is a suspenseful film that definitely deserves a look.  But be warned if you're a  moviegoer who prefers to be spoonfed (this film does NOT do that), or who requires a  black and white conclusion, skip it.  It's a little more challenging than what you're  looking for. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Cube - A group of people are trapped in a sick minded but brilliant prison of cubes, some are safe, others will lead to horrible painful deaths. The only clue are a series of numbers between the cubes.Cube had a lot going for it; it had mystery, suspense, horror, thrills, good character building etc. etc. The ending was the biggest let down ever. (one of the characters turns out to be a bit insane and kills everyone, except for an autistic guy who ends up the only one to get out alive.)The idea is good, and the scene in the sound activated room is nerve-wracking. The answers to the rooms are a bit complex, but the movie also has one problem - the story can't hold out for one and a half hours. It'd be good as a short or something, though.So overall, about a 6/10 and in need of a better ending "},{"Title":"There's much more here than I thought there was...","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There is no conspiracy.  Nobody is in charge.  It's a headless blunder operating under the illusion of a master plan.  Big brother is not watching you.Cube is one of those rare films that looks like one thing but is really something else.  Originally I thought it was this pointless horror film that had no message in it other than it takes place in a cube.  And while it looked interesting, I passed it over.Now, after hearing that the Sci-fi channel made a sequel, I figured I should give this movie a chance.  And I'm glad I did.  While the acting may be a tad over the top every now and then, this is the kind of gung-ho, money is an object, radical statement driven piece that we haven't seen the like of since star wars (although I think this has a better message).  Made on a shoe string budget, with b actors, this movie still holds a lot of water. And although it has the characteristics of horror and sci-fi, it's not trying to be too much of anything.  It is what it is, a cube in a room that is a cube, with doors that are cubes with 6 people (one who dies early on) representing the six sides of the cube.  And it doesn't matter who built it or why, because there is no one person to blame.  They all are part of the cube for the same reason.  Each one of them is responsible in their own way.big brother is not watching you...I think my only complaint with this movie is the ending...which I won't give away.  But it seems very forced, unlike the rest of the movie which really is a puzzle for both the players and the audience.  You're not sure what's going to happen next, and you can't take a good guess because each room (despite the color) looks exactly the same as the next.  (it's almost hard to believe this movie was made using only 1 and a half cube sets and in a three week shoot.In conclusion.  Do not go into this film with a preconceived notion of what it's about, because you will be wrong.  Don't try to ask too many questions of why is there and what it's purpose is, because the answer doesn't matter. it just is, just like the world around us.  You can't explain why a thing is the way it is (i.e. the world) within the box (i.e. in our world), because the solution and the problem are the same thing.  The cube exists simply because we exist.Why put people in it? because it's here.  You have to use it or admit it's pointless. but it is pointless! That's my point. "},{"Title":"Concept would've made a good student film... (SPOILERS!)","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I caught Cube back in 1998 (where it was on a limited run) at the Ken Cinema in San Diego, though I'd first heard of the picture through Fortean Times magazine. With a couple of friends in tow, I plunked down my seven bucks and subjected myself to Vincenzo Natali's vision. We just could not stop laughing, though at the end we all groaned at the crappy religious symbolism of the character who survives the cube and the light the character walks into. As many others have written here, Cube has a very original and existential concept which is undermined by characters who are nothing more than archetypes who mouth some of the most rediculous lines ever written by somebody not Ed Wood. On top of these defects, the film goes on too long, and the director/writer seems to have a mean streak, though whoever directed the sequel was even worse. With our luck, somebody will make a reality show based on it. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will really get you thinking about Big Brother and is he really watching you. Very well acted and very intense at times. For the most part, the maze is a very formidable structure, and you hope to God that you are never inside one. Just a side note, the ending is horrible, and frankly, the ending ruins the movie for me. If you have not seen this, but are going to, when you get to the end of the movie (you will know when it is) stop the tape and don't finish it. Just let your imagination wonder about what happens.  "}{"Title":"I , You , We, They....","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is not movie for straight action phased sci-fi fans. Here is not Aliens to blow away , not invaders. Only the mind is important. This movie rely on people who is thinking deeper than average Hollywood directors and actors. So there can be undoubt two category of people , others like this movie , the other half doesnt. In critical i dont see any big flaws in the cast of this movie, as we need also other acting than super stars. This movies strenghts are in psychological side. Its effects are fair. But the ending is not so good . Still i rate this on 8  "},{"Title":"It was tedious, pointless and semi-professional...But I loved it!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie has MANY flaws  The acting was mediocre, the story has no beginning or end and it was about twice as long as it needed to be...BUT it kept me highly entertained for the entire length of the flick.  I think much of the allure is the pure mystery of it all.  The Whos, Whats, Whys and Wheres NEVER get answered, but who cares, it kept my attention and made me want to see it again! "},{"Title":"Algebra might save your life, but...","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  People locked up in a giant cube, discussing problems of algebra. Doesn't sound gripping to you at first, eh? Neither did it to me. But CUBE was a pleasant surprise, one of the best tension-in-a-small-group movies I've ever seen, and it's definitely thrilling. It disturbed some people obviously because it doesn't give explanations (who built the cube, how did the victims get in there etc.). It is a game and we are asked to imagine what the rules could be. There are not an awful lot of movies around that require imagination! The reason why the people inside the cube are scared to the edge of madness is not that death could strike any second - it is their lack of knowledge that makes them afraid. Algebra might save your life in the cube, but your fears, thoughts, strengths, all human qualities will matter. The cube is not about the cube in the first place (note to some fellow reviewers who said but why was it built, it has no purpose etc.), it is about human beings. Voted 8/10. "},{"Title":"Why haven't I seen this until now!?","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A tense, gripping science fiction (hopefully) film. Wonderfully imaginative...but...(yeah there's a but). Although the climax of the film is great (and I won't be telling you anything about what that is)the actual ending--I mean the VERY ending--is lame and predictably nihilistic. If only the same imagination had been put into the final few shots that was obviously pumped into the other 89 minutes.And why didn't this get a bigger theatrical release? I think it may have been the ending that did it in. Not happy enough for the mainstreamers, not interesting enough for the brainiacs. "},{"Title":"Made in Canada","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really must say, that as corny as it sounds, this film made me proud as hell.... although many films are shot in Canada, relatively few are actually Canadian projects. With the exception of Cronenberg's work, there is little in the Canadian film catalogue that really got me excited...Cube changed that - a Canuck feature from conception to distribution - shot on a low budget, it really surprised me with it's quality. It's like the classic Twilight Zone channeled by Clive Barker. The acting is decent, the concept is genius, the visual design is innovative and made maximum use of resources without looking cheap. A thought provoking, stylish hybrid of sci-fi, horror, and whodunnit (and we still don't really know shodunnit by the end, Cube occupies an honored place in my collection.  "},{"Title":"A thinker's film.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an examination of human nature, and like some of the best science-fiction, it's a direct one. It does a thorough job of exploring the human survival instinct and how much of our humanity we're willing to trade because of it. The result is a wonderfully told story that grabs the viewer's attention, doesn't let go, and concludes in a way that will leave the audience thinking hard about their own existence as well as the future of humanity.  Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Like Cube itself this film is a work of (evil) genius","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Cube again a few days ago and got far more out of it the first time. It's one of those films which creates a mood and leaves you thinking about it for days afterwards, kind of alters the way you look at things. I think that is what film making at its best is all about.Cube is a terrifying film, a kind of Orwell/ Huxley nightmare. Somehow a group of people have been trapped in an endless maze of cubic rooms some containing the most lethal traps. Their task, presumably - they are given no instructions - is to avoid the traps and find the exit before they die of hunger and thirst. It's a terrifying thought that innocent people can be taken from their own homes in the middle of the night and transported to such a cruel and devilishly sophisticated experiment. You wonder who could have the power to do such a thing the characters speculate, government, a Bond style supervillain? but they never can find out for sure, no evil genius ever presents himself and indeed it would be a total letdown if they did. The main character in the story is the implacible Cube itself, an endless 3D maze of 14ft-on-a-side cubic rooms each with 6 exits to ajacent rooms (including ceiling and floor). There are no windows of course and each room is lit by its glowing walls. Different rooms have different colours, red, blue, green and white and this brilliantly adds to the eerie feel and look of the film. Each coloured room has an atmosphere of its own, the white ones of definitely the most cheery, its as bright as daylight and you can see the colours clearly but there is no guarantee that a white room doesn't contain a trap, in fact there seems to be no correspondance between colours and traps, that would be too easy.But there is a way to get through the maze, each room has a number written along its edges and its possible to work out a way out from that, provided you have enough mathematical ability. The cube is already mathematical in terms of being such an ideal geometric structure and this number theory twist adds greatly to the intrigue. It involves the audience as they try to solve the puzzle themselves and also gives the characters something to do. Some of the characters - is it coincidence - do have mathematical ability.There are five characters in the film, as you might expect they are an eclectic bunch with more than usual amounts of emotional problems and eccentricities. Imagine waking up in a cubic room with nothing but identical rooms all around! After coping with the shock and rising terror, the characters set off to find a way out and naturally different personalities start to assert themselves. Some characters are natural leaders others are more thoughtful. Some hopeful of a way out, others just despair accepting death as inevitable. It turns out that one if tangentially responsible for building the cube in the first place adding to the paranoid feeling that NO ONE IS SAFE.The acting in this film is excellent, you really believe in the whole cube concept from the start. The actors really make you feel how frightening and disorienting it would be and there is superbly believable and fascinating interactions between them as they each find their place in this frightened little group. Although they cope well there is throughout a sense of underlying tension, a feeling of just-controlled panic, which is exactly how you would feel in that situation! There is good character development too as the movie goes on and we find out more about each character's lives and personalities.The directing and cinematography of the film are superb, the whole concept of Cube is just amazing and the visuals do full justice to it. The look of the film is reminiscent of Kubrick at his most spooky and disorienting. There is one scene in particular where the characters are trying to get though a sound-activated trap. One by one they crawl through it in total silence gesturing to each other. I was scared to make any sound myself, it was completely electric! It takes a daring director to have five minutes of silence in a film and this really paid off. It reminded my particularly of 2001 EVA scenes.If I have a complaint at all it is about the ending. I wont reveal it of course, but I would have prepared something happier. After all they've been through, I would have preferred to see the characters succeed, especially cynical worth and the mathematical girl, they really deserved to get out. I would have rewritten the last few seconds, but nothing else.The 3D maze known as Cube is a work of evil genius created by persons of institutions unknown. I would say this film is also a work of genius, not evil but certainly terrifying, disturbing and deeply moving. I would definitely recommend it, but be prepared for some sleepless nights... (and an obsessive interest in prime numbers!) "},{"Title":"Spooky","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, I'm not an actor but I can't see what's wrong with the acting in this movie. Maybe thesps will, but for the rest of us, the acting in no way spoils this movie.In fact, there's very little about this movie that spoils it - it's damn good. It provides antidote to the many run-of-the-mill horror films that are out there. It's a testament to the scriptwriters that they manage to make such a weird premise work so well and be so tense throughout the entire movie, right from the very start.The ending is a little unsatisfactory, but it would have been very difficult, and more disappointing, to end the movie any other way. You'll still go away from the movie feeling freaked out. "},{"Title":"Great story, B-Actors == pretty good film.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a beautiful movie. The story was great, the directing was great, the acting... was.... *puke*. The only problem I had with this movie is the B-actors that were in it. The filmmakers apparently spent too much on the set design and not enough on the acting. If the cast were chosen better, I'd up my rating. This, however, should not keep you from seeing it -- it's one of those interesting flicks that everyone should take a gander at. "},{"Title":"Great story, B-Actors == pretty good film.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a beautiful movie. The story was great, the directing was great, the acting... was.... *puke*. The only problem I had with this movie is the B-actors that were in it. The filmakers apparently spend too much on the set design and not enough on the acting. If the cast were chosen better, I'd up my rating. This, however, should not keep you from seeing it -- it's one of those interesting flicks that everyone should take a gander at. "}{"Title":"Cubemania","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie turned out to be just great though it had a slight lack of budget i have been told. Though it never came up on the silver-screen here in sweden i knew i had to watch it somehow and the summer of 2002 i got a hold of it, and What a joy.Combined with the Theme-music of Mark Korven it really grips your guts slices it with razorsharp fences and throws it into a 6 door square room with backlit glass walls and loads of evil traps.See This Movie You will NOT be dissapointed "},{"Title":"Great story. BAD Acting.","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a great idea. It's dark, disturbing and mysterious. The problem is with the dreadful dialogue and the God-Awful acting. I was captivated from the very beginning. But once the characters got together and began to interact with each other I began to squirm. GEEZ this would have been a GREAT film if it had been better written and better acted. EVERY SINGLE actor in this film was bad except for the first cubed victim and Rennes, the escape artist, who was killed off in the first third of the film. Hopefully someone will remake this film and do it correctly. "},{"Title":"THE CUBE, THE CUBE.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE CUBE, THE CUBE, This has to be one of the best films ever made, why?, why, because its surreal, imaginative, creepy seductive, and horror sci,fi at its best, if you love sci,fi then this is a must to see. A group of people, all completely different, wake up in this brilliant but lethal cube, nobody knows where they are, or why, not even the viewer, they have to enter each stage of the cube in order to escape and find out what it is and why they are there, each room is booby trapped to the nastiest degree, until finally with only a few survivors, they are left with the final decision to ether free there friends or themselves, this definitely is one to watch. "},{"Title":"CUBE is always unsettling, often terrifying","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not fun.  The picture it paints of humanity is very dark, ugly, and disturbing.  But it contains far too many elements of truth to be dismissed.  This is one of the very few movies ever to give me insomnia. I was badly shaken.CUBE's plot is simple.  A handful of strangers wake up inside a strange machine, a sort of maze consisting of 14-foot cubical rooms, some of which contain deadly, sadistic traps.  They have no idea how they came here, or what the place is for.  The story is simply of their efforts to survive and escape from the maze.  But a darker story is told simultaneously, as the growing tension and strain strip away the veneer of each character to expose what lies below.  A character who initially appears useless and annoying turns out to have hidden courage; a character who at first seems heroic is revealed to be anything but.The tragedy of CUBE is the energy the characters spend in conflict with each other when they so clearly need to work together to overcome the daunting obstacles of the maze.  The mismatched-partners concept is old, of course, but in most movies it is played for humor; in CUBE, it is shown as deadly.  The story is a microcosm of the human predicament.  Humans understand what they are doing in this world little (if any) better than the characters understand what they are doing in the Cube.  Our planet is full of dangers that can and eventually do kill every one of us, just as the Cube is.  Yet, humans the world over continue to fight each other instead of cooperating to understand and overcome the problems the world throws at us.  That behavior is so routine that most of us have long since ceased to notice it or think it odd; by showing it in miniature, CUBE puts the absurdity of our actions in sharp focus.Another foolish human habit exposed by CUBE is the characters' tendency to reason from inadequate evidence to whatever conclusion fits their preconceived notions, a failing which proves as dangerous in the movie as it does in real life.The criticisms you have read about CUBE's mathematical implausibilities are true.  They certainly make the movie imperfect, but I don't see how they can be regarded as ruining it.  At any rate, CUBE presents one mathematical statement that brooks no argument (and here there is a SPOILER).  The Cube is one of the ghastliest, cruelest killing machines ever conceived, and yet when the carnage is totaled up at the end of the story, the score is Humans 4, Cube 2. "},{"Title":"Unique and interesting movie--worth seeing.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I stumbled across this movie while channel surfing one night. It was right at the beginning, and let's just say that the opening scene kept us watching. (Ever see a person cubed before? -) Anyway, this film is very unique and suspenseful. It's not perfect, and the story loses some of its mystique as details are revealed, but ultimately this is an entertaining movie that I would recommend to anyone. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"You've barely scratched the surface...","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent film, possibly one of the best sci-fi films of recent years. The premise is fairly simple, as you will have gathered. 6 strangers trapped in a series of interlocking cubes, each has a skill that could help get them out.A lot of messages on this board whine on about the lack of ending, the fact that nothing is explained. But that is the beauty of this film, that things don't have to BE explained. It doesn't matter why or how or whatfor. I personally hate being walked through films holding on to the director's hand. I would much rather think about what the film told ME. What I made from the events. There are so many hidden depths in this film that some of the reviews barely even touched on. The main one being philosophy - and the fact that each character represents a different aspect of it. Take Leaven who belongs to the Epistemology branch - the philosophy of knowledge. She reasons the cube as a mathematical puzzle and that by knowing the rules, they can get out. Each character attaches a different meaning to the cube and it in turn affects their relationship with it.If you didn't like this film, then go back to your Scream or I Know What You Did... (not that they were bad). If you don't like this film for the reason that you wanted an explanation then you should consider it as a challenge to the way you think. I think, therefore I am. I don't watch and get told, therefore I am. "},{"Title":"Why can't we make horror movies like this in the States?","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one horror movie that stands alone as probably the best horror movie i've seen made in the last 15 years. Ironically, I first heard about it through the director's commentary for the Resident Evil DVD (pretty dumb movie). What surprises me more is that this movie is Canadian. Canadians can make horror movies? Apparently they can. What sets this movie apart from American horror movies is character development. And by that, I mean the characters ACTUALLY develop. Watching Resident Evil or I Know What you did Last Summer, I realize we never find out anything interesting about the characters. But I was ok with that, as the characters in those movies are wholly uninteresting. Cube is different. There are no real heroes. All the characters have good and bad qualities. They succeed and they fail. Some live, some die. The movie doesn't feel the need to keep the plot moving by killing someone off in a really gross way every 5 minutes. The first scene alone is gruesome enough to hold us the whole movie. Also, worth noting is the great score to the movie. And by great, I dont mean fantastic musical numbers. The score is very subtle yet very creepy. Just creaks and quiet rumbles and singular notes held for great lengths. I recommend this movie for anyone remotely interested in horror/fantasy/sci-fi movies. Best horror movie since Aliens. "},{"Title":"this film is not about special features!!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read many of the comments about this film. I think most people don't get this film.. they write about failures in the plot, failures in logic (mathematical ones etc), bad character plays etc.I think this is NOT IMPORTANT in this film. Okay there are some things which you could do better.. but the film is a LOW BUDGET film and I personally think the idea of the film was not to make it perfect.. but to make you think about it.The film raises questions, many questions. Most of them, if not all, are not answered. I think they should remain unanswered.I was very touched by the ending of the film, which I think could not have been any better...watch it watch it watch it..and don't hink about failures, think about the questions it raisesI would give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Intensely Suspenseful Thriller. Hitchcock Would Be Proud.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I start trying to explain one of the most original films I've ever scene. It's always a pleasure to view a low-budget film that excels in different areas and becomes a cult following. Cube not only touches your psyche, but also keeps you on the edge and makes you ask many questions along the way and even after the film is over. The movie simply throws you into the plot with no explanation as to how the people got into this giant cube or why. Even the characters don't truly know why they are there or who put them there. Most of them simply know that they were doing something prior to waking up in this cube. That along is a scary thought. All they know is that there is danger in some of the adjacent rooms that can instantly kill them. Some of them have already seen the traps and survived. As the small society discusses their options and there reasons for being there, they soon discover that each person holds a knowledgeable key for escaping. With no food or water, time isn't on their side and only a strong body, mind and the will to live will keep them moving toward their goal of escaping. To tell you much more about the film would totally ruin the surprises and there are many surprises along the way. Some of them are shocking, while others are questionable. The ending is a bit of a shocker and many viewers will be scratching their heads and staring at the screen in awe. This film definitely deserves a sequel and one was actually made called Hypercube. From the reviews I've read, it's basically the same as the first film with different characters and a few twists. None of the questions are answered from the first film, so maybe there will be a 3rd sequel in the near future that will explain EVERYTHING. That would be nice. Listen to what the other reviewers have said about this film and then go out and rent it. You have to see this film at least once. It's totally original and the script was very well written. The actors actually do a decent job even though most of them don't show much depth or chemistry.Overall the movie is a suspenseful thrill ride that's worth viewing. You'll never know what's going to happen next. There are times when the film drags alone with not much happening, but confrontations seem to be around every corner. Let's hope a 3rd film is made that will clear up questions about the CUBE and all it's mysteries. "},{"Title":"Smart, frightening, unique","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pretty special film. You get thrown right in without any underlying story, where a couple of individuals are trapped in a cubic maze. Nobody knows what it is, why they are there or how they got there. As a viewer of the film you do not know anything more than the characters do, as they progress through the deadly traps and hopefully earn some understanding of the mystery. Somehow these individuals were not chosen by random to enter the maze, in some way they each carry one piece of the puzzle, all they have to find out is just what these pieces are and how to use them.I thought this film created a pretty real sense of fear all the way through. It gives your mind a little spin. That said it is far from perfect. I believe the idea is very interesting, but it could have been even better executed with better actors and a bigger budget. The character chemistry does not live up to the smart qualities of the original idea of the film, and occasional events are cliche'. I however really recommend you to rent and see this film, do not buy it unseen as I suspect the replay value is pretty close to nothing. "}{"Title":"Has ups and downs. No masterpiece, but no turkey either.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has good points and bad points. One good point that it tries to break out of the Hollywood mould, and to sime extend succeeds. One bad point is that all the characters are polar, they all have one role in the film, and they tediously follow their assigned pattern, having no complexity or depth. (Why am I reminded of The Breakfast Club as I write this? That film was better in this regard). There were a few weaknesses in the plot too - suddenly one person lost the ability to do what had previously been trivial, and for no reason al all except to bring another cookie-cutter character into play. I sound negative, but I did enjoy the film, and if you don't mind the occasional gruesome scene, it's worth a look. I hear that it was done on a low budget, in which case kudos to the crew and actors.FatPhil. "},{"Title":"The questions in our lives","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The questions in our lives, do we know what their about ? Why does the sun shine bright? Why do our people fight? Is there life after death? When will we know our fate? What should we say and do? I don't know...do you?Everybody asks there selves these questions. When will we know our fate? But what if you wake up in a Cube with five other persons and you can't get out.Wouldn't you wonder what your fate would be?Cube is the debut film of Vincente Natali, who won allot of awards with this already instant-classic cult film. In this intelligent, original fantastic movie six people are trying to get out of a cube. In the cube you will find a police officer, a mathematic student, a psychologist, a thief, an autistic person and the person who partially helped with building the cube.None of them know why they are in this and what the purpose is of the cube. But they all want the same thing. Getting out! But the cube doesn't give up that easily.The result you get, is a very special and fascinating thriller which almost drags you as the viewer inside the plot and wants you to find out what the reason is of all this.The problem which many will have with this movie, is the ending. Why? Because it doesn't necessary give answers.  But we don't always get the answers to the questions in our lives, do we?  "},{"Title":"Fun thriller full of unique ideas","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I came upon this film while reading about it on the net, and hearing all the praise about it, and acknowledging its independent nature, I had to check it out.  I was really entertained by it, as most who have seen it were, but it probably isn't for the faint of heart.  The hapless victims of the cube get relentlessly ambushed by the giant device's many booby traps, and not all of them make it.  The ones who don't ... well, it isn't pretty.  But the process by which they resolve to get themselves out of the complex maze of booby-trapped rooms is interesting, if not somewhat farfetched.  The characters are all very stereotyped and serve their roles exactly the way they are meant to, which could be considered a weakness ... but the tension between them all is constantly spasming and fluctuating, creating a lot of unease and unpredictability, which is good even if they seem predictable from the beginning.  The most interesting things I came to realize about the movie were what I learned about it after I had finished watching it ... they filmed it all in one cube-shaped room, using colored lights to illuminate the wall panels differently.  Talk about a BUDGET!!  Hehehe ... I recently heard they are making a sequel called Hypercube where the walls of the complex will be all bright white.  Damn, either they just want to make it harder for them to get out, or they have an even smaller budget for the sequel than they did for the first one!  A bit strange, no? =) "},{"Title":"What a refreshing break from the normal hollywood tripe...","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is always nice to see a new movie that is truly great and doesnt require 20 million dollar actors, over the top special effects, and over 200 diffrent action figures. My brother rented this movie without any knowledge about it or what it was even about. Needless to say we were all sceptical, however we gave it a chance. Now i dont know what our faces looked like afterwards but i know we were flabbergastered ( possible misspelled ). This movie was great! I mean all the actors did a fine job and the director certainly was good however it wasnt those things which made this movie what it is. It is a rare thing seen in contemporary hollywood its called a script, and trust me Cube had a great one. From the very beginning to the very end this movie left endless questions for the viewers to constantly ponder. ( POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! ) I mean how did they get on the cube? What was it for ? What was Kazzams deal? What happened at the end to Kazzam? Now i can understand how the fact that the end of this movie brings up more questions then answers can frustrate. But it was this fact that i loved about the movie, you had no idea what was gonna happen next. However you truly must watch this movie sevral times, each time you pick up on something you didnt notice or see the previous time. This movie is truly great and your looking for something that is original then this is most definatley your movie. However if you dont like movie that answer nothing, seem cheap, and dont follow hollywood standards. This movie merits an 8/10.No more talking. No more guessing. Dont even think about nothing that's not right infront of your face. That's the real challenge. You've gotta save yourselves from yourselves...-The Rene, Cube "},{"Title":"Gratifying and engaging.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not the best movie I've ever seen but riveting nonetheless.  It's nice to know that movie budgets need not be millions of dollars to hold our interest - now if only Hollywood would take notice and offer us something more than overpriced drivel.  Perhaps in the fullness of time we can return to those heady days when we could afford to see more than one film every six months... "},{"Title":"Oddly haunting","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A group of people that don't know each other awake in one chamber of a gigantic cube that is seemingly intended to resemble the puzzle box in Hellraiser. Who put them there? And why? And how do they get out? Pick the wrong door and die a horrible death. Interesting and vaguely disturbing. "},{"Title":"An exceptional disturbing movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is not often, that you buy a movie you've never heard of. I first heard about the movie a week ago (July 2002), and I read on the cover what the plot was about. It sounded so exciting that I bought it right away. The movie satisfied my expectations too! A brilliant concept, where everyone starts in a zero-position, and as the movie goes on, the viewer get to know more and more of the cube. The people in the cube can be a symbol of a society, which contains all the parts that are needed to be complete. Everyone knows their things, and that keeps them developing during the whole movie. Also, the desperation and the anger are growing inside everyone of them during the movie, which shows the human nature.. and the strongest one's will survive. (?) A movie worth seeing, definitely! "},{"Title":"Not only a disturbing portrayal of human nature","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's disturbing, yes, but I still see this movie as being good natured basically. It's pretty much a portrayal of how people react to different pressures in life -- some will withdraw from reality, some resort to violence, betrayal or blaming others as their burden... it is under such pressure that the good or evil deep rooted in one's mind comes into play -- in the end it's the good and innocent that is able to find the way out (although evil follows closely). Try looking at pressure and teamwork from a different perspective and see if you get any inspiration from this movie...  Plus, I'm not sure if that was done on purpose but most of the audience felt rather stunned when the exit of the cinema led us into a narrow passageway (which looked rather cubical) lighted in green... "},{"Title":"fascinating look at a paradimensional prision","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE makers of the CUBE have woven a story about a paradimensional prison run by unseen overlords with a vast arsenal of weapons. The prision oddly is seemingly based on the many neurosises of the human mind and like many mental blocks seemingly impregnible. THE CUBE is perhaps one of the most intellectually stimulating films in years, a descendant of the hitchcock film LIFEBOAT, yet completely original. In a tale of life and death and a great escape, who is trying to con who? Is there an unseen menace within the would be surviors who will a mongoloid lead the way? The CUBE asks many questions and like a well crafted tale alludes to the answers. Whether the producers intended the film to be interpreted this way remains to be scene yet THE CUBE does make for hours of water cool conjecture. Enjoyable..ten stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"About time too...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At last...a film which doesn't hand you everything on a plate. In a truly theatrical style, Cube starts  with no beginning and finishes with no ending. A truly brilliant piece of film-making which doesn't tell you everything...it leaves you asking questions...it leaves you thinking about it for days afterwards...A well deserved winner of the Cannes Film Festival, and a must-see for all film buffs out there that think that there is something wrong with the well-oiled-machine that is hollywood....a truly excellent film - dark, mysterious and most importantly....DIFFERENT "}{"Title":"On the Prison names.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Someone mentioned earlier about the characters being named after prisons. Just to fill in the blanks.Holloway is Womens Prison in the UK Alderson is a Womens Prison in West Virginia, USA. Rennes is a Prison in France. "},{"Title":"Excellent almost all over...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film. I have heard people say that the mathematic element of it is ridiculous, the dialogue terrible and the acting worse. I don't agree. Some of the acting was indeed bad, especially most of Nicole De Boer (Leaven). The only reason I thought this was because of her abrupt character change, going from frightened little girl to sarcastic, somewhat prejudiced, annoying math brat, then taking on the change to become wise woman of the world. The dialogue, well, I thought Worth's was excellent, but the others' did slip a little sometimes. As for the people who insist you have to be intelligent, I definitely disagree with that. If you are very intelligent, it seems that the number methods etc. are picked apart, totally missing the human nature part of the plotline. I'm not saying you have to be as thick as two short planks, but maybe a little 'innocence' or similar is needed to watch this film and pick up all of the aspects.  "},{"Title":"A group of strangers awaken in a mysterious futuristic, and hostile environment and must work together to survive.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best science fiction movies I've ever seen. It is ridiculously good considering it was made for only $750,000 (Cdn.). This is high concept at its best. Not to mention making a low budget indie film look as good as a Hollywood film (even the special effects). The power of this film is what you don't yet know. It slaps you in the face and ties you to the edge of your seat. It does a brilliant job of making the audience feel like they are with the characters. This movie beat Shakespeare in Love at the Box Office in France, and dominated The Truman Show in Japan. Too bad it was overlooked in the U.S., and inadequately promoted in its home country of Canada. The Canadian film industry will never make a dent in the ever invading American industry if it ignores its own great, clever films like Cube. Highly recommended. However, the science fiction label should not turn anyone off it's more accurately described as an intense mystery/drama. "},{"Title":"So many questions unanswered,but still a great movie.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a really weird and original movie,a bunch of people wake up inside a cube with no idea about how they got there.We dont get to know much about their life stories either,all we know is that if they stay inside the cube,much longer they will starve to death. The interesting thing about this movie,is the dialogue between the different people and to watch what happens to humans when they get put in front of this type of situations.The start to get enemies just after a short while.This movies is a low budget movie with all unknow actors and it is filmed inside two different cubes(watch the dvd),but still it is a great movie,I think the idea of the plot is genius.I just wish we got more answers about how they got there or who built the cube. I look forward to cube 2,which is set to be finished in 2002,but I have heard that it has no relations with cube 1.Maybe it will give us more answers.Even though this movie kind of a mystery and left you wondering about a lot of things,I still loved it.Maybe the reason was that it made you think about human nature and that some situations can make humans capable of almost anything. I advice you to watch it with directors comentary. "},{"Title":"They were their own booby traps","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie, It was stuck with me for about 2 days after. Not many movies do this. I guess it's the fact that I was trying to answer those questions which I know there are no answers.  who built the cube?, how did they get in there?. We are given a very vague explanation half way through the movie. That it is a long lost project that has been forgotten, but the power in this movie is it's mystery. The special effects are quite cheap I found, but the movies originality made up for it. The acting was second rate and I found that they struggled to make the 90 minutes. I think with a bigger budget, this movie could have been much much more.  7.5/10# Spoiler warning only read if you have seen the movie #I just want to point out something...... did anyone notice that ( except for the opening kill scene) that only one other person was killed by the cube; everyone else died at the hands of one of the other party members. This is something to think about when it comes to why they are in there.  "},{"Title":"Truly Original!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  maybe I'm just an easy-to-be-scared kind of person, but this movie really freaked me out! The scary movie scenes were well made but pretty nasty.. so if you are easy scared and easily get nightmares... then i don't recommend this film. But if you like Special effects like in the cube when they're being chopped, sliced and diced in many strange ways....I REALLY RECOMMEND IT! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very interesting premise","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read a number of ideas about the movie but nobody has discussed the symbolism behind the names of the characters. 'Leaven' and 'Worth'? Leavenworth? 'Kazan' and Quentin'? San Quentin? Both peniteniaries.Rennes an escape artist? Free like a bird or more specifically a Wren?I don't have any explanation for 'Alderson' or 'Holloway', but maybe I am way off on the first five names. However, the way I look at it is that they are not in a peniteniary like San Quentin or Leavenworth but a prison of the world that has been created by man little by little and they are put their to see if, They can save themselves from themselves, which they can't.Or maybe, along the lines of Jacob's Ladder they are in some sort of purgatory, paying for their sins or whatever. Anyway, it is interesting to try to figure out, as impossible as it may be.  "},{"Title":"A para-normal thriller of great proportions","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is not a movie for the average viewer.  To understand it fully requires some measure of intelligence, which I believe is a refreshing break from the normal.  While not an expert at mathematics by any means,  I found myself striving to understand the empirical truth behind this movie.  Featuring a fantastic cast of relatively unknown actors, this movie far exceeds the viewer's wildest dreams.  It is harrowing, poignant, terrifying, thoughtful, disturbing, thought-provoking, and fascinating as the plot unfolds.  The conclusion begs for clarification, as I hope the sequel to Cube will provide.  I happened to see Cube almost accidentally, as I simply was seeking to view something not showing at the majority of theaters in my town.  I am very grateful that I was able to screen this fantastic film, and am anxious to show my DVD copy of it to anyone who is willing.  Cube is the epitome of independent film-making, and proves that small projects still have the ability to eclipse the big-name studio productions.  WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    At first it took me a minute to get into it, but I was satisfied by the end. It was weird how it started out right in the beginning of the action and not the beginning of the story (how they got in their, the making of the cube) but it made sense because it would totally ruin the film if it did. It's better when it appears that there is no life outside of it.   Even the behaviour of the characters, although annoying at some times, are correct. They couldn't totally co-operate except for playing doing what they thought would benefit the group and kept bickering instead of working out the ideals. That's one of the main themes, stated when Rennes (who Wayne Robson portrayed perfectly) said you must save yourselves from yourselves.    It was also surprising to see Wayne Robson as such a good actor, only seeing him in The Red Green Show.  "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Briefly, an excellent locked-room scifi horror story.  Twists and turns galore, some excellent acting and directing by relative unknowns. Wonderful special effects.Inconclusive ending may frustrate some, but I liked it. "}{"Title":"Whoa - Worth! I wish I woulda been in that Cube","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not really.  But wow, this is a GREAT movie. I saw this for the first time last night, and I was expecting just some stupid movie, I mean, how could people stuck in a cube be entertaining? *** But I was wrong. It was great, one of the best movies I've seen lately.  It keeps you wondering, who's gonna die?? I found myself actually wanting to hit the TV cuz I thought *someone* was fixing to die! lol. The characters are real. And the movie is just really entertaining. And David Hewlett is cute, if anyone cares.. )If you have time to spend just watching movies, get this one! "},{"Title":"A film with great potential that was sadly never realized.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is unfortunate that Cube, a motion picture equipped with a fascinating premise, became drowned in banality and stupidity for it had the appearance of an excellent film. *SPOILERS INCLUDED* Seven strangers awaken within the confines of an enormous facility, comprised of litteraly thousands of 14' by 16' feet, many of which are armed with lethal booby traps, which we discover when one man unwittingly wanders into a trapped room and is instaneously diced into cubes a network of wires. The remaining six must then decipher the mysterious inner machinations. As previously stated, the premise is a wondrous one, yet is the only aspect of Cube that is good. With the exception of David Hewlett (Worth), all of the actors are uniformly annoying, seemingly more concerned with the further progression of the plot than acting like acutal humans whom constantly spout shockingly dumb dialogue. Direction, while quite stylish, felt as filler for the bland characters and script. Honestly, Cube is a hard film to review. With a premise so simple, their are few aspects up for review, crafting quite an easy job for director Vincenzo Nitali (in his feature debut), but it only one amongst them was appreciable, that is simply not acceptable.Grade C-  "},{"Title":"What if...","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie `cube' is a movie that keeps you on the edge of your chair. When you watch this movie your head will be filled with lots and lots of questions. The nice element of this movie is, the questions you got about the plot line won't be answered completely. After watching the Cube you'll be sitting in your chair or couch, and the questions and theories in your head about this excellent movie are twisting and turning in your mind as a true thunderstorm for the possibilities the characters may have during their stay inside the Cube. So...my hint to you is watch this movie if you like freaky events and Government conspericies.Enjoy!   "},{"Title":"A movie I honestly can say changed me.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a great movie that came out of nowhere.  This movie tackles how people might act in a confined area where you never really know who will die and when.   Those of you who are looking for a single hero in this movie shouldn't.  This is not an action movie where one guy kills everything, gets the girl, and saves the day.   This movie's theater is dark.  You can't really root for anyone because they are all real characters.This movie keeps you on edge trying to figure out what's going on and why. And by the end of the movie these questions aren't really answered.  I found myself not caring for any of the characters for the sole reason that I felt that at any moment they could die.  If I identified with them, then I might take that idea of dying personally.   This is the kind of movie that could give you nightmares.  Overall this is an amazing movie (which was very low budget) that everyone should see once in their lives.  Don't watch it alone... "},{"Title":"A chilling, surrealist nightmare...","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie surprised me--I was expecting a cliched B-movie, but instead I got an original and well-made story, that, to be honest, will likely give me nightmares tonight. It's quite graphic at times, but its horror lies in the claustrophobic fear of being trapped in a strange place. The characters are diverse and well-acted, and I ended up caring for them. The plot wasn't too complex, but it didn't need to be. This is the simple story of humans trapped in a nightmare, seeking a way out despite the likelihood they never will.Best of all, the Cube is never explained, and what it's for and how it got there is something left to your imagination. I love a movie that does that.9/10 "},{"Title":"a first class example of how to make an interesting movie on a tight budge","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a first class example of how to make an interesting movie on a tight budget. This is a very interesting and fascinating movie. A small group of people find themselves trapped in a large cube with no explanation as to how they got there or why they are there. To make matters worse, the cube is full of booby traps. The remainder of the movie is spent trying to figure out how they got there and how to escape. The acting is OK but not exactly great and some of the explanations as to what the cube was and how they got there don't quite satisfy but overall this was a different and enjoyable movie. If you like TV shows like the Outer Limits and the Twilight Zone then you'll probably like this. "},{"Title":"Excellent sci fi movie!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best sci-fi movies you will ever see! It is just a simple mystery, with only one goal survival! The characters are cliched, a cop, mathemitician, prisoner, etc, and why they are in the cube is never fully explained. Still, you cheer along with them as they go through the cube, trying to locate the end of it, and reach freedom.It has lots of plot twists, and you never know which characters are the good guys, and as the movie tells us, there is more to these people than meets the eye! This film is a great sci-fi, much better than anything in the past 10 years! You have to rent it, and you will be hooked from the start! A must! "},{"Title":"This movie is so Square its in the title!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I started to watch the first bit wondering what was going on. A guy then gets caught in a booby trap which grates him into tiny cubes. This sets the tone for the movie. It's confusing and leaves you pondering. I then proceeded to watch the rest. A group of 6 people wake up and find themselves trapped in a cube. Why? How? What? There is no main character in the movie which is quite a downer. No one to root for or feel sorry for. You couldn't really care what happens to the characters. They walk through a maze of traps and rooms each getting bumped off stupidly. The gory bits are good but there aren't many and the suspense is quite tiring. At the end you aren't even left with an explanation! The sets are good. The music is crap. The idea is good. The characters are crummy. It is left a big jumble of a Sci-fi horror. Sorry 'Cube' fans but  a mean 4 points out of 10. "},{"Title":"the stylized film which was like LIFEBOAT meets a strieber novel.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE CUBE is a deluge into the human psyche and the leftist standards of canadian shrinks. The film sets a new standard for art house lower budget films; not only on sets but more so with direction and acting. (all of which A grade caliber) THE CUBE is a look at conspiracy theories and paranoia by unseen captors which leads to murder, a semi futuristic STALAG 17 if you will. The film marks the entrance of several canadian actors including MAURICE DEAN WINT, JULIAN RICHLINGS, and NICOLE DEBOER (among others)who outshine their american counterparts in oscar worthy performances in a type of film that usually does not garner them. THE CUBE is more than what you expect upon renting it. The films strength is that it supersuceeds the science fiction genre and gives a creativity in prose and on screen art design not expected. The arthouse look meshes a BUD HOPKINS book with the impossible jail tone of the movie. More believeable than previous films like THE RUNNING MAN, CUBE succeeds on supension of disbelief...not on gunfire or daring do. "},{"Title":"Just goes to show what you can do with one room and an idea","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Though slow to start, this film delivers an incredibly interesting analysis of our contemporary society. A group of people, totally unconnected, wake up in a maze of cube shaped rooms, with no understanding of how they got there or why. They attempt to find a way out. An incredibly simple plot, filmed in one room, with a tiny cast of relative unknowns, yet it works extremely well, on the power of the script and some outstaning performances, particuarly from Maurice Dean Wint, as 'Quentin.' It is difficult to explain more without spoiling anything but I recommend this film very highly as it has some great ideas and the dialogue is superb. It's biting criticism of our society are extremely powerful, and the film itself is remarkably intense. Definitely worth a watch, if only to see that you can do very interesting things on a tiny budget. "}{"Title":"Only Kafka could do it better...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If I say Brazil. Do You think Yes, that's a damn good movie. Then You just have to see this masterpiece in Kafkaistic intermezzo. Great flick, although the ending was a bit DisneyI can also recommend the movie La Cit des enfants perdus which is the best movie ever recorded of it's kind.Cheers "},{"Title":"Great Psychological Thriller w/ a Weak Ending","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WOW!  this is a definite 8 except for the ending.  I was on the edge of my seat the whole movie.If you are looking for Star Wars or Terminator type of action, skip this movie.  If you enjoy the best of what Twilight Zone or Outer Limits has to offer, this is a movie for you.  In fact, it reminds me of a good extended version of the present Outer Limits series. "},{"Title":"completely unexpected","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  flipping through the channels one evening, i ran across this movie in its opening moments.  riveting.  six people and a cube that tests every part of the mind.  sounds like being trapped inside a rubik's cube.  breathes new life into a simple plot (get out alive).  don't blink.  "},{"Title":"For the large part, very good.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've never been so on the edge of my seat for a film ever. For 95% I was questioning & guessing everything & was all set to give this 10/10. Suddenly the end came & that was it. We were all left with just 2 words. 'What the'? What?I don't mind films where you interpret your own ending at all, but this was silly. If you take it to the extreme, it won't be long until a film where people interpret the whole thing.I hated Blair Witch Project, due partly to the unresolved ending, but at least with that, if anyone tells you about the film, most peoples interpretations, though different, will tend to resolve most of the issues. This didn't.I can see all the messages behind this. The reflections of society, the anger & hostility, the many prison allusions etc etc. That was all very good. But there must have been a better way of tackling it whilst at least tying up some of questions but keeping the same themes.I didn't have a problem with never finding out how they arrived in the cube. That point gradually became less & less relevant but they could have resolved the why? & the who? questions.I would rather watch a crap film with a botched rushed ending than a magnificent film (which is what this was) with that same ending. The Quentin character also lost this film a mark. He'd become a pain up the arse by the end.Still, the whole concept is amazing, I was gripped throughout and am now excited for the Cube 2 film & also seeking out films on a similar concept to this. But that's really in the hope, that they will be tackled AND RESOLVED better than this one.6/10 "},{"Title":"A math phobic's ultimate nightmare","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You're trying to escape from a boobytrapped complex of cubes...you're hungry and tired and reaching your breaking point...and the only way out is MATH. This movie is both terrifying and intellectual. My only complaint is that the ending seems a little rushed "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, twisting suspense","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't so fond of scary movies when I watched Cube but as it was recommended to me by a friend who runs a movie club at our university I thought I might give it a try.What excited me most about this movie was the characters and their evolution which actually should not be surprising since you should be able to figure it from a) high rating and b) small cast. This film is enjoyable because it doesn't come up with distracting effects and meanwhile starts to pull you into the cube trying to figure the system for yourself.All in all, I had fun watching this movie until the end which was a little strange and didn't fit into my ideas.8/10 "},{"Title":"A promising premise that runs out of steam","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The premise of this film is very interesting  a group of strangers awake to find themselves trapped in a giant cube filled with death-traps.  The characters are fairly strong and some of the traps are quite cool.Unfortunately, the film takes a turn for the worse towards the end and seems somehow rushed.  A satisfactory reason for the characters predicament is never given and the end of the film leaves one thinking, What the...? and not in a good way.In conclusion, worth checking out if you're a sci-fi fan, but otherwise, not much here to see.Rating = 6/10 "},{"Title":"good idea, poor execution","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Recently, I've seen a number of movies which start with a good premise, but are poorly executed.  Another example is the 1999 film Deterrence (http//us.imdb.com/Title?0158583).I like the idea of this movie, but it feels like it was written and directed by a high school drama class.  The acting is also straight out of high school.  Each of the characters has inexplicable obsessions.  Ideally, we'd know more about the history of the characters to make their reactions less strange.  But even if we knew more about the characters, it still wouldn't excuse the over-acting used to convey their sometimes bizarre behavior.I do still recommend seeing this movie for the interesting story line. With a bigger budget and better actors, this could have been a great film. "},{"Title":"One of the best!!!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! I saw this movie with a lot of my friends that are usually just can't shut up but in the scene with the sound-activated trap the whole room was so quiet that I could hear my heart beating! I heard about this movie from one of my friends so we took it on video and liked every second of it, it is one of those movies that makes me sorry you didn't watch on big screen (alongside Braveheart and Private Ryan). The reason I liked this film so much is that it's a really smart one, it makes you thing about human nature and what would you do a such a dangerous place with total strangers that can be not what they appeared to be. Another good thing about this movie is that it's not an American one, if it was American there would be some sort of stupid ending to the film, not the wonderful end that it has now. One thing I know for sure,I am going to watch Hypercube (cube 2) on a big screen. rating 11 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Sometimes Freaky, Sometimes Gruesome, Frequently Amateurish","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube, a Canadian film directed by Vincenzo Natali is generally a very well crafted science-fiction tale that's one part Asimov and one part Beckett.The science fiction angle, focusing on a handful of people trapped in a mysterious perfect cube, is marvelously constructed. Even though it's obvious that the entire movie was shot in a single set, Natali, cinematographer Derek Rogers, editor John Sanders, and production designer Jasna Stefanovic do an excellent job to simulate a massive, geometrically precise prison.The philosophical angle, though, in which the prisoners represent a tiny cross-section of society and each has secrets and special knowledge is a total crock. Natali and his co-writers have lead ears for dialogue and a totally false sense of existential social commentary. They aren't helped by a cast that feels only a step up from student films (which, to some extent, this is, I guess). The characters are collectively annoying and the individual performances do nothing to make the characters any more complex.There's a abusive cop, a paranoid doctor, an office worker, a math student, and a caricature of an autistic man (and anybody who's ever seen a cinematic representation of autism will be able to guess what his special skill is). They're in a 14-by-14 cube with 6 doors. One door leads to a safe room, the others to torture and death. They have no food and no water and they don't know each other, so wouldn't you know that tensions would run high.At its best, Natali produces a masterful amount of suspense. The booby-trapped rooms are wonderfully devised to produce disgusting results. And since the characters don't know if sound, body heat, or their mere presence will be enough to set off the traps, there's much fun to be had with the concept. The film's best sequence involves a sound sensitive room where the slightest noise produces a wall of spikes. The production team uses colored lights, askew camera angles, and tricky editing to create the contrast between rooms.But the film really has nowhere to go. The ending is a letdown largely because Natali left himself nowhere to go. Since you don't care about the characters, their fates are irrelevant and since the purpose, location, and meaning of the Cube are intentionally ambiguous, any resolution would really feel like a cheat.Cube has been compared fairly frequently to Pi, as mathematical thrillers. Like Cube's philosophy, though, the mathematics aren't as smart as the filmmakers seem to think. There's no intellectual process because only two characters have any mathematical knowledge, so their discoveries aren't organic, they're of the Oh. Why didn't I think of that two reels ago variety. Unlike Pi, there's no real conceptual mystery to unravel and the various solutions are just a little too convenient.Because of Cube's limited resources and the levels on which it does succeed, I'm going to give it a 6/10. I admired the mechanical artistry, but wished the movie had more depth.  "}{"Title":"Gripping Suspense all the way.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having read a review article of this movie on IMDB two months ago, I decided to rent the video. It turned out to be a gripping suspense all the way through. The movie was written based on a clever concept that mixes psychology, math and socio-politics criticism. Furthermore, the Cube was filmed as a multi-layered narration. On one level it tells the story of six people imprisoned within a labyrinth of compartments in the shape of cubes. Each compartment had been designed and assembled according to mathematical formula based on a 3-D cube. All six 'prisoners' have to work together using each of his/her skills/knowledge in order to find the exit, before they die trapped within. It is interesting to see how each person contribute their 'knowledge' to decipher the planted 'map' and trying to survive some booby-trapped compartments and threats from themselves. Just like stated by one of the 'prisoners', RennesYou've gotta  save yourselves from yourselves. That line itself is a direct message of the second level of the movie social criticism. I felt that the movie's pacing and characters' dialogues truly built up the tension, as the audience and the characters are progressively swallowed by a claustrophobic sense. But the real kick of the movie is the message of the story. Basically what the writers are saying is that, so long as the people of our 'modern' society is segregated into myriad 'professional working fields' (for example) and each section doesn't want to know how they are connected or need each other, we all will always live like prisoners inside the 'system'. A system that is getting out of control, as each individual is too busy with his/her own life. That kind of ignorance will eventually breaks down all social orders and kill the people who the system suppose to protect, as it did in the movie. The 'system' has become the prison, represented as the cube inside the movie.The acting may seem rather flat and the characters are eventually two dimensional, since 90 minutes is not a lot of time to build a strong background for each character or the nature of the cube itself. But you can still enjoy the suspense, good interaction, disturbing settings and ponder upon the message. "},{"Title":"Great concept, poor execution","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The concept of this movie is brilliant -- for no particular reason, people are imprisoned inside an enormous puzzle box littered with deadly booby traps.  They have no food or water and will die in a few days unless they find their way out, using clues left for them to figure out which rooms are death traps and which are safe.  The film taps into common human fears claustrophobia and starvation; faceless, malevolent industry and government; and killer technology.  The sets are creepy and industrial -- the characters seem to be getting chewed up inside a giant machine.Unfortunately, the movie has deep flaws.  The acting is mostly uninspired and the dialogue is uninteresting.  The second half failed to deliver on the promise of the first half, and the ending is a throwaway.  Still, I thought about this film for days after I saw it; it is that disturbing.  I hope someday someone with some money will remake this movie. "},{"Title":"A great screenplay, but seems almost unfinished","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is an incredibly innovative movie greatly demonstrating main human emotions. The acting is shotty at best, but the screenplay and cinematography are among the best. By trapping all the people together, they must trust one another and combine their strengths to get out. The movie is more of a 'thinking mans movie' in that the ending seems unfinished. The purpose of the cube is never explained, the movie simply ends in a flash, leaving the viewer befuddled and confused. Most definitely a movie worth renting. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WOW, thats the first word I can say about this movie. Of all the Canadian movies, this one is the best and way smartest than all. The traps are really cool. The actors did a great job, especially the doctor girl (shes was my fave.!) But in the future there might be a thing just like this. Watch this movie people, you won't regret it. I guess its time to look and see what kind of power we have. This power is good but some will be used in a bad way where lives can be put in line. One thing I like about this movie is it keeps you thinking and after watching this movie I was really speechless.  "},{"Title":"great genre film","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film highlights the talents of often overlooked actress NICOLE DEBOER a woman capable of incredible range who (along with JOANNE VANNICOLA) is one of the best looking actresses in canadian film and tv. THE CUBE is a ensamble piece which shows the range of the entire cast but notable is the acting ability of deboer, who has come along way since doing acting pieces on shows like PSI FACTOR and BEYOND REALITY. The best parts are her reaction to the seemingly crazy man played by MAURICE DEAN WINT who starts sane but gradualkly devolves into a LORD OF THE FLIES murderous paranoia. The CUBE is canada's answer to conspirator theories and is a commentary on them. The film revovles around the danger of unfounded paranoia and also focuses on a life boat mentality when people are stranded in a situation in which they will probably all die. The acting is top notch and the film rises above normal science fiction level to A grade. THE CUBE has a arthouse feel like EXOTICA (a film I enjoyed) yet trashes the perfectability of man theory with a the last shall be first tone. great cinema and good for a rent. Budgeted tone and structure but has a deepeness to the dialouge I could never achieve. 4 stars out of four. "},{"Title":"Sliced and diced","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A well made and original sci-fi/horror movie and a shame it was never released in the regular cinemas in my country. Luckily it's been released by now both on video as well as on DVD.The story involves a group of people that wake up in a construction made up only of cubes. They don't know how or why they ended up there except that they better get out since their captors didn't see fit to supply them with either food or drink. Each cube on each side is connected to another one and some can be entered safely, while others contain deadly booby traps of diverse nature, a fact pointed out to the viewer already in the spectacular opening scene. To put it mildly it is a risky undertaking that awaits the characters of mixed plumage and they'll need each other badly to complete their journey, if they can that is, which naturally I won't divulge.The relationships between the characters are fascinating and include surprising developments that perhaps sometimes seem a bit far fetched and over the top, but they do raise the suspense in this low budget movie. The movie looks, especially in view of the low costs, very well and suspense is kept up right until the end.As a first, this movie by Canadian director Vincenzo Natali shows great talent. For what it's worth, I'd recommend it to any horror/sci-fi afficionado.  "},{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube was definitely interesting but even with a good approach, interesting plot and fair acting it was all undermined by a bad ending in fact one might even go as far as bringing up similar dissapointments from the past such as Screamers or Alien 3. The movie gains a lot from its approach but suffers in the end. All in all worth a watch but be advised you may or may not entirely agree with the ending. "},{"Title":"THE worst movie ever made.  (no s'ing)","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is like the unloved child. I usually support independent films, but this one is just plain horrible.  The main plot is somewhat interesting, even reminiscent of the Twilight Zone.  But muddled writing and poor acting ruin any chance this movie had to be decent.  Please, save yourself while you can.  This movie is poison for your mind.  The outside cover lies to you, saying that it is critically acclaimed.  Those critics must not live in America.  If they do, they should be deported.  The movie is bloody, bloody, and...um...bloody?  It's predictable and the director is distasteful.  So please, save your soul while you can.  If you enjoy bloody black people yelling at you, watch this movie.  If you value anything in your life, avoid this like the plague.  Consider this a public service announcement. You'll thank me later. "},{"Title":"Awesome sci-fi movie, which ACTUALLY makes you think about society today","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, a friend, who has the uncanny ability to pick out good obscure movies, explained Cube to me...once he got done, I was so intrigued, I immediately went out to the movie store and rented it.I would like to call this movie the Blair Witch of sci-fi.  Made on a wafer-thin budget for this type of movie ($365K Canadian -- approx. $240K US), it manages to tell a good story with unknown actors, and a single cubical set (which I read was one 14'x14' set only made to look like different cubes by changing the colors of the tiles), it is simply amazing. But the real concept behind the story is two-fold.  I read a review on another movie site that explained the characters perfectly.  The characters represent our society and the cube represents system, and these characters have one of these qualities the leader-turn-domineering controller (Quentin); the insider who knows about, but refuses to give up any information about the system (Worth); the paranoid who gets into other peoples' business for their own satisfaction (Holloway); the pushover scholar who easily follows others orders (Leaven); the careless, represented by a mentally challenged character, who knows nothing but could give a crap about the system and never will (Kazan); and the fugitive who wants nothing and will think of nothing but escaping the system with no one's help (the uncredited guy at the beginning, and also Rennes).  I think that this explanation says that each group has an ability, but a disability that inevitably counteracts with their ability and makes it that much harder to beat the system, the cube.The other concept that this movie toys with is math.  Since my favorite subject in school is math, I was interested in how it was incorporated into the movie.  With the help of Leaven, mathematics becomes a vital part of the escape.  I understood some, but others was too complicated (Cartesian coordinates, powers of primes???), but it made it that much interesting, as well.After I saw the movie, I heard that a follow-up to this movie was being made as we speak -- Cube 2 Hypercube.  It won't be a sequel, yet it will deal with the concept of hypercubes which only exist in the 4th dimension, which is a real theory.  That will definitely be a mindboggler...can't wait! Otherwise, as we wait, this movie needs to be publicized, instead of the 90% of the high-budget, starring-famous-actors-who-can-act movies being made today.  9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Enigmatic sci-fi/horror and for the most part very effective","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very interesting premise. Six people locked in some sort of maze, trying to find a way out through the cubelike cells and at the same time avoiding devilish, nasty and very deadly traps.  This movie gets of to a very good start, where you find this one man trapped inside one of many cubes. He crawls through a gate into the next cube and&#133;well, let's say it is a very nasty and shocking surprise. One of the most innovative deaths I have seen for a long time. Then we are introduced to five (later six) people who try to survive and/or avoid different traps while searching for the exit. A black guy takes charge and soon they are not only fighting their surroundings but also each other. This movie never outstays it's welcome and you keep watching because you don't know what to expect next. Like many other horrorfilms, the intensity of the beginning is never quite reached again, but almost. If it has one big flaw, it is that none of the characters are very likable. The supposed hero turns out to be a murderous creep and our young heroine is quite obnoxious for most of the time. The ending may be good for some, but I felt it was a bit of a cheat. The story could have used a final twist. But all in all, most unusual sci-fi/horror and for the most part, efficiently presented but maybe not for everyone. Recommended!  "}{"Title":"SF-Psychothriller","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The ending was not as good as the rest of the movie. The why and what was left out at all. Some good scary scenes. Many dark rooms with scarce light. It's like crawling in a maze, but you don't know where the way out is - if there is any... "},{"Title":"Basically, watch this when there is nothing else on and it is almost entertaining.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I sat down to watch the DVD version of this film and found myself rooting for the cube.  The most impressive parts of the movie were the ways the writers got rid of their characters.  A nice touch was naming the characters after prisons.  That was about as deep as the character development ever got.  I watched the film first without the director's commentary and then with.  My opinion wasn't changed much about the action of the film but I did develop a respect for the technical side.I take it that this movie was supposed to make you think and have deep philosophical value.  It just kind of reminds me of the conversations you had in college after a long night and a few beers when you and your buddies were just one brew short of the meaning of life.  I was very disappointed in this movie.  I think it could have been a lot better but all in all, I would much rather watch this than summer re-runs. "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   I finally saw this, and it is really good. I was entertained and compelled all the way through. The semi-disappointing ending makes me rate it an 8...but the ambiguity of the ending is also what makes it a movie that people need to have discussions about afterwards. The movie shows that the human beast is more deadly than this giant death cube of astronomical possibilities. (the cube which represents life/universe...or the system) "},{"Title":"The only way outta here is going piece by piece","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a dark and disturbing film that is sure to inspire feelings of paranoia, estrangement and mistrust in any viewer. The stark setting, the inescapable frustration of a thoroughly unexplained situation and the very human actions of the characters makes this a singularly powerful piece of psychological cinema. A cop, a doctor, an architect, a prisoner, a brilliant math student and an intellectually disabled man wake to find themselves imprisoned in a cube-shaped room with a single door in each wall. All complete strangers, none of them know why they are there, how they got there, what purpose the structure has nor who built it. To work their way through the puzzle, they have to survive the fiendish traps hidden randomly throughout, like the acid jets which burn off one guy's face and the invisible razor mesh which reduces another inmate to a pile of square-shaped chunks in the opening sequence. Once they slowly discover what's going on, even if they don't know why, avoiding the traps turns out to be the easy part as their own psychological breakdowns caused by their unique and inexplicable circumstances prove to be the deadliest obstacle of all. This is a tense, claustrophobic and sadistic science fiction thriller in which the main enigmas of who and why are never revealed, given even more impact in light of the subsequent rise in popularity of voyeuristic TV shows like 'Survivor'. Cube takes the phrase 'thinking outside the square' to a whole new level. "},{"Title":"A frightening yet beautiful movie","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  acting is a bit lagging in quality compared to the genious of the idea. the story is very thought provoking and at least as an engineer working through the problem of cube was very exciting. a very intriguing delight.  might as well say that its one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This little movie was a lot of fun.  I recognized some of the dialogue(the nobody is in charge speech) because it's been sampled in industrial music.  The Cube can work as a metaphor on so many levels, it's brilliant.  Existentially, it represents the mystery of life, at once cold and rewarding.  The movie made me wonder if everything really wasn't like a big Tetris game.  Maybe things being round and organic is just an illusion, or the way we prefer to look at them.  Maybe in this movie the world really is flat (on the top of the Cube, and the people trapped inside are in Hell!).  The Cube DOES revolve, sort of.  I know I'll have to see this movie again.    "},{"Title":"No-one get's it?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do I? Probably not...I am not going to talk about plot here or give away any spoilers.The acting doesn't matter. The lack of effects does not matter. The ending doesn't matter.It is the concept that matters.Many reviewers have commented that the characters are all sterotypes.  This was the whole point.  Take six stereotypical people and set them a task to escape from a deadly cube.  It is the way these stereotypical characters interact that matters.  The whole idea is that if you take these sterotypes to the extreme, how will they react to the situation.Someone commented earlier on about racial prejudice.  Do you not think that that was the idea.  There are many biggoted people out there that think of coloured people in that way.  It was the film makers intention to throw that into the mix.Ignore the people that try to pull this film apart.  It means different things to different people.  Enjoy it.  It is an amazing film that is not to be missed. Make up your own mind about what the cube symbolises.As a quick aside, did anyone else notice that the surnames of the characters were all names of PRISONS...And anyway...They were dead already... "},{"Title":"On the edge of my seat","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The 'Cube' is not your average-type Hollywood suspense movie, and still it's one of the greatest suspense thrillers I've seen in years. Because the movie relay so much on the unknown factor of the plot, I wont reveal any of it here. The movie is basically about a few people who wake up in a cube with exits to other rooms just like it, and as the story moves along they try to figure out why they were put there and how to get out. Each of them have gifts that bring them closer to the goal , freedom. What fascinated me about the movie is that you get to see just how people react when everything they know is taken away from them and how pressure can effect the mind. So go see it , I promise you wont be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Great idea but underdeveloped","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly original film. With a simple yet so powerful set, a handful of people explore their minds and souls. I always appreciate the films where complexity derives from simplicity. Now the bad part Awful cliches, two-dimensional characters and a sophomoric use of mathematics which drives back everyone who is slightly familiar with the subject. Nevertheless, the atmosphere is imposing and with a little try one can enjoy the experience. "},{"Title":"engaging sci-fi noir","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   Cube could have sucked but it didnt. The premise is that people are trapped inside a huge cube which is set with booby traps. Nobody knows why they are there or how they got there. It is believable because it doesnt play stupid. I recommend this for anybody who enjoys film and wants to have a good time. Fun and suspenseful ***1/2 "}{"Title":"A true masterwork","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How many times you've seen a movie with a big budget, pushed on TV and in the cinema's with slick looking trailers only to discover when seeing the movie that it sucked,.. sucked bigtime.Here is a movie with a budget so small in fits in a shoebox, it's filmed on one set with five actors in 20 days and it's great! I am not giving anything away from the plot but it's simple, it's stuff that will make you think long after the movie and it's a very good study of human nature. Everybody who likes films in general and do not want to see just mindless pulp this is a must see. Only backdraft are the questions that will rise after you've seen this and just refuse to go away for some time,... Rumors are there will be a part 2...  "},{"Title":"Very Good Plot, But...","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was just mesmerized by the midpoint of the movie. The characters are so diverse a brainy girl, a housewife, a cop, an escape artist, an autistic,  and a guy with a secret. Now, imagine all these people waking up one day and finding themselves in a cubic room with access out of the room on each wall, floor, and ceiling. Some could help their progress as they try to escape, others could hinder it.My only gripe about the movie Some of the acting and how the acting is too one-dimensional.It was a real surprise to see who actually made it out of the Cube. And I'll leave my review at that. "},{"Title":"Very good overall","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film to very intriguing and would agree with most of the previous comments. ***SPOILERS I would especially agree with the comments that the ending was rather weak and unsatisfying. The bloodbath was unnecessary and served little point to me. END SPOILERS**** I would, however, disagree that it should be remade with a larger budget. The minimalist feel in both the sets and little-known actors I think very much adds to the film and directs your attention to the characters and their development. The watcher would be distracted by flashy effects and big-name actors.  "},{"Title":"Interesting. Definitly interesting.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine a movie, that's an hour and a half, and that's all about people trapped in a box. Interesting? By God himself, YES! Not that I could ever put my finger on it, but this movie is really freaky, enigmatic and in some sick way, poetic.You've got your designer, your police-officer, your doctor, your average rain-man, trapped in a huge cube, full of rooms, some of which can kill them. What are they to do? How are they to get out? Why are they there?Don't look. But not only is it an interesting movie, it's some of life's very dearest mysteries, right there.A few nasty clichs (spoilers) makes this a 9. "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just wanted to say that this movie really did it for me. Just rented it recently, as I missed it at the movies.  Its, to me, very non-hollywood-ish, which i really like.  Its at times unpredictable, which is excellent. There are no heroes either, which is a welcome change.  It leaves a lot to your imagination, which is uncommon in these times. (at least as far as box-office films go). To me, this was an experience out of the ordinary, and I certainly recommend to see it. It places alongside A Clockwork Orange, Dark City and some 70's avantgard futuristic year2000 movies.Anyway, just wanted to express my feelings on this.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly intense, great fun flick!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was completely unprepared for the intenseness of this film!  It features a bunch of horrible actors, and the premise is totally dumb (several people wake up and find themselves in this cube maze place, who/why is never explained)  but in spite of all that it's a suspensful little gem!  Each prisoner had apparently been chosen for a specific talent, and it's the job of them all to get out of the cube, while dodging booby traps and lots of attitude from some of the captives.  It's a fun and exciting film with TERRIFIC production values.  It will shake you up, for sure.  Don't miss the opening scenes, I re-wound a couple times to check that out - it's crazy! Enjoy this one, it's a treat! "},{"Title":"Original. I was pleased to see this film.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film was not in theatrical release in my area so I saw it on video. The film, is clever and creative and shot on a modest budget, yet delievers more braincells and excellent dialouge than a RAMBO 4. The film appeals to conspiracy theory buffs but yet takes a rational psychological approach. I guess i am in awe. I wish I could write like this but it takes time. The film on the surface seems too simplistic but not so. The movie THE CUBE is a cross between LORD OF THE FLIES, and a commentary on emotional delusion and sociopathic rage. A small group of people are imprisoned in a CUBE device, multiroomed. The prision is well armed with traps and automated defenses. The film however, is character driven and well acted. The thing I like is the canadian cast who are virtual unknowns in the united states yet, can act the pants off equivical AMERICAN actors. The subplot invovling a code in mathematics was astounding and the script uses a team effort to escape premises in which literally everyone has something to offer to escape, then in a shocking turn bases that premise to hell. Most science fiction movies are no brainers. I know I wrote a 55 page one. However, I am in awe of this director..not in the gee whiz your my hero sense but at his artisitc creativity. 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Clever idea, mediocre execution","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is built around a simple, perverted idea there's a large complex of cubes, with only one exit, crammed with traps and with only very slim information on how to avoid them. Throw in a few humans totally oblivious of the nature of the system, and you have a great setup for either a hot action flick or a depressing psychological drama. The creators of Cube took the latter approach, which made it possible to make the movie on the incredibly low budget, but also required them to come up with interesting characters, where they fell somewhat short.While the low budget didn't allow a real visual feast, the scenes look surprisingly good, with very few flaws, this setup was more than adequate to support the character interplay.Some commentary on the story (SPOILERS!) With such a special environment, it would have been nice to have some more extraordinary characters. With one exception they were over-stereotyped. I can see a point in that, they were supposed to be a well-selected team of ordinary people, but it was easy to guess their next moves. Quentin's madness was a nice touch, the way he cracked under pressure was well displayed, especially the turning point, when he risked his neck to save Halloway, then let her fall a few seconds later. But the bloodbath at the end was unnecessary, I really don't see what they tried to accomplish with that (or if I do, I don't like it).Most importantly, I have no problem with not finding out who runs the Cube. There are the explanations offered by the characters, or the viewer can invent her/his own. It is quite irrelevant to the main point of the movie anyway.It may not be so easy to judge the actors. Maurice Dean Wint (Quentin) and the autistic guy were convincing, the others either seemed too faceless or over-acting. But then again, Leaven could have just been as unimpressive in real life as Nicole de Boer portrayed her. Similarly, it's not easy to judge how far Holloway's paranoia can push her.Bottom line, with all the minor flaws, I rather liked Cube. It was disturbing and depressing, and a nice display of ordinary people in extreme, easily fatal situations. It also proves that you don't need hundreds of millions of $$$$ to make great movies, even if there are some special effects thrown in.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Low budget movies, with unknown actors or unknown directors, can often be huge surprises for us all. It's exactly what happens with CUBE. Who would have thought that the first movie ever made by the director, Nicoli, a film with a budget smaller than half a million, a sum that Tom Cruise by example wins in a few days of work, could be so good??Well it is. Cube is a psychological analysis about the way people act and change in difficult situations, actually in this case - trapped in a cube they don't know anything about. The actors are surprisingly good, the film is very tensed, the dialogue is well written... Of course there are bad things about it - you can't reach perfection from your first attempt. Maybe the worst thing is that we don't get any explanations concerning the reason and by whom the Cube was built.All in all, a great watch. From which one phrase will remain in your mind for a very long time, a sentence that keeps you thinking. Out there... out there it's just endless human stupidity.Vote 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nothing short of Amazing....","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very original idea makes up for lack of recognizable actors and lower budget, The Cube itself is as beautiful as it is deadly. And an enigma until the very end. It's seems like an episode of twilight zone with sci-fi and puzzles thrown in. Will keep you guessing until the end. "}{"Title":"Claustrophobic","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is an interesting study about human behaviour in extreme situations. Its less a horror film than a psychodrama about growing aggressions and escalating conflicts, about mistrust and desperation. On the other side it shows the iron will of five people trapped in a deadly labyrinth who only want to escape and survive. It seems if they were test subjects for a psychiatric experiment. The only pity is that you neither find out who build this giant complex nor why they are inside. At the end there is no solution for all that questions. You can use this film more as a visual instruction about the human nature than caring about the story or any logic. An other problem is, that the dialogues sound very unnatural and the acting is not very good.  I give solid 7 points out of 10 for the original idea and the continuous suspense. "},{"Title":"worth watching if don't mind the extreme violence","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  an awesome theme that's unique, pretty good acting, very good set and atmosphere, enjoyable production, fairly good dialogue. i would have given it a 9/10 except i felt that what happened at the end was too typical, though it was okay, but i would have done it a little differently. also know that there is a lot of very graphic violence in the movie. your adrenaline will definitely be pumping, as you watch... CUBE! i give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"cheaply made, thrilling, gory, upsetting","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is seriously one of the freakiest and weirdest movies I've seen.It gives a sense of human paranoia, human evils, and also a sense of Darwinism.  Who will survive out of one lady doctor, one black cop, one escape artist, one chick math nerd, one mentally ill, and one guilty salary man?Even though this movie is cheaply made, considering they probably only had to make one big room with six sliding doors (and the colored walls change color to show that they are actually moving from cube to cube), parts of the computer graphics are great... and gory.Without any music, tension builds up quite quickly.  The only sounds we hear are those of the people talking, the sliding doors, and the electronic booby traps.Despite the thrill, the tension, and the heart pumping faster, the movie itself is satirical and quite upsetting.  By the end, I asked myself if humans are actually that evil, and if our society is THAT corrupt.  And also, if one watches movies for visual effects, as I do, only the first half of the movie will appeal, since most of the movie is quite repetitive.  I mean, seriously, the best of visual directors could not make an aesthetically appealing movie from people moving simply from box to box! "},{"Title":"This is a treasure hidden under an absence of reputation...","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is one of the most terrifying films I've seen. Freaky to death, you almost become insane yourself. The story is about six people who are emprisoned in a cubic complex. There are deadly traps in some of the rooms...There is one gate in the whole complex that gets you out of the place...The budget in this film was low...they wasted half of it on the first two minutes. But, for a low-budget film, it has very good special and gory effects and the actors are great too. The background is always the same, but the walls are different from one room from another. Paranoia, intolerance, fear, these subjects are all important in Cube. The film is also full of surprising twists. The first time you see it, you just can't believe it...the music is mainly made of creepy samples and contributes to the freaky atmosphere of the movie. Disturbing, intelligent, well acted, very well directed, wow, that's one huge discovery! Excellent, awesome. I know this ain't a masterpiece, but it is still too great for a 8. So now my choice is clear, even though you may think I'm too generous, I have to give it the mark it deserves. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Classically Cubed","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a philosophical/science-fiction masterpiece.Intense, compelling and claustrophobic, this movie is hypnotic throughout. A group of individuals are mysteriously ensnared in a deathtrap cube wherein to escape primal instincts and human emotions are examined and tested to the limit..and perhaps beyond.The plot and the characters of this film could be viewed as questioning the unanswered questions of the purpose and existence of humankind; are we mortal or immortal? do we have a better world to escape too? does indeed our lives or existence have a purpose?This is a superb drama of human existence and emotions and relationships deserving the highest recommendation as a film..raising it to an art form. I for one was mesmerised throughout this classic. "},{"Title":"Absorbing, Tense, Smart Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Vincenzo Natali's Cube is a thoroughly absorbing, tense, nail-biting, and wholly original sci-fi thriller soaked in adrenaline.Cube is about a handful of people who awaken to find themselves in a maze of cubes that are identical but for their colors some are orange, green, red, or blue.  As they move about the cubes, they discover that some are equipped with deadly, sadistic traps.The power of Cube lies in its seemingly simplistic storytelling these people don't know how they got there, why they are there, who put them there, or what the whole thing means, but with no food or water, they decide they better find a way out, and fast.  The setting provides a tense, clausterphobic nightmare, with the strange, darkly lit walls of the cubes covered in odd, almost alien figures and writing, as if they were some kind of extra-terrestrial hieroglyphics.  The simplicity of the entire production design makes it a wholly believable, stomach-churning realistic situation.  They're aided by a fantastic script that truly makes the most of the paranoid characters and overwhelming setting.The cast of relative uknowns does an excellent job of conveying the paranoia and fear apparent in being stuck in an experiment that is a both sickly logical and illogical.  While the script is busy unraveling the mystery of the maze they're in, it doesn't neglect to show us why these people should survive.  The characters, much like the maze itself, are multi-faceted and filled with traps of their own.  If seeing them attempt to survive the demonic cube maze isn't enough to invoke suspense, the film douses itself with characters who are as rigid and filled with hidden danger, giving the audience a double dose of terror.In a film that takes place entirely in the same surroundings, it's amazing how effective Cube is in building a mountain of suspense in what appears to be a very constricting area.  The film could have turned into monotony two hours of it shot in the same scene.  Director Natali uses this to his advantage, however, and delivers a truly terrifying, gripping, almost suffocating  film dripping with enough tension to fill more than a few vapid horror and sci-fi films.  With an effective cast, a script with brains and originality to spare, Cube is easily one of the most inventive and utterly frightening sci-fi films ever.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Weird and wonderful movie","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a masterpiece.  It's one of those movies where you can watch it over and over again and you'll never get bored of it.  It's the best sci-fi movie I've seen since Highlander.I won't bore you with a full explanation of the storyline. So here is a small brief description Cube tells the story of a group of 7 people, a cop called Quentin, a doctor called Holloway, a student called Leven, a typical office guy called Worth, an escape artist called Rennes, a mentally handi-capped person called Kazan and a person called Alderson, who we don't find much out about him.They all wake up in a giant Cube shaped maze. They don't know each other, they don't know why they have been put there and they don't know whose behind it all.  So basically, they set of to find a way out of the deadly maze, having to avoid deadly booby traps and other puzzles along the way as well as avoiding each other, you never know when insanity is going to creep up on you. The actors in Cube may not be well known but never the less, they do a brilliant job. Brilliant movie which makes you think.9/10  "},{"Title":"Cinema without the clutter","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A beautiful exercise in cinematic restraints, both unavoidable (The film has a surprisingly low budget) and deliberate (The director famously chose to shoot using only one set). Cube is wonderfully refreshing for both sci-fi and cinema fans alike. Like 'The Blair Witch Project', much of the pleasure of 'Cube' derives from it's undeniable originality, meaning it can be appreciated whether or not you enjoy the film on a personal level.The simplisity of the film is hard to comprehend without actually viewing it. There is one set (Perhaps the films strongest character, seen as the 'villain'), a tiny cast of characters who each have a very specific role to play within the plot structure, and a wafer thin storyline (Six people wake up in a giant maze and attempt to escape, and that's it). There is no true explanation of the Cubes purpose, various theories are suggested by the prisoners, but each is fundamentally flawed. It simply exists to give us an hour and a half of nerve tingling drama, as we quickly realise that the details don't matter, it is simply a study of a group of people in peril and the friction and comradeship that develops therein.Despite the aforementioned budgetry constraints, the movie contains some amazing visuals, notably the spinning wire trap that the policeman nearly gets caught in, and of course, the jaw dropping opening, where we are introduced to the cube as an unnamed prisoner gets suddenly and spectacularly 'cubed'.Like the rooms of the cube itself, this is a sparsely decorated, sometimes frightening, but always ingeniously designed piece of science-fiction cinema. Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A wonderful independent movie from the Great White North.  I've seen this movie about 3 times and it is still great to watch.I maybe biased since I tend to read a lot of existentialist philosophy.  The acting could be better as could the ending be.  But for a small budget, this is a great effort.  For me, the writing of a movie is definitely the most important creative element.  What's the point of great acting if the story is weak?We never know what happened before and after this movie.  This is the way it should be.  If you want to see the big, evil Man throw these people into the Cube, go watch a Hollywood movie.  I see this movie as possibly a metaphor for life, as pretentious as that sounds.  You don't know what was once before and you don't know what's after.  As one character proclaimed, we don't know why or how it came about except that he was part of it.  They kept building and architecting it but it never seemed to have a purpose.  It was self-perpetuating to no true end at all.The acting was solid if not spectacular.  Yes, the characters were a bit one dimensional but then again what exactly can you development in such a situation?I could go on and on but I won't.  Rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Some definitive comments about Cube","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A few points about this movie that no one has mentioned (at least not in the dozens of user comments I've read).By now you know the basic plot. Six people find themselves in a maze of interlocking cubes with no explanation. They must work together to solve the clues that are left for them, avoid deadly traps, and find a way out.This film is not low budget. It is practically no budget. It was made for a tiny fraction of what most Hollywood blockbuster sci-fi films are, so to criticize the film quality, visual effects, etc. is really specious and indicative of a rather shallow perspective. In fact, and no one has mentioned this, most of the visual effects, props, and extra production were DONATED for this film. When was the last time you heard of that? Yes the traps are less than mind blowing at times, but that is not the point. They are a device for the plot, to focus on them is to miss the entire point of what the film is about.Yes, some of the performances are less than stellar. But nothing worse than what Costner typically turns in, and his salary is several times the entire budget of this film, so get over it. Most of these actors are in their early twenties (as is the most of the crew) and still learning their craft. Get past it. The filmmakers made a conscious decision to paint the characters as stereotypes initially, and then turn those stereotypes 180 degrees. They were not entirely successful in realizing this development, but they admit that themselves in the DVD commentary. Again, get past it.For those of you who are ticked off because none of your questions were answered, is this really what you want out of all the films you see? Every film should pose a puzzle, solve everything in a neat, tidy package so you can nod your head and walk out of the theatre without a second thought? Sorry, occasionally films are made for the purposes of making you ponder and consider the issues they raise, not just to provide you easily digested film fodder. Wake up your brain, it won't hurt so much. This movie is not about who made the cube (we all did) or why the people are in it (who knows?), it's about whether we can break from the shackles of endless human stupidity and apathy that have created the society we live in.Yes, the ending is a little trite. As I've said, the film does not succeed in all areas. You try realizing such an original concept on almost no budget, filming in confined spaces with an inexperience cast and crew and do the whole production in 20 days. If you can put the film in perspective, you'll be able to appreciate the intent if not the realization entirely.And, finally, the math does make some sense, although budget constraints caused them to use some number plates in the wrong places. In the commentary, the filmmakers are clear that their intent was to give the viewer the idea of the solution, but not to get bogged down in mathematical details. The overall solution makes sense (and was developed with a mathematics professor on hand), it just isn't completely laid out in the dialog. Again, if your sole basis of evaluation is on technical completeness, you are missing the point of the film.In sum, this is worth seeing. It is not a great film, but it is thought-provoking and a welcome respite from the let's send a bunch of Texans into space to blow a meteorite tripe that passes for science fiction film these days.And, if I've offended any of the intellectually challenged amongst you, well you probably don't know it anyway.dr. beat "}{"Title":"Unexpectedly Awesome ! 7/10","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film sets the conditions for great science fiction  raising more questions than it actually answers.  The close proximity of the set allows for high levels of character development.  The script weaves the diverse character group together in a highly strung race for survival that is only let down by lack of creative synergy within the low budget cast.  Truly a must see sci/fi. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Where's Pinhead?","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Looks like some kind of unofficial sequel to HELLRAISER. It's head & other things above the Barker horror, but The Cube itself resembles a huge internalized Lament Configuration & the opening scene of (strangely dispassionate) gore is straight-up Bradley & Co.  Greatest achievement is the film's ability to hold the interest via sparse location, ensemble cast and (gulp...) mathematics!! Without getting too media literate, it seems The Cube is a metaphor for life itself.  Interesting sideline debate about whether blaming misfortune on a conspiracy provides a comfort absent from a reality in which no Responsible Party is behind it.  CUBE may owe an art-direction debt to THX-1138 & thematically to NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD. Despite widespread critical claims of template characterization, CUBE adds a (minor) degree of ambiguity separate from (for example) Romero's statement figures.  Best Character? Worth, without a doubt... "},{"Title":"Great concept, bad actors","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just kind of stumbled onto this movie so I had absolutely no idea what it was about.  Didn't even see any shots of the movie itself, nor the cover art.Going in, I'd have to say the premise is one of the best I've heard so far. All these people, all so very different, situated in one small area with one common potentially lethal dilemma.  It's fantastic.  They never revealed how they got there or who put them there but that's part of what makes it good. About 30 minutes into the movie, it dawned on me that this is basically something like a Tales From the Darkside or a Twilight Zone that got made into a movie.  Both those shows were primarily made of great stories woven around a small number of characters and cheap sets.  This is what the movie basically was.  If you liked those shows, you'll enjoy this movie.The only drawback I saw were the acting.  Some of the primary characters, the cop for one, absolutely sucked.  It was nice how he tried to appear the nice leader at first and changed, but overall that guy is not a very good actor.  The autistic guy was horrible as well.  Must all autistic people be good at math or have good memory?  Well, in Hollywood they all do it seems. Worth's character was very well acted though.  I liked him a lot and hope to see more in the future.I'll admit though that one bad showing doesn't mean they'll always be bad. Just look at Hillary Swank from The New Karate Kid and then compare that to Boys Don't Cry.Overall I gave it a 8.  Worthy of a rental for sure. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good movie, would be great with better actors and with a less predictable end. Still enjoyed it a lot, new ideas are rare these days and this is sure more entertaining then any of the big productions that spend millions of dollars for fx and don't have any story behind. "},{"Title":"Weird idea, but, a good tense movie!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't let the Sci-fi tag put you off this one, this is a shocker from the old school. You find your popcorn spread all over the floor several times during the course of this movie. i had not heard of this film at all and purchased it as part of a bundle of secondhand DVD's which I bought to get Blade Runner. It was several weeks before I put it in the machine and I found myself in for a real treat....recommended! "},{"Title":"Amazing horror experience! Depressing and innovative!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I only knew a little about this movie, but from the starting sequence i was just staring at an amazing piece of mind game. Its horror and pessimistic attitude makes you leave the theater with wondering how senseless life can be, and you start thinking how you would react in such a life threatening situation! There are just these 7 persons, colored cubes and killer traps, which give such an intense experience! There are several effects that are just marvelous, but the real winner is the social scenario and situation of these people, always turning perspectives on who is the good one and a guarantee of non-boredom! enjoy and take it easy!   "},{"Title":"wow (!!!)","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  well, after reading just about 60 of the enormous amount of 218 comment (at the moment) i just thought let's make it even 1 more.Because this movie is WORTH to be talked about. I don't know much ins and outs of this movie or the cast, the only things I know are1) i watched the movie 2) i was blown away 3) it probably will stay at the top of my mind for at least the next few days, and i'll never forget it'Much praise for a low budget sci-fi with not that much well known names' you may think. But it's worth all the praise it can get, it's breathtaking, nail biting, makes you think etc. etc.The characters are just brilliant (although the acting could be better). Watch the movie and you'll understandWell, i won't go into further detail about the script because that would spoil the movie, just go and rent the movie or even better, buy it.Did i mention that you should go and watch this movie ?I gave it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but brilliant","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For what this movie is (ie low budget, cast of 7, no sets/scenery or really much of anything), it is incredible! Yes there are some holes and lapses - this film won't win many awards for cinematic excellence - but it more than makes up for these in sheer imagination and disturbing ideas and images. My wife and I are still pondering it 1 1/2 days later! This is a movie that will probably shock and disturb, but you will not soon forget. My vote 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Name of the Game is Bureaucracy","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My cousin Caroline first told me about Cube, saying, it was such a terrible movie.  There was no point.  People just got chopped up for no reason. Nevertheless, I went to see the film.Since Caroline is French, I'll forgive her for being grossly inaccurate. Cube is a great film.  And now, if you are fairly adverse to any sort of a SPOILER, I suggest you stop reading.The thing is, it's all about bureaucracy.  Quentin is the cop with a chip on his shoulder who gets drunk on his own sense of power.  Leaven is the student who feels guilty for the problems in the world that she's been handed.  Hollaway is the bleeding heart doctor who is more willing to believe conspiracy than the cold hard facts of life.  Kazan is the idiot savant who is the most innocent of the bunch, and whose fate is dependent upon them.  Last, but certainly not least, Worth is the young civil servant whose only inspiration in his career is his pay check.  All of these people are prototypes of members of society, and the clashes that result between them are not due so much to the Survivor/Lord of the Flies aspect, but outline the stereotypes and prejudices that each member holds for the others.  Each becomes a cog in the system...in that manner, it is far more frightening than Halloway's worst case of Big Brother is Watching, for she, too, is part of the force that propels the cube.Worth says that the whole project of building the cube would be a waste if it weren't used.  This is perhaps the most damning statement of the way the system works.To be frank, I wasn't paying particular attention to the acting or innaccuracies in math...the concept was simply too good.  I understand the criticism of others in this aspect, but I don't think that it should stop future viewers.  It's not a movie about a bunch of Texans going into space to blow up a meteor...so let it slide. "},{"Title":"Very visual","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was reading some of the reviews of this movie and I just wanted to add on some of the things said. I thought the acting was extremely awful along with some of the dialague, but I think it added to the trippy visual feeling of this movie. I also liked the metaphors - I am not going to add to that though since other reviews have covered what I think. I also found it very creepy because of the trippy feel to this movie. Enjoyable Sci-Fi movie and very visual and interesting. Watch it in the dark. "}{"Title":"One of the best Sci-fi's I have seen in a LONG time","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just when you thought all of the realms of the Sci-fi genre had been explored cube jumps into the video shop, it seems like a simple concept, a few people stuck in a giant cube with lots of evil traps that will kill them.......then you look deeper into the film and you start to think about the characters, especially David Hewlett's character (Worth). Cube is one of those films that will leave you tossing and turning in bed, it will play on your mind, this is because it leaves you with so unanswered questions, (I had to watch the film again straight after the credits rolled)...If you are going to the video shop tonight get cube, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"It's like Survivor, but deadly","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cube gives you the feeling of what it would be like to watch survivor if you couldn't relax your consciense by telling yoursef they're doing it for the money. One thing, however, is better about being in the cube than on the island - in the cube, these people were given the CHOICE to be nice to each other, to go with each other and not against. But they decided not to. The biggest revalation i got out of this movie was this Worth says that the cube was built by many different people, but no one runs it. it's not a government conspiracy or a millionaire conspiracy. Everyone just did their piece - no higher coordination, and no meaning. There wasn't someone who had a plan and intention for it. It just kind of happened. Now think about the cube. Could that thing really have been built with no ultimate meaning, without a purpose. Would it have been so perfect and fit for its use (i.e. torture) if someone had not decided it should be that way? Not likely - right? Now look at the world around you. Is it less mathematical and perfect than the cube? Then why do you think IT could have been created with no meaning? Randomly, with no higher command? I still am a perfect atheist. But it got me thinking. Back to the movie - I would never have guessed the tiny amount they spent on effects. Amazing - it's a challenge to the rest of the film world. I heard they had just one room for the whole thing. And the actor than played livene (sp? - the young girl) was beautiful and an AMAZING actor. I'm waiting to see her in hollywood, or better. Very very good film, in my eyes.  "},{"Title":"Nice look, shame about the end","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube has moments of suspense that really work.  I had to put it on pause once to take a break from the tension.  All of this despite the fact that there is too much damn dialogue and it poses like a great intellectual piece while at the same time including some extreme lapses in logic and an ending straight out of the worst moron slasher movie - which is all the more depressing because it robs the movie of any emotional resolution.  It takes itself way too seriously, and I am not saying that just because I am a Lucas-fed man-child hiding from reality.  Sure, I love the Original Trilogy, but what this movie is hiding from is A POINT.  It is something very well shot by Derek Rogers, but straining from someone's auteur stubbornness when it comes to leading the film somewhere or exploring the logic of certain scenes given what is later revealed as the villain is exposed.  There is nothing worse than a brilliant puzzle with a dumb villain to dillute it. However, I will give him this  He does have a knack for sneaking up on people in a world where every opening door has a clearly established sound and he proved to be blessed with amazing brilliants when it comes to negotiating the maze ALONE as long as it is in the service of negative audience manipulation.  Had someone less tight-ass rewritten the script, it might have made money outside of France.  Okay, there is a following in the States, but all I can leave you with is this  if you can see it for free and you have nothing better to do, fine.  But don't pay money or time unless you have really heavy enui. "},{"Title":"a must-see, no doubt about it","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first comment I gave when I walked out of the movie was If  Kafka, Sartre, and Golding were a team of scriptwriters working together on a project,Cube would be the result.When I read the comments in this forum, it was interesting to see that the those three names pop up again and again.Yes, (*mild spoiler*) the acting sometimes is good rather than brilliant, and it becomes clear that Sartre did NOT write the screenplay. Still, the movie is brilliant, and in my opinion comments that criticize the composition of the characters (playing the stereotype-, the inconsistency-, or the character-too-flat-card) are not justified. Each character is both blessed and cursed by his or her individual talents. Each virtue has the flaw inborn. Quentin does possess leadership qualities and a soldier's virtues. Affinity to violence, however, is and must be intrinsic in the figure of the Heroic Knight who might crack in extreme situations and turn butcher. Character development, at least in the cases of Quentin and Worth, is perfectly consistent with mythology (which often is consistent with psychology).I will spare my readers any deeper analysis and end this comment by awarding the movie a 9! "},{"Title":"Horrible Acting ruins original concept.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are only 5 or 6 characters in this movie (depending on if you count one who dies early and another who is a bit...different), and most of them are poorly acted.  I have to admit that the movie is a nice original idea, but the acting is poor.  Plus, they make a mathematical error when reasoning out some of the important aspect of their prison. "},{"Title":"Impressive Low Budget Thriller","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although there are some continuity conflicts and at times over the top acting (although maybe intentionally), this film is an extraordinary accomplishment given what the filmmakers had to work with. The end is also a bit dicey, but then again it leaves much open to discussion which in this case is a good thing. I have talked to a friend who is very involved with the math field, and he is the only person I know who straight up didn't like the film. The point being, if you are capable enough with math to understand geometry, basic algebra, etc., you will be fine - but if you are familiar with stuff like the chaos theory and abstract mathematics you'll be offended. If anyone else with extensive knowledge of mathematics has seen this film I'd be very interested on hearing feedback. All that aside, this film is truly captivating. I was introduced to it by spotting it in a friend of a friend's collection, asked him about it, and he replied I can't explain it, I'll just show you the first scene. After watching the first scene of this film, YOU CANNOT STOP. There is no way. One of the most innovative, thought provoking films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Strange Kafkaesque sci-fi","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For no film has the much overused word Kafkaesque been more apt. Here is the world as Kafka saw it a bewildering and frightening series of seemingly random events, bureaucracy and lack of progression for the individual within it. Characters act unexpectedly throughout - at first an apparent flaw with the script, but best seen as another aspect of Cube's deliberately slippery reality.An existentialist melodrama posing as science fiction - and a fascinating one at that. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could of been better","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some of the best ideas of any sci-fi movie to come along in a while. I liked the fact that they concentrated on what was happening, and leaving it up to you to wonder who was behind it all, and how the characters originally got there. It was also interesting to watch how the characters reacted to their situation, and what was happening to them; it was like watching a sociology experiment in progress. On the downside, though, the ending was absolutely horrible (left me wondering what the point of the whole thing had been) and watching Quentin, the police officer chew the scenery was downright painful. It would also have been nice to take parts of the characters interactions a bit further. All in all, though, an interesting movie, and one I would watch again. "},{"Title":"With so much to talk about, it has to be good.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie must have been a great reward for the writer and director, to have such an interesting movie with such limited sets. The most intriguing part of the film was how the story had absolutely no context. I know they mentioned it in the commentator tracks so it's not new news, but I was surprised that it was so well accomplished. "},{"Title":"Clever and intriguing, but more bloody than needed","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very clever and intriguing film.  It combines cynicism about the social order with a clever use of mathematical concepts and violent outcomes direct from someone's worst nightmare.  I myself have had nightmares that reflect elements of this film's plot.  For me, though, most intriguing is the idea that the Rubic's Cube in which the characters find themselves is neither the result of any centrally directed project nor of any conspiracy but instead the net result of a collection of myopic self-interested inputs - the pessimistic response to Adam Smith.  I would have liked this theme to have been explored further.  A little more on the ideas and a little less of the nightmare would have made the experience more rewarding for me. "}{"Title":"Flawed, but it works","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story and situation are not earth shatteringly original. The script and acting are uneven in spots. The special effects were not done by ILM. But... The actors, director, and SFX guys did a superb job with the budget that they had (the CGI stuff was donated, and they had money for all of one set.) The basic story is a nice variation on an old theme, the cinematography is skillfully executed, neatly setting up the paranoid, spooky atmosphere, and we have plenty of meaty philosophical bits thrown in to chew on and discuss afterwards.  Not for everyone, but worth a watch in case it clicks for you (I especially like Worth's description of the mechanics of the conspiracy...he sums up my thoughts on the way things get done in this world admirably.) "},{"Title":"pretentious pseudo-intellectual existentialism","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The worst thing about this movie was that I had a good idea of exactly where it was going after the first five minutes. OK, the premise is not terrible, but nor is it very original. You've got a bunch of people trapped in some kind of three-dimensional mazea - they don't know why they are there or whether they can get out.  Shades of the legendary Prisoner TV program, or No Exit by Sartre.  Typical existentialist themes why are we here, what can we do, how do we solve our problems, is there any reason to have hope?The themes are reasonable, but the execution is terrible.  What one expects is a thematic pursuit about what people want to live for, some psychological exploration, etc.  What we get is inconsistent character development and insulting plot twists.My main problem with this movie is that the Worth and Quentin characters are very inconsistently drawn.  In the first half of the movie, the Quentin character provides leadership qualities, getting people motivated and moving, keeping up hope, while the Worth character is moody and generally acts like a coward and an ass.  Suddenly, in the middle of the movie, each undergoes a magical transformation.  Worth is now the moral force behind the group, while Quentin becomes violent and rageful, ultimately reaching a state where he is a typical movie bad guy.  His psychosis appears suddenly without rhyme or reason.  Any hope I had for this movie went out the window when it appeared.  The movie was no longer even a half-decent treatment of existentialist themes, but rather had degenerated into watch out for the bad guy stuff.  Very disappointing.One minor quibble the Leaven character is somehow easily able to tell if a three-digit number is prime or not, but then is paralyzed if she has to decide whether a number is a prime power.  As a professional mathematician, I have to say this plot twist is laughable.  Factoring three-digit numbers is a simple trick for a mathematician of Leaven's supposed caliber. The number of prime powers less than 1000 which are not themselves prime is really quite small.  One doesn't need a Rainman-type savant to solve this problem.  (Had they been factoring the full 9-digit numbers, well, that would have been much more impressive.)  Ultimately, I was disappointed as the theme and the setting lent themselves to a very interesting movie.  But it just didn't happen.  Too bad. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi at its best","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film has one of the most original concepts in recent years. Placing six individuals in a situation of complete paranoia and fear. Both of these emotions are stripped down to its core,revealing each character as nothing more than Lab rats. This movie is further enhanced by its visual setting,with each room possessing traps,one more deadly than the next. Truly one of the better films of its genre. "},{"Title":"Shows modern sci-fi movies don't need to be popcorn fodder","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A small group of strangers wake up in a maze-like system of cubes from which their individual skills are required to escape. Thats it. A relatively simple pitch that doesn't waste time boring its audience with lengthy back story and concentrates on being a tense character-driven escape movie. Although not exactly earth-shattering the actors get the job done with Nicole deBoer (of Deep Space Nine) being notable as a high school maths whizz. In revealing so little about the characters the director has fun with playing on who the real hero of the piece is. There is also a certain voyeuristic quality to the cinematography if one ponders the true purpose of the Cube. The relatively low budget (which does not hinder it one bit) and the use of  some complex maths should not put off fans of the genre from an intelligent, modern and thrilling sci-fi movie that will really make you think.  "},{"Title":"Big Things In Small Packages!!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as the intro credits began to roll....i thought to myself....great...another cheesy lit, canadian film.Wrong....This flick had me hooked with-in the first five minutes in.There are a couple of things I didnt like, and you'll know what i'm talking about...but,, one obviously had to excuse for it for the lack of funding.Over-all...this film will resinate in your brain for days after...enough said..Watch This Movie!! "},{"Title":"Once you're into it, it won't leave you alone","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I picked this up on tape, not expecting a whole lot of it, and for the first 20 minutes, I thought I was right. THe acting is REALLY lame in the beginning and the story doesn't seem to make any sence or progress in any way. However, the cast really seems to grow into the movie as the story unfolds. About halfway trough, I couldn't keep my eyes of the screen and I couldn't wait to see what this all would leed to.(warning, mild spoiler ahead) There is some stuff to think about in here, but it's largely left to your own imagination. THe writers cut in a lot of psychological talk and a lot of conspiracy stuff. When you think about it longer, it doesn't make all to much sense and I think a lot of people think more behind the movie than there actually is. HOWEVER, in the movie it just works! And that's what makes this movie great! (apart form the first 20 minutes) everything works!If you liked Existenz, you'll probably like this too. Don't watch if you're claustrophobic though! 8 outta 10!  "},{"Title":"ENDING SPOILER -- BE WARNED","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a futuristic adaptation of a play by Jean-Paul Sartre called No Exit.  In both the movie and the play, several people with no obvious connection are thrown together for no obvious reason.  The movie performs best when it follows the Sartre plot closely but strikes some flat notes when it strays too far. For example, the early character interaction (while somewhat wooden) is very beleivable.  However, the hints that the Government created the Cube (naturally)add little to the plot while Sartre's room is a metaphor for a possible afterlife (a thought our movie characters never seriously consider).The tension between the characters was fairly well done although it escalated to the truly homocidal a little too quickly and too disjointedly for my taste.  And, while the movie had some well-timed and truly stomach twisting turns(PLOT SPOILER WARNING)-- like the cold-blooded murder of the doctor --the final blood bath and the weepily symbolic ascension of the idiot were a little to trite to be consistent with the movie's thoughtful tone.All in all, really worth seeing once.  If you have already seen it, I strongly recommend reading No Exit and then seeing it again.  You will enjoy the contrast.Feel free to let me know what you think.P.S.  I think the Lord of the Flies comparisons made by many fellow reviewers miss the mark a little.   "},{"Title":"Lots of sinking-stomach moments","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes in horror movies, something happens to a character which more or less seals his or her fate - Like in Speed when the bomb squad trips a laser, and they get two seconds to look at the detector before the house explodes, or in Event Horizon when they find the bomb on the ship, but it only has 4 seconds remaining, or in Scream when the girl gets caught in the cat door... You know they're almost definitely going to die very soon, and you get this sinking feeling in your stomach! I love these kinds of scenes, and even though the Cube had a very small cast, there were many of these impending doom scenes. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  We only got this film about 5 months ago in New Zealand at selected cinemas so I didn't get to see it until it came to video a few weeks ago.  This is one of those films that plays with your mind.  It plays with your heart strings and shows the destruction that is mankind.  I sat after the credits for about ten minutes unable to believe what I had just seen.  It rocked!!  And like 'Braindead'('Dead Alive' in the USA), 'Heavenly Creatures', and The Full Monty it proves brilliant films do not need hollywood money or hype.  Get this one out but be warned because this is one hell of a head f@#k. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, coulda done hell of a lot better","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The overall sense I got when watching this film  was that it was an interesting concept shackled by low budget and B-list actors.The concept itself, total strangers waking up on the floor of a 14 ft square cube, surrounded by deadly traps and with no idea what to do, bodes well. The problem is that it soon becomes clear that all of the characters are deadly dull and formulaic, and that we're not actually gonna see many rolling heads. Worth a mention is the doctor (I forget her name) who, whether by design or appaling scripting, is one of the most annoying characters in any movie, ever.The way they circumvent the traps too (I won't give it away here) is totally random, it's like the writer had no idea how to do it, so went back to school textbooks to try and come up with something vaguely scientific. The problem is that when they're having arguments over it, it just sounds stupid and contrived.Personally, I'd have rather see a few more intricate traps rather than the moderately poor collection that we get to see, a few more deaths (although obviously that'd involve paying more actors).Worth a watch due to the strength of concept and pure sci-fi-ness of it all, but could have been so, so much better.  "}{"Title":"Poor characterisation detracts from original idea","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube, while wholly original and engaging, suffers from one major flaw, its characters.As a concept, the film is faultless. Take 5 different people from different backgrounds and place them into a void of uncertainty and the unknown. From scene to scene they have to interact and help each other in order to discover a way of escaping from the spiders web. To an extent aswell, the film delivers on this level. Tension is created between the character (if seemingly manufactured and false at times) is present, the five stereotypes realise their difference, their weaknesses and their strengths and continue on in their plight. As a background to this, the concept of the Cube, a squared prison that these people have been unknowingly placed in serves to as to the mysterium of the story. We 'are' drawn in and we 'are' intrigued. So where does the film falter? Characters.When I watched this film, I found that out of the five different characters, only one seemed remotely likeable and real. That character being Leaven, wonderfully acted by Nicola De Boeur. Aside from Leaven's innocent, yet intelligent mind, we are left with four wholly unlikeable people whose only purpose in life seems to be to hinder and to annoy. Quentin, the stereotypical black cop. Brutal, family man who beat his children but who snaps at the slightest twinge. Holloway, the paranoid, neurotic doctor who seems to spend every waking hour of her days dreaming up far fetched conspiracy theories. Worth, the designer of the exterior who feels that it isn't important to tell everyone that he knows what they are inside, when quizzed as to why not, I didn't ask is the lamest and most wholly selfish reply anybody could give. And finally, Kazan, the mentally handicapped, who despite the morals of the story, does act as a liability. His only use is to turn everyone against each other. When his purpose is finally revealed, even then he serves to turn person against person.This is a story about characters. The only trouble is, we need characters we can identify with, not characters who we deplore. It almost seems fitting that the only person to escape from the Cube is the one person who has the least chance of making it on the outside.Great idea. Bad characters. "},{"Title":"Clever, atmospheric, claustrophobic, scary...","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube simply defies and plays with your expectations of what makes a good movie. Made on a suprisingly low budget with an excellent cast, this is one of those movies that leaves you with many more questions than it answers. The plot is gripping and intense, and characters are developed that turn out quite differently to how they initially appear - just as you think you've worked out who the hero is, something happens to convince you otherwise... This is a movie you must see, just to see what can be done with a good story, script, cast, and a healthy imagination. "},{"Title":"Weird, weird movie!","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the most weirdest movies i've ever seen. For a low budget movie it's pretty good but slightly mind - boggling.In this movie, we see a cop, female doctor, female school student, a person sick of life and a mentally handicapped person struggling to get out of the deadly Cube which is booby trapped and full of lethal puzzles. Their task is to get out alive! They don't know how they got there, why they are there or who made the Cube. The start of this film was good it made me watch on with interest. The middle of the film gets boring and starts to slow down then the end picks up a little.This movie is very under-rated it should of been BIG but wasn't, which is a shame.From Jonathan. "},{"Title":"A low-budget masterpiece.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A magnificently simple but effective idea that not only allows a low budget format, but actually uses that format as it's main strength. By my guessing it's very loosely suggested by the Avengers classic 'House that Jack Built', but uses a very basic springboard idea from that story to give a gripping, claustrophobic and character-strong narrative on the basic conundrums like Why are we here? What are we supposed to do about it? How do we master our own personalities and Why the Hell is everything so terrifying? Go see what can be done with probably less Canadian Dollars than it takes to furnish John Travolta's Winnebago. "},{"Title":"You either love this film or hate it!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This review contains hints as to the films ending and plot  You have been warned!The thing I have noticed about this film is that people either love it or hate it, with no room for anything inbetween.There is only one set,which is ingenious, the actors are not that well known, the plot is vague; you only know that they are in the cube, you don't know why or by whom.That's the point, In life we find we are affected by people, things and events that we have no control, this is why this film is so disturbing, it makes you think about the things that You want leave buried.This film messes with your mind when you try and think about it. You have to watch it at least twice to catch all the subtleties.This film is scary because it makes you think that perhaps no one is in charge that there is no great plan just that we get on with our lives the best we can and sometimes bad things happen to good people.Some people have said that a cop wouldn't do that, well who said he was a cop? Perhaps he only said he was a cop to make everyone else look to him as a natural leader, guess what they did. He could have been lying! Everybody else proved who they were by their actions.See what I mean about subtleties!Some people have knocked the ending, perhaps the film makers were tired of seeing the same ending in film after film.This ending is different, it will make you think That's not right!, but Hey that's how it is in the real world.The ending was refreshingly real.  "},{"Title":"Unusual","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great idea for a film. Put a group of disparate people in what is essentially a puzzle box and watch as they valiantly battle fiendish traps and complex mathematical problems. As none of them remember why or how they woke up in the 'Cube' intrigue and mistrust follow them around and build up to a series of confrontations in which secrets and revealed and violent  madness breaks out. This film kept me on the edge of my seat for the whole 90 minutes as the prisoners used their talents and discovered more and more what was happening to them. Also, with several being minced in quite hideous ways there was a question of 'who next?'. Not quite genius but close, though not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Don't search for anything in this cube life...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie means a lot for me..it's just the best way to represent life our life is just as a big cube where there's no way out and every cubic room which is part of the big one is not so different from each other..some are safe some not, some are red some are white... Everyone is different from the other just for a stupid name or employment sewn as a label on your no sense existence.. Anyone tries to find out an assuring meaning not to feel that he/she is nothing and there's nothing behind that door...because everything is already inside yourself. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this is a brilliant movie. it just keeps you watching till the end. once you press 'play', there's no other way than just watch the whole movie.. fascinating. 'fear, paranoia,..' all that's on the cover is true. a very promising debut-film. the acting isn't all that great in some parts, but the suspense makes up for that. "},{"Title":"Superb production design do not make up for the acting.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is a visually brilliant movie, unfortunately rendered nearly unwatchable by the hackneyed and syrupy over-acting. The one genuine performance in the entire piece is the man who says the least. Worth, the so called nihilist, provides the film with a quiet center while everyone else resorts to predictable, often laughable acting by rote. The most offensive onslaught over acting comes from a man portraying an idiot savant type, and he basically pulls out of his bag of tricks every movement and nuance that you could learn on a school yard amidst several cruel eighth-graders in an afternoon. I hate to say it, but I cared so little for any of the characters, that I didn't really want any of them to get out of the cube. With that in mind, I do think that it would be worth watching if you could get the DVD version of it and watch the film with the director's commentary on.  "},{"Title":"It's gonna go places","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have a feeling about Cube. This is the kind of movie that in 20 years, someone is going to catch on late night TV. Then a while later someone else is going to catch it on late night TV. There both going to recommend it to friends. Then those friends are going to see it and recommend it to two more friends. Then those.... oh i think you get it. We are in the midst of a cult classic people!What else can i say? The acting is great, the special effects are great, the suspense is the best ive seen in years.... ok ive written alot of reviews on this site and I'm running out of adjectives. Anyway, I loved this movie! Go see it!  "}{"Title":"Bleak but endlessly inventive Canadian sci-fi","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cube is certainly a unique movie.  With only one set to play with, the movie sustains the interest throughout.  Basically, it's high concept stuff.  Six manifestly incompatible characters are trapped inside a massive cube full of interconnected rooms, some of which contain deadly traps.  All the characters have to do to escape is avoid the traps, work out the structure of the cube and try to get on with each other.  Unfortunately, it's the latter that proves hardest, as the movie decides to illustrate Sartre's dictum that hell is other people.  The movie has several scenes of almost unbearable tension - I was wincing and hiding my face when the characters faced a room which they could only pass through if they remained silent.  There are also a couple of startling, gory scenes early on.  The film's twists are always well thought out, and the scenes containing the group slugging it out with their emotional problems are devastating.  The problem, however, is that some of the characters seem a little pat - they become stereotypes, and the acting is rarely good enough to hide the stilted characterization.  That said, if you like mathematical puzzles, or you just like a movie that has ideas and is prepared to follow them through, you should check this one out.  However, the film's bleak messages about human nature may prove a little hard to stomach. "},{"Title":"Whoa... I'm impressed.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"       If you gave this movie a one, you just don't get it.  Or maybe you've been brainwashed by the bubble gum, and pat on the back from the once beautiful American science fiction genre.  I'm a really big science fiction fan.  I've probably seen everything there is to be offered, so whenever I watch a sci-fi I've never seen, I don't expect much.  This movie had me scared... Big Time. And it's not fear of violence or blood, you will be phsycologically scared.  I think that anyone that is into a pure nonmedia solution to the terrible sci-fi's that are coming out should see this. "},{"Title":"Really cool movie","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like the premise for this movie, I like the execution of this movie, I also like the acting in this movie.Finally in my humble opinion I think that the climax to the predicament is cool. "},{"Title":"A great visualization of a nightmare","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been the delirious fever-induced nightmare of a kid hooked on sci-fi movies. Seemingly random people being thrown into a maze of sterile rooms with no clue as to how they got there or why. It's an awesome idea, and the movie does fairly well in presenting it. The actors are also quite good, if somewhat theatrical at times. Prerequisites when watching are _quiet snacks_, since complete silence gives it an extra edge. "},{"Title":"Science-fiction at its best!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. It is a genuinely creepy, sci-fi flick with plot twists and turns around every cubical corner. Absolutely wonderful! The story is simple enough, a group of strangers wake up in a rubix-cube and need to find a way out, but the film is so much better than it sounds. The characters, eventually suffering from a bit of cabin fever, of course begin to turn on each other. Like I've always said, You don't need to worry about monsters, people are scary enough. To describe this film in a word, CREEPY, plain and simple. This movie really gets you thinking and may even make you a bit paranoid. Despite what has been said by others, the acting is quite good. I've seen FAR worse in bigger-budgeted Oscar winners. Anyway, a good movie, definitely worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Quite Follow Through on Great Start/Premise","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to agree with a lot of points made by my friend from Escondido. Cube has a great premise and starts off really well a disparate group awakes to find themselves in a cube-like prison of connecting rooms, some of which are laced with (delightfully cinematic) deadly booby-traps. The film begins as a mind game as this group attempts to work out how to find a way out. Yet about halfway through one of the characters makes MAJOR changes to his personality, and the film becomes less a thinking-man's horror film then a standard evade the psycho flick. Still, its still more inventive, and interesting, than the majority of Hollywood schluck. A seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"A smart, fun sci-fi gem, meriting repeat viewings.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (MILD SPOILERS)It's Kafka gone high-tech, with a post-/Hellraiser/ sensibility to remind us that it means business.  Symbolically, it's easy to see that, in some way, the film is portraying us, the world, the technocracy that humans have unwittingly created for themselves.  The entire film takes place inside an artificial environment, out of control and functioning with mathematical precision.  No other film in the 1990's - the decade which saw science fiction become respectable - gives us such a simple yet colourful snapshot of contemporary technocratic life and fears.  Budget-wise it's in the same league as _The Blair Witch Project_ (i.e. under $2 million), made on a shoestring, with donated special effects and a home grown cast, snagging a Sundance award, and grossing relatively scads of money.  There aren't any explosions in it, or bullets; the pathos works, it's respectful of blood, and it looks pretty.  It feels like a sci-fi version of those Canadian Heritage shorts in between tv commercials.  ...and first built in 1997, it's been running ever since.  The C.U.B.E. A part of our heritage. Enjoy the attractive characters, the surprises, and imagine your own chances inside the Cube. "},{"Title":"Deeply disturbing","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I consider myself a conniseur of disturbing film, but CUBE affected me more deeply than any movie has in quite a long time.  The acting and spiraling pillar of tension which carries the characters forward through the seemingly endless maze toward ... well, you don't know what, nor do they, save the word escape.I heartily endorse this movie. "},{"Title":"You should kill yourself now because you're already dead...","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I always imagine what it would be like to be in a situation like this and I just think I would commit instant suicide in a less painful way than being sliced into pieces or something and thus save myself all the stress, exertion and paranoia of trying to sneak through rooms full of traps in a vain attempt to escape.  Resistance is futile and besides, I'm chlaustophobic.Fortunately for us viewers, the characters in this film have more backbone than me and quite happily make an effort to escape even though they know that if they manage to get out of the damn cube they will face years of trauma counselling and nightmares. Fools...all of them.Quite a scary concept this film and the Director pulled it of well...my heart was in my mouth quite a lot and there were a lot of tense scenes. "},{"Title":"5th best of all time","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie that was gonna be excellent I thought.  But how wrong I was. It was 10 times better than excellent !! Cube just squeezes in on my top 5 list. I thought my top 5 list was unbreakable. The top 3 is Star Wars 4-6 ofcourse. On 4th place is Bad Taste. Braindead was on the 5th before. But Cube just beats it so Cube is new on nr.5 !! Cube=a definite 10  "}]