[{"Title":"Outstanding!!!","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" AS a brother of an mentally challenged sister, this movie captures my heart. The innocence and honesty the movie presents through out the film is outstanding. I have been to many functions involving mentally challenged kids and adults from Christmas parties to the Special Olympics. As a volunteer at these events I can speak from experience, that the true feelings were caught in this movie. If you ever lose the Christmas spirit, go to a Christmas event for the mentally challenged. You'll find it there and what the true meaning of the holiday spirit really is. The anticipation of Santa popping through the curtains, just to see his face. The gifts are secondary. The Special Olympics are a true test of the will to compete..NOT WIN. Everybody is a winner at these Olympics. It is the most evened playing field in all of sports. In ability and in the true manner and meaning of what sportsmanship really is. The Other sister captures the very true to the core daily lives of mentally challenged individuals. From the emotional outbreaks to the highest of enjoyment of a special moment, to the acceptance by others, to the point of yes i can if you give me a chance Mother. My sister is living on her own with a roommate and works at Opportunity Enterprises for a living. Leading not only a very normal life, but a far productive environment that wasn't available many years ago. They see things in an honest way. The very things we complain about daily are the same things they wish to be given a chance to have. The portrayal of both Daniel and Carla is just tremendous acting. You just don't throw that together and say cut and print and release this movie. Dustin Hoffman studied for over a year for rain man with savant families. Producers were'nt sure that movie would ever be made because of the tender care Dustin Hoffman had to portray. The Other Sister is a tremendous movie about all the true features that mentally challenged people face and strive for in every day life. We should watch and learn from them. They see life for what it is, things we have forgotten in our material world. Kudos Gary Marshal for this wonderful film. I remember those times, and look forward to the continuing journey. "},{"Title":"The Other Sister was definitely a hit","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was excellent. The family was well portrayed; from the beginning with the father not wanting to admit his daughter had a disability, to the mother dealing with the guilt of putting her daughter away by trying to make up for it almost a decade later.Excellent cast (Lewis, Ribisi, Keaton, Skerritt, etc.) and I loved how the disabled characters were believable. Sometimes movies depicting the disabled are no more than an insult. Lewis and Ribisi were incredibly believable in their roles, actually I had never seen Ribisi in a role previous to this one and - I have to be honest - I really did not think he was 'acting'. I thought the casting director had found someone disabled to fill the role. Once I found out the truth, I thought Ribisi should have been nominated for an Oscar! For the person who complained about the other story lines going on in the movie; a movie has to be multi-faceted, otherwise it can become boring. And I don't think the other story lines were too indulgent, they added flavor.And a mother that has a child whom she believes she has failed in the past yes, she will be a basket case and indecisive with every step she takes. That's what mothers do...it's the norm.Another great movie that was obviously overlooked by Hollywood. (So what else is new?) "},{"Title":"An Excellent, must see movie of love and overcoming adversity.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Juliet Lewis shines as 'Carla', a 'backwards' girl returning from special school, who is determined to make her own way in the world. She meets the similarly unique Danny (Ribisi).The two soon fall in love, and face a life of difficulty and adversity, both from the 'outside' world because of the way they are, and between one another.Lewis is magnificent and convincing, portraying both a young woman in love facing life, and a woman with learning difficulties. Ribisi is just as magnificent as the sensitive Danny.Their innocence and forthright honesty on the one hand, will both shock you and disarm you, while the normality of these 'abnormal' people will truly make you rethink your attitude towards those who are not 'like us'.I use inverted commas because, with this movie, nothing is certain, and old prejudice is challenged and overcome, as these two beautiful people overcome their adversities.This movie will make you laugh, cry, and cheer. It is a romantic comedy par excellence. Even those who dislike most 'Rom-coms' will love this movie.Buy it or rent it, but either way see this movie, it will change you deeply.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A feel good film, which I couldn't help but enjoy...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw an advance preview screening of this film and must say I really enjoyed it. It is one of those films that critics will say is too much like a tv movie or sitcom material...but you can't help but fall in love with the characters and care about the situations they are put in. The performances are all around sincere and thoughtful. Regardless of what the critics might say...I felt that this movie truly took me into the lives of these people and made me feel for them, and that is what I go to the movies for...  "},{"Title":"wow!!!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a very beautiful and touching film... I can't remember the last time a movie stirred up so many emotions in me all at the same time as this one did. And you know what? I really couldn't care less if this movie portrayed these type of people the right way or not (this *is* a fictional piece of work after all) because I saw the ideology behind the movie instead of just the movie itself.What I took away with me from this film is that you shouldn't care about what anyone thinks about you, not your mom or your dad or your friends and relatives either, that you should just try and live for the things that you love and enjoy. The way that these two questioned almost everything that was happening to them and listened to their feelings more than their minds made me feel a lot better about the way I think and the way I feel. I love how they aren't burdened by the way they are, they just simply accept it, and I find that beautiful, absolutely uplifting! I've never seen a movie that made me laugh and cry at the same time as many times as this masterpiece did. Don't be afraid to feel would be the perfect tagline for this underrated film. Solid story, solid actors.My favourite line of the whole movie? When Carla tells her mom We can take care of each other! Talk about tears! I'm definitely going to try to find this movie and buy it the next time I'm out and about.By the way, in case you were curious, this was just written by a 24 year old straight male. (I'm not afraid of showing my feminine side, whatever that means.)Grade A+ "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister was made in a wonderful way to learn about life of young love for the disabled or not. At first the trailer made me want to see the movie as soon as it opened at the movie theaters. I was not sure why the title was called The Other Sister until I read a review. I loved how all the characters meant to one another. The comedy and the tear-jerking made me understand how it is in life. The acting is performed greatly and I hope it will be mentioned in the year 2000 award nominations and winners. "},{"Title":"A touching movie","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are films out there that do not touch people and are just the high action films of the summer. This movie was not a summer film, because The Other Sister was a movie to be reckoned with. Many times I have gone to the theater (5x movies a week) and never seen such a movie as this one. I saw an advanced screening of the movie and I also got to see it last weekend. I am absolutely gonna see it this weekend too. It is just a heart warming story that got to me by a lot and has changed my life. I recommend this movie to everybody who knows how love is.  "},{"Title":"hah!  what a great movie!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i don't know who's voting for these movies, but someone needs to wake up! this one was great!  it was funny (and i don't mean that in a mocking way) where i didn't expect it to be.  all angles of the story were handled well. a great love story, which i didn't expect, and the family issues are very well worked out.  i liked how one of the sisters being a lesbian worked into the story, but i didn't like the result of the dispute between the mother and that sister.  i thought it happened kind of sudden.  but a very minor detail!  i loved how the two disAbled people were so expressive of what they thought!  juliette did a wonderful job of acting when her character got upset.  very believable.  i'll be looking foreward to seeing you at the academy awards. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen in years.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am an avid movie fan.  I see one-two movies per week and this is the best one I've seen in a really long time.  Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi both put in fabulous performances, as did Diane Keaton.I laughed, cried and waited in anticipation for the next scene.  As a mother, I struggled right along with Diane Keaton as to what was really best for her daughter.  I saw this movie with my fourteen year old daughter, who was also touched by the portrayals.Rarely do I pay full price to see a movie again, but I know I will be taking other people to see this movie.  The first being my older daughter who is also striving to gain her independence, but still remain connected to her family. "},{"Title":"Bring a whole box of Kleenex!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a big movie crybaby kind of person, but this movie really had me going! Not that it was sad, but poignant. I was fully captivated by the complex characters. No one was good or bad, they were all just trying to find their ways through their lives the best they could. It was hard to know how they would react in each situation because they were more true-to-life than we are used to. I haven't been this emotionally involved in a movie for a long time. "}{"Title":"A Very Touching Film","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I want to live like animals, careless and free.If a song ever embodied a movie, Savage Garden's The Animal Song serves to define the actions and emotions of the main characters in the movie, Carla and Daniel, two mentally challenged young adults who, finding each other, learn to live life to the fullest while leading each other through it. The strength and sweetness of The Other Sister can be found in the bravery and certainty that Carla, its main character, approaches life, navigating her way through the film in the manner of someone who knows what she wants out of life and seeks it with a childlike abandon.Juliette Lewis does a good job as Carla, the mildly mentally retarded daughter of the Tate's, a rich family that has had the struggle of Carla's handicap and having to send her away to a private, special education school. Mrs. Tate, (Diane Keaton), invokes responses on both ends of the spectrum from us, wanting to make up the lost years to Carla, I'm going to make it up to that girl, Radley, I promise, she says, and an inability to let Carla grow up and be on her own out of fear, and, perhaps, stubbornness.Tom Skerrit, as Mr. Tate, does a remarkably good job as a husband living with the past of a drinking problem and inability to be there for Carla as a child- but a man who is certainly there for her now. He champions first her desire to attend a Polytechnic School to get a certificate to be a Veterinarian's Assistant and then to move into her own apartment for the first time in her life. He holds the family together while seemingly apologetic for mistakes he has made in the past. Supporting actors add important depth to this touching film. Two sisters line the cast Heather (Sarah Paulson) and Caroline (Poppy Montgomery), do a good job at adding another layer to the family drama. Caroline is getting married to a fiancée, while Heather, who works in New York, is also seeking affirmation from her mother to acknowledge the fact that she is gay. The sisters also act as a moral battleground, stating that Carla be treated as a normal person, and allowed to make to take the same mistakes or risks as ordinary people. The crux of the story, and some of the most touching scenes in the film involve the budding romance between Carla and Daniel McMahon, a likewise mentally challenged boy she meets at her school. Part of the charm of their involvement is the childlike innocence with which they treat one another- while, to the rest of the world around them their behavior is awkward or untimely, to each other it is markedly candid, and innocent in a way most adults are not able to achieve. Carla becomes a best friend for Daniel, who, unlike her, does not have the support of a loving family. His distant father pays his rent, but is otherwise uninvolved, and all but cuts him off when he fails his class at the polytechnic for the umpteenth time. The only person in his life is Ernie, a handyman at his apartment, who acts as a father and friend but can't give him what Carla does- someone who understands. While not as well adjusted as Carla, instead of using this as a plot arc, the film uses it to show the sweetness in Carla and their relationship. She is there for him when he needs her. This is best illustrated in two scenes, the first of which is a dance at the Polytechnic school where Carla finds out she has passed her subject, while Daniel has not. Upset, Daniel breaks down, and then embarrassed, runs from Carla. Against his pleas, Carla, never judgmental, or superior, consoles him by telling him that she learned to take easy subjects first, before you take hard ones in an attempt to cheer him up.A second scene is a fight with Carla and her mother, Carla's mother adamant that Daniel is not right for her because He is the first boy you've met and I think you can do better. Carla's heartfelt explanation as to why this is wrong, I can't do better because I'm not better, is better understood to explain that she and Daniel are the same, and that she has accepted who she is and that, as she states, I can't be a painter or a tennis player&#x85;but I can love. Her point when Carla's mother exclaims that Danny can barely take care of himself, let alone her is poignant. We can take care of each other, Carla claims in sweetness and loyalty to Daniel, and in a way ignorant that men should take care of women, and in a way that speaks of her and Daniel's friendship, love, and desire to be there for each other in a pure, simplistic way that many of us will never realize. Critics of The Other Sister cite its oversimplification as a downside, as well as its attempt to make mental retardation seem cute. But something else exists within this movie that is special- it is the careless innocence and bravery in which Carla treats the world, as though there is nothing in life that is too complicated as long as you follow your heart. The love between Carla and Danny is not clumsy but real- and follows an outline of two real, caring people that have found each other rather then recycled stereotypes of how couples within a relationship should act, so often promoted in media and modern life. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Acting comes as a surprise....","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie a few times and always liked it. It is one of those that always brings a tear (or more) to my eye. I rented this flick because I wanted my Fiancé' to see it too. He is not the type to watch Romantic comedies and really enjoy them but he enjoyed this. One thing we both had to comment on was how Superbly Juliette and Giovonni pulled off their characters. That is not an easy part to play and have it come out realistic. I for one was pleased to see Juliette portraying something other than a skank in a film. I have loved Giovonni since he was on the NEW Leave it To Beaver show in the 80's.So this was a refreshing love story and also let you see how a family trying to handle this situation, even with tons of money still go through difficulties.My fiancé enjoyed this film too and we would recommend it to anyone who just wants a break from movies filled with explosions. "},{"Title":"Loved It..","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful story, fabulous cast... Hector Elizando & Diane Keaton kick @$$! ^_^ Juliette & Giovani deserve frickin' Oscars or something for their awesome job in this film.... this movie is extremely realistic to those of us with disabilities. I was born with Epilepsy.. my mom has always been over-protective while my father refuses to acknowledge it.. He sees meas perfectly normal, like my sisters & brother. for the longest time, my mom wouldn't et me do the simplest things my siblings were allowed to, while my father was all go for it I found this film to hit very close to home for me. It is high on my recommendation list for other people. 10 Stars! ********** "},{"Title":"But What If the Tates Hadn't Had Money","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whatever wisdom I have tells me to learn from the tribulations of others and to accept that, for the most part, nothing that's happened to me can compare with the worst that nature can throw at my fellow man. I am fortunate to be healthy, to have a loving wife, and an almost normal middle schooler (who would accuse any kid in 8th grade of being normal?). My child has a full set of working brain cells and, even though I work with a number of cognitively delayed children in a high school, I don't know what it's like to try to raise a child who will never come up to the intellectual equal of the middle of the Bell Curve.With this in mind, I entered into the contract of watching Gary Marshall's The Other Sister, hoping that I'd learn something about mentally retarded children and their desire to be independent, to be considered self-actualized, to be free.What I got were fine performances by Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi, and just another story of the trials and tribulations of the UMC. The second I saw the poshness of the Tate's digs, my defensive distrust of what I was seeing kicked into high gear.Why couldn't Gary Marshall have told the story of a middle class family, struggling with money the way their daughter struggles with the subtleties, the nuances of human intellect? Tom Skerritt would have been a high school math teacher and Diane Keaton would have been something other than Diane Keaton. The story would have been shot in Pocatello, Idaho instead of San Francisco. There would have been no Poppy Montgomery (looking luscious as usual) and no lesbian subplot to give the whole thing a patina of Family Stone gracious living. It would be smelly work shirts and dirty fingernails, and trying to get Carla a place to live within the family budget. Now that would have been a movie! "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful touching movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I happen to have a daughter pretty much like Carla. She's been through a huge lot of difficulties all her life, and she never gave up. She's all joy, and love, and innocence, and purity, and strength, and wisdom, pretty much like the character. She's 17 now, next year she'll be graduating from high school at a regular school, she's just started a relationship with a boy, and she's so happy... You can imagine how this movie, and especially Juliette's amazing performance, moved me to the core. I watched it last night, and I've been waiting all day for the moment to be able to watch it again. It's a movie I'll treasure, and I sure hope they make a sequel. "},{"Title":"Hollywood did it again","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood always takes things to its extremely end.No way to make it normal, always it should be  extra-exciting , extra-ordinary.How could two disabled persons do what those did.In Hollywood anything is normal. "},{"Title":"The Other Sisters","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Exploitive, cloying stereotypes.This film is what it is about, an unfair amount of attention given to the retarded daughter. The real center is the ignored people, those who fall between the cracks because others are `special' -- people who fall between the cracks like lesbians, alcoholics, neurotics, troubled vets, people who don't have `blessed' conditions. Juliette's job is to be so loveable that it makes us accept this unfairness. Give her a parade!I saw this (again) in preparation for Sean Penn's portrayal of a mentally damaged person. He is the most interesting actor alive, and I wanted some background on how others handle it. All actors like to play characters that cannot be whole characters, either because they are damaged or they are actors. Every actor eventually gets around to it.It is already the case that actors refer to prior portrayals rather to reality. Juliette gets extra points in my book for passionate commitment. She acts with her mouth, and luckily many mentally deficient people focus on their mouths as well. She comes up with some new mannerisms, at least to me. Not true, merely dramatic. I was always aware I was watching and actor. Try I Am Sam instead.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay this was a great movie, great acting, great story ... my dad even cried during this movie .. sure my mother cried like always during movies .. but my dad come on.. give this movie a 10 imdb under rated this "},{"Title":"Missed opportunities galore","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, well I hired this not really expecting much. In fact, I only hired because I found out some of my favourite actors were in it. Overall, it was a cutesy, sweet and at times funny movie that was a bit of a tearjerker. The biggest problem I had was the under-development of pretty much every character except Carla and maybe the parents. With such an awesome supporting cast, the producers should have taken advantage of them. In the effort to develop Carla as the main character, everyone else just fell into the wayside. They became under-developed, under-used and all round, under-appreciated.One character in particular that I felt fit this criteria was Jeff Reed, the fiancée of Caroline. His presence provided the perfect opportunity to see Carla from the point of view of an outsider. And it would have been really interesting to see how they interacted, as they had only just met. In the entire movie, they don't even speak to one another except for at the country club after his joke about the wedding being in New Zealand, and she corrects him, but even that moment feels incomplete and an opportunity is missed.That is what sums up this movie for me, missed opportunities. A great premise which has somehow collapsed, a fantastic supporting cast that is hugely underused and some great moments that are ruined by amateur directing or editing. With the two mentally retarded characters,the acting is adequate but it just somehow seems to miss the target. Good effort but it all just falls apart. "},{"Title":"Garry Marshall rom-com","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Carla Tate (Juliette Lewis) is mentally handicapped. Elizabeth (Diane Keaton) pushes her reluctant husband Radley (Tom Skerritt) to send her to a special school. Carla returns home and tries to readjust but her mother is controlling. Her sisters Caroline (Poppy Montgomery) and Heather (Sarah Paulson) are moving on. Her mother finally relents and Carla goes to vocational school where she meets Danny (Giovanni Ribisi) with similar problems.Director Garry Marshall can't help himself in making a broad rom-com out of this material. Juliette Lewis is wrong and the comedy feels awkward. It is horribly Hollywood and loses any edge. In one sense, it's good that mentally handicap characters can be used in a bad rom-com. I just wish that somebody would make a better one. "}{"Title":"The Other Sister Might Be Hotter.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Other Sister (1999) Dir Garry Marshall / Cast Juliette Lewis, Giovanni Ribisi, Diane Keaton, Tom Skerritt, Hector Elizondo Misguided comedy about the struggles and issues facing the mentally handicapped. Juliette Lewis plays the other sister and the title seems to suggest her lack of recognition and her eagerness to become more than she is. She wishes to free herself from her mother's apron string and seek opportunities in life, choices and romances. She arrives home from a special school to the news that her sister is engaged and her other sister is gay. She enrols in a computer course and meets a mentally challenged male who works at a bakery. Fine setup is reduced to predictable elements and a dumb financial explanation in the conclusion. It is disturbing watching these two experiment with sex. Directed by Garry Marshall who often deals with films where outsiders aim to fit in. He previously made Pretty Woman and Dear God. Convincing performances by Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi who pull through even when the material is uneasy. Tom Skerritt and Diane Keaton play her annoying parents in what isn't their best moment. Hector Elizondo plays the landlord and friend to the Ribisi character but the role is one note and flat. Arguments surface regarding handicaps and their level of freedom but viewers may be divided as to whether the execution is a success. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"I Adore This Movie!","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Graduate is my favourite romantic comedy. The Other Sister is my second favourite. I know that this is a divided movie, but it should not be. This is meant for two purposes to entertain and to amuse, both of which succeed. The Other Sister brings mentally challenged characters to the screen which is a rarity. Almost every time somebody has done a mentally challenged portrayal, they have succeeded to a high degree. Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi are two of those examples. Lewis was nominated for a Razzie for worst actress and Roger Ebert called the acting by all a big mess. Lewis was an easy target for the Razzie committee, and Ebert's review of this is one of the few he has gotten dead wrong. I consider this to be a loose remake of a 1970's TV movie with Shaun Cassidy and Linda Purl called Like Normal People. That movie had worse acting than this.Juliette Lewis plays a mentally challenged young woman named Carla Tate who must deal with her overbearing mother (Keaton). Diane Keaton is a wonderful actress and her performance reminds me of some of my own experiences. Sure her character is unlikeable, but Scarlett O'Hara was unlikeable too. She enrols in a regular school where she meets and falls in love with Daniel McMahon (Ribisi) whose intellect is equal to hers. Carla finally moves into her own apartment, but must face the hard times to come. The Other Sister doesn't poke fun at disabilities, it brings light to their independence and shows how cute they can be. Both Lewis and Ribisi are deserving of Oscar wins, especially the latter. I made a list on this site of the greatest acting performances in film history and ranked Ribisi as Daniel at number 18. He was truly robbed. Not only is he a talented actor who can play anything, his saggy eyes made him the only choice for Daniel. He truly looks like he's mentally challenged. Whenever I watch him as another character, I always see and think of Daniel McMahon. Ribisi is a supporting role, but steals the show. Lewis is the star, and she is marvellous. If The Other Sister were a drama, the movie would have been just as good. As a romantic-comedy, it is very lovable and will melt your heart. "},{"Title":"A nice story....","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I have to say to Author colleen from Boston, MA 12 March 2002 You are wrong about a line in the movie. The correct line is....Carla asked Daniel, I wonder who thought up sex? And Daniel relied, I think it was Madonna. That is the quote.I just watched this movie and it made me weep. Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi did excellent jobs playing their characters. They made you fall in love with them as they were falling in love with each other. You also became involved with their struggles in life. The movie could have been deeper, but I believe the writers and director did a good job in keeping the story light.Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi are very versatile and capable actors. I believe both gave excellent performances. "},{"Title":"A touching film","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" They're not drug addicts. They're not ax murderers. They're not Democrats. Well, that's dad's (Tom Skerritt) assessment of his three daughters one an underachiever (Sarah Paulson), one a lesbian (Poppy Montgomery), and one developmentally disabled (Juliette Lewis). You can imagine how mom (Diane Keaton) deals with her three daughters and the country club set that they belong to, especially when Carla (Juliette Lewis) wants to get married.It was strangely familiar as I work with the developmentally disabled, and it was a good introduction to their world. I could see a lot of my friends in this movie, especially how they react to things they know, but don't understand, and how they deal with upsets to their world. It was beautiful and touching and I swear I teared up at the end.Dad wasn't such a jerk after all. Towards the end he said something else that was moving and so true When you reach a certain age and you're not talking to your children, then you are missing part of the journey. Not bad for a Republican.There were several really touching/funny moments in this film. When Carla asks if they should have some music and he selects a Sousa march, I broke up. (You have to be there.) There was a great song playing after they had one of those arguments that every couple has. I wish I knew the name. And, when the light goes on as Daniel (Giovanni Ribisi) is describing The Graduate to a fellow traveler on the train, you just know what's coming! This was sure better than watching The Ringer. Lewis and Ribisi rock! "},{"Title":"My sides hurt and my eyes are red !!! I'll buy it !!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen and rented many many movies - but I can not remember a performance like Juliette Lewis gave ... Her portrayal of Carla Tate was wonderful. This is a funny, moving, and statement making movie about how people are people and we all have our challenges and that loving each other no matter what is what's really important ... I will buy this ... I laughed, raised my eyebrows with Carla, and cried several times. I think the people most challenged were the normal people ... I may even go again next weekend !!! 9 of 10 !!! Most people clapped when it was over !!! When was the last time that happened ... ???   "},{"Title":"Another Garry Marshall Hit or MISS","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Garry Marshall, The Other Sister is supposed to be a romantic comedy about two mentally challenged people that meet and fall in love. Carla Tate (Juliette Lewis), after being put away for a few years, returns home from a private boarding school to her wealthy family in the Bay area. While dealing with an overprotective and overbearing mother (Diane Keaton), Carla enrolls in the local community college, meets Danny (Giovanni Ribisi), falls in love, and decides to move out on her own. It seems that The Other Sister goes out of it's way to make retarded people look cute and act funny. Giovanni Ribisi is pretty good with his role but what is up with Juliette Lewis? I thought she was amazing as the dim-witted and simple-minded Adele in 1993's Kalifornia. I just thought the performance was a little over the top. All in all, you have a movie with a really great cast that just sinks a little below average. A little preachy and glossy, it would have been better if it hadn't tried to be so damn cute and overdo itself. At just a over two hours running length, it could have used a little trim job as well.But hey, there's a lot worse movies out there that you could rent.Juliette Lewis has interesting cameos in Romeo is Bleeding (great movie) and Strange Days (not so great a movie). "},{"Title":"Rich and Dignified??","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Juliette Lewis has made a career playing what she calls trailer trash   in films like Natural Born Killers, Strange Days and Cape Fear.    In The Other Sister she's plays Carla who's slow. In spite of the   mawkish lack of reality of the film it's enjoyable.    Of course this being Hollywood Carla is very rich. Apparently the money   was gained somehow by her previously alcoholic specialist dentist   father (Tom Skerritt). Dentisty must be very profitable in the U.S.    The film begins with Carla being brought home after several years from   her special institution to live again at home. Carla wants to get on   with life and learn to be a veterinarian's assistant. (Carla speaks   slowly and I thought at first that she was going to shoot for a career   as a vet, not as the assistant. That would have been remarkable even   for Hollywood.)    Anyway off she goes to school, passes her grades and meets her lover,   another disabled lad called Danny played by Giovanni Ribisi (Saving   Private Ryan) and eventually looks to be going to live happily ever   after.    Side plot elements include a lesbian sister, an overbearing mother, the   Dustin Hoffman film The Graduate and Marching Bands.    All a bit trite really especially in view of the wealth of her family   (I bet every (slow) child would love access to that sort of money, but   what makes The Other Sister works is the performance of the two leads   who lend plenty of weight to the notion that everybody deserves to be   treated with dignity. "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I readily confess that  I am basically quite ignorant about the difficulties encountered by disabled people in everyday society. However, after almost 2 hours of this film, I am none the wiser. What I do know, after sitting through a host of inconsistencies, is that the film makers haven't got the foggiest notion either. Sure, the film had its moments  but they were certainly few and far between. Was this supposed to be a film about the mentally handicap or a mere disguise for a diatribe about power struggles within the family unit? I've seen that film before (done better) and it was called Parenthood. What annoyed me most about the film was the incongruous claptrap about independence and freedom while having no problems living in the apartment that Mother chose and paid for. Sometimes I wonder if I wasn't just watching a spoilt child throwing tantrums. What about the oh-so cliched argument that when you're in love it's okay to be inconsiderate and rude. Certainly, a little bit of romantic fluff now and again is a lot of fun but when a movie takes itself too seriously, it becomes a little bit too much. The saving grace of this movie was definitely the performance of Giovanni Ribisi who managed to maintain his characterization in spite of the movie's lack of integrity. "},{"Title":"A film that should NOT be overlooked at Oscar time","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I can say about this film is Wow!!!! A brilliant plot and cast makes the film one of the best I have seen in a long long time. This unusual love story, which involves two very special people. Love comes in all shapes, sizes, and in this movie intellect. Juliette Lewis deserves an award for her performance because she was so convincing in her role as Carla Tate. It is as if she had played this role before in another movie because everything seemed perfect from the talk to the body language. Also, Giovanni Ribisi does a good job as Carla's boyfriend, Daniel. I love the storyline, finally a movie about a love story of a different kind, possibly unique in the fact that this is the only movie to be made. The one thing Carla desperately wants is the one thing she is fighting with her mother about, and that is independence and the freedom to do what she wants. Carla wants to feel like she do everything on her own instead of relying on dear old mom to do everything for her. Tom Skerrit plays Carla's supportive father; I applaud Tom Skerrit for his performance because it is usually the mother who supports their child and the father doesn't wants to budge from their opinions. Diane Keaton plays her domineering and overprotective mother, unwillingly to listen to anyone but herself. There is a lot of heart-felt and touching dialogue that takes on a deep meaning between Carla and her mother, especially toward the end of the film. She has to deal with her two other daughters before moving ahead. It is as if there are three themes rolled into one movie; amazingly, they all tie in with one another in one way or the other. I had a tear in my eye at one point in the movie because it was so touching. Anyone and everyone will enjoy this film from beginning up to and including the very end; I highly recommend The Other Sister. I would ask everyone to see this movie because Juliette Lewis gives a remarkable, Oscar worthy performance. "},{"Title":"Confidentally Loved","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Movie admired me of my blessings and burden and it challenges many Young and Older People with Disabilities, take refuge of my life. The Character Carla in this movie (Played by Juliette Lewis) did challenge my life and it encourage me. I remember last year, I asked a Mental Impaired Girl who I meet at a Christmas Dance at a Local Church did experience my life. It shows me that What Love is ? I really did enjoy watching this movie back in 2004 and know I have this on copied on DVD from Encore Channel.I push my words out like Daniel did in the whole scenes, when I was watching the movie ? Because, Iam different like he is. I try to find a good girl to love. But words make Women with Disabilities get emotionally confuzed in Reality. "}{"Title":"Cute little thing","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After 10 minutes, I was really afraid of the melodrama, the thousans violions of 90 % of the American movies. And we saw that a thousand times  movies with mental problem persons who are always so fine... (Le Huitième jour, Rain man, and also a film of the early 80's with Mickey Rooney - sorry, I don't remember the title!) But the simplicity of the whole thing charms me. The two young actors gives a superb performance. There are also very funny gags  the fanfare music that Danny loves and when Juliette Lewis looks in the book for sex positions). Perhaps the conservative aspects of the family irrates me a little bit  why in most American films the people have always to be rich and boring? A little bit of social reality should help this one. But I give a 7 out of 10 of this fine film. The best of the genre is Belgium's Le Huitième jour.   "},{"Title":"It's a vulgar and condescending movie...","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The script is filled with invites to laugh at the mentally disabled. The characters in this movie are not only mentally retarded, they've been living in a box for their entire lives. Who invited music? asks Carla. I think it was Madonna! cries her boyfriendLater they slur their speech while reading a sex manual. I guess the creators of this film thought that retarded people having sex was funny. A film that portrays a romance between two mentally retarded people should at least attempt to do the topic justice. The Other Sister lacks the depth of thought this difficult topic deserves.Also, although the film does show Danny's struggle to find work, it barely touches on Carla's. This film ran for over two hours-couldn't she have found an additional goal(other than her relationship) during that time? "},{"Title":"Yegads!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen Juliette Lewis in several films, including such generally god ones such as Cape Fear and Christmas Vacation. She was grating in Cape Fear, but I liked her in Vacation. I must report that The Other Sister is bad. It is a paragon of badness. It is a three-tylenol, wake-me-when-it's-over, cover-your-eyes, I-want-money-back, shame-at-being-an-American-because-this-is-what-Hollywood-is-coming-to exercise..wait, no.. *monumental effort* in badness. I have for a very long time thought that Juliette Lewis was somehow actually retarded. After seeing this movie, I am befuddled. Since Juliette Lewis is actually retarded, playing a retarded girl should be so natural for her. Mysteriously, the scale of her retardation is so grand, that she cannot even play a retarded girl on screen. I blame someone up the the Hollywood chain of ne'er-do-wells. I mean, a film like this obviously has a big budget (for retardation consultants and trainers), but it is so symptomatic with Hollywood nowadays that they should completely ignore the story and focus on the Special effects and explosions (in the form of spittle flying from her mouth). I would like, just for once, that some studio exec would have the good consiousness- nay, moral duty- to put the kibosh on such pap. Cloying, twee and patronizing. See it just so you can realize what sort of theatrical apocalypse we are fast approaching. "},{"Title":"Commendable subject, lousy movie","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sure everyone involved in this movie had the best of intentions. Maybe that's the problem.  Certainly the idea and much of the execution of the romance was well done, but the movie just didn't work.  All conflict was removed from the screenplay, other than the conflict between Carla and her mother, and it was obvious from the start that that would be resolved. The movie dragged out, hitting its points over and over and over and over again. It all looked phoney (especially the scene between the mother and Michelle.  The mother's line to her was the height of hypocrisy). The acting was good, but the story was too weak, contrivied, and pat.  If you want to see something good on this subject, rent BEST BOY.  Give everyone here an A for intentions, but an F for filmmaking. "},{"Title":"An all-too-sweet insincere film.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ah, Hollywood.  A land where life-threatening diseases, mega-disasters, and handicaps all become just ways to tell love stories that usually only emphasize whether or not two people will sleep with each other.  Focus this time on a self-consciously sensitive theme about understanding the mentally handicapped, and you've got The Other Sister.So what do you say about a heavy-handed movie that contains good, sustained performances of difficult, but mediocre, material?The Other Sister is a movie about two mentally-retarded people, Carla, and Daniel,who want to become independent of the smothering influences of their rich protective parents. Once they find each other, they feel that they can lead more normal lives.To be fair, The Other Sister does toy nicely with the 1967 film The Graduate both in its story line and in the symbolism that both Carla and Daniel are ready to graduate from their parents and leave behind their sheltered, child-like lives.But The Other Sister is disingenuous  it is calculated to be safely above reproach.  If you properly point out its flaws and filmmaking clichés, you are perceived as having been insensitive to its serious subject matter.And is The Other Sister actually sensitive or extremely insulting?  For example, the movie wants us to care about Carla and Daniel as people-we get several chances to understand that one of their pet peeves is the way that people laugh at them-but all of the jokes in the movie are directly at their expense.  Part of the movie's sensitivity, it would seem, is that it is OK to laugh at these people anonymously from the safety of the darkened theater.  Is this any different than Jerry Lewis or Adam Sandler playing the retard just for laughs-except that they make no pretense about what they're doing?And The Other Sister is calculatedly safe  To make the story's premise even palatable, it is set in the care-free world of the rich without many of the real world hardships that most of us face.  This upper-crust world is so cuddly and life there is so easy that even the Vietnam Vet-who wears a beret and lives in the basement with his memorabilia, peace signs and MIA flag-is friendly, understanding, supportive, and an all-together good guy.  In this world, what does it matter if someone can't fully function-the maid makes your Halloween costume for you anyway.Oh well, at least, The Other Sister shows more responsibility than most Hollywood movies by not actually showing the love scene and by recommending safe sex practices.  That alone has got to be worth something.  "},{"Title":"A melodramatic, unreasearched piece of offensive trash!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a choice one night between seeing the pseudo-porn 8MM and the comedy The Other Sister. Not feeling in the mood to see an offensive, trashy film, I chose The Other Sister. I should've gone to 8MM but for the same reasons of not wanting to be offended.Garry Marshall's latest film is strongly offensive to anyone who has worked around the mentally retarded. I should probably say early on that a brother of mine is physically and mentally challenged, the result of treatment for histiocytosis X and natural cirrhosis of the liver. I believe the mindless writer of this film was aiming to create characters which were on the same mentality level as my brother, but didn't bother to actually find out where that was.Instead the challenged characters are crimped, primped, and all but gifted in comedic timing. The director uses them like you would a four-year-old or a puppy, and remains on that superficial level throughout. He condemns his characters to a slew of social mishaps and disasters, never bothering to draw much genuine emotion out of his drowning cast.Anyone who enjoyed this film has very little knowledge of or contact with the mentally challenged, which means they have avoided some pain and heartache, but which also means they have missed out on some of the most sincere, honest people the world has to offer.  "},{"Title":"Yuck!!!!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most offensive movies I've ever seen.  I cannot believe other viewers' positive comments.  Did anyone over the age of 13 even see this movie?  Can't tell it from most of the reviews.  They sound like they were written by gushing, easily entertained, not terribly insightful teenyboppers.  An Oscar for Lewis?  They've got to be kidding.  Lewis' portrayal of a mentally retarded girl was so over-exaggerated that I felt embarrassed for the actress and for her character. Carla was completely obnoxious, not because she was mentally challenged, but because she was came off as a spoiled brat.  And the theme of Independence.  Independence my foot! What is so independent about living in an apartment picked out and paid for by mommy and daddy.  And while we are at it, let's get married, and live happily ever after in the $1500 a month (just a guess, based on size and location) apartment, compliments of mommy and daddy, with a $350 month income.Diane Keaton's performance was just as bad as Lewis'.  She didn't seem focused, I never felt that she cared for her daughter, or liked her daughter.  She seemed like she was always on the verge of becoming hysterical.  She didn't come off as being sincere.I give it a zero out of 5 stars.  SAVE YOUR MONEY!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Under Rated Film...","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Garry Marshall makes genuine cinema in 'The Other Sister', it's a romantically challenged film with love that works big time.A young mentally disabled woman named Carla Tate falls in love with A young man named Daniel McMahon, also slightly mentally disabled. Will they live happily happy ever after? 'The Other Sister' is a simple story, that has complicated characters. The film was not a box office hit and was critically panned, and was un-mentioned in 1999. However, 'The Other Sister' carries a 6.6 rating at IMDb today, with much favorable reviews. I loved the film, it's a fascinating love-story!Marshall's direction is neat, Music by Kyle Vincent is fantastic. In the acting department, It's a shame to know that Juliette Lewis was nominated for a Razzie for her earnest performance in here. Lewis is a terrific actress! Giovanni Ribisi steals the show with a excellent performance. Diane Keaton is efficient. Tom Skerritt is likable.On the whole, 'The Other Sister' is a gem. Watch this film, don't avoid it due to some Roger Ebert! "},{"Title":"A thoughtful, meaningful movie.","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not quite sure why everyone thinks this movie is bad. This movie touches my heart, and I'm sure many others with it's amazing plot line and wonderful characters.I guess people would say that the characters are undeveloped and not so thought out, but I disagree. Who are we to say what a mental handicapped person would act like? They're not all the same. I don't think people would like it if someone said that we were all the same.I think people don't like this movie because they are uncivilized and do not understand the difficulty that mentally challenged people have to face! I would like to see some of the people who don't like this movie pretend their mentally handicapped and not over do it or under do it.This movie should open your eyes and your heart to the challenging life mentally handicapped people have to deal with everyday. For those of you who poke fun at mentally handicapped people, I hope you take a look in the mirror and find out what makes you so selfish. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrific, seen it five times.","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely terrific. I have seen it 5 times now and plan to get it on video as soon as it comes out. I have read comments of people who did not like it and all I can say is, what were you watching? I think the whole point here is that people with disabilities are above all, people. Doesn't matter if your disability is mental, emotional, or physical, you're still a person. Nobody likes to be made fun of, but you can laugh at yourself sometimes. Everybody can love, and everybody needs love. I think this movie, or film, if you prefer, points that out very well. If you have not seen it yet, you will probably have to get it on video, as it is not generating a ton of money like The Matrix, but almost everyone I know who took my advice and saw it, liked it, and the majority of reviews here are good, as well. I do hope Lewis and Ribisi are at least nominated for an Oscar, because they truly deserve it. This movie is challenging my two favs to be my new fav of all time. And that's all I need to say about it.  "}{"Title":"good solid entertainment","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is a thoroughly enjoyable film.  Strong performances by Ms. Lewis and Mr. Ribisi as intellectually challenged individuals were very believable, but for those looking for a story that is believable may find this film at times disappointing.  Some situations seemed very contrived and the other characters seem at times to be just add ons.  The two other sisters were not well written and Ms. Keaton seemed a little over the top although that may well be the case for a mother in her situation.  Mr. Skerritt stole the show in my opinion as the solid understanding but sometimes misunderstood father. I did like the The Graduate clips and analogous setup.  All in all I enjoyed the movie even though its presentation on such a complex subject seemed simplistic and contrived at times but it did not trivialize and does provide some insights into trials, heartache, and satisfaction of challenged individuals.  Two and a half stars.  "},{"Title":"Juliette Lewis is an amazing actress","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the trailers for this movie on TV. I decided to go and see it because I wanted to see the performance of Juliette Lewis. I have seen a number of the films that she has been in and would say that her role as Mallory in Natural Born Killers was mind searing. I have worked around retarded adults and I know how the experience affected me. Juliette Lewis did an amazing job of capturing the feeling of a vibrant human being trying to assert herself and claim her rightful place in society.Not one of us enjoys being laughed at in a mean spirited way and her anger was justified.I watched this movie in a huge theatre and I was the only one in the theatre. There was no one to see the genuine tears of joy and sadness that this movie evoked from me. Their definition of love was a delight as they expressed their wedding vows. We can only hope that they live happily ever after. It is a hope we all strive for but not too many achieve. "},{"Title":"Original, touching, and inspiring","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is awesome! The acting is also  good. It is funny but also has some dramatic elements. And nobody dies, either, which is good. I'd recommend you go see this movie if you want a little of everything. "},{"Title":"Surprising.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went in to see it so that one of my best friends wouldn't go alone.  I ended up surprised, and cried a lot. It proved to be a beautiful movie and I thought it was original. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister was a very good movie, the best I have seen in a long time. The plot left you at times wondering if you should laugh or cry.  This was a very funny, very touching movie.  "},{"Title":"an entertaining but ultimately shallow experience","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i went into this movie with high expectations. it looked like juliette lewis' performance would be terrific. though the performances by both leads are good, both actors try to hard to convince the audience that they are retarded. the performances are exactly that, performances. the other problem with the movie is its lack of focus, all the characters are drawn too superficially. the movie suffers from a serious case of the cutes!!! ultimately though i have to say that it is entertaining, and i find it difficult to completely dislike a movie that just wants to entertain. but if you want to see a much better movie about the subject, check out Domminick and Eugene!  "},{"Title":"Moving and entertaining","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went in with low expectations, so I was pleasantly surprised that this film was so enjoyable.  Giovanni Ribisi, whose work I first saw in Saving Private Ryan, was great.  Although I generarally don't like Juliette Lewis's work, she did a wonderful job in this film.  Both roles were rather challenging, and Ribisi and Lewis both deserve kudos.There was a good mixture of tear-jerking and comic relief.  I felt a little guilty at laughing in a few places, but I realized I was laughing with not at the characters.  I also got to feel that I know these people, and that's a sign of a great film when the characters come to life and you feel as if you've actually met them.I recommend you see this film with someone you love.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Critics' nightmare","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This little gem is a critics' worst nightmare; a film they know the public will love, but that they, with their arty, condescending and pretentious ways, are loathe to review favorably ! I love the fact that almost every on- line review I've read begins with a form of the phrase if I'd listened to what the critics had to say about this film, I never would have gone. Thank God the makers of this classic tale remembered why people go to films in the first place, and it's most definitely NOT because some sterile, jaded, disheartened, cynic of a critic tells them to do so. "},{"Title":"Very heart warming - a must see","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the opportunity to see this movie with my neighbor who is the mother of a mentally challenged teenage girl of 18.  It was very amusing and heart warming to hear her comments as the movie develops.  We are now looking forward for Stefanie to become challenged in the real world. Great show!!!!!      "},{"Title":"loved the movie","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved the movie, the characters were great. I cried a lot, laughed a lot. The whole audience applauded at the end of the movie. It was fun watching San Francisco in the movie too. All kinds of weird mistakes, like having a Marin bus in San Francisco. And wondering where the churches were. Liked Tom Skarret he is so neat. Diane Keaton was great too. Neat that she let her wrinkles show. The sisters were good too. As I said I loved the movie. "}{"Title":"excellent acting!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and I saw this film as a sneak preview locally.  We were both duly impressed with the calibre of acting shown by both Lewis and Ribisi, more so for my girlfriend since she worked with mentally retarded children and adults for many years and couldn't tell that they were actors!  (don't blame her, she didn't know who Juliette Lewis was, and I didn't tell her until after the movie.)Bravo!  This is a film we will definitely see again!  "},{"Title":"A very touching and funny movie","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Not only did I laugh out loud many times, I was also moved by its depiction of a family faced with the real-life problem of a disability.  Juliette Lewis is great throughout the entire film as is Giovanni Ribisi. "},{"Title":"Let me be the first","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" `The Other Sister'. Like `8mm', I question the filmmakers to what is supposed to entertain us in this film.  Do we spend the 130 minutes (!!!) laughing at the failed ambitions of the two mentally challenged lead characters?  Director Garry Marshall seems to think so. But when OTHER characters in the actual movie laugh at them, the film suddenly discourages the comedy.  Playing this game really bothered me and never ceased to make me uncomfortable from start to finish.   Every movieMarshall has made follows the same beats.   `Other Sister' is yet another tale of people with unlimited wealth who live in a world where Fine Young Cannibal's `She Drives Me Crazy' is the theme song.  Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi do a slick job with their challenging parts.  But they are a slave to Marshall's lead foot o' comedy, so any problems won't be blamed on them.The rest of the cast is full of competent actors, yet the script shortchanges each of their characters.  They are all given silly backstories, the worst being a catastrophically lame subplot that is just so hopelessly dated. I wasn't moved by this film, as much as it tried.  ---------- 2 "},{"Title":"We enjoyed the movie immensely!You will too!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We highly recommend this movie to you.  It is touching.... and will move you to appreciate love at any level. People with developmentally challenged children need this movie, and the entire population would benefit from it as well.  "},{"Title":"I guess you have to not be a critic!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I'd listened to the critics I never would have gone to see this film. I would have missed out on an entertaining, heart-warming movie.  Sure it's a little predictable, but so what?  This film was funny and sweet and Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi were wonderfully cast as the two lovers. You felt yourself rooting for them from the first frame.  When the movie was over, the whole audience cheered!  I know that's why I pay to see a movie. If I wanted high art this wouldn't have been my first choice, but I wanted to be enterained and leave the theater feeling good...and I did.  It's not fair to compare this film to DOMINIC AND EUGENE, which was a wonderful film. But D&E was much darker and sadder.  THE OTHER SISTER was light and entertaining and sometimes that's just what one needs to see. "},{"Title":"Una Buena Pelicula","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  although it's only been out in theaters for two days, i've seen THE OTHER SISTER three times.  the acting is excellent, especially by GIOVANNI RIBISI. i feel that he made the movie worth watching.  without his beautiful performance and the performance of JULIETTE LEWIS, the overacting by DIANE KEATON and TOM SKERRIT would have not made THE OTHER SISTER worth watching. overall, i think it is one of the better movies i have seen in a while and i hope my grandma still wants to see it so i can take her!!My vote 9.3333Did i mention what a great job GIOVANNI did?  "},{"Title":"Frankly, it is much more than I expected a loving but not gushy film","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much of this movie, since we got free preview tickets through a local radio/TV station.  It was surprisingly charming and caring. But the usual soft-pedal on realism was NOT brought in.  It is a loving portrayal of special needs young people with modern desires to be as normal as they can be, at the disbelief of almost everyone else.  They fought through the obstacles with humor and love.  The mother as bad guy plays more true than most mothers would want to admit. . .a loving but not gushy film. "},{"Title":"Film for everyone-uplifting","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film, performances of Carla and Daniel were impressive. A film everyone should visit with open minds as there is something for each of us here. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great story, great acting. I am going to buy this video. Its very entertaining and the two actors who played mentally challenged were awesome. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It is heartwarming and heartbreaking. One minute it makes you laugh and the next moment you have to cry. I have seen it several times. I am going to buy it on video or DVD. The cast works well together. I could see it many more times. Other movies that are as good as this one, are Door to Door, Winnie and Riding The Bus With My Sister. If you like Diane Keaton, Juliette Lewis, Gianni Ribosi and and forget the other mans name you will enjoy this movie. Its a winner. "},{"Title":"The Other Sister","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie  The Other Sister was beautifully acted out by Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi. It shows how mentally challenged people can live a normal life. Although they may not be capable of all things, they can feel the emotion love. I found myself crying and laughing throughout the movie. It's a movie that most definitely pulls at the heart strings and makes you smile. Carla and Daniel are a beautiful and charming couple. They are determined to show everyone that they can be responsible adults. I was also moved by the support and the realization of the family that they could lead normal lives. It's a movie that you want to watch again and again. I highly recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"The wonderfully dysfunctional family.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The wonderful country club mother, the alcoholic father, the gay daughter, the perfect daughter, and the mentally handicapped daughter. Poor Dianne Keaton plays the easily hate-able mother and then she gives in to let her mentally challenged daughter go to school, live on her own, and then develop sexually (not an easy thing to do with the mentally handicapped). In defense of the mother, how many people expect to have to deal with all the lunacy of children who won't do what they are expected to do? Nobody, but life throws some curves at everyone and hopefully you deal with it. What did we tell our mentally handicapped brother about sex? -NOTHING. Yet he has an imaginary girl friend that we say is always throwing beer bottles on the street. Something he gets riled up about. This is not the dysfunctional family of Jodie Foster's Home for the Holidays. This is Dianne Keaton trying to grow up and let her child go, the child she always thought she could hide, protect, and keep as a child. "},{"Title":"I loved this touching movie!!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am so upset to have just read some of the other reviews or comments about this movie! I loved this movie and still find myself sitting up late at night if it is on. I was so delighted to have seen Juliette Lewis step out of her usual wild and out of control character roles and take a chance on Carla. She did a wonderful job of conveying all the different emotions that it took to earn her emancipation from her controlling mother. Carla was lucky enough to have had a supporting family, yet that support was keeping from growing into the person she knew she could be. I really liked the fact that Carla was able to prove her mother wrong by helping her to realize she would never be like the other sisters and that not being like the other sisters was ok. By Carla standing up to her mother, she also helped the mother learn to accept her sister Heather's being a lesbian .I also cannot believe the performance that Giovanni Ribisi gave. I just think that he and Juliette were amazing and very believable. They were able to maintain the innocence of the characters as well as show us how they were able to mature as a couple, even if it was a little bit at a time. Hector Elizondo played a great friend and father figure to Daniel. What better gift could a husband give to his bride than her own marching band salute!! I think we all need a Carla or Daniel in our lives to keep us real and down to earth. "},{"Title":"A Really Good Feel-Good Movie","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie numerous times, and even though some might consider it a chick flick (It is a tear-jerker at times.), I personally find it quite enjoyable.It has drama, comedy, action (well, no action unless you count the marching band at the end) and is a movie that provides heroes and villains, and also shows how compassionate people can be while also showing just how cruel and closed-minded some people can be.Watch it and enjoy it. You'll feel good. "},{"Title":"Only movie that ever made me cry","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The performances of Juliette Lewis and Giovani Ribissi are incredible.  I honestly can not comment on the realism, but I know they blew me away. The characters were so innocent that you couldn't help but feel for them, similar to Forrest Gump.  It makes you feel incredible sadness and incredible happiness.  All of the actors are magnificent, and this is one of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Garry Marshall's The Other Sister, is a quiet, pleasant film that was one of the surprises for that year.  This is one of the few films that successfully creates a story with developmentally handicapped people without focusing exclusively on the disability.  Lewis's performance in particular allows us to see a vivid personality within her character separate from her condition. Diane Keaton and Tom Skerrit do a wonderful job of capturing the many emotions of the affluent parents.  Keaton delivers a widely ignored performance, showing us a woman who is overly concerned with outside appearances and doesn't quite know how to severe the strings of motherhood. Skerrit is successful as the tortured father who has been in the backstage for too long.  Ribisi is the least impressive of the cast, being constantly upstaged by Lewis. The Other Sister is a charming little film that really works.  It combines a sweet story with a few chuckles, and some surprisingly good performances.  Definitely one of Marshall's lesser known, but definitely among his best.  "},{"Title":"charming and brilliantly played","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before i watched The Other Sister, i didn't know anything about it. I was pleasantly surprised to find a very good romantic drama, charming and sensitive from one end to the other. It's all about the love between two mentally retarded teenagers, played by Giovanni Ribisi and Juliette Lewis. In a cruel and deceiving world they both find the real meaning of love, trust, honesty.The movie is captivating and very well written and done. But the best thing about it is the way Lewis and Ribisi handle their roles absolutely brilliant. They are both perfect in two difficult roles in which they manage to prove the huge talent they both have.My vote is 8 out of 10, maybe because it doesn't have the originality required for a 9 or a 10. But a very good film that i suggest you to watch. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"simple - girl meets boy and they want to be happy, just like everyone else","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the best movie, i have seen for years. definitely will be one of my all time favourites. great characters. we laughed our heads off and well....it's a warm as a toasted marshmallow. cried a lot!! i will keep my fingers crossed for a best film nomination from the academy.  "},{"Title":"This film is a fair attempt at a bad idea. Not Recommended. ** out of ****","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE OTHER SISTER (1999) **Starring Juliette Lewis, Giovanni Ribisi, Diane Keaton, Tom Skerritt, Poppy Montgomery, and Sarah Paulson Director Garry Marshall   Running time 130 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for some sexually related material)By Blake FrenchThe Other Sister is a romantic drama with too many conventional, although charming, qualities. It somehow manages to come up with a partially original idea, but overpowers it with a desperate gimmick--which is the only thing giving the movie a tart of life. Regardless of how unique the movie's concept feels, it still is a philosophy that simply doesn't work.The film opens by introducing an unusual family to us; the Tates. There is the smiling but way overprotective mother, who seems quite unhappy with herself and family, Elizabeth, and her husband, the plain but sensible realist named Radley. Their children, now young adults, are somewhat on the uncommon side. First we have Caroline and Heather, an overworked underachiever and a homosexual with her lover named Michelle. Then there is Carla, a mentally retarded sibling who is very tired of her mother bossing her around all the time, and wants independence precariously.Carla is the center of the film's story. Her lust for freedom from her mother is the motive that drives the production. However, where can a movie go when the driving force is all but a desire? Easy--detail the struggle for a romantic partner. What more would make Elizabeth more concerned? Carla meets a nice young man of her mental abilities at a local school in which she is trying to pass a course on computers. His name is Daniel McMahon. Funny how his past life isn't ever examined, but Carla's looked at through a microscope. This is because of the Daniel character being used as a plot device rather than an actual character. Shame really, for there are many likable qualities about him.The movie is shameless in using the mentally retarded characters as a motive for being so bull-headed. The filmmakers obviously take our intelligence as moviegoers quite dimwitted. They try so hard to pound the concepts behind the two retarded character's into our heads it's migraine-inducing. The film forces us to back away by showing scenes that consist of the following during some sort of festival, Carla somehow manages to make herself look like a fool by interrupting a speech for silly reasons and releasing masses of animals into the crowd causing chaos; a psychologist of Carla's describes her  feelings and emotions to us (this is the story's development of the character) with Elizabeth, through explicit and detailed terms. This only proves to us once again that it is always better to show, not tell. As Daniel and Carla watch the seduction scene from The Graduate, Carla and Daniel discus sexual matters between each other in laughable context; Elizabeth is trying to teach her daughter, Carla, how to dance, but Carla's being dense and does a dirty dancing routine, turning this otherwise charming sequence into another discouraging moment in the film.I can't really say that I ever did care about the characters in The Other Sister, even the title refers to someone insignificant. I'm not quite sure what the flashback scenes in the opening are supposed to do--take us into the past and meet the characters earlier in their existence, maybe? It is almost as if the writers were worried that we wouldn't sympathize with Carla, but if a character is well written we'll empathize with them, regardless of the background or childhood.Another problem I had with the movie is its subtext so outwardly blooming. You see, as I have said, it is much more effective to express a character's feelings through actions rather than convenient conversations. Subtext is the dialogue that explains a character's inner affections. Here are a few examples of how bare naked subtext is used to develop the emotional aspect of Elizabeth, Carla's mother(1) I fell like I'm the mother of a dedicated underachiever, a gay workaholic, and Carla, who thinks she can conquer the whole terrifying world that we live in... (2) Sometimes I think there are better mothers in the world that are better equipped to handle Carla.There are some good qualities in this romantic drama, however. For once, the father isn't the protagonist; the family member causing the tension for others. In fact, the father of Carla, Radley, is quite easy going--it's the mother, Elizabeth, who gives the characters a hard time with life. What a terrific breeze of fresh air. And Elizabeth is very well acted by Diane Keaton, as is Radley by Tom Skerritt. They both create a believable and effect portrayal of their characters. Too bad I can't say that about the actors behind Daniel and Carla, who are played by Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi. They are convincing but mildly exaggerated. The romantic chemistry between them is a given, simply because we don't know them personally--therefore do not know any better than to like them as a couple.Then again, however, the film throws in the typical break up sequence in the prime of Carla's and Daniel's relationships--this one worse than most. And the sisters of Carla are only present to jumble several unneeded emotions. Not to mention the overly long running time in which the film spends by continuously tossing content in the hodgepodge that the filmmakers call a script, which overwhelm the audience even more.Overall, Gary Marshal's The Other Sister is a fair presentation of a bad ideal. I feel obligated to compare the content of this movie's failure to the also defective Mystery Men, released this summer. At least Mystery Men was a good attempt at a bad idea, though. That is more then I can say about The Other Sister.Brought to you by Touchstone Pictures.  "},{"Title":"The best acting I have ever seen!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi were OUTSTANDING in this movie! These two actors deserve an academy award for their acting in this movie, I was just blown away! I mean, watching the this film, you would think that the two of them were actually mentally challenged. this movie is definetly a tear jerker, I know I cried. If you watch this movie, you'll probably fall in love with Giovanni's character *smiles* He plays him so well.  "},{"Title":"Heart warming, Totally romantic, GREAT!!!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has moved up on my list of best films along with An Officer and a Gentlemen, Mr. Holland's Opus, and The Godfather movies.  The acting was fabulous!  Simply the most romantic film I've seen in a very long time. I went to the theatre twice to see it and each time left with a warm feeling.  Love and romance still exist.Great movie!!!  Great acting!!! "}{"Title":"One of the most refreshing movies I've seen in a while.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister brought cheers from the crowd at the end due to its refreshing look at a subject that has not been dealt with in recent times. The movie was full of humorous moments and several times brought tears to the eyes of those watching. It helped us all look at mentally challenged people in a different way by showing the independence and strength they can have. "},{"Title":"WILL PUT ANYONE IN A GOOD MOOD","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the most uplifting movies I have seen in a while. The movie may not have been the most realistic but isn't that why we watch movies. The two characters Carla and Danny show us love in its purest form. If only we could all take a lesson from them we would all be happier people.  "},{"Title":"It was a good-quality story about a mildly retarded woman, Carla Tate, and her simple dreams (and loves) in life.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is not the next high-priced Hollywood blockbuster nor is the newest sappy, Oscar-winning, epic, tragic love story but I saw it and it was GOOD.  It was just a good quality story about a mildly retarded woman, Carla Tate, and her simple dreams (and loves) in life.  Its honest simplicity, refreshing story, and gut-wrenching emotion make it very endearing and will win the hearts of movie-goers everywhere.A story about a mildly retarded woman doesn't seem like the most exciting premise but Carla isn't like any slow woman I've ever met.  She comes from an extremely well off family, went to a nurturing special school and became very well-rounded and optimistic, and is exceptionally beautiful.  The only indications that she is handicapped are her slow speech and her simplistic view of life, and in that respect she is much like Forrest Gump (but her character is not.)  Carla is also very likable.  She is very honest, in a way that is embarrassing to her family, is very refreshing and humorous. (Carla has several good one-liners throughout the film.)The film TOS is about Carla returning from her special boarding school and trying be achieve independence from her overprotective rich family.  She does not try to be financially independent nor is she trying to sever all ties with them, but much like a college student-she is trying to break out from under her parents protective wing and experience life and love on her own terms and she does.She is allowed to go to a technical university for regular students, as she puts it, after persuading her parents for quite some time, and it is here that she meets her first love, Daniel. Carla also gets her first apartment to her absolute delight.  Daniel is also mildly retarded and his sweet affection wins Carla's heart. Daniel, however, is quite an embarrassment to her rich, conservative, country-clubbing family and they are constantly concerned that 'this boy that will just take advantage of you, Carla.' Their worry is just genuine snobbish concern and Daniel and Carla finally do win their parents acceptance and blessing.TOS is not only a love story but an excerpt of Carla's life.  She is very captivating and by the end of the film, you are so charmed by her, that you are just so happy for her, if not proud.  The film pulls you along at a steady pace, taking you through the ups and downs of Carla's world and experiencing the good and bad sides of human nature with her, from her point of view.  It is also a happy-sad movie.  It has a happy ending, but sad because Carla has to face some ugly truths about people when her good faith is abused because she wants to live in the 'real' world.  Juliette Lewis has some fabulous performances during Carla's red-faced, vein-popping, gut-wrenching sobs.  You cannot leave the movie theater unaffected by the life of Carla Tate.  Even my macho boyfriend shed a few tears even though he won't admit it (but they hit my arm.)TOS was memorable because it was a movie that revealed a side of retarded people largely unexplored.  The film was not about her family, or her friends and how her illness effected anyone else in her life but a film about her and her independence.  In fact, Carla did not consider herself physically challenged and I never felt sorry for Carla; none of the empathy I felt for her was out of pity, but understanding.  This movie treated this retarded couple as individuals that wanted what nobody caring for them could give them-the pride and dignity of being independent.  "},{"Title":"Felt too much like a TV-movie","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Normally I always try to find some alternative movies. I'm not saying that I can't enjoy a Hollywood blockbuster from time to time, but I like to see smaller, less well-known movies as well. That's one reason why I gave this movie a chance. The other reason was because Juliette Lewis was in it. I'm not saying she's the best actress ever, but she's quite good most of the time...The Other Sister tells the story of a mentally retarded girl, Carla Tate, who wants to be more independent from her parents after she got out of the training school where she has resided for many years because of her handicap. But her rich parents and especially her mother, don't see it that way. She still sees Carla as her little girl that isn't capable of doing anything and who has to be thought the more 'meaningfull' things in life like playing tennis or chess, learning about art,... But Carla is able to convince her parents and they send her to school, where she meets a boy who is equally mentally challenged as Carla. They fall in love and want to start a live together, much against her mother's will...Even though I didn't have too high expectations of this movie, I can't say that I was convinced by it. It's not Juliette Lewis' performance that bothered me. She's very believable as the handicapped girl, but it's the rest of the movie that I didn't like all too much. This felt more like an oh let's blow our noses in the curtains because our handkerchief will never be big enough - TV-movie and if there is one thing that I absolutely hate, than it must be that kind of movies... That's why I give this movie only a 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"i have never been touched by a movie like this one","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  all that i can say it s the most touching film i have ever seen in my life .  It expresses and teaches what is  the meaning of true love "},{"Title":"This is funny and uplifting romantic comedy!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though Carla has grown into a very capable young woman, her nervous mother still has a major meltdown when Carla announces she's in love for the first time! So as Carla and her new boyfriend Daniel set out to experience all of life's great adventures, they're also out to prove that Carla has earned her independence!I loved the 'The Other Sister'. This is the work of director Gary Marshall, who bought us pretty woman, which had a big impact on the movie world. This movie has had the same impact on me.The cast was truly amazing for The Other Sister. Firstly Diane Keaton, was superb as the overprotective mother. In a way I hated her character, but loved the way she portrayed it. In the end she accepts that her special daughter has grown up. Juliette Lewis was fantastic to as Carla, and really made me believe that she was a little bit 'different'. I will look out for her more now in movies to come. Then there was the role of Daniel played by Giovanni Ribisi, who showed me that he can do any role he wants. I have seen him in Gone In Sixty Seconds and The Boiler Room, both roles that were different to this one, yet all were terrific and I hope his career keeps getting stronger and stronger. Finally a mention on Tom Skerritt, he was great too. He was the calming person in a very hostile family situation and only in one scene in the movie does he lose his cool.The other sister has an exceptional soundtrack also, with a mention of the great work by the Australian band Savage Garden. There song The Animal Song was big hit and one of the main reasons for me wanting to watch this great movie. On ya boys!  Finally, this movie does show, that imperfection doesn't matter, whether you are born with a disability or not, you shouldn't stop living your life the way YOU want. I respect people with disabilities. The way they get along in the world and fit in, it must be difficult and take alot courage, The other sister shows that courage. Well done on what I thought was a wonderful movie, you're sure to cheer this feel-good treat!Rating 5 Stars or 10/10  "},{"Title":"unfortunate","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a guilty pleasure, with an emphasis on the former, and considerably less of the latter.  My feelings about the movie are summarized by what must have been a cinematographic blooper - Juliette Lewis emoting on the country club lawn and two jets of water suddenly burst out of her ears.  The whole movie felt largely like that. "},{"Title":"I want my two hours and ten minutes back!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has good actors, and a good story, but the writing is terrible and about half of the movie could've ended up on the cutting room floor. I was completely insulted by this movie. I do not recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Sugarcoated charm","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is a enjoyable and charming film.   The film was treated in light, optimistic manner.  Based from the comments of those who didn't like the movie, I think I'd feel better watching in the comfort of home.  It's the kind of movie that held a lot of punches to go the easy way out. Giovanni Ribisi did well in the movie.  Juliette Lewis' character, Carol, sometimes annoys me when she bawls, and gets angry because she's not getting something her way.  I have an uncle and a cousin who are mentally challenged and while they can be difficult at times, they're not spoiled.The idea that they can be independent is intriguing given that my uncle and cousin are always under frequent if not constant care and supervision. That's what makes Ribisi's character interesting.  He has his own apartment even if he couldn't keep it for long and basically works on his own. Somehow Carol's was more due to envy.  I hate to put Juliette Lewis down, she's so cute.An unnecessary part is the revelation that one of the sisters is lesbian. It was resolved, but it was a subplot that didn't enhance the story.  It's as if it's done just for PC's sake.  The beginning of the film has interesting intros but somehow doesn't really affect the rest of the movie. Again, sugarcoated for convenience.  What mattered most was theromance.The verdict 3.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An extreme disappointment; not what I expected","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story line was one promising much depth but delivered crass nonsense.  What the retarded characters delivered was poor, overacted and should have been an embarrasment to each of them.  Added to that was the totally unnecessary lesbian relationship of one of the sisters.  The only saving grace to this picture was the mildly entertaining performances by the parents and the heterosexual daughter. Overall a waste of time and another example of moral bankrupcy.  I do not recommend this film to anyone unless they need a nap. "}{"Title":"Dreadful dreck","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With only 15 min. left to run in the movie, we looked at each other for maybe the fourth time. She said Seen enough?  I said, About an hour ago.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully acted love story","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Garry Marshall has directed an affecting tale of romance between two mentally challenged adults. Although it does push all the buttons of sentiment and humor, the wonderful performances of Juliet Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi as the naive couple can't help but have the audience right where they want you. Garry Marshall, at a pre-opening screening, related that Ribisi remained in character at all times during the filming. However, Lewis turned her characterization on and off with action and cut as each scene was filmed. The tale is somewhat reminiscent of Marshall's Pretty Woman, in that you can almost predict the finale. But that doesn't matter. If these two don't put a lump in your throat, you must be made of stone. See it because it will make you feel good.  Not that there's anything wrong with that. "},{"Title":"Eh.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't find myself to be particularly touched by this film. Frankly, I thought it tried just a little too hard to be happy and touching, and instead, the ending was laughable and the audience walks away feeling as if they've been beaten over the head with the cutesy stick way too often. It's true, the movie is set up that you're laughing at disabled people, when a good movie about this same subject would take you so much deeper into the joys and pains of these individuals. The not well-developed love between 'Carla' and 'Danny' is also cutesy, and not a portrayed like a real reflection of any type of true love.  And the acting - how hard is it to pretend to be retarded? The actors were convincing, but I gave the same caliber performance in 8th grade when my friends and I would set up our parents' video cameras and act like mentals (And don't look down at me, you know you did the same thing too).Overall Nothing too deep, interesting, or generally stimulating. I watched it on TNT at 2 o'clock in the morning - and that's where it belongs. "},{"Title":"Somebody give this movie a breath mint","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With such a talented cast how could you go wrong? Well trust me, they did. This film gave me the feeling I would have if my Grandmother slipped me the tongue. While the sometimes talented director Gary Marshall tries to make us 'feel good' about the story of two mentally handicapped people trying to find true love, the result is BORING. The screen writer must have been mentally challenged themselves.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious,but some tears, too!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this film, about a frustrated mother trying to cope with a mentally disabled daughter, there is a message for all of us - that we all need our independence and wish to fulfil our desires for happiness in our own way.  Diane Keaton plays the role of Elizabeth the over protective mother in a most convincing performance  - she shows all the desperation, the moods and emotions of a mother hoping to do the best for her child and suffering arguments and rebuffs at every turn.  While Carla (Juliette Lewis)and her lover Daniel (Giovanni Ribisi) both disabled hold us in a state of nervous fascination,it is Diane Keaton who holds the storyline together.   This is not a depressing film.  On the contrary there are moments of humorous sexual exploration, numerous embarrassing situations and outright hilarity.   A few of the scenes which I find particularly amusing are The sweet innocence of the young couple reading a sex manual and earmarking the pages of appropriate positions,  the initial introduction of Daniel in fancy dress as a large dog to Carla's parents and the church wedding in which church dogma is dispensed with and the couple do it in their own way.  The film is quite touching at times and some tears may appear, but in retrospect it is the joyous ending that seems to make everything right.  And doesn't Diane Keaton look absolutely stunning in her magenta outfit with the big hat?  "},{"Title":"Are you people serious?","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Touchstone pictures must be really working overtime to retroactively promote this movie if all these glowing reviews are any indication.This movie is awful.  Every instinct that the filmmakers followed was woefully misguided.  Characters are introduced, then forgotten about, Diane Keaton improvises horribly in every one of her scenes, the music is scattershot and wholly inappropriate (The Animal Song?  Equating retarded people with animals!?!), and far from last and far from least - the condescending manner in which it deals with disabled people.I've seen this film six times, out of perverse fascination.  Anyone who truly, TRULY believes this is a good film is simply perverse.  "},{"Title":"offensive and melodramatic claptrap that insults the issues faced by the intellectually challenged","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a rare occasion that leads me to want to walk out of a theatre (I actually sat through Tarzan the Apeman with Bo Derek), but this movie came close to propelling me into the lobby.  The plot (and I use the term lightly) centers on the life and loves by a young retarded girl who returns home after having been sent to a 'special school' by her guilt ridden, extremely wealthy parents for several years.  In the course of 128 tedious minutes, this girl goes through a number of challenges, all of which are presented in the most maudlin and melodramatic manner possible.The faults of this piece of schlock from Gary Marshall are too numerous to mention, so I'll focus only on those elements, which were most offensive. These include 1. Fatuous acting by the 2 'retarded' characters, both of whom obviously spent a few days with intellectually challenged individuals, but learned nothing other than the most overt mannerisms. These they portray in a way that would embarrass a first year drama student.2. Playing disabilities and intellectual impairments for laughs. Virtually every five to ten minutes there would be an episode where one or other of the 'retarded' characters would engage in some socially unacceptable or embarrassing behavior, invariably presented as funny.  There were several young women behind me who erupted in gales of laughter each time one of those crazy 'retards' did another 'cute' thing.3. Diane Kenton, whose over the top, hysterical acting as the guilty mother makes us yearn for the subdued and deep performances seen in Something About Mary.4. A total ignoring of the real issues faced by the intellectually challenged. These 'retards' are rich, physically attractive, with totally supportive families and oodles of friends. No loneliness, rejection, physical disabilities, or poverty to interfere with the fun.4. Lastly, and most damning, is the fact that there was a potential for a real movie that could examine the issues and lives of the intellectually challenged. Any random sample of such people would reveal incredible stories of courage and heartbreak, which are rarely, if ever, heard.As someone who has worked extensively with the intellectually impaired, I am offended that such a piece of utter drivel could command the effort and money needed to bring it to the screen. If you want to find out about the intellectually challenged, do yourself a favor, and volunteer with the local agencies that work with this population.  You'll learn more in five minutes than you will from 2 hours of this drek!(2 out of 10, mainly for technical merit in the film production).  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the best movie ive seen thus far. Its a feel good movie, filled with comedy, drama and well... a bit of action. I agree that its probably unrealistic....but, life is already so depressing,so a little pinch of fairytale element is always welcome. I don't think the movie is made for us to laugh at disabled people, it just helps us to know them a bit better, to give them the respect and chance of having a normal life.The acting is excellent, Lewis and Gibsi did a very good job. Also bonus points for keaton. Its a shame that it didn't do very well in the cinemas. But,overall, i think if you have a heart and a sense of humor, you will definitely enjoy this movie. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Recently you mentioned DOING IT....","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ....Strange things are happening to my body.... me too...This is a special movie about special people Afterschool SPECIAL, I should say.Why is anyone taking this seriously?It's a joke!Wh-wh-what do they do after k-kissing?uh, uh th-th-then they, they DO IT! A-and then, he smiles! And she has a cigarette!B-b-but, I, I don't like smoking!And I don't need to have to think about sex between retarded people. "},{"Title":"Like the Butcher's Daughter","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cuz she has a lot to LOIN! I don't think they even let people like that into Vo-Tech; that's just insulting. They left out the part where Carla brings cosmetics to a make-up exam.Nobody names a goldfish Tickles, that's really dumb unless you're fish is ticklish, which I don't think it was.I want that job picking marshmallows out of tuba's, it's a chick magnet, especially not getting paid.I call Danny College Bread - he made a 4 year loaf off his father's dough! I got a cookie maker's hat and everything! It's really high! That line does NOT work, and neither does wearing a puppy costume and barking at girls who are the ugly duckling. I didn't buy that part where he says he's house-trained he's more of a litterbox kind of guy who tells everyone his love secrets because he wants to do that pervy thing on page 146. "}{"Title":"Another look at mental disabilities and the desire for normalcy.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've worked with kids and people who have what used to be called mental retardation, a term now under PC scrutiny. This movie shows able actors portraying mentally retarded young people who want to do the things society at large can do. This yearning for normalcy is something that most people (even movie critics) are able to understand.There have been many portrayals of challenged people in plays, books and movies. Why is that? Is it a money maker, as some cynics claim? Is it the supposed lure of the freak show? Is it our love of the underdog striving? Collective guilt? Maybe there's a reason why these flawed people keep turning up over and over again that runs deep and touches our hearts.I've read several reviews of this movie because it touched me and I wondered how it affected other people. Many reviewers have attacked this movie and it would be a shame if potential viewers based their decision to see or not see it based solely on such reviews.This movie is not intended to be BIG. It's a story about people who want to have independent lives and be respected for who they are. It's story is constructed to allow the viewer to see these people in various situations. The characters are necessarily condensed as are the situations. Real life is different than a movie and it's up to us to fill in the movie if we want to pretend more vividly.I recommend this movie to people who have the ability to let go and involve themselves in a story. This is not a movie for people who think they're experts on movie making or the varieties of mental disabilities. "},{"Title":"Well made movie.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an insightful view of what most people living with disabilities go through. Being that I have worked extensively with people with disabilities for many years, I can completely relate to many of the scenarios that go on in this movie. For example, I have had to argue on behalf of the people with disabilities regarding their personal choice. Family members (mainly mothers) often feel that their disabled child is not capable of doing activities that bring them closer to their independence. People don't realize that like everyone else, people with disabilities grow up to be adults capable of making their own personal decisions. People with disabilities often get ignored by people who don't know how to approach them. Juliette Lewis (Carla) and Giovanni Ribisi (Daniel) do a great job in portraying the daily life struggles, goals, and relationships of people who have disabilities. Good Job, Well done! "},{"Title":"Crazy mom,sane dad .3 daughter's one who is mentally challenged","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Miss Lewis & Mr.Ribisi were brilliant in in their respective role's.( It still cracks me up now, you know when you have tune in your head & you can not forget it. When Danial says  That's OK, Iam house trained  when meeting Carlas parent's for the first time  )The cast made this movie believable because they were a tight unit.The ending was a master stroke from the director. To say that I had a lump in my throat is an understatement.One of the best movies I have bought in a long time.Buy it, rent it but most of just sit down & watch it for what it is, a dam good movie!!Iam not normally an emotional person when it comes to movie's.When a movie like  The other Sister  comes along it makes you think how lucky we are to be 100% healthy.If that does not bring out some sort of emotion in you then man you are made of STONE.I have just purchased Boiler room  starring Giovanni Ribisi.-------- Big Al "},{"Title":"A must see movie for everyone!","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that I took my 11 year old daughter to see at the theater. We enjoyed it very much. Juliette Lewis is such a great actress, and it seems she can fit any character. I watch it every time I see that it is on television. Even my macho boyfriend who leans more towards the sci-fi channel and movies with killers and violence watches this with me every time and enjoys it as much as I do. I have requested the movie on DVD so I can watch it anytime I want. I recommend everyone watch it at least once. It does show you some things about mentally challenged people that you probably never thought about. The parents each play an important role on both ends of the spectrum, and I don't think they could have picked a better actress to play the mother. She makes it so real and you really feel for her. The father is equally important in that he wants what's best for his daughter. We really cracked up when they were sitting at dinner and in a really big hurry to get home. I loved it! "},{"Title":"Amazing, even better than I'd expected!","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, i'll admit it, I only watched this film because Poppy Montgomery was in it. But from the moment I began watching it, my attention was drawn from her character, as I got so tangled up in the plot. This is the sort of movie you can watch a 100 times when you're feeling down, it's got the humour and it's got the love.The one character that drove me so mad I could literally walk into the TV and kill her had to be Elizabeth. I mean, I have no problem with Diane Keaton, but her character was too annoying for words. She was supposed to be that way though, so they certainly achieved what they wanted.I can relate to this film, although I'm not disabled, I face the same everyday problems as Carla. People judging me for the way I seem before even getting to know me, rows in the house, the feeling everyone is laughing at me. And Caroline's middle sister syndrome thing at her wedding... yes that's me all over. There wasn't a moment of this film that I wasn't either a.) laughing, b.) 'saying awwww' or c.) saying 'oh that is so like me!' Having said all that, I still have to say Caroline was my favourite. But hey, I'm a Poppy fan first right? "},{"Title":"Probably one of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Starring Julliete Lewis and Giovani Rabisi and Tom Skerrit and Diane Keaton and some other people who are incredible, The Other Sister is one of the greatest pieces of cinema to have ever emerged. Gary Marshal confidently directs this masterpiece, combining both drama and humor. Anyone can relate to this brilliant film.The Other Sister is the tale of an incredibly rich family who is cursed with a retarded daughter and a lesbian daughter. There is another daughter, but she's getting married and is not retarded, so she's generally OK. Meanwhile, Tom Skerrit is a recovering alcoholic. Diane Keaton, on the other hand, is torn between loving and protecting her daughters and protecting the social status of her family.Because she is one of the most incredible mothers, she manages to keep it all together...until Carla (the retarded daughter) falls in love with yet another retarded person. Worse yet, it's right around the normal daughter's wedding, which means EVERYONE's watching! Carla also makes things worse by thinking that she's capable of going to school, having sex, and having an apartment of her own (just like a normal people). She often forgets that really, she's just a retarded person who should be kept in a home.Daniel (Rabisi) is also afflicted with retardedness and a desire to do normal people-stuff, including drinking. This spells trouble as Daniel frequently gets drunk and almost destroys the family by telling everyone their love secret.There are many touching scenes in the film. Especially the ones where Diane Keaton is trying to hold the family together. You have to feel bad for her. Not only are 2/3 of her children really messed up, her husband does nothing but undermine her and count how many days he's been off the drink.There are also lots of disturbing scenes, too. Marshal isn't afraid to really explore the issues and show us how ugly the truth can be. For example, any scene with Lewis and Rabisi is enough to make you want to turn off the TV and forget there are retards out there and that they all speak like they're retarded, but Marshal's film is so compelling, you won't be able to take your eyes away.In the end, this movie is a sort of tragedy. I don't want to give anything away, but just like in real life, sometimes lesbians DON'T stop being lesbians, and retarded people DON'T stop being retarded.Unforgettable. Truly, a tour de force. "},{"Title":"Romantically Challenged","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Carla Tate (Lewis) is a mentally challenged young woman from a wealthy San Francisco family who is returning home after spending almost 10 years in an institution. She tries very hard to prove that she's responsible and just as capable as her older sisters Caroline (Montgomery) & Heather (Paulson), her mother Elizabeth (Keaton) tries to provide for her youngest daughter to make up for sending her away which causes friction between them. Her father Radley (Skeritt) knows that Carla can do everything for herself, soon she attends the local Polytech school. There Carla meets Daniel McMann (Ribisi) who is also mentally challenged and understands her better, he lives in his own apartment and has a job plus he loves marching bands. Their friendship blossoms into a tender romance causing both of her parents to worry about her. Together with her boyfriend she sets out to prove that any life is a great achievement.9/10 "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie several years ago, my dislike for the mother overshadowed the entire movie. Recently I've become a fan of Diane Keaton and bought this tape because she was in it, not remembering she played the mother. Now I see the movie in a whole other light and really like it. The mother makes so many mistakes, not because she's an awful person, but because she's trying so hard to love her daughter. She and Carla butt heads because they are so much alike.Some reviews bashed this movie's portrayal of the mentally handicapped. As someone who began working in the mental health field in the '80s and knows mentally handicapped married couples, I find the portrayal rings true.I didn't care for some of the songs in the film and the scene where Daniel embarrasses Carla is so painful to watch, I usually fast forward through it.This is a movie I enjoy over and over.  "},{"Title":"Adorable","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was so sweet. I usually don't watch mushy romances, but this one is so different than the rest. The love between Carla and Danny was so pure and true. It's so different than most of today's 'let's sleep together' storyline. "},{"Title":"A brilliant piece of work!","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all I heard the song, the animal song by Savage Garden, and I was wondering which movie was a part of te video with the song. So I kept my eyes open, and finally, there it was The Other Sister.I have seen it for a dozen times, and each time it gets to me, emotionally and then it just touches my heart.The story about letting people show what the feelings behind a mentally disabled person can be, and how they can react in that kind off situation, is great. It shows a total different aspect of being disabled. The acting is superb, I haven't seen this kind off acting till i saw I am Sam, which is a complete different context on the disabillity part.If you want to see a TRUE love story, and if you want to be amazed watch this movie. It's my all time favorite movie, already for 3 years now! "}{"Title":"Not realistic so much, but good nontheless","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is true that The Other Sister isn't the most accurate portrayal of life for (or even with) a mentally challenged person.  However, certain aspects of the movie were relatively on-the-spot and it is not entirely un-heard of for the developmentally disabled to live on their own. As for the movie itself, I found it entertaining enough to sit through as a rental or whilst flipping channels on tv.  Had I paid my eight dollars to see it in the theatre, I probably wouldn't have thought as highly of it as I did.  Anyway, both Ribisi and Lewis did very good jobs of playing Daniel and Carla.  I did not get the impression they were making fun of a challenged person nor did I feel they were playing over the top.  For the most part, their portrayals were quite believable...save one (a scene in the end with Daniel calling Radley dad).  Diane Keaton does her usual fantastic job and plays the role of the wife/mother trying to hold it all together quite well.  She simply exudes old-school charm, grace, and class.  Tom Skerritt is equally as good playing Carla's father. The script itself was ok.  I can't say The Other Sister was anything fabulous, thought-provoking, or award-winning material, but it was entertaining.  There were moments of laughter as well as sadness that helped you to feel more for the characters.  My only problem, overall, was the fact that the script stayed far too close to the surface...never diving deep enough to truly get us involved in the characters, their lives, or the issues that certainly surround all the characters in dealing with a mentally challenged family member.Like I said, though, the movie was entertaining...and isn't that what a movie is supposed to be?  I recommend checking this one out if you're looking for a simple, sweet, cute story on a rainy Saturday afternoon.  4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Despite Flaws, Really Good Movie","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, Generally, this kind of movie isn't really my thing.  That having been said, Juliette Lewis is utterly fantastic in her role.  She's completely believable.  I'm also a big fan of Natural Born Killers and the contrast between the two characters serves to show her range.I've seen this three times now, and I like it better each time.  Yeah, OK, I could sit here and pick apart some aspects like whether or not its realistic in its portrayal of mentally disabled people, or a myriad of other things, but in the end, all of that really isn't the point.The fact that people from all walks of life have commented on the fact that they liked this movie, that it makes you happy and sad and (really) wince in embarrassment for others, and angry and everything else is really great. It takes me to a point where I can really understand the emotions of the characters -- and making a 35 year old man understand what it might feel like to be a 20-something mentally retarded girl is a pretty big accomplishment. )The Lesson Moment in this movie (where the characters have their most difficult point and have to move on from that point and learn what they're going to learn...) is very hard for me to watch.  Its really difficult to sit and watch people go through that kind of stuff, and the actors really do a great job of conveying their frustration and anger.So, lots of people would brand this as a chick flick and not want to watch it, and personally, I think that's just silly... you'd be missing out on a brilliantly acted, well scripted, well done movie that has a nice, timeless (vaguely Shakespearian) message. "},{"Title":"that was pretty good acting","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought this movie was sweet. giovanni and julliet were really good in this movie. i strongly rcommend itit even has it's funny sides, without pointing at how mentally retarded people are. i think this is a good movie to rent out and enjoy. watch it, guys. you'll love it "},{"Title":"All bias aside...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I tried to rate this movie fairly; even though its not really my cup of tea.  Bearing that in mind, this was a really good movie.  I enjoyed it.  I laughed some and just really got into it.I would rate this movie as a perfect 10 for Juliette Lewis's performance alone.  She was so adorable and huggable.  I forgot many times that she was an adult.  She played the part with all her heart.  And is a very talented actress from many of her other movies.SPOILER-I especially liked the part where her boyfriend and her were looking through the book on sexual positions.  Classic.The direction was great.  The music cool.  The acting was right on the money.  And Juliette, as I said, wonderful (10).  There really wasn't anything wrong with this movie.  It wasn't perfection, but damn close.9/10 - Very fun to watch.  thank you. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend at the time insisted to go to this movie when it was released in 1999. I reluctantly went and it turned out that I really loved it. I bought the dvd recently and its terrific. It features the song The Animal Song by Savage Garden. That song is perfect for the movie. If you see it, you will understand it. Giovanni Ribisi is awesome as Daniel McMahon and Juliette Lewis and Diane Keaton are likewise wonderful. Pick up a copy of this movie if you want to watch something that will make you feel great. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  my brother has down's syndrome and i thought this movie was an excellent portrayal of life with a handicapped family member. Juliette Lewis and Giovani Ribisi were absolutely fabulous! i would totally recommend this movie to anyone with a heart for people with handicaps. You will see just a glimps at what our lives are like! "},{"Title":"Ah, Man, I Just Loved It","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a cool movie. So beautiful and touching. 10/10  Wonderful on so many levels. See it, give yourself a chance.This flick wasn't such a big hit... not enough promo? Wonder what it takes. Many of us consider it one of our all-time faves; that should be enough. Enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Kudos to actors.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good story, but the acting in all the major roles was outstanding. One of the best films I've seen in the last several years. Good to know that quality films are still possible, if not common. Definitely a Chick Flic, but one of the best. "},{"Title":"The Other Sister, The only one to see!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the sweetest romantic film about young love and the struggle to find your way in this world.  A young daugher becoming a woman, fights against her mother (portrayed by Diane Keaton) to grow up be the person she longs to be. Her family rounds out a great cast and each compliments the others' acting styles making for a believeable family life.  The story is consistent, inventive, and sensitive in its approach to deliver the lives of mentally-challenged people.  Could not ask for more from a great movie.  "},{"Title":"But in real life...","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     A beautifully-done feelgood fairy tale enjoy its precious moments, laugh and cry (you will), savor the flawless performances by every member of the cast.   If you are a reflective sort of person, however, it won't take long to realize that what is portrayed here does not represent anything close to what is encountered in real life by most of those with disabilities - even the relatively mild degree of retardation that afflicts Carla and Daniel.  How many of the disabled have wealthy, supportive families?  How many can even find a kindred soul, let alone establish a loving, secure and stable relationship with one?  Carla's mother's fears are grounded in precisely the kinds of difficulties that people such as Carla and Daniel encounter regularly - but not in this tale, which suggests that their future problems will be no more severe than those of any other couple.    The emotional lift you will get from this picture is likely to be considerable - even if, in this case, the escapism with which movies have always been identified, is built right into the story itself. "}{"Title":"Not my personal taste but Iam a big Ribisi fan.....","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a huge fan of sentimental dramas, i watched this only because Giovanni Ribisi is a favourite actor of mine and I loved Juliette Lewis in From Dusk Till Dawn and Natural Born Killers. The film starts with Carla Tate(lewis) returning home after time in a specialist home. She convinces her father she is ready to goto a public school and after some negotiations with her mother she is allowed to do this.On her first day she bumps into Danny(Ribisi) and then the love story begins. This film is at times too romantic and mushy for my personal preference but the wonderful acting from all the cast and a strong script keep it moving, the film at times has some decent twists too. 7 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Excellent portrayal of a true comedy of life","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard for me to understand why this film hasn't received a higher rating.  Lewis and Ribisi gave performances as true to reality as was Dustin Hoffman's in the Rainman.  These people exist in real life with these needs and emotions. Keaton played her role with an understanding of the frequent family response, even with understanding people.  A spirit of love permeates this film.  The story entertains and leaves you with a good feeling; pretty hard to come by these days. "},{"Title":"charming!!!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you'll always love to see, the plot is very well taken to the screen, with great performances, good sense of humor etc... it is a movie that makes you feel fine, the movie is about a retarded girl (Juliette Lewis)who is coming to live with her parents after spending some years in a special institution... she comes back and gets in school, where she meets a boy just like her (Giovanni Ribisi), they get to know each other... get to be good friends till they finally fall in love and get married... since the beginning of the movie you feel charmed... it is a charming movie... i cant imagine someone who doesn't like it... this is a must-see film. my rating 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Charming!!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the kind of movie you'll always love to see, the plot is very well taken to the screen, with great performances, good sense of humor etc... it is a movie that makes you feel fine, the movie is about a retarded girl (Juliette Lewis)who is coming to live with her parents after spending some years in a special institution... she comes back and gets in school, where she meets a boy just like her (Giovanni Ribisi), they get to know each other... get to be good friends till they finally fall in love and get married... since the beginning of the movie you feel charmed... it is a charming movie... i cant imagine someone who doesn't like it... this is a must-see film. my rating 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Decent, with Highlight Performances","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Other Sister' is genuinely..........okay. It has its strengths and its weaknesses, but they sort of balance out in the end to be 'okay'. The performances are uniformly very good, and that is the movie's greatest asset. It is also very sympathetic towards Carla and very reflective of any young woman's desire to get out from under the thumb of a over-bearing mother. You don't have to be mentally challenged to know what that's like! It is also, however, perhaps overly sappy, simplistic in plot and self-consciously PC. Not that PC. movies are necessarily always bad, but when a movie is self-concious about being so, it can occasionally feel vaguely stilted- which 'The Other Sister' does. The sappiness comes from the love story angle. I think I would have preferred if the story simply stayed with Carla in her simple, honest attempts to become part of every day society, rather than becoming a romantic comedy with some rather off-putting aspects to it. Juliette's performance is pure enough to have carried the film without her having a love interest, and while I like Giovanni and his performance was very good, he is not quite the natural that Juliette is. Diane Keaton is every over-protective mother trying to spare her daughter the cruelty of the world, and 'The Other Sister' oddly forebears 'The Virgin Suicides' in the message that parents cannot shield their children from life or death. That film toasts this one in virtually every way, but since 'The Other Sister'- while largely mediocre- had the ambition to try addressing the issues facing mentally-challenged young women as they try to navigate life, I'm giving it points for effort- and for the good performances.     "},{"Title":"A brilliantly acted, very admirable piece of work","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is not only one of the most touching, incredibly beautiful films I've ever seen, the acting is brilliant and the directing perfect. Giovanni Ribisi's Danny is in my opinion an even better performance than Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man. He is flawless in a very hard role. Juliette Lewis is OK, but nothing special about her attempt. It's also an incredibly hard part, but seriously, she could have done better. I was surprised to see Tom Skerrit actually doing a good bit of acting (not meant to offend him). Diane Keaton is wonderful as the mother, and the rest of the cast is also brilliant.  Overall, The Other Sister is a wonderful love story. One of those in in a million triumphs.  "},{"Title":"Extra Credits for the actors","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very warm story. The acting of Ribisi and Lewis certainly moves people to cry with laughter. The difficulty of dealing with issues about Mentally Retarded-Developmentally people is overcome by the great script and the wonderful cast. And the subplot of homosexuality, sisterhood, and family bonding intertwines greatly with the lovely story of Carla and Daniel. Well done. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very special movie to me. For years I have been probobly Juliette Lewis's most devoted and passionate fan. When I saw her performance in The Other Sister (she says her most personal work to date) I was really touched. After all of her troubles with drugs and relationships she had come out once again on top. Delivering some of the most raw and real scenes I have ever seen produced by any actor. It really shows her versitality as an actor. Compare this role to Natural Born Killers or Strange Days. Its hard to believe your watching the same person. I dont care what other people say, This movie is a masterpiece. There is not one dull performance. Giovanni, Diane, and Tom all did a fabulously alongside Juliette. They all should have gotten at least nominations for their performances, but I guess true art never really gets the credibility it deserves. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen in a long time","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie made me look at my own life in a different way and other people as well.  I loved this movie.  I have seen it 4 times already and can't wait to see it again.  It made me cry and I loved it.  All the actors were terrific.  The movie was perfect. "},{"Title":"Oscar Performance by Juliette Lewis","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a surprise.  Juliette Lewis performed incredibly!  It was a real treat just to watch her on screen.  Watch her eyes, her mouth, her facial mannerisms.  Spectacular performance!  Why she wasn't nominated for best actress is beyond me.  And contrast her role here with one in Natural Born Killers to observe the depth of role playing.  The movie was marvelous for its believability and story line.  You hate the mother, felt sorry for the father, and cheered for all the sisters smothered by an overbearing mother. All did a great job in what could have been a heavy-handed treatment of it's subject.  Instead, the script and directing were just right.  One of the best movies of 1999. "}{"Title":"Another Happy Blockbuster Accident","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Local Blockbuster was out of copies of The Limey so I went over 2 shelves to the O section. A little sappy but worth watching for the performance of Juliette Lewis as a mentally-challenged young woman. Probably her best work to date. Giovanni Ribisi gets a little too Rain Man on your ass but the nuances do overlap so I'll give him a 70. He's got a good beat and you can dance to him. Support by Tom Skerritt and Diane Keaton is solid. It's a well-meaning and highly P.C. flick but it's got a little of that been there..done that..got the tee-shirt sort of feel. But Juliette Lewis has me convinced that she's up to the role if she gets handed the right script.  "},{"Title":"Why this movie is my favorite!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. I just saw it last night and I'd have to say that it is one of the very best movies I've ever seen if not my favorite movie. The acting is great. Juliette Lewis is incredible. The characters are so real and you fall in love with them as if they were real. You laugh and cry with them the whole way through. Perfectly balanced and a great ending. Not like all the cheap predictable movies out there. I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Nice movie, it got a nice comment from me. Read below.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is a good movie, I personally liked it a lot. First of all I'd like to say that Juliette Lewis did a GREAT performance and so did Giovanni Ribisi. Diane Keaton, as in all of her movies, was great. I consider her one of the best actress of her generation.This movie's script is good, and one of the reasons is that it hasn't been done a lot. I've seen many movies about the same subject.. but this one was very Unique .. 2 people, both retarded (Not TOO retarded) met and decide to live together.I think Juliette Lewis is a very talented actress.The beginning is a little bit slow and might end up being bored for some people, but in general, the movie is entertaining, fun and the most important, it's worth watching.I'll give it a 7 out of 10 score. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like I said in the plot summary, I really enjoyed this film! I thought the story was touching, and very realistic! The acting was incredible, Juliette Lewis, Dianne Keaton, Tom Skerrit and Giovanni Ribisi were great! Lewis and Ribisi did a good job at making their roles believable. I thought the movie was put together really well, and I strongly recommend this movie for anyone. You'll like it! It has many truths in it, that were portrayed really well. This is a great one to go and rent!  "},{"Title":"An eye opener","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film on a plane as I went to Australia, and was truly surprised to find myself engrossed in the story, considering that I intensely dislike Diane Keaton. The story of a young, mildly retarded young woman working to become independent and to stand on her own two feet was fascinating to me. Of particular interest was the romantic sub plot between the Carla and her (also retarded) boyfriend, whose idea of great music is anything by a marching band. The references to 'The Graduate' and the final outcome of the story are wonderful. Tom Skerritt, as the father who is trying to keep his wife happy while at the same time let his daughter test her wings, turns in  one of the few memorable performances of his career. "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie will touch your heart forever.  Don't miss the opportunity to watch the excellent performance of the two main characters.  The Other Sister shows that people with disabilities are to be treated with respect because they have feelings like any other person. I love this movie ... it's simply great. "},{"Title":"Summary Good acting. ** out of ****","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Other Sister contains good performances by Juliette Lewis, Diane Keaton, Tom Skerritt, and Giovanni Ribisi, but can't accomplish  much with it's slow moving, and boring story line. It has a happy ending, and I liked that in the movie. But I still don't recommend the film. -----------------5 "},{"Title":"A Commanding and Thoroughly Pleasing Film  *****of*****","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, I missed this movie when it was showing in the theaters. Recently, it became available on pay-per-view and I ordered it. Although the film runs a little over 2 hours, you would never know it! It runs its course smoothly, and keeps you gripped with each dramatic and amusing moment of the unfolding story. I highly recommend this film for anyone....man, woman or child. A synopsis of the movie would be an Extraordinary love story of two impeded individuals who overcome the obstacles to a justified and happy end.The most persuasive aspect of this charming movie are the remarkable performances by Juliette Lewis (Carla) and Giovanni Ribisi (Danny). Their portrayal of mildly retarded characters are touching and very true to life!I've read a few negative reviews (a minority of opinion to be sure!) of this movie, and the chief complaint of these reviewers were the unbelievable interpretation the actors gave of a mentally handicapped person.Personally, I happen to know of a real life married couple, (very similar to Carla and Danny) who both work and live self-sufficient lives together. Lewis and Ribisi's portrayal of the emotions, expressions, mannerisms, and more, are SO incredibly accurate!  These two young performers should be singled out and awarded for their acting ability!!This movie will delight you, warm you, and cause you to laugh aloud with joy.  A definite FEEL GOOD movie!  See it for yourself and be sincerely moved. "},{"Title":"A very touching and enjoyable film!","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are not many movies out there that make me misty eyed at the end. The Other Sister damn near made me want to cry with joy!The strength of this film has to do with the performances of both Lewis and Ribisi. It's the best acting of mentally challenged people this side of Forrest Gump(point of fact My roommate asked if the actors were actually mentally challenged, or just acting it). To watch a love affair blossom between them is incredibly uplifting, because of its innocence and its simple honesty. I can't speak for everyone, but I think that there are few people alive who wouldn't want to fall in love like that.As the movie goes along, I actually started to really care about them and what happens to them. That makes certain scenes even more emotional to watch.Keaton and Skerrit put in good performances as Carla's parents. The sisters are mildly interesting, but I don't see the point of them except to show that Keaton's character has problems with all her daughters.If you are a sucker for a good love story and are looking for a movie that'll put a smile on your heart, this is the one to rent! "},{"Title":"Juliette Lewis","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was overall a good movie. True there were a lot of things that made it imperfect, but the performance of Juliette Lewis makes me forget them all. She is fantastic in this movie. She emotes so much with her eyes and her face, it's amazing. My favorite moment was when she slipped at the wedding and said wife instead of husband. When she realized her mistake her face was a study. I laughed, I cried. it was great. "}{"Title":"Touching","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is THE movie that completely went unnoticed this year. Where the hell was the marketing?It's truly a shame cause Ms Lewis and her movie's beau both play an incredible role. Very touching... "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic Movie","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't plan on even seeing this movie, but I saw the first few minutes and was hooked in.  This movie has more humor than most comedies, and it takes a more subtle approach, doesn't force every scrap of plot down your throat. Every scene is fantastic, and highly enjoyable (except for one, if you see it you know which one I'm talking about).  The ending is great.  Far exceeds my expectations (I sort of thought of it as a Benny and Joon type).By far the best part of the movie, though, is Juliette Lewis' facial expressions.  Fantastic.   ) "},{"Title":"Emotion packed","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie about two (2) mentally challenged people who fall in love after meeting each other at a vocational school.  Carla and Daniel (Danny) are both severely mentally challenged yet they are able to attend a vocational school that will let you in as long as you PAY.The two meet, fall in love, and on Thanksgiving have sex.  Things are going just fine until Daniel announces at Carla's sister's wedding reception that he and Carla did it on Thanksgiving.  I won't give away the ending but it was very emotional.The movie is different in that the main characters are mentally challenged. The movie is the same in that you can pretty much guess how the story is going to end.I say rent it if you have a hackering for a movie with depth. "},{"Title":"In it's entirety this is a good movie, despite the imperfections.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A highly recommended movie for any couple or a sappy group of friends.  I was pleasantly surprised by the exceptional acting and superb emotional content.  The entire film (with the exception of the ending) unfolded very well.Perfection is not a good word here, however.  At some moments you feel suddenly drained and disappointed at what is occurring. You will also pity the main characters instead of loving them at some awkward moments.  Though true, perhaps, in real life - this is the movies we're watching and it almost makes you want to stop watching.  The ending also feels very rushed.In it's entirety this is a good movie, despite the imperfections.  The cast, score, and story leave you feeling warm and entertained. "},{"Title":"How could anyone not love this movie?","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many times does a movie meet our expectations?  Usually when you see the trailer, you've seen the movie.  This one went above and beyond my hopes.  I laughed and cried through the whole thing, my husband was even moved.  Anyone who doesn't like this movie was looking for something hateful and ugly from the writers and actors.  No one was made fun of in this movie. It was a story about two people who fall in love, and need to be accepted as they are and gain their independence.  Something we all want.  The innocence was a rare surprise.  For once, a movie you can sit down with the children and watch.  Another one added to my list of favorites! "},{"Title":"Great Performances!!!!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that certainly surprised many people. Juliette Lewis is an actress that I didn't expect to play the character of a retard so well as she did. In fact, she could be nominated for an award. Other that gave life to the character very well was Giovanni Ribisi, in the character of the retardboyfriend of Carla Tate. Who is fantastic, of course, playing the character of a protector and worried mother is Diane Keaton; she's one of the best actresses I know. But I guess the best thing of the movie is the principal music of the soundtrack The Animal Song, interpreted by Savage Garden is just great. It's snappy, fun and in the lyrics you've got the principal idea of the movie. The music is just perfect for the movie. The cast and Savage Garden should really be congratulated with many awards! "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the best film of the year","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a number of creative, enjoyable films already this year, but The Other Sister outdoes them all. If this film doesn't win at least two or three Oscars next year, we'll know for sure the Academy is completely out of touch with reality. (Best Actress--Juliette Lewis, Best Actor--Giovanni Ribisi, Best Picture)To be honest, I usually don't attend films of this type--which appear on the surface to be hammering some heavy message into their audiences. I couldn't have been more wrong about this movie. It is touching, gentle, warm and enthusiastic. Juliette Lewis is both believable and heart-rending in her role as the mentally challenged Carla. I don't usually like Giovanni Ribisi, but I  have to take my hat off to his exceptional performance as the young man who works his way into Carla's heart.You will laugh, cry, feel compelled to bring your friends, and be heartened that even after Gloria and In Dreams, SOMEBODY in Hollywood still knows how to put a film together.   "},{"Title":"A Film  N O T  to be Missed - Many Memorable Moments !!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Garry Marshall directs .. he directs. In this case he has done wonders with the material, and the talent. Juliette Lewis and Giovanni Ribisi, hopefully should get Oscar nods. A sensitive subject treated with bites of laughter, and tugging at your heart moments. It brings a lump to your throat, a tear to your eye, a laugh to your belly. Bring your girlfriend, your wife, your husband, your boyfriend, your dog. When you leave the theater it's a great feeling of fulfillment. What more could you ask for? I think I'll see it again.  "},{"Title":"THE BEST DRAMA SO FAR IN '99","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is just one of those great dramatic movies.  It's unusual, it's touching, it's funny.  It has all the qualities that cause it to stand alone and that's what I really, really loved about it.The story centers around Juliette Lewis (Natural Born Killers) as a 24-year-old retarded girl from a family of rich parents, played by Diane Keaton (First Wives Club) and Tom Skerritt (Picket Fences, Contact). The fact that she's the youngest sister in the family doesn't seem to bother her as much as the overbearing control her mother seems to always have over her life and her decisions.  Still, she becomes determined to break free of her mom's strangle hold as soon as she finds and falls for a young retarded kid from her college, played by Giovanni Ribisi (Friends, subUrbia).Juliette does a breathtaking job at capturing all the twitches and ticks of a retarded lady.  One heartbreaking scene at a country club dinner particularly displays how great she is at conveying an empathy toward the plight of slow people everywhere.  Diane Keaton was also quite good, but am I the only person who's noticed the fact that she wears a business suit in every movie she's in?!!  Tom Sherritt doesn't steal any scenes, but his quiet take on the loving father is very refreshing.  And last, but not least, Giovanni displays a good deal of range considering only a few years ago he was throwing lightning bolts at people on that X-Files episode.On the whole, The Other Sister is a great movie that leaves you begging for a sequel.  (Juliette Lewis as Karla is just SO lovable!!!)  "},{"Title":"A True Gift to Humanity!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would love to connect with Garry Marshall to let him know personally what an impact this movie made on me, my husband, and the rest of the audience. We saw the movie as a Sneak Preview and I can't stop telling people about it.Joyous, loving, intelligent, spiritual, funny, I could go on and on.  People left the theater with a smile on their faces and tears spilling from their eyes.  I couldn't believe the energy, joy and intelligence both Danny and Carla exhibited.  Wiser beyond any normal person...they got right down to the nitty gritty of life...wanting to live in and loving it.Having a son who is 24 and similar in nature to Danny and Carla, I have found his presence in my life fulfilling and challenging at the same time. He, too,  has wisdom of the angels, speaking in black and white terms.  Yet, in his simplicity there is truth and love.Thank you Garry Marshall and all others involved for bringing this gift to the screen. "}{"Title":"First Great Film of 1999! A Real Blockbuster!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is Garry Marshall's best film since 1990's Pretty Women. His insightful script never demeans or makes fun of the characters, and allows them to develop as real people so the audience can care about and be comfortable with them. It's also hilariously funny, such as the moment we belly-laugh at Giovanni Ribisi's account of his lovemaking with Juliette Lewis only to feel instant guilt afterwards. Diane Keaton deserves to be nominated as Best Actress along with Lewis, and the film really tugs on your heartstrings. The first great film of 1999, and, hopefully, the blockbuster Pretty Woman was.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in a long long time","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! A great movie, it keeps you involved from the start to the end. I did'nt want it to end. It was one of the first movies I've been to that every one applauded at the end from the young to the old. Congratulations to all involved in this masterpiece. Goes to show you that hollywood can make great movies without all the four letter words, nudity, mass killings etc. "},{"Title":"Touching And Non-Manipulative...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The actors of The Other Sister are absolutely convincing. It's nice to see Tom Skerrit with a meaty role on the big screen again, and he works well and conflicts better with Diane Keaton. Obvious contribution by Juliette Lewis and her unique (to say the least) co-star, Giovanni Ribisi. The two of them really carry the film and make this a touching, heartfelt movie, although I couldn't help but notice that at times it seems the film reverses on what it's trying to teach by allowing the audience to laugh AT the antics of the retarded leads rather than with them. It's no Forrest Gump, but it's no Patch Adams either. It touches the heart strings without manipulating them, and the filmmakers should get a grateful high-five for that. As well as for not casting a doe-eyed Robin Williams. Overall this is good stuff, though Rachel Portman's music seems underused... "},{"Title":"Sweet, touching and LOL funny","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is a very sweet movie about two special people who fall in love and find happiness against the odds.  It's poignant and LOL funny at the same time.  At the sneak preview I attended the audience erupted into applause at the end of the movie. Great performance by Juliette Lewis.   "},{"Title":"A cute, charming film.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Other Sister is a delightful movie that follows the struggles and hardships of one young woan--her battle with her family, society, and most of all love.  Not only is it touching, but it is also drenched in comedy.  A must see, with a delightful cast. "},{"Title":"In the end, love is still love...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie that explores family dynamics, children growing up, parents fears of being judged, lifetime loves, and LASTLY the challenges of disablement.  I would have enjoyed this movie without the handicap theme as it explored various scenarios, but instead of using it to exploit, this movie is just enhanced by the added challenge.  I laughed, cried, nodded in agreement, and understood the events that were happening in these people's lives.  I identified with each of the characters and in the end cared deeply for them.  That is the secret of a good movie to me.  I'm gonna give it an 8.5.  "},{"Title":"Major aww factor but still worth it","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You'll hear a collective aww more than a few times in the theatre, but still very entertaining and very worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"The most engaging film about the mentally challenged since Like Normal People.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kudos to all involved for this thoroughly funny and heartwarming tale of retard love.  Lewis and Ribisi are utterly convincing as the two star-crossed Romper Room rejects who fight against incredible odds and defective genes to be together.  Marcus Ebner's turn as Bobo, the swarthy clown that befriends and untites our heros, is nothing short of miraculous. Above all, a wonderful film for adults and kids alike, especially if they possess a mean streak or love of unintentional comedy. "},{"Title":"These characters became my friends instantly & took me on the journey with them!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Charming, touching, funny, heartfelt, & truthful performances by all.  I was totally emotionally involved with every moment of this movie.  These characters became my friends instantly & took me on the journey with them! I Loved It!!!!  Bravo to all involved!   "},{"Title":"i love it!!!","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" if u love romantic comedies u will love this. i thought the actors did an amazing job playing mentally retarded characters.this movie made me laugh so much and i quote it all the time with my friends. not to mention my mom loves this movie too in fact my whole family loves it.i would def recommend it.i was smiling for almost the entire movie.its just overall cute and i love it!!! go rent it and see it.i thought the plot was great.its just really cute.i mean two young people find each other and it turns out great.there are some bumps on the road just like any movie.all Carla Tate wants to do it fit in and not be looked down on compared to her perfect sister.you'll have to see what happens "}{"Title":"NOT a missed opportunity","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, Lil'Girl of Brisbane, Australia has obviously not ever met someone with a mental handicap of this nature, as is apparent in her comments about Carla being a spoilt child throwing tantrums. Giovanni Ribisi and Juliette Lewis did a MARVELOUS job portraying their characters. And as someone who has been around the mentally disabled, I can assure you that the problems portrayed and the characters were very well done indeed.But, all that aside, this is one of the best movies of it's kind I've ever seen. The characters are real, the plot is intriguing (to say the least), and the emotional roller-coaster is done such that we, as an audience, can truly understand what it is the characters are feeling (well, most of us anyway, see ¶1). The minor characters perfectly compliment the main characters and the flaws portrayed make them that much better. All in all it is a wonderful movie that should be seen by everyone at least once. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Other Sister is more than just a movie, the film is a riveting drama that grabs you by the heart and pulls you toward a little place i like to call heaven on earth. The movie covers important topics like pornographic positions found in a book, which ultimately add to the numerous amounts of comedic relief from the glorious plot. It gives the viewer a sense of stasis and joy all at the same time. I cried, I laughed, I laughed some more, I choked on a carmel popcorn kernel while laughing incessantly, and then jumped up and down for 15 minutes after the movie finished because I was so excited that I finally watched the best movie in the entire world. "},{"Title":"You Must See This Movie","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this movie.  Juliette Lewis is an outstanding actress, and she played Carla Tate wonderfully.  Diane Keaton played the part of Carla's mom Elizabeth perfectly.  With Giovanni Ribisi of Friends and Gone In 60 Seconds fame playing the part of Carla's boyfriend Danny, and up and coming actress Sarah Paulson as Heather Tate, this movie ended up being one of my favorite movies of 1999. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was terrific!I just watched this movie again for the third time a few moments ago.  This movie is not only witty, but it is a real tear jerker!! I sob at the end of it every time!  It's a very emotional movie. This is the best acting I have ever seen by Juliet Lewis and Diane Keaton.Giovanni Ribisi, a new comer to the screen, is astounding, and I myself hope that all three people win, or at least get nominated for academy awards!This is definitely a chick flick, but guys, don't turn your heads too quickly.  This is a great movie that I am sure everyone will enjoy!!  "},{"Title":"A film and a movie at the same time.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films are uplifting things that teach and preach-- and that few wind up going to see.  Movies are crass because they make money, and thus are sneered at by the self appointed elite.  The Other Sister is both a film and a movie; yes, it entertains even as it enlightens.  The acting is superb, the writing is excellent, and all technical aspects are top notch.  The Other Sister will probably only have moderate success, but it deserves much, much more.  This is one of the rare pieces I will pay for a few others to attend.  "},{"Title":"not so good..at all","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i know a one is a little low.. but now exactly for this movie... i am not under rating it in the least, it was horrible, i did not believe for one minute on any of it, th plot was week, and there wasn't anything to it... it was the biggest waste of life..who wants to see a movie with poor acting, no plot as well as nothing good about it? i totally do not recommend this to anyone.. not even if you are bored.. if you want to watch a good movie about the mentally retarded watch I Am Sam.. i great movie with good acting but i tell you folks Do Not watch this.. i warn you it will most likely anger you...like it had angered me, well thats all i had to say. "},{"Title":"Not exactly a MUST SEE but definitely a Feel Good","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this film while flicking last night. I found it in a similar vein to those True to life type movies. The story of Carla Tate is touching and humorous as she tries to overcome her uptight mother (Diane Keaton)and lead her own life. Juliette Lewis does the role of the child-like Carla real justice. Keaton and Tom Skeritt are well cast as the over-bearing mother and understanding father. Despite the good cast the movie does move along a little slowly, but the story is lovely and the ending makes up for the slownessI wouldn't say the movie was blockbuster material, but it definitely has the feel-good factor. One to watch with your mum with a few tissues! "},{"Title":"Best Movie EVER!!!!","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the most wonderful movie ever. I have seen it 20 times and would watch it 100 more. It makes you realize that there are different people in the world, and if given a chance, they can be just as normal as everyone else.The cast in this movie was unbelievable, all were very well known and very much loved. I'm waiting and hoping for a part 2. If a part 2 is made,,,please, please, keep all the same actors. It would be great for Carla and Danny to have a baby in part 2. I have seen Miss Lewis in other movies, and she is good,,,but I think this is her all time best. It's amazing how she took the part and made it her own. I think the writers and directors should really consider making a part 2. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Bad!!!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the sheer pleasure of watching this ABSOLUTE TURKEY on TBS a few days ago. This movie is deliciously awful. The actors seem like their point of reference was watching a couple of episodes of Corky on Life Goes On and then acting like someone trying to FAKE a lobotomy! The plot is totally predictable Mom has a retarded daughter, then freaks out if the kid does anything, including go to school, dance, heck, she seems to have a conniption if the kid even WALKS! **SPOILER ALERT** The ultimate jaw-dropping scene is at the very end, when the daughter gets married to the retarded dude. After the wedding, he has arranged a parade with a 50 piece marching band and the Marine Corps in full dress walking down the middle of the street??? And the parade just goes for, well, eternity??? I mean, wtf is that??? "},{"Title":"Another stupid & boring movie","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave it a 3 out of 10.  The music in the background was great.  But I thought the movie was slow & boring.  I also thought it was stupid because who wants to watch 2 mentally challenged individuals graduate from a mainstream school, date, especially having sex etc.  I thought that was the dumbest part of the movie where the 2 mentally challanged individuals were going to have sex together.  That is just plain nasty.  I don't mind watching 2 people with a normal I.Q. having sex though on TV or on a movie.  Plus, I thought the storyline was very unrealistic even though it's a movie. "}{"Title":"Possible Spoilers  May Be Well Intentioned but Ill Advised","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a person with disabilities and a disability rights advocate, I can only ask where were the technical advisors? That's my question. It seems that Garry Marshall used this as a vehicle to make all sorts of sermonette statements about the disabled/challenged/insert politically correct term here. And Gee, wouldn't it be funny if... so he could use supposedly funny lines like Your daughter is barking. And I can drive (on a bike)...Yuck. Yuck. That low level of effort for humor is the same low level of understanding the writers made to write the script and the actors made to study the disabilities they (very poorly) mimic.The road to hell, they say, is paved with good intentions. And this movie deserves a circle in hell of its own for a very poorly conceived script, very, very bad acting (to the point of the two leads being downright insulting), and just being a very bad idea all the way around. Frankly, this film does more harm than any good it may have intended. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"If acting got any better, the actors would just stand there and say their lines.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One day I'm sitting peacefully at the computer, which happens to be in the living room, and my Mom pops in The Other Sister. From the first moment I witnessed the audacity that this movie exudes, I was dumbfounded. This is supposed to be good? I asked myself, and as I continued to watch, the room became more and more hostile as I commented at how bad the movie was from a technical stand point, the acting, writing, cinematography etc...and my Mom can't see what I'm seeing, well, if you have the patience to watch this film, I'd seriously question your motives. If you desire to see the WORST films, please watch this and give my best to all those who see this lousy film for what it is....trash. "},{"Title":"Downright Offensive.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went along with someone to see this film and was very close to walking out. I cannot remember EVER seeing a film that was so offensive!The Other Sister refers to Juliet Lewis' character, a mildly retarded girl who is often ignored by her matriarchial battle ax of a mother (Diane Keaton.) It is clear that this movie is trying to show that mentally handicaped people are capable of overcoming difficulties. However, this film fails to come off this way. Lewis and Ribsi's characters are portrayed in a mocking light, with the scene at the wedding reception in which Ribi's sings 76 trombone's being perhaps the most offensive thing ever put on film. With every plot contrivance, the crediblity of this film slips further and further downhill. And Diane Keaton's phoned in sterotypical performance crushes whatever positive strides this film makes. On to top it all off, this film is agnoizingly long. Lewis and Ribisi do do a nice job portraying their characters. Unfortunatly, we're watching sterotypes, not people. Tom Skerrit and Hector Elizondo are wasted in this film as well. Unless you're into schmaltz, do yourself a favor and skip this one. "},{"Title":"Boring, Empty Stinker","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I can only say that I was utterly disappointed. I left the theater about 3/4 of the way into it and felt unfulfilled and disgusted.  The movie does nothing to showcase acting ability and has a premise that is hard to care about.  However, its portrayal of mentally-challenged individuals as being more complex than most people think is commendable.  "},{"Title":"Save your 6.50 or whatever","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit that my friends and I go to movies just to see a movie, but this wasn't worth any of it.  The actors in this movie seemed to be making fun of challenged people with there terrible performances.  This movie was in no way  an Oscar performance.  I thought that they used being slow as a tool to make people feel sorry for the characters, but the only emotions I felt were nausea.I also have to get out my feelings for this movie from my high school train of thoughtThis movie sucked(only way I could put it), My friends and I still snicker about lines like I'm not ready and I work for marshmallows.  And if you think I am making fun of slow people, I am not, I am making fun of the terrible writing and acting of this terrible movie.* out of TEN Steer clear of this Movie "}]