[{"Title":"Not ONLY a time capsule","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As one user before said, he feels the film to be more of a time capsule today, since the impacts and importance of downsizing has been overwritten by other issues like terrorism, homeland security, 9/11 etc.Well, I live in Europe and I can just say that here in Europe the film just comes out on DVD (I saw it only yesterday, July 15th, 2004 on TV) at the right time for Europe (if not a little too late). Economical matters are getting worse here in Europe day by day, and the patterns CEO's use to make their companies profitable (which should just always correctly read MORE profitable) are just the same as CEO's use in the USA. In fact, the only idea that comes to their minds is downsizing, laying off people and transferring labour into countries with extremely cheap labour-cost. That's all.Surprisingly there is just very little resistance to these tendencies, even though Europe is (in most countries) far better organised as far as Labour Unions are concerned. People are told by politicians that reforms are necessary, and people just sit back and accept it and continue to suffer.In this context, The Big One by Michael Moore just comes at the right time here in Europe, even though I think that not many of the concerned people will actually see it.But it's worth watching it, even though sometimes I questioned myself how I could laugh over such sad facts. But this is the virtue of Michael Moore and this film it doen't leave you desperate, it gives you a laugh at the time and maybe, if we're all lucky, it will lead to a better organisation of the people concerned and to more resistance against the 1 percent of the rich keeping the rest in poverty.  "},{"Title":"Pulp Non-Fiction.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yet more excellent work from documentarian Michael Moore as he hits the road in 1996 for a 47-city tour to promote his new book Downsize This. Funded by Random House Publishing, with that company having no idea that Moore is not just going to sign books, the all-world film-maker pulls no punches as he gets to the heart of corporation down-sizing just as some of the biggest money-makers in the U.S. start to have all-time record high profits. We see regular folks laid off by monsters like Pay Day (the candy bar company), Procter & Gamble,  General Motors, Johnson Controls and Pillsbury. National corporations leaving the U.S. to pay lesser fees to employees in third-world countries is explained in great detail and Moore even has a unique conversation with Phil Knight, the CEO of Nike (also the only CEO brave enough to verbally spar), and needless to say Moore comes out looking much better than his opponent. The Big One shows the lack of political choices for the general public (the film makes it blatantly clear that the Clinton/Dole race of 1996 was a no-win vote) as blue-collar, middle-class workers fall in the work-place due to the lack of government control on power-mad corporations that only look at the bottom line and constantly talk about competition in their industry (this makes the big-wigs look even sillier in reality). The main theme from Pulp Fiction late during Moore's run of metropolitan areas ends up setting the overall tone of this exceptional documentary feature. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Moore doesn't address the broader revolutions that would be required to make his ideas stick","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is frequently reminiscent of Letterman, visiting corporate headquarters with silly stunts - there's no way for the victims to win; even when they play along, as Phil Knight tries to, there's no room for rational argument. Moore is pretty engaging and energetic, but it soon becomes apparent that his movie has little ambition other than to string together such diverting moments and to hammer away at the main anti-downsizing theme. Astonishing that everyone makes the opposing	case so poorly - it's a walk over; an overwhelming victory for the Forces Of Good. But Moore doesn't address the broader revolutions that would be required to make his ideas stick - the corporate heads are surely culpable, but  if they didn't play along they'd be fired it's investment-obsessed America (Beardstown Ladies and all) that keeps this crazy cycle going. Moore has a great gift for getting into the middle of activity and is a great raconteur, but for someone so relentlessly pure on hammering at the same anti-capitalist drum he leaves his own success conspicuously unexamined. The ragbag style is always entertaining though and the film has an appealing zippy pace - reservations aside, the uncertain encounter with Knight makes for a good climax. "},{"Title":"Exposing the indifference that is the core of corporate America","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The earliest of Moore's films I've seen so far, this is definitely not his best work... technically, this is the least impressive of the ones I've seen(the others are Bowling For Columbine and Fahrenheit 9/11). The editing, pacing and presentation just isn't as sharp or clean as the other two. The score isn't as ironic or fitting either. The humor, tone and 'direction' is just as good, though. This time, Moore takes a clean shot at corporate America, and clearly exposes the indifference of the common man's fate displayed by all executives. Several times in the documentary we're introduced to companies that, despite of high profits and no problems with their workers are laying people off, closing and moving factories... putting people out of work, effectively robbing them of their livelihood. As usual, it's done in Moore's fashion of outlining the facts that support his cause and denying or ignoring the ones that do not. Of course, he gets so many laughs throughout that you barely notice it... and what he says is true, at least to a certain extent. The interviews in which Moore asks all the right questions, usually very controversial and direct are inter-cut with what appears to be a stand-up performance by him, which adds a sense of closeness that means a lot for the effect of the film. Not as memorable and interesting as Bowling or Fahrenheit, but most definitely worth watching. I recommend this to any fan of Michael Moore and humorous documentaries. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Downsize This! Book Tour Film","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big One is a well rounded accomplishment for Michael Moore. This film is almost like watching an autobiographical documentary. The movie highlights the notable events surrounding Michael Moore's book tour for Downsize This!. The feel of a rushed and improvised tour schedule sets the pace for scenes of public speeches, crew activity, and corporate inquisition. The film shows that Michael Moore reveals his humanitarian instincts in even the most hectic of environments. The direction of developing plot is specific to each of the cities that Moore goes to on his tour. The story that surrounds Nike, Inc. is absolutely worth watching. Corporate business is analyzed throughout this film and Michael Moore makes it a point to have the audience think about what they are watching. Highly recommended for fans of Bowling for Columbine, Fahrenheit 9/11, Sicko and admirers of Michael Moore. "},{"Title":"Moore's Big One","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" From the back of the DVD cover of The Big One If Fortune 500 companies are posting record-setting profits, why do they continue laying off thousands of workers?That's the fundamental question this movie poses to the viewer.In The Big One, filmmaker Michael Moore goes on a Random House book tour promoting Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American. In a hilarious whirlwind tour across the United States that takes him from Milwaukee, to Philadelphia, to Ft. Lauderdale, to Rockford, to Des Moines, to Harvard University and finally to his hometown of Flint, Michigan, Moore asks that fundamental question while also exposing corporate corruption and callous politicians in the Clinton-era America of the mid-1990s, and also playing good-humored pranks on the assorted media escorts hired to keep him out of trouble.Moore's book tour travels are mixed with blazing stand-up comedy and visits with out-of-work or soon-to-be out-of-work employees at these major companies that are making record-setting profits but continue to lay off their workers, when they should be hiring more workers. He also talks clandestinely with employees at a Des Moines Borders who were forced out of a book-signing and also had money being taken out of their paychecks to pay for a doctor as part of an out-of-state health care plan. These same workers were also trying to organize a labor union.He also meets a woman at a book-signing who was laid off earlier that day and she wanted desperately to meet him. We are also quite startled to learn that TWA has found cheap labor in prison convicts for their phone-answering services. At the end, he's granted with his first (and only) interview with the C.E.O. of Nike, which has a company in Indonesia that hires underage workers. Moore offers numerous challenges to which the chairman turns them all down - exposing his callousness and greed - and the C.E.O. finally caves to donate $10,000 to Flint, Michigan's struggling school system.The Big One is perhaps Moore's most underrated feature. Of course the film seems like a time capsule 11 years later since corporate downsizing and corruption have taken a backseat to terrorism, America's simultaneous conflicts with terrorists in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the global War on Terror. But I also have to say that The Big One is perhaps Moore's funniest film to date (my personal favorite is his 2004 anti-Bush Fahrenheit 9/11, and I have yet to read Downsize This!). But underneath the biting comedy, there is also a strong sense of anger and sadness that Moore delivers with some pretty strong passion. Some bits of The Big One are just downright depressing. He knows something's wrong with all the big corporations that continue making record profits but lay off the workers when they should be hiring more.While the movie is incredibly funny, Moore has been criticized for not offering solutions to all the people he encounters. The answer is simple, he just doesn't have any. There's nothing he can do to change the minds of greedy executives who would send jobs abroad rather than keep them here in America because they don't have to pay the workers as much. He's only one man who has been the ire of corporate America for nearly 20 years now, and it doesn't seem like he's any closer to winning his crusade.The Big One is Moore's Big One, all right, full of humor and satire aimed at his one true enemy, corporate America. It's not his best movie, but it proves that he still has the ability to expose corruption everywhere he sees it and show us that something is indeed wrong in this Land of the Free.10/10 "},{"Title":"this film feels more like a time capsule than anything else.","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore's The Big One is a typical Michael Moore documentary. By this post-Bowling for Columbine and present Fahrenheit 91I time period, much of America and the world know of Moore's feet first documentaries. With Moore becoming the funnier Mike Wallace of the '90s and shoving a microphone in the face of corporate and political bad guys at every turn, Moore again stirs up the corporate status quo in The Big One, released in 1998. The film covers the most threatening aspect to the American way of life at the time corporate downsizing. The setting is the Midwest and Moore travels to small midwestern cities, most often the ones hit hardest by the factory closings and layoffs of the late '90s. While not as focused or even as serious as Moore's most recent efforts, this film is still reminiscent to his others in that it is both funny and thought provoking.Most likely unintended by Moore when filming, this film feels more like a time capsule than anything else. While factory closings and layoffs have continued into the 2000s, the impact the closings of the'90s had on America are far greater than the layoffs of today. A documentary on corporate downsizing today would be lost amongst the far more serious issues of U.S foreign policy and all it is related to, including terrorism, the Patriot Act and homeland security, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Factory closings and plant layoffs in exchange for higher corporate profits are an important issue, but when viewed six years later, this film seems almost insignificant.The Big One covers American politics as an extension of corporate America in that both elite politicians and elite CEOs are essentially the same type of person. In one segment, Moore covers the most recent presidential campaign, and in a series of interviews, many people say that they refused to vote because both candidates in 1996 were the same person; the only difference was their political party name. Today, America is so polarized politically that the idea of refusing to vote based on the fact that the candidates are too similar is not only incorrect, but also outlandish. However, one must remember that Moore was first a journalist, and his films are news-based, and by the hand, are not meant to have the longest of shelf lives. At their best, they are perfect time capsules of various issues facing America at a certain time period.Moore is highly visible in this film as he was in 1989's Roger and Me, only using his interview subjects to further his story and cause. While he does allow the characters to speak for themselves, they are only backing up his claims and not necessarily adding any more to the film than mere quotes. Moore's feelings and political motives are what make up this documentary, and they come through 100% to the viewer as Moore makes a convincing case for his cause.The film's use of humorous stock footage, broadcast news reports, and stand-up comedy scenes with Moore behind the microphone make for entertaining segments that either divert the viewer from the story and provide for some comic relief, or conversely, further the story when the footage has a sharp political undercurrent. Moore's juxtaposition of serious-minded news reports as the build up with one of his narrated comments as the punch line are entertaining and part of what make his documentaries fun to watch as well as informative. The Big One, while it does not necessarily have as solid of a story as Moore's other films and may be criticized for coming off as a 90-minute commercial for Moore's book, Downsize This, does manage to string together a few interviews with humor and a serious issue to effectively promote Moore's cause. Although we know Nike CEO and Moore interviewee Phil Knight would never put a Nike shoe factory anywhere in the US, much less in Moore's hometown of Flint, Michigan, the fact that Moore asked Knight to do so concisely summarizes Moore's message and wish that US-owned companies stop closing factories and outsourcing to cheaper foreign markets and start giving US workers their jobs back. Anyone who has taken an international business course or even perused the Wall Street Journal knows outsourcing will continue. Moore's ability to increase the public's awareness is his best trait as a filmmaker, not his attempt to single handedly change the entire face of US and international business.The soundtrack, like other Moore films, is mostly there for humorous purposes. Moore lets the most serious moments in his films go without any sound other than the person weeping or ranting for maximum effect. That being said, his use of humorous songs including Americana classics pace the film and add to its quick nature. Moore only uses scene titles sparingly, as his narration divides the film verbally. The use of scene titles is not necessary when Moore is walking his viewers through the film.Funded by the British Broadcasting Company, Moore's budget is much more than his contemporaries', but even a large budget cannot save this film. His choice of story topic is not lasting enough to appeal to viewers not living with the economic divisions between rich and poor of the late 1990s. Also, if Moore had let the story lead him to various locations across the country instead of his book tour navigating, maybe he would have found out more information and created something better than The Big One. Additionally, perhaps if Moore had narrowed his ideas of what he wanted to cover before he started filming ('The Big One' refers to the US as the 'big' country) instead of attempting to cover American politics, the economy and sagging social standards all in one 90-minute documentary, his ideas would have came across even clearer than they already do. This is where Moore succeeds in his later films, especially Bowling For Columbine, which strictly focuses on a single issue with minimal sidebars.Sources of tension in this film go from the comedic sources ('media escorts,' i.e. middle age blonde women who cannot handle Moore's independent spirit) to the most serious ones (the US government and big business). He tries to grapple too much in The Big One, and that is where this film ultimately fails.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but erroneous (some small spoilers)","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie about a month ago on TV in its entirety (uncut). Having already seen Bowling for Columbine, this movie was a thorough disappointment. As some reviewers have already noted, it seems more like a plug for his book than an honest critique of society. Beware, logical fallacies abound I cringed when Moore attempted (in vain) to draw a connection between terrorism and unemployment (which then leads to crime, depression, and suicide, so isn't that terrorism? as he compares pictures of the Oklahoma City bombing to some burnt-out factory).While I could connect with a lot of the messages (about gun control and the like) of Bowling for Columbine, this movie feels like a topsy-turvy ride from one logical mistake to the next as Moore whisks along the viewer in an attempt to hide the shortcomings in his message. Even in one of the final scenes where Moore was dared by the CEO of Nike to bring so many hundred workers for a possible factory construction, Moore uses sly camera work to hide the fact that only 30 or so showed up, half of them not even working age. Instead, he goads several protesters to address the camera directly--strangely, a pan shot of the protest is never shown.Part of me wishes the Nike CEO would have accepted the trip to see the Nike factories overseas so that Michael Moore could actually see these sweatshops he degrades all movie. Instead, Moore glances over the weak spots and instead focuses on the problems without ever enlightening the audience of possible solutions. Much more so than Bowling for Columbine, The Big One feels like a classic game of smoke and mirrors.  "},{"Title":"Funny, but unfocused","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I applaud Michael Moore for addressing gnarly, difficult subjects that other commentators and especially the news media are too chicken to tackle. This 1997 BBC documentary follows his '96 book tour promoting Downsize This!. In the film, Moore travels to small town and Rust Belt America -- places often ignored by other social critics in favor of big cities and glamor locations. The realism and problems of ordinary, middle class, Middle Americans is one of the highlights of the film. This is an honest look at the economic problems in the US circa the 90s.One of Moore's strengths and weaknesses is just how funny he is -- he's a skilled speaker and essentially a talented stand-up comic, whose material is politically skewed and occasionally self-deprecating. This is disarming, and also plain, laugh-out-loud funny. I watched this film recently with a group of people who were in stitches, even though some of the material (in 2005) is a bit outdated by recent historical events. Some of Moore's funniest material is when he confronts executives or stone faced PR honchos, and waits for their predictable, canned, nonsensical remarks designed to give little information and obscure the issue at hand. It's powerful stuff, watching the rich and selfish defending their privileges, and a scathing commentary on economic inequality in what we like to think is the freest, richest, most egalitarian society in the world.HOWEVER -- Moore often weakens his own arguments by using shoddy and overly simplistic examples. Comparing a torn-down factory in Flint Michigan to the Oklahoma City bombing is very tacky, and not even a good analogy -- the loss in Oklahoma was human life, including many pre-school children...the loss of the Murrah building itself is insignificant. Unemployed workers in Flint do actually have other options, like moving elsewhere for work. It's a cheap shot. Another lame effort occurs when Moore challenges the president of Nike to build a shoe factory in Flint, over his objections that American's don't want to make shoes. Moore claims he will get 100 workers together who do want to produce footwear for Nike -- then the film shows a pitiful rally of a couple dozen folks, many of whom are small children. Closeup photography obscures the fact that Moore could NOT find 100 willing workers in Flint, despite all the well-publicized poverty...is it true that Americans are unwilling to manufacture shoes? We'll never know.Another flaw is that Michael Moore is not especially honest about his own status in all this. He's a very successful pundit and filmmaker (although this movie was made years before the phenom of Fahrenheit 911), and had already published several books and had a TV series. He's wealthy by the standards of most Americans, a celebrity and immune to the economic realities that he is describing. That tends to make his criticism rather facile. For example, he fails to explain how (as in the example above) Americans earning even minimum wage, about $5 per hour, can possibly compete in manufacturing with Third World workers who make 50 cents an hour...no matter how hardworking or willing those Americans are. This is the hard reality facing both employees and employers, and it's curiously left on the table here without discussion...except perhaps to suggest (vaguely) that companies should make business decisions on charitable grounds, rather than economic ones.Still with all it's flaws, I find this (and other) Moore documentaries a valuable contribution to National debate, especially along Red State/ Blue State lines. The most valuable historical information in The Big One is whenvoters (talking about the '96 Clinton/Dole presidential race) say that both candidates are the same and turnout will be historically low and who cares who is in office. Those comments are truly astonishing in light of current events and political atmosphere, and this is only 8 years later. The world has been turned on it's axis by current events! Yet it's important to realize how recent that change has occurred, and extremely valuable to look at evaluate the political and economic changes of just the last decade.In conclusion a challenging and interesting documentary, with some flaws, but extremely funny. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"some funny and compelling moments","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After Michael Moore writes 'Downsize This!', he goes on a book tour across America. Along the way, he visits a PayDay chocolate bar plant that is about to close, Forbes' presidential campaign office in Iowa, a secret Borders workers meeting in the parking lot, Rockford, Illinois, Milwaukee, Pillsbury, and then Phil Knight CEO of Nike.This is the second full-length documentary movie for Moore. By this point, I got used to his advocacy style and one has to take the accuracy of anything shown with a grain of salt. However, it's still compelling with some really amazing personal moments for some of these real people. Moore has some great comedic skills despite his seemingly slubby amateur regular guy persona. He does go over the board with some of these underlings. It's one thing to hound Phil Knight but it's another to hound the minimum wage doorman to one of those corporations. It worked for Roger & Me but it's not as effective this time around. "}{"Title":"A Nutshell Review The Big One","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the earliest Michael Moore documentaries made some 13 years ago, the angle at which he's pursuing here still holds a certain truth with regards to his relentless crusade against corporations, greed and corruption, asking the pointed question why lay offs are still required for major companies still turning in a obscene profits, and we'd get to see, on camera, how the corporate suit types unconvincingly wriggle their way out through canned messages. In other words, making them look stupid because they just can't say what they do in a straight face.As part of his book tour promoting his latest book Downsize This! across 47 cities in the United States in 50 days (grueling if you ask me), the film takes that one single question and goes on quite a predictable pattern where Moore would fly in the city, meet up with his respective Media Escort that Random House, his book publisher assigns, then try to pull off one of his in-your-face interviews as he and his camera crew marches into whichever corporation's HQ-ed in the city, before recounting his experience to a townhall audience, and showcasing scenes from his book signing where he gets to meet the man, or woman, on the street lining up to get his autograph, and of course to talk to the big guy, and lend their support to what he's doing.The Big One basically is a road trip film documenting his travels and what he does as he goes on that crusade against corporations, especially those which have recently announced profits, yet go through a large lay-off exercise. He brings volunteers on his rounds just to prove a point that they aren't lazy or choosy, and will work if given the opportunity to do so, even at minimum wage. It's not the least surprising how Moore, with his already growing reputation then, gets road-blocked time and again by security or middle management who get sent to intercept and entertain Moore, since the head honchos naturally prefer to sit in their comfy offices and avoid the heat.The surprise of course comes when Phil Knight, CEO of Nike, decides to grant him an audience on camera as well, though is nothing but tongue tied when questioned about his company's policy in locating their factory outside of America, and really side-stepping issues thrown his way. It's understood that nobody will like to commit anything without careful thought, but it sure does take the cake when witnessing these men, who make handsome profits, finding their rationale and excuses all shot down soundly, since their sole pursuit is undeniably, to keep making more money for their shareholders. But unlike Roger & Me, Moore gets fairly successful here in putting someone who's a somebody, on camera.In some ways The Big One plays out like a comedy since there's plenty of stand-up moments where Moore entertains the crowd with jokes and making light of some really serious bread and butter issues regarding people's livelihood. Singapore's mentioned twice in the film, early on when Moore talks about how McDonald's gets money to promote McNuggets here, and the other when he offers Phil Knight a trip to Indonesia via Singapore Airlines no less. But I suppose if the same issues were to be discussed and addressed here in the same approach Michael Moore does, there's no doubt what will happen to the local filmmaker.While the war is not won in one film, at least the little battles the everyday man go into, which gets tracked and documented in Moore's film, does show a ray of sunshine in an otherwise bleak Inc. world we live in. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Roger and Me","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big One is entertaining and has a glimmer of the ingenuity used to make Roger and Me, but it just doesn't match up. Michael Moore steps on his soapbox and grabs his mike and blabs at the viewer for 25% of the movie. Although this makes his ideas clear as a bell, it doesn't do much for the movie. I wish that he had shown his ideals through filming others rather than himself, as he did with Roger and Me.Still, this movie does have some wonderful things about it. Moore's ability to go anywhere and ask anything is commendable and the result is amusingly scary. Whatever you do, see Roger and Me first. "},{"Title":"onward ever after","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Having exposed GM in Roger & Me, corporate, political, and law enforcement misdeeds on TV Nation, and such things in Downsize This!, Michael Moore brought it all to a head in The Big One. He interviews laid off employees, shows why Steve Forbes is an alien, and pokes fun at the whole hypocritical nature of so many things in our society. The high point is when he meets with Nike CEO Phil Knight and asks him to build a factory in Flint, Michigan (Knight refuses). As always, Moore incorporates footage from popular culture to great effect. All of this goes to show why he has been the voice of world opinion for at least the past decade. There is truly no one else like him on Earth. "},{"Title":"A bio-pic of Michael Moore's state of mind.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big One (1997) presents itself as a spontaneous documentary of Michael Moore's outrageous adventures during the tour of his book, Downsize This! Moore does a good job of focusing on what's wrong in America- people work 60+ hours a week just to get by, profitable, productive factories closing to move to Mexico where workers are paid 60 cents an hour.Unfortunately, for all of Moore's focused anger at corporate America, Moore doesn't offer much of a solution.  When someone asks him why he didn't limit his book tour to union or non-corporate stores, he makes a joke about the success of his book changing his politics.  Moore asks a corporate spokesperson if she thinks it's a good idea for the US to pass punitive laws against profitable corporations who export their labor to other countries. This is admirable, but I wish he had followed up on his own question.In this film, Moore comes across as someone who has spent a lot of time focused on America's problems, but spends only a token effort in dwelling on potential solutions.  This imbalance handicaps what could have been a sublimely entertaining, informative documentary.  I expected information at the end of the movie about corporate ethics organizations like Corporate Watch (http//www.corpwatch.org) or information on how to start a labor union (http//www.aflcio.org).  Alas, no such luck.Despite its faults, The Big One (1997) is a must-see for anyone who believes 1) unions are corrupt; 2) corporations are corrupt; or 3) earns a salary of less than six figures a year.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing failing on two levels","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big One fails on the two levels it aims at political consciousness and entertainment.First the entertainment level. Michael Moore's documentaries are meant as half entertaining, half political much like his show TV-nation (BBC). The entertainment often takes the shape of embarrassing his enemies in front of the camera by confronting them with suggestive questions for which they are usually unprepared. This can be funny but a lot of times I just felt sorry for the people who were confronted by his blunt questions. Often it was like the Charlton Heston visit in Bowling for Columbine which was the weakest part of that documentary. I thought the majority of the DVD was boring and lacked structure. The first half I was wondering, what is this about? The Big One was all centered around Michael Moore's book tour, promoting his latest book. Who even cares about that stuff? I wanted to see him confront high-level executives from large corporations or government officials, with sharp questions, but I got to see none of what I had hoped for. The other level The Big One fails at is political consciousness. It lacks depth. The corporate management people he visits are always lower management (except for the Nike official), who don't have any authority on strategic decisions that force their plants to shut down locally and move to cheaper countries. Despite that, these people show themselves quite capable of defending their company's policies with rational arguments they need to stay competitive in their market to survive, they are not charity after all. But Moore never really listened to them or even thought about their arguments. He just tried to keep waltzing over them repeating cheap suggestive questions like how do you live with yourself etcetera. Moore did have a point criticizing the government paying welfare to companies but failed to focus on one simple subject. He could have focused on just that one issue, or the Nike factories in Asia, or the factories that were shut down. That way he might have been able to put the finger on the REAL problems in all those cases, but I doubt it. I'll give it my two cents-The main problem with companies that downsize is that they don't hurt the people that can take the biggest blows because they make the most money in those companies the UPPER MANAGEMENT.-The other problem with companies that fire their people despite profits is they usually communicate badly and don't give enough time and compensation to the people that are sacked. The right to have a job is an outdated communist notion. Let these people look for a new job, just help them finding it!-Having factories in third world countries, even when they have a dictatorial regime, is NOT unethical. These people would be off much worse without those factories. In fact in those countries most people are jealous of the people that do work in Nike factories because they can help support entire families. The people that have to get by with their own farms and other native means of making money have far more miserable lives and have to work even harder. The only thing that I would agree on is that Nike should hire more people and let them work less hours (keeping their costs the same), while improving working conditions.If you like Michael Moore Fahrenheit 911 and particularly Bowling for Columbine are far superior. Despite their flaws (often presenting fiction as fact) they are entertaining and serve a purpose in broadening people's perspectives by displaying a different view on the subjects of terrorism and violence than most of the media. "},{"Title":"Micheal Moore is At it Again","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What does one do when one makes a bucket load of money from a movie were you whinge and whine about how progress has destroyed your home town, and you spend an hour and a half fictitiously chasing the CEO of a major corporation and make it appear on camera that he does not want to talk to you? - More of the same.Basically this film is about a book tour where Michael Moore travels across the United States holding signings and conferences about a book that he wrote called Downsize Me, and spends all of his time criticising Corporate America. Now don't get me wrong, I am a big fan of criticising corporate America because the nature of the system which is based on greed and on lining the pockets of a minority to the expense of the majority is something that needs to be criticised &#x96; it is just that I don't like it when Micheal Moore does it because it is becoming clear that the only reason he is doing it is because people pay him money to watch his movies and to read his books.The question that I have is what does Michael Moore do with all the money that he makes from these enterprises? I know I won't be able to ask him because he doesn't like to give interviews in exactly the same way that the CEOs he chases allegedly don't like to give interviews. I suspect the reason that he doesn't like to give interviews, and the reason that CEOs don't like to give interviews to him, is because they do not trust him and they do not know how he is going to manipulate the stock footage that has been taken of those interviews to his own advantage.Anyway, the whole idea of downsizing and moving to Mexico (or other developing countries) is a double edged sword. Manufacturing in America (and in Australia) is a dying industry because it is much cheaper to move it overseas. Further, the costs of setting up factories are so much cheaper because the laws that surround workplace rights and health and safety do not exist, and without tariffs, companies are simply going to behave like water, and that is move to where it is cheapest. Personally I do not like it, but that is the way it is happening. Basically in the modern democracy the unskilled labour is moving to the service industry, and skilled labour is going to a knowledge base (though workers in the construction industry are still needed because you simply cannot off shore them).Once again, it is difficult to tell what is true and what has been manipulated in this film. For instance, it is quite clear that the interview with Phil Knight has been edited to bits to simply show us that he does not care about the conditions of the workers in Indonesia, and that he does not want to open factories in the United States because people in the United States do not want to make shoes. However Knight is right when he says that people who are unemployed will say they want to do any job, yet it is also true that it is so much cheaper to employ people in Indonesia and import the shoes than to pay people in the United States to do it. Unfortunately, it is not necessarily the CEOs and executives that are doing this but the super funds and managed investments that are forcing the companies to do this because they want their returns and us, the people who hold the shares and who have financial stakes in those funds what our returns as well. "},{"Title":"Michael Moore is the man and you can too!","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ten years later and the consequences of the corporate greed and American National Naivitee have borne fruit. The country is in a depression, all of the manufacturing jobs are outsourced, and I.O.U.S.A a lot of money. The champions of film are really Robert Greenwald, Jareckie, Furguson, Chomsky, Archbar, Abott, and Moore, and a few others; the ones who make powerful social documentaries such as this so anyone who cares can take notice, educate themselves, and get fired up! The real problem in film is to get people with a conscience and lots of money to start to fund features that are as socially explosive as these documentaries. I have a few in mind. So far no one has turned up. Except the Canadian guy who funded Battle in Seattle who new he was going to loose money. Where are these Champions hiding, if they exist at all? The real pleasure of this film, for me anyway, are the two sill shots of the of Chaiman Phil Night and Steve Forbes. Look into their eyes! What cowards! What Nowhere men! That's just awesome. "},{"Title":"Team Corporate gets some Sweet Chin Music","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore is a fun, funny, charismatic, smart, and ballsy guy.  He walks into an office of a company, that is closing its manufacturing plant in the U.S. to go to Mexico, and presents them with a check for 89 cents to pay for the first hour of the first Mexican laborer's wage...THEN he films the management's expression, and puts it on the Silver Screen...that is the best scene I may have seen all year!!  Ha Ha!!  Nonetheless, Moore walks all over the Evil Empires in this film, exposing the greedy, self-centeredness of these Multi-Billion Dollar a year companies that can't seem to afford to employ citizens of the U.S.  This film flows in a smooth, and orderly fashion, with quick witted, heartfelt humor that tries to lighten the extreme somber attitudes of the unemployed (or DOWNSIZED).  Although there are no solutions offered here, this is an educational experience for all those business jerks who downsize hard working, middle class people right out into the streets....hey, wasn't this a movie review, instead of a political statement?!  Sorry, this is a very funny, yet sad experience. There is NO acting, because it's real, so all characters are as believable as Mrs. Jones next door, and the problems are addressed in a thought-provoking way that will make you want to get involved. "},{"Title":"A worthy stimulation","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Documentarian and provocateur Michael Moore went on a book tour to promote his 1996 best seller, Downsize This!, and of course, brought his camera along. The results are this frequently hilarious and sometimes queasy indictment of corporate America. I like Moore's ballsy attitude and ironic humor, although he does tend to go off the deep end occasionally (likening America to the Second Evil Empire is a bit much - would he prefer we have the genocide of Indonesia?) and has no good answer when the cameraman asks him how he feels about a corporation, Random House, publishing his book. But in all this is an entertaining and occasionally striking (no pun intended) expose of a system that does not, and cannot, work for all. "},{"Title":"They put vegetables on my fish filet.","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before he hit it big with his latest documentaries, Michael Moore made this one as he traveled to 47 cities promoting his book Downsize This! If you get nothing else out of the film, the exchange with Studs Terkel in Chicago says it all. He talks about the Oklahoma City Bombing and the loss of 168 lives. At the same time, a plant closes in Flint and the building is destroyed. The only difference is that they lay off all the workers so no one was left in the building. Which is terrorism? The result of the layoffs will be suicide, child abuse, spousal abuse, etc. Isn't the corporation guilty of economic terrorism?The next most important thing to take away is the fact that we pay corporate welfare to companies like McDonalds and Pillsbury to promote their products overseas. Do they share the resulting profits with the American taxpayer who paid for their advertising? You know the answer to that.Michael Moore is a real American hero and I just hope he keeps sticking it to the greedy SOBs that are stealing from this country.Not as slick as his latest documentaries, but all of them are worth watching. beats watching Tampa bay beat up on the Redskins. "}{"Title":"Best of the year","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wasn't able to see the movie in theaters, never released here, but I just saw it on video and it is the best of the year (counting for '98). Michael Moore makes a very strong point about what is wrong in America, but he doesn't do it in a depressing way, you laugh your a$$ off. If you haven't seen it, you really ought to. I was very impressed with it (if you couldn't tell). 10/10 all the way. Go rent it now "},{"Title":"Just As Good","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore has now become a Beatle. Back in 1997, it was possible to buy tickets to see the Beatles. Today, you can't get close to him or get fain mail to him. With his Academy Award win and the release of the anti-Bush film on 9-11, Moore has become the voice for middle class reason and independent rule in America. In the Big One, Moore shows the truth about corporate welfare to the masses. Although he does not have as large a budget as most of his films such as Roger and Me and Bowling, Moore successfully shows his side to the story and makes the corporations look like fat cats. A perfect movie for film school and people who are just ticked off at rich people and how the system is working. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Scathingly humorous dig at corporate America","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael, a.k.a. Roger Moore has done it again.  After almost a decade since his stunningly depressing Roger and Me, he delivers an equally acerbic, yet slightly more comedic account of David vs. Goliath in corporate America.  Never hiding his roots or his purpose (he's from Flint and he's mad), he weaves a tale of real Americans who are on the skids and at the mercy of lying, cheating, scheming corporations (and, ultimately, the gov't).  Check out the scene at Media Play, with inspired editing, of Michael and a PR woman who is not all that she seems. I found myself cheering and clapping throughout the film.  Hurray, Michael!  "},{"Title":"Michael Moore's Best?","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big One (1997) - Starring Michael Moore - Written and Directed By Michael Moore - MPAA Rating PG-13 - 10/10Michael Moore took on GM, he took on the unanswerable question of why the Columbine shootings took place, but before Bowling for Columbine, Moore took on a subject that took a lot of courage to take on big business downsizing. Michael Moore has a way with his documentaries, where he takes them on with hilarious sarcasm, yet utmost seriousness. In the Big One, he totally attacks businesses all over America more concerned with earning just a bit more than the record number they had just earned than the welfare of their employees. It is a film that many Americans can relate to, and a shameless plug to his book. Regardless, it is an excellent documentary, quite possibly Moore's best.Smitty's evaluation 10/10 - A must-see, flawless film. "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch and laugh at...","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore makes some really good points from how evil corperations are to how prisoners answer the airline phones. This was my first Michael Moore movie and it started off relatively slow for me but in the end it was really funny.He comes off as the kind of guy that is very annoying and acts like he knows everything.Thats what makes this movie so beautiful, he makes pointsExample He gives a company a giant check for 80 cents for The average workers wage in SyngapourWatch this and laugh..and laugh....and laugh.....It was weak at points but he came off as a funny guy.I cant wait to see his other work on columbine and 9/11.He is truly un-afraid to have a big mouth.....The big one is a big laugh!(in a good way)7 Big ones out of 10 *******/********** "},{"Title":"Moore's follow up to Roger and Me is his most comedic and engaging to date","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big One remains my favorite Moore film yet, even though I found `Bowling for Columbine' to be more `well-made' (i.e. &#150; slick).  What I find The Big One, a documentary shot during Moore's book tour for `Downsize this' has is more humor, more heart and less histrionics.  While Moore continues to champion for the little guy against big corporation who have wronged them in the name of Capitalism, there is none of the preachiness that can be interpreted within Bowling for Columbine.  Instead, Moore follows in the tradition of `TV Nation' and his eventual brilliant Bravo/BBC series `The Awful Truth' and makes his point with some humor for good measure.  It doesn't surprise me that Bowling for Columbine was more criticized and hit America's radar screens a lot heavier than this relatively unknown film.  The Big One's content and crusades against Corporate America are less inflammatory than addressing gun control and attacking Moses.Rather, The Big One comes across as Michael Moore `light.'  Despite the fact that I relish in watching Moore take on the guys that I can't, I still enjoyed this one the most so far, probably because in my opinion, Moore's intelligence and heart are captured best in this film above any other and remind us that he is someone who isn't just going for publicity, but is also someone who really does do what he does to help people.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Michael Moore rocks","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael may be pilloried by the Conservative establishment as a hypocrite, by the fact remains he is one of the most eloquent champions of the American working class. The Big one is just one in a long line of his documentaries that highlight the gross corruption that exists within the American Corporate culture, so much of which has permeated the rest of the world. He makes you laugh at the bad guys, which in itself cannot be a bad thing.  "},{"Title":"If you thought things in America could only get better after Roger & Me, think again...","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My favorite socialist/populist, Michael Moore heads out on a cross-country book promotion tour for his best-seller Downsize This and finds the same General Motors induced wake of destruction as found in Flynt Michigan in almost every stop. This time Moore sets his sights on Corporate Crook #3 Phil Knight of Nike, Inc.. Incredible foot in mouth scenes ensue! Moore avoids putting the laid off workers in his spotlight this time around and shows his disdain for his media escorts instead. If you're one of those not blessed with a trust fund or connected to vast sums of wealth, see this movie! If you are involved in making record profits and laying off American workers, watch this film because you're next. "},{"Title":"See This film!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not going to give a synopsis,because that's already been done.  However, I would like to answer the charge that Moore presents the problems of working in America without any solutions.  I don't think that that is his responsibility. It's true that he is telling us what most of us already know.  And to a certain extent, he does provide a solution.  To the politicians he says, we can pass whatever law we want. He's not a politician, though he would certainly have my vote if he should decide to run.    "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Less documentary-feeling than Roger and Me, this movie focuses on Michael Moore's book campaign, and the places he visits along the way.  Although he sometimes appears wishy-washy and doesn't offer a lot of solutions to the problems he shows (which is why i gave it only a 9 rating), he mocks corporate America with mucho success, showing the idiocy and greed of the big companies and humiliating them in their own backyards.  Even if you don't agree with Moore's viewpoint, he offers up plenty of fuel for discussion/debate.  If you liked Roger and Me, you'll love The Big One. The part about Forbes is worth the price of rental alone!  "}{"Title":"A must see for anyone interested in the what really is going on in the USA.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this film, it goes into the offices of CEO's and into the front offices of big corporations to show you what's going on.  If this does not enrage you with the way businesses are run than nothing will.  Michael Moore makes this case  If a business is allowed to do whatever it likes to make a profit for its shareholders, then why not just sell crack?  Go Mike. "},{"Title":"Michael Moore is a genius!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A brilliant documentary! Serious, but with good humor. To us, brazilian people, its very interesting to see the real american way of life, its difficulties and contradictions. Its important to us to know that the McDonalds is not the real life in America.I expect Moore come soon at Rio. "},{"Title":"Interesting follow-up to Roger and Me","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore's second film is  a  little more accessible than the  original, but at least he takes on  the private sector with the same  vigor he showed in the first film.  Often times dragging, the big  moment in this film is Moore's  interview with NIKE founder Phil  Knight. Not only is this part shocking,  it redeems a film that lags in some  spots. A solid follow-up to Moore's  first film and his television show  TV Nation. "},{"Title":"But I thought my company would take care of me!","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very good documentary on the uncaring greed of corporate Amerika. I was, as usual, vastly amused by the corporate whores who went scampering for the shadows when Moore turned his light on them. Many wouldn't even let him stay in the lobby. These little weasel butt kissers will someday, if there is any justice, feel the unemployment boot crunching down on their own pathetic, fearful little craniums. Amazing how some folks can downsize their brains into feeling my company is always right they need to stop genuflecting at the alter of this false god and wake up to a world of charity for their fellow man. I've been watching Moore for a while, and I don't always agree with him, but I feel he is dead on in his indictment of American conglomerates and their villainous leaders. The reply of Nike's CEO to Moore's question about his employees in the far east was telling indeed I don't care. Chilling.  "},{"Title":"Well done documentary","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Michael Moore's The Big One is another expose of corporate America and its downsizing reign (ironically, Moore films this journey while promoting his book Downsize This Random Threats from an Un-Armerd American).  Whats better, he can still bring great thought-provoking stories that make us laugh and make us feel sorrow.  And it proves one more thing, Michael Moore is truly the working man's hero (despite writing a book might've been giving in a little bit).  Best documentary of 1997. "},{"Title":"A UNION is the ONLY chance the little guy has in corporate America.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Everything Moore said was right on and the solution is democratic unions,organized and run by workers.  That's the only way it's gonna get done, folks.  This is a darn good little documentary with quite a few laffs mixed in with the social troubles. "},{"Title":"So-so documentary marred by hypocrisy, bad timing.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Michael Moore's latest documentary focuses on his new book and more assorted attacks on corporations which he deems as inferior or greedy. Although it is somewhat interesting, it is nowhere near as important as 1989's Roger & Me, which was strongly valid in argument. (When GM CEO Roger Smith laid off thousands of workers just for cheap labor in Mexico, it was probably one of the most dispicable things anyone with four limbs has done.) But the bad timing is nowhere near severe as the hypocrisy. For example, shortly before the messy 2000 Presidential election, Salon magazine surfaced Ralph Nader's 1999 tax returns revealing that he owns a mutual fund with stocks in Walmart, The Gap and an affiliate of Halliburton Oil (all of which came under fierce attack from the Moore/Nader team) This crusade courtesy of the Naderites may have erroneously lead to the wrong guy being in office, and the Moore/Nader team have taken no responsiblity to their actions, or the hypocrisy which surfaced when the Green Party candidate's stocks appeared. This just goes to show that investigative commentary can lead to contradictions and often diminish credibility in argument. "},{"Title":"Moore is a bully","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Moore's on the right side and he's funny, but to make his point, he bullies anyone who disagrees with him. He's said in interviews that the people he bullies deserve it, that they're working for corrupt businesses and know that what they're doing is wrong when they take the job. This doesn't explain a series of scenes in the movie that do nothing more then make fun of one of his handlers who crossed him -- apparently she told him certain things that weren't true; he spends at least ten minutes showing how she'd lied to him. What's the point of this, other then getting even with her?Michael Moore is mean-spirited. In a position of power, he'd turn into Stalin. I can't look at photographs of him anymore without becoming physically nauseous.  "}]