[{"Title":"A very good, bittersweet film","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"49 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have watched the movie twice, once with my wife and once with my children.It is a great movie and totally undeserving of some of the juvenile comments posted here.It is a story of a 12 year old extremely undersized boy who is a freak to many, a best friend to another and ends up being a hero. All through the movie he talks of God having a plan for him and that his small stature is a part of that plan.Don't compare it to the book it is suggested from. Neither does justice to the other.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A fluid, graceful success-- enjoyable and uplifting","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic movie! I had avoided this one in the theaters last Fall because of the theme. Consider this movie in light of the other suffering child movie that came out around the same time, Patch Adams. Bless those Patch folks, they really tried, but that movie was dense, depressing, and the characters were tedious if implausible. Simon Birch, however, succeeded in every sense. It evoked the late 1950's and early 1960's very well. Not just the look of an American small town, but the vibe of the folks, especially the adults, rang very true for me (I was there, same age as the Joe character). The movie itself was wonderful to look at, and easy to lose one's self within.The other key aspect of the movie was title character, Simon. When I first saw the previews for this, I thought that it could be good, but it could also be awkward and painful to watch. There is a place for painful and awkward movies, I suppose, but most often I choose to avoid them. When I rented the DVD of Simon Birch, I was willing to watch, but was still expecting it to be somewhat of an ordeal, like taking bitter medicine. I was so surprised! It does convey the considerable pain of the characters' circumstances, yet it is also a story that is fluid with grace and tremendous joy. I was touched, and I was also happy and uplifted. The entire cast was stellar, especially the young boys who played Simon and Joe. Everyone was awesome. What an accomplishment! I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"This is an amazing and brilliant movie. Should be watched by everyone.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is an amazing, touching and emotional drama about 12 year old Simon Birch, a small boy who can't grow and believes he has a destiny. The movie is one of the most amazing movies I have ever seen. It's a very well made movie and VERY sad, especially the ending which had me in tears. There were even a couple of funny bits here too, like the scene at the school play.  Simon Birch is played brilliantly by the amazing Ian Michael Smith who gives a fantastic and touching performance. I REALLY hope to see more of him in the future. Joseph Mazzello also gives a great performance as Simon's best friend, Joe Wenteworth. Oliver Platt is also really good here too as Ben Goodrich. Like I've already is Simon Brich is a brilliant movie and should be watched by everyone of all ages as it's really amazing. It's one of those movies which deserved some Oscar winnings. I give Simon Birch a 10/10. See this movie now, if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome And A Very Touching Well Made Movie !","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is by far one of the most moving, well filmed and acted films I have seen in many years. The touching story shows the life of young Simon played perfectly by Ian Michael Smith in a very small, and not always understanding community. It is set beautifully in the 1950s and shows how the inner strength and enormous faith shown by such a little boy afflicted with so many physical problems can have such an influence on those around him along with the respect he would command amongst his piers. The film also stars well known child actor Joseph Mazzello who plays Joe Wenteworth ( Simon's best friend.) Mazzello also starred in Jurassic Park, The River Wild, The Curse etc I think this was Joseph's finest performance yet. It was also very nice to see a cameo performance by Jim Carrey as the grown up Joe, and to see how Jim can be a very convincing serious actor too ! I would like to see more roles of this type from Jim for maybe the years to come ?The photography was so well executed, and showed such lovely changing seasons through the year it was set. For me there were so many 'post card 'scenes. The pop songs of the 50s used blended perfectly with the film, and also had one of the most lovely and very memorable soundtracks too written by Marc Shaiman.I must recommend this film to all who have not yet seen it. It scores a 10 on the 'weepie' scale too so be warned !!  "},{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a coming of age piece about a young man with obvious disadvantages that would have beat down most people. Yet he manages to find God's plan for him while showing those who doubted him that he had the right stuff all along. There are other subplot misdirections but that is the main thrust.Ian Smith, who plays the title lead, is very small in stature, but he has giant talents. I'm surprised he hasn't been cast in other films yet.An engrossing, sometimes funny and sometimes sad film that I found to be remarkably well made. Everyone involved should be proud of it. One of the better little films I've seen lately and frankly it is better than some major films release lately. Very pleasantly surprised when I stumbled onto it on WGN and plan to view it again uninterrupted on DVD as soon as I can. Why haven't I heard of this film before? An excellent screenplay, skillful direction, plus tight period music, art direction and wardrobe add up to a great early 60's feel. Natural editing, good casting, clear sound even during the big exciting scenes show this to be a well made film all the way around. This is a film for adults about guys growing up physically and emotionally. This is not suitable for children under 18. Not because there is something they shouldn't see in this movie, but instead because they just won't get it.I saw it last night and I'm still chuckling to myself now and then about the Christmas play scene. Thanks to all involved for making a really, really good movie! It has some laughs, but also made me stop to question what God's plan for my life might be. It restored some of my faith that He does have a plan for those of us who are willing to give Him a chance to lead us to our opportunity to become His instrument. If none of that makes sense to you, you haven't seen this movie! "},{"Title":"Really good movie, very little flaws.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There was something that compelled me to see this movie.  I don't know what it was, maybe subliminal messages in the TV ads or something.  After all, why would I watch a movie like this when some of my favorite films are Blood Sucking Freaks, Nekromantik, and Cutting Moments?Anyhow, I eventually rented this movie and watched it, and to my surprise, I really enjoyed it.  The story was very well acted, well written, and tear-jerking.Sure, there were a FEW flaws, which was why I rated it with an 8, such as some ridiculous, unrealistic plot twists, and the film's attempt to be TOO upsetting.  It was like the director/writer said All right.  We're gonna make this film for the sole purpose of having our viewers cry, dammit!  And we're not just gonna have 'em cry once, we're gonna MAKE them cry THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE LENGTH OF THE MOVIE!  And they're gonna like it, dammit!  (Not that I cried THIS much, but you can tell they obviously tried.)All in all, a good film that shouldn't be avoided. "},{"Title":"Delicately balanced","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film of many charming features, indeed, but what struck me as the most impressive quality of it, was its delicate balance between comedy and tragedy. Strolling ahead on a tight rope, with abyss on either side - that of despair and that of burlesque - and never falling. It even succeeds in a most daring balance between pity and parody.Portraying a boy with such a severe physical handicap, and with terrible parents at that, would normally tie any director's hands and feet, and the result would be sweet, at best. In this film, though, we are even allowed to smile at the odd clashes between the normal and that which is not, and laugh at the situation comedy evolving. The result is endearing, truly compassionate.And the acting is tremendous, especially from Joseph Mazzello and Ian Michael Smith, the two boys in a very odd couple friendship. Mazzello is breathtaking in scenes of such emotional complexity that most actors would be wise to find an easy way out. I have no idea how he does it, but certainly it is by talent - no schooling gives that kind of tools.The plot is overly complex, with several 'deus ex machina' events uncalled for, et cetera - probably in fear that the skilled balance of the film and the nerve of the acting would not suffice. But they do, and then some. "},{"Title":"Its all about Faith","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are a lot of people who will see this and probably not understand its message,but then again there are a lot of people who will see it and realize movies such as this come along very rarely.Simon Birch is a man within a boys body with a specific purpose and a simple message for mankind.You see,Simon is a little different from other boys his age,but then again,so was all of God's chosen.He's a little of all of us to be sure,yet he has one thing that few have.Simon is blessed with unmoving,solid as the rock its founded on FAITH.Nothing anyone says or does will change this.He will be picked on,poked,prodded,and teased but this fact will ever remain.The brotherly love that bonds Simon and his best friend will remind you of times long thought forgotten and memories you will treasure always.Its rare indeed that a movie will make you laugh,cry,and otherwise feel that true love for life and mankind exists in this world as it is today.This movie is that special.Just like Simon. "},{"Title":"a feel-good story line","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lad with stunted growth who holds out with brave optimism and sheer good-naturedness is able to go through school life and survive any antagonisms with aplomb, indeed, forging an inseparable friendship, as he approaches his twelfth and fatal year.Beautifully told story, with excellent photography and good music keeping just the right atmosphere, this is a film which might have some downgrading it to a simple `tear-jerker' and reaching for inexhaustible supplies of paper-handkerchiefs. But the story-line is more subtle and more carefully played out, such that in effect the film does not even try to pull out any angst from those softer-at-heart the acting itself - especially that of Ian Michael Smith - and the focussing of the story rises above this. However, this is of course a `feel-good' story, though the end might leave you thinking otherwise.Once again, how nice to see an attractive film without violence or sex being the main protagonists.I would not mind trying to find the book................  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i watched this movie it was the most moving,movie ever. the ending of the movie was the so sad but happy at the same time. i loved how Simon asked Joe if he could go before passing away, it was so beautiful, to me it showed the loyalty that the boys had for each other. the way that the boys were they for each other no matter what and werebest friends forever was really inspiring to me.this really opened my eyes to see people for what they r on the inside not on the outside i love it!! its the best movie ever!! I'm even buying it so i can watch it over and over again!! "}{"Title":"The Simplicity","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My first thought when I finish watching the movie was... They don't make movies like this anymore. Right now, it's all about big explosion and higher budget movie which surely will bring in more money. I was glad that my mum made me watch the movie; it is a kind of movie I'd watch again and again and have at least ten box of tissue stack up beside me.It's just a simple story of a boy who have growth problem and his best friend. And how they're always there for each other no matter what happens. A movie about a child's believe, what he wants to believe and what others want him to believe. A movie about unbreakable friendship, no matter what happen in between, not even death could break it apart. Now that's something.I like how everything looked and sound truthful, how every shot was perfected that everything seem believable to me. I like how the screen play writer portray the friendship between Simon and Joe. It surprise me how Joe can be such a grown up (dealing with his mother's death) and a teenager/kid (around Simon) at times and how outspoken Simon was.Overall, I find the movie a very good movie to watch. It's the kind of movie that warms your heart and shows you a little bit about life that you probably will never experience in your lifetime. It's about a friendship, beliefs, memories, love and everything else that you can hardly see in movie these days. "},{"Title":"Please don't compare this to Irving's book...Excellent in itself!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you've read the book A Prayer for Owen Meany, forget the book and see the movie on its own. I LOVED this movie! I can't recommend it enough. John Irving's genius characters show through, even though it is loosely based on the book. Please do not compare the wonderful book to this fantastic movie! Garp and Ciderhouse Rules are the best representations of his books. I thought Hotel New Hampshire stunk...Irving should have rejected that script and having anything to do with it. The movie is about Simon finding a purpose for his life, as a special plan of God's. This is important to me, in that I feel everyone needs to search out their life's purpose, whether they believe in God or not. This movie helps us ponder this thought from a sickly dwarf child's point of view. A very special movie about a very special person. Jim Carrey plays the adult Joe, and narrates the movie. Grab a hanky. "},{"Title":"horrible, cheesy, and incredibly sappy","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS This movie was unbearable to watch. At every possible moment, the movie manipulates you. Most of the things in this movie are extremely improbable, for example, is it even physically possible to die from being hit in the head with a baseball? The kids are bad actors and most of the adults overact. There are many huge plot flaws. For example, I don't think that Joe wouldn't have been mad at all that Simon killed his mom. the movie was also really, really sappy. Most of the dialog was very clichéd and the characters are all one dimensional. The jokes between Simon and Joe are so bad that it is unbearable to watch them and it makes me squirm to hear them. "},{"Title":"Sweet, innocent movie.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those feel-good and charming movies, full of innocence and drama.It's a story about a 12 year-old boy, Simon Birch (played by Ian Michael Smith), who has a growth disorder, but keeps his faith believing that God has a plan for everybody and that he was put on this earth for a reason. The friendship between Birch and Joseph Wenteworth (played by Joseph Mazzello) is heartwarming. There are some corny moments in this film, but none too much that would spoil an otherwise nice movie. Jim Carrey makes a cameo as an adult Joseph, and Ashley Judd plays his mother. I am not a big fan of drama movies, but I actually enjoyed watching this movie and would recommend it to the general audience.Grade B "},{"Title":"What a grandma thinks about this movie","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Today I watched Simon Birch for the second time.  I checked it out of the library yesterday and watched it in the afternoon.  And today I saw it again. I am so impressed by all the actors, they were perfect.  Especially little Ian Michael Smith.  And I didn't mind being emotionally manipulated at all.  I looked up the movie on the internet, that's how I found this site, and until now all the reviews were kind of negative.  Well, I thought it was wonderful, and I may even watch it one more time before returning it.  So there! And oh, Ashley Judd.  She is so beautiful anyway, but in this movie she was almost angelic.  Well, everyone was so good.  Oliver Platt was great, and the two boys were magnificent. I have encouraged a lot of friends to rent or otherwise see this movie, it does one's heart good. I have just decided, tomorrow I will watch it again. "},{"Title":"this movie is a miracle!","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Simon Birch for the first time yesterday. I rarely see a film when it first is released so I did not remember anything about its previews. it was not anything that I expected. I expected cute but it was better, not just cute. it was philosophy and religion. Simon has his own philosophy about life. He challenged adults and they did not approve of it. He challenged the religious teaching that he was given, but they did not know how to handle it. it was values. Simon and Joe knew right from wrong. It was part of how they lived during the fifty's and sixty's. it was truth. At the age of twelve, physical development is natural for everyone, even for the small Simon. He could feel the urges and desires that others feel for the first time. He could sees Joe's mom as a sexual beauty and he said it. it is one of those great stories about growing up. Joe was the person who the story was really about but Joe was not the interesting character. in 1964, Joe had to grow up in many ways. Just like Simon, he was beginning to notice the opposite sex. He wanted to know more about himself and who he was. It was his best friend, Simon, who helped him to do this. It was his best friend Simon who helped him when his mother died. It was his best friend Simon who helped him when he learned the truth about his father. It was his best friend Simon who helped him realize who he was and what he could accomplish.everyone needs a friend like Simon to grow up with, and even after Simon died, he was still part of Joe's development. everyone should see this movie once. I want to see it again and again. "},{"Title":"A very heartfelt touching movie!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent.  I would recommend it to absolutely anyone.  It is definatly a tear jerker that anyone can enjoy.  Very touching, loving story! This one will DEFINATLY go on my top ten movie list!..... This story makes you open your eyes to a very different world and makes you want to help all those you can.  EXCELLENT! "},{"Title":"Magical Quality","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful tale with an magical quality, Simon Birch, is a surprising gem of a  movie.  This is one of those movies to watch to restore your faith in humanity. A great family film that will tug at the hearts of kids and parents alike.  "},{"Title":"Great family-type movie...","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gave this film a very high rating of 8.  Although at times it is overly sentimental it is a wonderful peek at the lives of two youngsters coming-of-age.The entire cast is good.  The concept based on the John Irving novel is of course, novel.   "},{"Title":"John Irving must be appalled","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a travesty that such an amazing novel could be made into such utter fluff! If you enjoyed Owen Meany, do not rent this film thinking you'll get the same kind of pleasure. I fastforwarded through half of Simon Birch and didn't miss a beat. The characters were incredibly one dimensional and Simon came across as about as profound as melba toast. The book inspired deep thoughts and complex emotions; the movie made me want to watch reruns of Friends in search of something with more substance. Truly a disappointment! "}{"Title":"Really touching","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie is original, fresh and really touching. It makes you appreciate life and the people who share it with you. 'Joe' had 4 people die in a short period of time. It was inevitable that Simon would die, but he didn't expect to die whilst saving others. Never take the people around you for granted as you may loose them before you know it.  I was crying so much through it as it's a definite wake up call that life will one day stop. You have to watch it and learn from it. Filmed perfectly with a great choice of actors.  "},{"Title":"a stale, uncomfortable film","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reasons Not to Watch this Movie1. The Soundtrack consists only of heartwarming piano, strings, and flute music 2. Simon Birch is obsessed with and maybe in love with his best (and only) friend's mother. 3. He uses his faith in God to justify involuntary manslaughter. 4. We are expected to think it is cute when he grabs a girls boobs, just because he is deformed. 5. The piano music again. It's very very hard to bear once you notice it. 6. You will feel uncomfortable the whole time 7. A school bus driver crashes a school bus into a river because of a small deer in the road 8. Simon, a very good swimmer is suddenly unable to swim away from a bus in time. 9. Simon's death is very predictable, with his occasional cough foreshadowing that they would use his heroic actions and death to play on the emotions of the feebleDO NOT WATCH!!!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Beautiful and underrated. If you need hope in life then watch this film. The love and friendship between a small boy and his town is moving and shows that belief in hope, no matter how many want you to fail is stronger than anything. Love yourself and others as though you are not separate and you will learn how to live happily. The directing is phenomenal and the dialog is fantastic. Regardless of what you hate about yourself, this film will teach you how to be grateful for the life you live. The narration by Jim is perfect and not once do you believe he is telling a story. He is speaking of the strength it takes to put your faith in another's hands and never regretting it because the life lessons you learn. "},{"Title":"Simon Birch  A Heart-warming Movie as well as a Tear-Jerker","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a very enjoyable movie and a tear-jerker. There were only two lines in the movie that I would have altered or deleted; otherwise, this was a family-friendly and heart-warming movie. The only actor that I would NOT have chosen for his role in this film was David Strathairn who plays the Reverend. After seeing this actor play the bad guy role in the movie Dolores Claiborne (1995), I simply could not visualize Strathairn in the role of a Reverend! The acting and role-casting was excellent otherwise. You have to be a hard-hearted or jaded person not to enjoy this movie although I would expect women to enjoy this movie more than men. "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *contains spoilers*Nice movie this, the main stars are Joseph Mazzello (of 'The Cure', 'Radio Flyer' and 'Jurassic Park') and Ian Michael Smith in this, his first movie. Good things come in small packages as they say. He's just like Joseph - a natural actor. Unlike Joseph though, Ian never made another movie.Film wise, this is great. If you've seen 'The Cure' which also stars Joseph Mazzello then you'll notice that Simon Birch is The Cure in reverse with a few alterations. In that movie, Joe's character dies. In this one, Joe's character's friend dies. However he dies as a hero.The film's premise is set up around Simon Birch (Ian-Michael Smith) who is a character with stunted growth. Set in the 1960s and told in flashback style, the movie follows Simon and his best friend Joe across escapades including (not in order of featuring in the movie) an hilarious Christmas Pageant sequence, the death of Joe's mother (smacked in the head with a foul baseball shot hit, ironically enough, by Simon, the guy with the smallest strike zone on the planet) and the discovery of who Joe's real father is. There then follows a winter accident sequence which sets the sequence up for the final tearjerker and the death of Simon Birch.The Simon character is an outspoken one who seems keen to rebel against the idea of church yet defend it where appropriate. He believes that God has a special plan for him, although nobody else believes him on this. This special plan was to save a group of kids from drowning in a sinking school bus probably wasn't in God's plan. Still it gives Joseph Mazzello an opportunity to do what he perfected early on in his acting career - and cry with realism.There are some great lines in this film coupled with memorable scenes. If you liked 'The Cure', you'll love this as well. 5/5.  "},{"Title":"a classic movie with tears all around","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Congratulations to making one of the saddest movies ever.  Simon Birch is so packed with emotional drama, it makes you wonder what if that were a reality for someone.  simon's main focus is that god has a plan for everyone, which at first appears tacky and not well thought out, but as the movie progresses, you realize that he in fact could be not hallucinating, but really a reality.  during that whole escapade, simon's best friend is on a quest to determine who is his father, since his mother never tells them. throughout the movie, the two young boys from either the 60's or 70's enjoy life throughout the summer and do what all kids do. (**SPOILER**) the christmas pageant has to be the funniest event of the movie... So, i guess this is a comedy and a drama, but more of a lean towards drama, since the comedy is inserted so you arent crying all the time.  most of the time you are crying though, (**SPOILER**) since simons own parents dont really care about him, and when joe says they dont derserve him.. man i wasted a whole kleenex box on that feature alone.  bring along two boxes to be safe when you watch that, because if you cry a lot at movies, then you will most likely cry a river in this movie. (A A-) "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers!!!! I saw this when I was 12 with John Grange and his mom, Jackie. I didn't like it much at the time cause it was too disturbing and sad for my tastes, and Jackie thought it was a filthy movie, but cried at the end, she would of loved had it not been for the crudeness. I actually wanted to watch it again, because I loved and adored Joseph Mazzello from Jurassic Park, and boy am I glad I did. Joseph Mazzello's the answer for Elijah Wood, due to his acting and characters, but in a way reminds me of Macaulay Culkin, because he was a beloved child star, who looked kinda young ,and was about the same age in this, his last movie as Macaulay Culkin was in Richie Rich, his last movie. This made no sense, Mazzello playing the strong athletic one, the opposite of The Cure, he only looked about year older than the age he was in this, though. This falls under the same formula as My Girl, The Cure, and The Mighty, as most criticts said, but deals with faith and religion more than any, for it deals with the plot ,and has more hilarious, off-the-wall things happening, than the other three, some of the funniest put on tape. Jim Carrey, who narrates the movie, is solemnly staring at Simon's grave at the beggining, saying something so powerful, it blows us away, he plays Joe Wenteworth, Simon's best friend as an adult. Simon was the smallest delivery ever recorded  in Gravestown, Maine memorial hospital, and the doctors didn't think he'd live long,but he lives twelve years and is fine. Simon's parents neglect him, and don't want anything to do with him, Simon believes that god made him the way he was for a reason, and taht he has a special plan for him and everyone. He can be bossy at times.Simon's best friend, Joe Wenteworth (Joseph Mazzello), who's sweet, beautiful mother, Rebecca got pregnant her senior year of High school and refuses to divolge his father's identity, until he's old enough, for he's a b****rd. Joe and Simon go to little league ,and Simon says how nice Rebecca's boobs are and how she's so sexy. The kids call Simon a freakin hobbit and make fun of him, and the minister, Revernd Russell (David Strathairn) is rough around the edges, but nice inside. The sunday school teacher, Mrs. Leavey, is unhappy and bickery, and cuts Simon really deep about his faith, but has a friendly side too. Simon and Joe go to the lake to go swimming and see Ann and Marjorie, two girls their age, and Simon makes Joe talk about touching their breasts to them. The movie is a powerful, heartwarming, tearjerker,but is also seems like a raunchy comedy, with a surprising amount of obscense talk, and at first Joe and Simon yell, thinking it's a monster. Things get so serious that Ben goes to church with them. Simon interrupts church because he doesn't approve of coffee and donuts, having to do with god, and refuses to apologize, until Rebecca has a confrontation with Mrs. Leavey and they go home. At the end of October Simon accidently kills Rebecca in a freak slow motion, foulball accident, and Joe and Simon quit talking to each other for a while, until Simon returns the armadillo Joe gave him, and Joe  is nice to Simon, but Simon says how it happened for a reason. Joe doesn't fully believe in god ,and even says there isn't a god, when  Simon says about god's plan for him ,and runs in his room and cries. It was said this was border-line mushy at times, what might be considered mushy, but very sweet, is when Joe runs out to the cemetery, after he's in his room ,and Simon's out in the dark by Rebecca's grave, saying a prayer to him ,and he cries and says he's sorry, and Joe replies gently and forgiving.Joe then learns that he has to find his father, when he learns he'll soon be an orphan, cause his Grandma's sick, which is an intense fending for youself situation, and he's only 12, But very precocious, if you think, girls are responsible earlier, you're dellisional, and must never watch tv, or pay attention to what goes on, for my brother was 11, and he could stay home alone with us. Joe and Simon are eating ice cream pointing at possible father figures, until they talk to the PE teacher, Mr. Baker, and form a strong, excited feeling that he's the one, and stare so intent that they become speechless when Ben talks to them. Joe and Simon join the swimming team just to find out, because he acted like he loved her more than anyone. Joe and Simon brake into his office, Simon is the only one who could open the door ,and Joe luckily breaks into the closet and finds a baseball after a bunch falls out ,and there's dark music, growing more intense as Looks at the ball and finds no evidence, and suddenly gos crazy, and yells in a hy-pitched voice, It's not fair After seeming so close, it really made me feel sympathy for Joe. Joe and Simon end up in the police station and agree to do community service, even though they didn't want to, helping Reverend. Russel over Christmas break, with his junior lambs winter retreat. Ben is so kind, loving and patient, you've probably never met someone who's more. He's not even mad and offers to take them for pizza. After getting the roles at church, Joe is getting Simon and him ready for the play, and right at this point is the turning point where Joe becomes just a great, nice, kid you wish was real, and has no doubts that god has a plan for Simon to be a hero, he's as faithful and loyal as Rebecca was, maybe more. They're getting ready for the christmas pagent, where Simon plays the baby Jesus. Chaos turns out to happen on the stage, which most people died of laughter, this is one of the funniest things put on tape, Simon pulls Marjorie into the cradle by her breasts, and a fat, geeky kid playing the angel, at the end throws up on the Mrs. Leavey and she faints. Like the Christmas pagent on Home Alone 2. Joe utters holy sh** in the middle of church! Reverend Russell than has a serious talk with Simon, and everyone needs a break from him ,and Joe goes on the retreat alone. Simon then discovers that Reverend Russel's Joe's true father, and he and Ben go to the retreat to tell him. Meanwhile we see Russell's kind, real, fatherly self come back for good. Joe runs and cries with Simon in self pity and depression. The movie has a very forgiving atmosphere as Joe forgives Simon so quick, along with Ben, and Ben says that Russell brought a beautiful kid here (Joe) when he tells Ben how his choice he made falling for Rebecca, haunts him every day. Then a deer gets in the road and the bus goes off the road though the woods and into a river, a great suspense action sequence, like Speed and The River Wild. Simon, with Joe's help saves everyone, but gets pneumonia afterthe bus sinks with him in it. Joe and Simon are both in the hospital, and Simon soon dies, with Joe crying on Simon. Simon becomes a legacy, if you need more faith watch this,I watch it all the time, It's lie a Field Of Dreams Movie, that's so powerful, and faithful, there just aren't many movies like it. It brings tears to everyone. Later Joe's thirteen and riding his bike, and doing the same things he did with Simon, and he's at the lake, and we learn that Ben Goodrich adopted him, and that his grandmother died that summer. Then Adult Joe Wenteworth is saying the same prayer he saw Simon say to Rebecca, and is serious, and spiritual. We see Jim Carrey's usual acting for a brief second as he says something Simon said, to his son, Simon (John Mazzello, Joseph Mazzello's younger brother, then they drive off, and we see Simon's grave with flowers and an armadillo. The End.Rating **** 1?2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Very good story","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch was a very good story with excellent acting by the boy who played Simon Birch.  It really has a good message and would be an excellent family movie, although it does have considerably more unnecessary profanity than one would expect from such a movie.Ashley Judd glows as a single mom trying to raise her boy despite people morally (and often hypocritically) judging her.  It really raises some excellent points about what really makes a Christian.  "},{"Title":"wow !!!************","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" simon birth was a great movie it made me laugh it made me cry and it made me smile and most of all it has completlty changed the way i feel about faith it was an amaizing movie but its sad 2 see that it was not as popular as it should of been maybe maybe because not everyone is as sensitive and emotional as i am but still !if you havent seen it yet i definatly recomend it  "},{"Title":"Big things come in small packages","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very touching. It shows not only how cruel people can be, even the boys own parents, but how the love of a friend makes all the difference. It's the movie that makes u laugh, cry, angry, frown, and it shows the true meaning of friendship and belief. "}{"Title":"You don't need big stars to make great films.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At a loose end yesterday, hunting for a film on cable to watch, this was the only one I hadn't already seen, and to be perfectly honest, I wasn't looking forward to it. Am I glad I gave it the benefit of the doubt.I was absolutely gripped from start to finish. Fantastically acted, especially by the two stars, Ian and Joseph, it was easy to see past Ian's physical appearance, which could easily have been tacky if the film wasn't done right.This is a film about true friendship and is a must for probably adults more than children.It WILL make you laugh. It WILL make you cry.Wonderful stuff. "},{"Title":"A film about friendship","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch it's a movie about friendship. All the characters are very well described and truthful and you become fond of them. The movie is sweet and moving without being dull and the actors are really good especially Simon himself. The human relations in the movie are very intense and they left me something inside, a sensation of sadness and happiness at the same time. What a strong humanity Simon has, a character I'm sure you will love. I liked it and even if the movie is not a masterpiece (and it doesn't want to be one) it's definitely worth seeing. Very nice the score by Marc Shaiman. "},{"Title":"And the sap runneth over ...","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   From almost the beginning, I knew I was in the hands of amateurs.  They don 't give me a chance to like the characters before they're already force -feeding me with contrived emotion and fake poignancy.  I can't really put my finger on it.  Maybe it's the music, constantly wailing at me to feel feel.  I'm already human; you can take it down a notch.  Maybe it's the characters, all of whom I found rather obnoxious.  But it's one thing to bear witness to a masterful storytelling which contains characters meant to be obnoxious.  And it's quite another to experience said obnoxiousness in spades simply through the filmmaker(s) ineptitude.  (Of course that Mazzello kid really just needs to be slapped.  And Platt!  Don't get me started ...  he's currently on a crap-sappy marathon train ride straight to hell.)  Maybe it's that I found much of the situations they put Ian Michael Smith into rather condescending and undignified.  Someone's gonna say I'm nitpicking or obsessing because he's small.  I'm not PC-knee-jerking that he should be either treated as if he were big or not seen at all.  What I am saying is that with the filmmaker(s) heavy hand(s), he came off like an adorable little circus freak.  And he was barely (just barely) given the chance to be anything but (the sinking-bus scene comes to mind).  I often felt the director was trying to make the audience feel at ease with laughing at the little guy.  (It's a heartfelt tear-jerker; of *course* I 'm sincere!  I'm not laughing at him, I'm just laughing with a profound joy in reaction to my heart-strings being tugged.)  And Jim, Jim Jim Jim, what are you doing to me man?  Not that I don't buy you in a serious role.  I know you're good.  But pick and choose, man, pick and choose!  "},{"Title":"Simon Birch -","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent film that emphasizes the values of the life, of the simple and daily things but of which lacks our society much nowadays. Simon Birch, gives a FAITH example to us, in the middle of the adversity of a family and a small town that in its majority rejected it by its special condition. About the hand of his better friend, which is a sensible although somewhat incredulous boy of its FAITH, he treats and he loves Simon like his own brother. He leaves a very deep education us of the true values of FAITH and LIFE, so little in the world. That in addition a direct confrontation with the life and the death, which go always at any moment together of our hands and since we are born, makes us include/understand that we must cry to our wanted beings, but coverall to have the FAITH of which an without being to our side in the world like such, we maintain them in our heart by always until the day that the same death visits us us. Recommended to my criterion for children of 6 or but years. A film is not single, is an education of beautiful life successful accompanied by melodies of piano and skillfully incorporated to the story, it does that it touches our senses, makes us cry, and it makes us smile. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading the book that this movie was based on, A prayer for Owen Meany, I wasn't expecting much. The film is loosely based on this book, and it is safe to say I prefer the book, HOWEVER as a movie in it's own right, it's wonderful, it's different, and it's a shame there isn't more movies like this in the world.The actors are finely picked, especially the the little lad who plays Simon Birch (Owen Meany). Every actor is excellent in their own way.There are hilarious bits, sad bits, and I found no padding whatsoever. Even Jim Carrey's usual comic-genius is suppressed in the part he plays as the grown up best friend of Simon Birch (and ergo, the narrator).Given it's age, it's a steal to buy online too. You'll not regret it. "},{"Title":"Rating it a 10, can I say more?","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie! It is a movie that can be enjoyed by any age group (I am in my 50's) for light entertainment or as a movie which provokes deeper understanding and thought love, life and loss of loved ones. If viewers watch it with an open mind and heart, they will not only enjoy the humor, scenery and acting ability of the cast, but will see just how true the message of the movie is. Without putting a spoiler in this comment, those who have seen it will know the scene, I just wanted to say that by the time the movie got to the point with the cowardly bus driver, I was so emotionally involved, I wanted to jump into the movie, chase him down and throw him back into the river! If you haven't seen this movie, please give it a try. If you happen not to like it, you've at least seen some wonderful, mint condition vintage cars. "},{"Title":"Nice heartwarmer","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I originally saw this movie when the local movie theater needed people for fire drills - so they broke off half way through the film, hussled us outside through fake smoke, fake bodies, etc., then let us watch it - for free. Beforehand, I had no idea what it was about. I was pleasantly suprised. It's one of those films that's good for all ages, all people, etc- I think just about anyone could relate to at least one bit of the film. A cozy night at home sort of movie. "},{"Title":"One of the year's most interesting film","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have just seen the movie and I found it to be one of the best film if not  the best. The movie opens with the birth of Simon Birch and the realization  that he is the smallest baby born in that town. Doctors predicted that  Simon will die after a week, but my God's miracle, he lived all the way  to the present situation in the movie which you should see yourself. Simon  is 12 years old now and he has the belief that God has a plan for everybody  and that everyone has their role in life. This belief is what separates him  and the rest of the children in the town. He often is an outsider to the  people in the town and this got him to a lot of trouble, but this belief  also got him his best friend name, Joe Wenteworth. Joe is also consider an  outsider in the town. All in all, this is a gripping story of heroism and  personal triumph. Simon Birch is a movie that will touch everybody's heart  and I would highly recommend it to everyone and please bring your children  along to let them enjoy the movie too. Oh, i forgot to add that this movie  is also quite humorous in a way where we can still enjoy the emotional  aspects of the movie. Thanks and please see it.  "},{"Title":"An excellent film that I recommend to everyone!","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon Birch is my all time favourite movie. Based on A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving, I think it is excellent! I plan to start reading the book soon, as I have read reviews that the book is even better, but I recommend this movie to anyone.Ian Michael Smith plays Simon Birch, and he does an excellent job! Simon Birch is a character that everyone loves, with his witty comments and charming personality. The movie is very funny, and you can't help but laugh at some of the lines. Also, the characters are excellently selected, and I love it how at the end it still refers back to a lot of quotes and jokes from earlier on. This technique makes me cry even more every time I watch the film. I can't help but cry at the end of the movie every time. When young Simon dies it makes me cry every time. I never cry to movies, but this one touched my heart.This movie is excellent, a definite 10 out of 10 in my eyes, and I recommend it to anyone, because it is a family orientated movie, and I think it is enjoyable for everyone. A definite must see! "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon is a very great movie. Is it one of those movies that is sunny, sad, and rather suspenseful all at the same time. When I began watching it, I didn't think that I would like it just because I am not big on dramas unless they are action or crime dramas, but I did enjoy this one.It is about a pre-teen by the name of Simon Birch. Simon Birch has a disease that makes him very small. (I am guessing around 3 foot tall) and it is about him trying to enjoy is pre-teen hood without letting his problem get in the way. He believes that God made him that size for a reason, and that one day he will be a hero.The acting was better then great, the script was very well written, and the direction was magnificent. This is definitely a must see for any drama fan.  "}{"Title":"life is beautiful no matter the obstacles, find the good","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie should become a classic. This movie is inspirational for all of us, for the fortunate to help you appreciate your advantages, and for the less fortunate, to help you appreciate the good we all can do with what we have. Keep striving, hang in there, it may or may not get better, but the striving helps us overcome the pain of disadvantages. It makes us a little more in control of our own lives if we can just do the best we can with what we have to work with. Simon is inspirational in every sense of his life. He is handed a lemon for life, so he sets out to make the best lemonade possible to serve to his friends and community. We should all aspire to be a Simon Birch.  "},{"Title":"Sorely birched","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a highly political film. It makes huge moral and value comments about life. This is all done using slick production and casting principles. If you believe that small town American life is all-redeeming in terms that it ultimately allows outsiders to be accepted then you will believe that this film is somehow based on reality. The plot is wafer-thin and the depictions of people and prejudices are wince-worthy. Why?The eponymous hero is a vertically challenged child who believes that his existence has divine reason. Here lies the first problem. Simon's existence is challenged by almost everyone in the small town society treating him as sub-human except for the 'angelic' Mrs Dario Franchetti (for US -centric viewers she is commonly known as Ashely Judd). The 'community' is the community of oppression- we don't want 'freaks' like you here Simon Birch' as we are told by the children and adults. As the plot unfolds, we are led to believe that there is a whole- community epiphany based upon the near-death experience by a bus load of primary school pupils. (not sure which 'graders' they are in US speak). The hero dies. We all cry. Life is not like this. Its easy to label films as rubbish so I won't. A lot of effort went into making this work BUT I have to say that it has been a long time since I have had such a prickly reaction to a plot. If you believe this is good film, you will believe anythingGordon "},{"Title":"Read the book.  Skip the movie.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading the novel A Prayer for Owen Meaney by John Irving, I was wondering why they changed the name of the main character in the film Simon Birch. After seeing the film the answer was obvious. The author did not want his great novel associated with this mess.A Prayer for Owen Meaney is over 600 pages long and impossible to reduce to a 2 hour movie. This movie is a travesty and an insult to an excellent novel.The directing and music are strictly television quality. David Strathairn gives a good performance and Ashley Judd lights up the screen in her short role.Not all great novels can be adapted for the screen. A Prayer for Owen Meaney is one of those. This movie does not capture the quality that made the book so special. "},{"Title":"A shameless wallow...","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Young boy in early-'60s small town America, born illegitimate to the prettiest lady in the community, learns about life--laughter, love, triumphs and tragedies--alongside his best friend, an undersized 12-year-old named Simon Burch who has a precocious manner and a feeling that he is destined to be a hero. Sentimental childhood remembrances, sometimes done with a comical bent, and nearly always put over with broad strokes. All the main children in the story are well cast, and the film is genuinely heartfelt (so much so that only a true curmudgeon would balk at its tearful inevitabilities), and yet only the subtler moments leave a lasting impression. Much of the noisy comedy, ostensibly present to make this a crowd pleaser, is cutesy-poo, hammered home with silly glee. The picture is fluid and graceful, it has touching passages, but it is also a button-pushing, shameless wallow in sentimental nostalgia. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Interesting story killed by a bad movie.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can honestly say I was looking forward to seeing this movie. And after watching it on video, boy was I disappointed. The story, which revolves around a young boy who suffers from a rare form of dwarfism, is very choppy, inconsistent and agonizingly boring. All the elements for a good movie were there; a close relationship between two young boys; a smaller-than-normal boy grappling with issues of faith in God and his purpose in life; daily visits to the swimming hole; young boy challenging the pastor etc... But the movie fails to deliver. It tries too hard to tear at your emotions while not offering enough content to do so. The death of Simon's friend's mother is annoying, given the fact that it is Simon who kills her after slugging a baseball foul. Simon, while lovable, is portrayed as a little pervert with a foul mouth, something which takes away from his character. All the elements were there for, what should have been, a moving story about life, God, faith, friendship etc..., but the slow-moving script and overdone National Geographic-like cinematography make this a film a bore. "},{"Title":"I can't believe how many people say they love this movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a travesty. It claims to be inspired by John Irving's novel A Prayer for Owen Meany but it utterly lacks any of the charm and deep meaning the novel carries. The film's characters are cardboard cutouts of human beings, the plot is pure Disneyana, the spiritual message is pap.Somewhere there is a leak. Someone somewhere read this novel and turned it into this screenplay, not unlike someone who hears The Beatles' Hey Jude and turns it into the version you hear while riding in an elevator. Whoever this person is, (s)he deserves to be taken out and, well, forced to watch this movie.Do yourself a huge favor. Skip the trip to the video store and go to the library instead. A Prayer for Owen Meany is a beautiful book with layers upon layers of meaning. This film is a sad zombie of the book. Simon Birch *looks* like Owen Meany, but he is possessed by a different spirit. "},{"Title":"No Prayers for Simon Birch","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on the John Irving novel A Prayer for Owen Meany. It's a somewhat sappy but wonderful story about miracles and destiny, faith and doubt. It's three kids coming of age story, one of them very odd and special. It is well worth reading. Most of all it explores the mystery of life and how we perceive it and maybe whether that perception is even our choice (in our hands) or not. If my memory serves, the movie focuses on a small part of the book, I think a bus crash. This technique can work well in film as so often there's too much book to cover in a couple hours. One of my favorite examples of taking a tiny part of a novel and making a good film of it is Stephen King's Hearts in Atlantis. That was a great movie, it felt like the book and Anthony Hopkins was just right.Simon Birch, it's poop. My understanding is that John Irving asked to have his name and reference to the novel removed from the movies credits. I don't blame him. Somehow I sat through most of the movie but near the end, during Jim Carey's soliloquy, when some people in the theater were actually crying for that hack job of a flick, I got up and walked out. I walked out of one of those doors at the side of the screen and made sure to let a little light shine in as I left, hoping to wake up those crying idiots. Maybe that was rude but what I wanted to do was shout, read the effing book!!!That's my advice to you, read the book. Hell, you'd be more entertained reading the Cliff Notes (do those still exist? I never read 'em, figure those are for people who cry during crappy movies) for it. Do not watch Simon Birch. And if you did and are somehow under the belief that it's a good movie, READ THE BOOK!!! Simon Birch, I hate that movie. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming story of faith and friendship","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although this film got quite bad reviews, I actually enjoyed it. There was never a dull moment as in some movies, and it was sad and uplifting all at the same time. Ian Michael Smith was utterly adorable as little Simon Birch, and Joseph Mazzello great as his best friend. There were some very funny bits; Simon Birch comes out with such witty and sarcastic lines it's hard not to laugh.However, if like me you have read the book it was based upon (A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving) you will notice its short-comings in relation to the original story. For the sake of the movie, forget you read the book and judge the movie alone.5/10 "},{"Title":"God really has a plan for everyone","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is an extremely touching story about a kid with a disability that affects his growth. He has his one best friend, Joe. They both encounter many things together in this movie, but they never are alone. They stick together and understand each other. Simon has parents that don't care about him, and Joe, having a terrible loss in the beginning, doesn't have anyone either. Together they make it through.  I love this movie and it is one of my all time favorites. It's a must see. It may be intended for kids, but the lines and things Simon does are for the adults. It a very good story of courage and hope. Simon Birch believes God made him the way he is for a reason, and he really did. The actors are great and i'd give it 5/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Above expectations","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Notepossible spoilers in this text 'Simon Birch' is, in my opinion, a movie that has been badly treated by reviews and critics. Many call it a God-botherers' movie or sappy or they bash it for not being true enough to John Irving's book, 'A Prayer for Owen  Meany'. Yet to me, these criticisms are too harsh and a a few mountains are made out of mole-hills. But I'll get to that.'Simon Birch' is based in the small, cosy Maine town of Gravestone in 1964. When he was born, doctors said that tiny little Simon Birch (Ian Michael Smith) wouldn't live through the night. But he did, and we join him 12 full years later. He is still minuscule, yet he believes that he is God's instrument, that he was made this small for a reason, and that he is destined to be a hero. He is, however an outcast, and his opinions put him in conflict with his unloving and uncaring parents, with his tyrannical Sunday school teacher (Jan Hooks) and with the local preacher, Reverend Russel (David Strathairn), whose actions and opinions are frequently contested by the theologically-minded Simon.His only friend of his age is Joe Wenteworth (Joseph Mazzello), also an outcast because his mother (Ashley Judd) refuses to reveal the identity of his father, a veritable scandal in the eyes of the town members. Simon's only friends in the adult world are the afore-mentioned Miss Wenteworth, who acts as a sort of surrogate mother to Simon, and her boyfriend Ben (Oliver Platt), who has to deal with Joe's hostility but who proves to be a very loving man.Despite their problems, the two friends pass their days playing, swimming and getting into trouble. Then one day, tragedy enters the idyll and Simon's belief is put into question. He dedicates himself to finding out who Joe's father is and in the end proves that he is a hero, especially for Joe.I won't give any more away. 'Simon Birch' is no masterpiece, it doesn't have the emotional and the reflective quality of 'The Cure'. There are confused and overly sappy moments and some feeble characterisations. Yet it is none the less a funny and heart-warming picture. People who have criticised its religious themes have missed the mark. It's not a statement that God exists and is guiding us, it's a film that teaches us to have faith in ourselves, in our own strengths. Simon thinks God gave him a purpose, but he finds that purpose. It's his accomplishment.Plus, if you try to compare it to Irving's book, you're bound to have things to gripe about. I've had the advantage of not having read the book (although I'd like to some day), so I can be objective. But I do know that the film is only suggested by 'A Prayer for Owen Meany', not actually adapted from it. Hence, it is quite different, but this does not have to be a bad thing, more an achievement for Mark Steven Johnson, who managed to adapt the book into a more film-friendly version.And kudos to Mr Johnson. For a directorial debut, he shows talent, with a lovely roaming camera and some great lighting. The acting's great too. The supporting cast is great. Judd scintillates in the few scenes she's in and Hooks gives her caricatural character quite a presence. But the supporting actors who really shine are Platt and Strathairn, giving real depth and presence to their characters. Yet they are all overshadowed by the fantastic leading actors. Ian Michael Smith is great in his first movie, touching and funny, despite his irritating voice. Joseph Mazzello is best, though, always a pleasure to watch, brilliantly portraying the conflicts and emotions Joe Wenteworth is going through. He's almost as good as in 'The Cure', although the difference between the two parts shows how flexible he is.All in all, this was underrated. It has its sappy and unbelievable moments, and it's nowhere near as powerful or as heart-warming as 'The Cure', but it's funny, touching and beautifully acted. I think people need to approach it with more objectivity and not expect too much. The only film I saw that was as good as the book it was based on was Kubrick's 'The Shining', because it was so different from the book. If 'Simon Birch' is really different from 'A Prayer...', then I take it as a good sign.I give 'Simon Birch' 7/10Uppers 1)The acting; 2)Joseph Mazzello and Ian Michael Smith are fantastic; 3)The locations; 4)The soundtrack; 5)The story humorous and uplifting; 6)Johnson's revelatory directingDowners 1)A bit sappy in places; 2)Some moments are totally unbelievable (e.g. The bus scene); 3)Some weak elements and characterisations "}{"Title":"It's a nice little drama.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that by reading the cover of the Simon Birch video,I thought that it was going to be crap but instead I found Simon Birch to be a lovely film but mostly because of the actors.Joseph Mazzello did a brilliant job as Joe , he was true to the part  and convincing.He was very touching in the scene were he said goodbye to Simon.The great Ashley Jude was perfect as the mother.I think that Jude had put lots of love into the role  because you really fall for her in that movie.But It's the young Ian Michael as Simon who deserve all the credits for that film.As the film go you don't really care about the way Simon look ,you are more interested of his soul and his hope that he will become a hero and thats because Ian must know how Simon think better than anyone of us.Very nice film with a great big bunch of gifted actors. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a purely beautiful film! It has so much sense and innocence you can't help getting sucked into it! Both of the young actors are great. I do think Joseph Mazzello (who is truly one of my favorite actors!) was better, though. I remember him from The Cure and Presumed innocent and many more movies. Simon Birch is a wonderful film because no character there is Cliche, they are all real and the story is amazing and touching. It is a must-see! "},{"Title":"I believe a movie doesn't have to be unbelievable to be believable.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I doubt most people will agree with what i have to say, for most people today want the unbelievable but I feel in love with this movie. As i was renting movies and was leaving I spotted this movie in a nook in the corner and thought why not? But I didn't regret it, half way through the movie i was crying like a baby for i was really in love. I mean how can't you with Simon Birch, with all his problems even his uncaring parents ( for in this day and age there are normal children that have uncaring parents imagine the children with problems) and the actor himself surprises you by having the height of a 6 year old and the mentality and passion way beyond his years( and a tongue too).As for his ideas of God having a plan for everyone I believe it and if you don't after the movie you will.It's simple and sweet. I believe a movie doesn't have to be unbelievable to be believable.  "},{"Title":"A little film that reaches great heights","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You gotta love a film who's main character tells just about every person he meets that he's a hero and God has a plan for him. Simon isn't bragging when he does this, he's just telling people what he knows to be true.It's that and its subtle humor makes Simon Birch such an enjoyable film. This is a simple story of a boy finding his long-unknown father, but it's wrapped in questions of God and how He works. And these questions are all brought up by a Forrest Gump-type of character who has a wisdom far beyond his ability.Most of the film's charm is from Ian Michael Smith, who plays Simon, and the way he delivers his wisdom. Instead of a questioning tone, he acts like he's known for a long time and just felt like reminding you.Smith is supported by his co-star, Joseph Mezzello, who helps keep the film from focusing too much on the cuteness of Smith as he spouts off about God and the human condition. Instead, Mezzello brings a youthfulness that offsets Simon's maturity. The movie's atmosphere also adds to its success. Simon Birch  drags you back in time to an America where life was about the baseball game, church, riding bikes, swimming and getting in trouble.It's all this Good actors, a time long gone and an enjoyable and thoughtful script that make Simon something special. So try him out, he fits any occasion. ... Oh yeah, it's also nice to see a movie set in Maine that doesn't involve Stephen King -- but I'm sure he would've liked have been the guy who wrote this great story.7/26/00 "},{"Title":"Grab a box of kleenex, A tear jerker","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this film.  In an age where there is so much garbage to chose from at the video store I took a sigh of relief when I rented this one.  It's a heartwarming, tear-jerking film that left you both feeling good that Simon's mission was complete and sad that the little fellow had to pay for his mission with his life.  A great family film that will entertain adults and children alike with clean comedy and drama that is missing in so many movies these days.   "},{"Title":"laughing and crying","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe I was in the right mood, but Simon Birch touched me yesterday evening. He is a dwarf. 12 years of age. He is in the hand of God who has a plan with him. This belief keeps him going. He is alone in the world, but he has a friend Joe. The way Simon is acting in his trust in the Lord is moving but is also a good laugh. Simon has a healthy interest in the opposite sex and when he is playing Jesus in the crib in the christmas play, the virgin Mary is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Simon reached his moment of glory. The end is tragic but gives even more inspiration. I recommend this film very strongly. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful movie. The best evening I have spent in a long long time. I thought the acting done by all, was, to say the least, well done even without many stars.  The boys played their parts to perfection and the way the movie moves along is just plain entertaining. I am going to buy this one to put on the shelf for our grandchildren when they visit and watch it myself once in awhile.  ) "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Most movies aren't as good as the book This one equals or exceeds. The entire cast was excellent. I was as taken with the Sunday school teacher as with the main characters. A 10! "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who cried from the beginning til end of this movie?","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Geez. What an absolute downer! Sure this is supposed to be one of those 'faith-restoring' movies but god. This poor kid (I don't mean Simon) basically everyone he knows and loves DIES! And then he finds out that his father is actually the up-tight reverend. Yipes! As if this wasn't enough you have to feel sorry for poor Simon. The kid wants to be a hero, his parents treat him like he's worthless, the reverend and the Sunday school treat him the same way. I guess the message is even if no one has faith in you, your faith in yourself can still make your dreams come true. I didn't notice though, I was too busy blubbering. "},{"Title":"God's gift to film","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch sits with Saving Private Ryan, The Truman Show, and A Bug's Life as one of the finest films of 1998. It is so nice to see Hollywood create a movie about love and faith in God. Simon Birch is also one of the most brilliantly intriguing films that I have seen so far this decade.The title character, Simon Birch, believes that God has a plan for all of us, and he believes that he is destined by God to become a hero. He irritates, and challenges all of the adults around him by his faith in God, but by the end of the film, they truly recognize his self worth, and his interest in God.The two main characters bring so much comedy and charm to the screen that it is almost impossible to turn away. A beautifully handled dramatic ending, an excellent dramatic musical score, and great narration by Jim Carrey, highlight one of the best family drama films in a long time.  "}{"Title":"An absolutely incredible film; one that makes you laugh and cry.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is a wonderful movie. The story of Simon Birch truly touched my heart, and gave me a new outlook on things. Seeing Simon, a young boy with multiple health problems, have such a wonderful outlook on life is great. Simon believes that he was on a mission from God to do something, he just isn't sure what that mission is. While the movie makes you cry, it is also outrageously funny at times too, like when Simon and his best friend go in the lake and it is freezing cold, Simon always said a little saying as soon as they walked in. Also, when Simon says to his best friend Your mom is so hot; sometimes I forget she is someone's mother. These parts of the movie really help you to get to know the young character of Simon, and understand that while the boy is told he is going to die, he is still a wonderful person, and doesn't let anyone bring him down. I love the parts when Simon reminds his friend that he is a miracle. The young boy that portrays Simon has tremendous acting abilities, and makes the role of Simon come to life. I've never been one to cry in movies; I have only cried in two movies my entire life, but Simon Birch was one of the two that I cried in. (The other one I cried in was Hope Floats in case you are wondering). This movie will have you crying tears of laughter and tears of sadness. All I can say about this movie is that it could'nt have been done better, and I give it five stars. This movie really makes you realize the power of friendship and love.  "},{"Title":"It has a lot of heart, but not enough to overcome its many flaws","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard not to like a movie that has such likeable qualities a cute dwarfish boy who believes he has an unspecified mission from God, an equally radiant buddy who's always there, a mother figure in the form of the highly under-rated Ashley Judd, and all that gorgeous faux-New England scenery (the film was shot in Canada). The problem with Simon Birch can be encapsulated in Jim Carey's unheralded appearance as the film's narrator.  With his best I-desperately-want-you-to-like-me voice, he sweetly intones his lines earnestly and with a great sense of anticipation, however he never really transcends a vapid flavor of Jack Handey-ness about his presentation. In fact, the whole movie resembles an extended Deep Thoughts, from the scenery down to the sentiment that at times out-sacchrine's sacchrine.To its credit, Simon Birch has some earnest moments that actually work. Like the John Irving novel it was based on (A Prayer for Owen Meaney), the film has many fascinating plot twists and developments, but it is essentially a character exploration, and to that end Irving (and Birch) will reveal or hint at key plot developments early on so that you are free to enjoy how the characters evolve. And there are many fascinating characters to examine Simon himself, his friend Joe (Joseph Mazzello), Joe's mother, Joe's grandmother, Simon's parents, and so forth.The central failing of Simon Birch, ironically, sits squarely on Simon's shoulders. The boy is cute, no denying that, notwithstanding his often preternaturally awkward, chitchatty preoccupations with breasts that becomes annoyingly omnipresent.  The film revolved around the question of his divine calling he knows God has a purpose for him, he tells everyone so. And yet when the fateful moment finally arrives, you've been so set up for something, well, truly miraculous that what actually does occur makes you go, oh, is that it? The payoff for this set-up is something that could easily be relegated to good fortune or ideal timing. The film even goes a long (and often ridiculous) way to set things up so that Simon can become the hero he becomes, but once again, the moment isn't so much divine as it is, well, fortuitous and nothing more. Maybe what Simon Birch is trying to say that ordinary heroism is itself divine, but if that is true, it swathes that ordinary heroism in so much sentiment and patent unordinariness that you are sure exactly what the message is. The movie is too concerned with making you cry at the end to consider its own ambiguous message.Joseph Mazzello is also becoming a potential problem. I enjoy his work, from the brat in Jurassic Park and the genuinely affecting tyke in Shadowlands. But as he's grown older, he hasn't shown too much development as an actor. Granted, he's young still, but he is beginning to show the limits of his range. His Simon Birch character is virtually indistinguishable from his Shadowlands and The Cure characters. He's seems to rely too much on his cute factor and the movie's cute factor to get him through some tough acting spots, and it is beginning to show.The best actor of the bunch, Ashley Judd, also has the least amount of screen time.  Though her limited time is woefully inadequate to her talents, she manages to show grace and dignity with what she has to work with. Judd is one of those rare actors who looks equally appropriate in a period piece as she does in contemporary films (and even sci-fi, as evidenced in her work as a recurring character on Star Trek The Next Generation), and I trust that she will find better showcases for her as yet untapped reservoir of talent.And thus Simon Birch collapses on itself because of too many good intentions spent on too flimsy a premise. Jim Carey, on his eternal quest for screen-cred, will have to keep mugging wistfully in more pictures before he gets its just right. Simon Birch could have used a lot more sincerity. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have never read A Prayer for Owen Meany, then this movie will tug at your heart strings and make you cry. If, like me, you have read the book, you'll be saying, What? The movie is nothing at all like the book, which in my opinion was much better. That's not to say the movie was just horrible. My advice is, if you've read the book, put out of your mind for two hours what you read, or you'll be highly disappointed. If you've seen the movie, but haven't read the book, read it. After you read it, you'll probably find yourself saying Whoa. That movie wasn't THAT great after all. Having read the book, the movie seemed not only lacking, but there was no mystery to it. For example, Joe tries to find out who his father is. If you've read the book, you already know. Instead of the basketball move the two did repeatedly in the book, they do the breath holding thing in the movie. If you haven't read the book, the movie should be a nice one for you. If you have read it, try not to hold it against this movie that tries to be so hard to be so sweet. "},{"Title":"Despite the annoying efforts to pull your heart strings, it does","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thanks to the actors, this syrupy film with the too telling soundtrack still manages to charm and the tears that eventually come are earned.The glory is Ian Michael Smith, a very petite drawf, who plays 12-year old Simon Birch with a subtlety and pizzazz unusual in a novice actor.  Yes, he's given the best lines but the style with which he delivers them is refreshingly disarming.Rounding out the excellent cast are Joseph Mazzello, who plays Simon's best friend, Joe Wentworth, Oliver Platt, in a wonderfully underplayed role as Ben Goodrich, the suitor of Joe's mother, Rebecca, played by a radiant Ashley Judd.In a thankless role as a joyless minister is the ever watchable David Straithern.  Poor Jan Hooks is stuck with the most thankless role I've seen in years -- the spinster Sunday School teacher from hell.The photography is the second saving grace of what could be, but isn't, a real clunker.My primary complaint about the direction is that Mr. Johnson couldn't seem to make up his mind whether he wanted a snappy farce or a sappy friendship and tried instead to do both -- neither that successfully.Message to Hollywood  We know when a scene is sad, dramatic or funny, we don't need no stinking soundtrack to tell us.  "},{"Title":"Lacking","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What made A Prayer for Owen Meany so rich, absorbing, and powerful was left out of the movie, all that is left is the typical candy coated drivel that Hollywood likes to present as family films.  This would have been a much more interesting and meaningful movie if they would have given it a PG13 or R rating and presented it as John Irving wrote it.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? I may only have seen it once, but it's a movie that sticks with you. A tear-jerker with the message that everyone has a purpose. Yeah, maybe the message is overdone, but it works. And the scene with the baseball...poor Simon. It's just a great film that will stay with you. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Try to Be Something it Isn't...(like Patch Adams)","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is a touching tale of a young boy and his midget friend, Simon Birch.The beginning of the story opens with Jim Carrey at a certain grave belonging to Simon Birch. He starts the narrative by recalling the events in his life, from Birch and him playing together to Simon Birch killing his mother with a baseball (I know that sounds funny, but believe me--you'll understand when you see the film). The boys were best of friends, until (spoiler) Simon Birch ends up dying when a school bus plummets into water; Birch helps the children get off the bus, and in doing so catches pneumonia and dies shortly thereafter. But Birch left a legacy what's on the inside matters, and be who you are. That's the message of this film, and it comes across not too strongly and not too lightly. Just right.Jim Carrey's underlying narrative really gives a certain touch to the film, while the actual story progression adds even more. Simon Birch isn't a great film, but then again, it isn't meant to be. The tale isn't told with a bold sense of drama, but with a side-effect of comedy and a bit of light drama. It's a tale made of fluff, but ironically, that is what makes it so memorable.One of the best things about Simon Birch is that it doesn't try to take itself too seriously. Unlike Patch Adams which wanted to be the Next Big Drama, Simon Birch just tries to be what it is, and that's probably the best thing about this film.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"This is a great movie--a good family film.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is an excellent movie, both in its interesting plot and in Simon's quest for spiritual truth.  Definitely a good human interest film. The language is iffy for younger children, but overall this movie would provide good topics (e.g., acceptance, God's plan for us, dealing with death) to discuss with children or adults. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Simon Birch as a sneak preview in Austria. Unfortunately it never made it to the regular theatre in my home town, so I am really glad that it happened to me!The main theme is Simons unshakable faith in God having a plan for him, and that he, despite his disabilities, will do something very important. It is also a film about true friendship. And it is a movie that teaches You, that with faith, God can turn Your weaknesses into strengths.Thus, the message of this movie alone makes it worth to watch. But it is the performances that make it outstanding. Ashley Judd is even more charming than usually; the two main actors, Ian Michael Smith and Joseph Mazzello, were simply breathtaking. There was a moment when it was totally quiet in the theatre - no one even dared to breath.If You want to watch a movie that is suited for the entire family, if You want to watch a movie that has a message, if You want to watch a movie that is really funny, if You want to watch a movie that shows great acting, main and supporting actors, if You want to watch a movie that makes You believe in the good inside man, then this movie is for You.There should be more movies like this! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie to all those who like a sweet story about life, hope, and dreams.  The character of Simon Birch quickly captures your heart, tugs on your emotions and makes you smile.  He is a boy with a simple courage and faith which he holds onto even though his life is a tough one.Simon Birch asks some great questions about the world around him and clings to his belief that his life has a purpose even when others around him think of him as a monstrosity or freak.Its a beautiful capturing story. "}{"Title":"Arresting combination of emotions","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SIMON BIRCH is not a masterpiece, yet its heart is in the right place. The film captures many moods, and is some parts depressing, some parts very moving, some parts sweet and some parts very hilarious.SIMON BIRCH is a story told in retrospect by the adult character (Joe), done nicely by Jim Carrey. I don't always find myself a big fan of his work, yet he does well here with an understated and small role.Essentially, it follows the travails of two young boys in the US, circa early 1960's. They live in a small New England village where formality and authority are rarely questioned. Joe (whose mother has never been married, hence he is stigmatized by townsfolk) and Simon (who is undersized by dwarfism, and ignored by his stone cold parents) find friendship and comradery, as they are outsiders. Their bond is wholly believable and enduring, thanks to the fine acting talents of Joseph Mazzello and Ian Michael Smith, respectively. Mark Steven Johnson, who directed and wrote the screenplay, suggested from a John Irving novel, has a nice eye for details and characterzations. Can you imagine anyone filming or writing a story based on a New England location and NOT mentioning at least once, it's pretty landscape or fall foliage? It sounds absurd, since the natural beauty is the main reason tourism is such a big industry in that part of the US. (I know from what I write, as I was reared in Belmont, New Hampshire).I related well with the characters in town, especially the minister (David Strathairn), spinsterish Miss Leavey (Jan Hooks), the dowdy grandmother and the town police chief. Heavy kudos go to the leads, as well, with the always likeable Oliver Platt as Ben, and the talented Ashley Judd as what I could imagine townpeople muttering, that independent Wenteworth woman. Yes, our emotions do get manipulated strongly in some parts. Yet, we buy into it willingly, due to the disarming qualities of Simon's personality. Without doubt, keep a box of hankies by your side...you will need them. The story contains so many anecdotal bits of warmth and humor, to round it out. The already talked about (in other reviews) Christmas pageant play scenes were a stroke of genius. Anyone who has ever been forced (or foolishly volunteered) to endure grade school plays will relate, and find much more than a giggle or two over this. I thought I was going to need medical attention(!).Overall, well worth your time if you need a good cry, a good laugh and a good story. The language issue and adolescent notions of lust might bother some, especially if you're contemplating letting the youngsters watch this movie. A few adults might want to remember ions ago, when they were that age, what were their particular preoccupations were. Prepubescent lust was generally the norm for most.The values of a belief in God, friendship and personal courage are well portrayed, in this bittersweet gem.   "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is an interesting film. Although I believe it misses some of the points it tries to make to its audience, the film is beautiful to look at and behold. There is a touching friendship between Simon and Joe in the film, I think the film would have been more interesting if they would have stuck with that friendship. Instead they tack on a mystery, which helps hold interest in the characters, but after you find out they never really resolve the issue with much more than an excuse. I think the film fails to really grab ahold of its audience. It's really too bad because Simon Birch is a great character.  "},{"Title":"Develops more emotional power than Saving Private Ryan. ***1/2 out of ****","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The opening scenes of  Simon Birch reveal the film's closing ones. You may think that this fact would give away the ending, and it does. If you expect this to ruin the film, however, you are wrong. Simon Birch has so much passionate power  that even knowing how the movie will close doesn't spoil the movie itself.The film opens with Jim Carry visiting a cemetery on a beautiful sunny day. He begins to tell a story about his child hood and how his life changed dramatically due to his friend's faith.That story basically follows the ups and down of their relationship. Joseph Mazzello plays the twelve year old befriending the growth impaired Simon. Simon Birch is a very smart boy for his age, that happens to be twelve. He is about four feet tall, but don't let his looks deceive you. In reality, his Sunday school teacher is secretly afraid of him due to his incredible faith. He believes God has put him on this earth for a reason and he plans to achieve that intention.He and his friend are members of the pee-wee baseball league, also. However, due to his Simon's miniature size, the coach tells him not to swing when he is up to bat. But one day when he is called to bat, he smacks the ball high into  the air&#133; only for it to be a foul ball. Oh, yeah, and it gains enough speed to fly at a woman in the sidelines and does something unexpected. Without revealing any details I will say what happens next changes the lives of these two friends forever.The thing I enjoyed the most about Simon Birch is the amazing emotional power generated by the colorful characters. At first I wasn't quite sure about this movie's figures, they seemed cocky and  nerdy. By the end, though, I began to realize just how much I cared for these characters, especially the warm-hearted and wise Simon Birch.As for the performances, they were just great. Joseph Mazzello, who is beginning to create a nice name for himself, delivers his best yet. Yes, even better than Jurassic Park. And Oliver Platt, who has been in more movies this year than Rodney Dangerfield has in the last decade (No offense, I actually think Rodney is one of the world's comic legends.) also portraits his character well. The big screen debut for Ian Michael Smith proves also to be a big hit with the audience.In my opinion, Simon Birch easily has more emotional power than the amazingly realistic Saving Private Ryan. That is because Ryan goes for the aggressive and pervasive tears while this film goes for a humble approach, even though Saving Private Ryan is a better movie.I'd give this movie ***1/2 out of ****. Should I give it four? Maybe. Or am I being too generous? Could Simon Birch have been better? Absolutely. Did it need to? Nope. "},{"Title":"My thoughts","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was great it had wonderful character and characters Simon touched my heart and made me realize things that i didn't know and it also showed me there is more to life than i think and that god does have plans for each and every one of us and maybe one of us is here to live out that plan and right now i am pregnant with a little girl and i am gonna be a single mother and when i watched that movie tonight it made me realize that no matter what i go through that little girl will always love me as long as i take care of her through her life that she deserves to have and no matter what life brings us i am gonna let her know that her mother will always be there for her! "},{"Title":"A small boy with a big heart changes everyones life in a small Canadian town.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon Birch is one of those touching movies that deserves a lot more credit then it received. I saw this movie when it was released to theaters in 1998. After it left the box office, everyone sort of forgot about it and I cannot understand why. It was beautifully written and directed. All the stars did an amazing job, especially Ian Michael Smith ! Ashley Judd...well no words can describe how gorgeous she truly is !! If you have seen this movie in the video store or a department store..... watch it ! I guarantee you will NOT be disappointed. Without even giving it a second thought....I give it a 10 ! And Ian Michael Smith... a 10 for a well done job ! "},{"Title":"I had no idea...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw Simon Birch when I was about 10 years old, and needless to say, it was so depressing that not only did I sleep terribly the night that I saw the film, but I refuse to see it ever again. My birthday was this past Wednesday and a friend of mine purchased a copy of A Prayer for Owen Meany for me. I started reading it last night and automatically became interested in John Irving's novel. Having remembered very little from Simon Birch, I had no idea that the film was based upon this very entertaining book (thus far). It wasn't until I read a quote about Meany's strike zone that I realized I had heard this story before. Nevertheless, I'm going to continue reading Owen Meany, because there is so much of this 500 page novel that is left out of a two hour movie. I just thought this was an interesting observation. "},{"Title":"Stupid Film; another case of overacting","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  American movies in past recent are filled with overacting, they're all about people who by some twist of fate are born with some disability and then by the stroke of luck or by some special talent turn their lifes arounds and become great heroes... examples Forrest Gump, A Beautiful Mind, etc., for which suiting actors are chosen to perform suitingly overacted defficiencies. Like in the times of silent films where speech was not available to convey the adequate emotion.These movies, though uplifting and with fitting all-american morales, and some also good on a technical and entertainment level, often fall in the corny fringes when attempting to call them art. Art mirrors life, and in real life such cases are saddly the exception and not the rule.Bottom line being that it is a good film for purely entertainment reasons, but I'd hesitate to call them art, and they shouldn't get as high as a rating as they've had. "},{"Title":"Good movie - Wrong rating!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a very touching movie, with a nice message.HOWEVER, there is NO WAY this movie should be rated PG. It definitely should have been rated PG-13. There is adult material, and the language is much stronger that a PG rating warrants.If you have young children, be advised. "},{"Title":"A very small kid that almost knowone cared for is convinced that God has a plan for him","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" IF YOU DISAGREE WITH THIS PLEASE EMAIL ME This movie is truly terrible. Yes i know that by reading this line manywill disagree. Now don't get me wrong yes it was very tragic in the end when Simon dies after the heroic deed that he did, most people care very little for him. But that's not the point movies like this have been done before many times, so you might ask yourself what is so different about this movie then other ones? Why choose this movie as oppose to another one? Most people don't understand the point; the thing that makes this movie so unique is that Simon was very short. So when I saw this I asked myself when he saved all those people then why didn't the producers utilize his height? They did all this with an extremely short person and when saved all those people from the bus it had should have had something to do with his height. THIS GIVES THE ENDING AWAY, Simon Birch just opened the back door of the bus and said stop it, then he gave his little speech. If he was 3 inches smaller, if he was 6 foot 8, if he was 4 foot 3, if he was&#133; You get my point, he would have been able to save them anyway, it would have been better if they utilized height but they didn't. Another thing that was done poorly was Joseph's (Simon's best friend) mom was the only person who cared for Simon and when she died you'd think that Simon's life who have been worse and people would be treating him a lot worse. IF YOU DISAGREE WITH THIS PLEASE EMAIL ME "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is by far the worst film I have ever seen. Simon, when not disrupting church for no apparent reason, commenting on the sexual appeal of characters' mothers, or trying to grope classmates, tries to persuade everybody that he is God's instrument. The director tries to make him look pious by making the church in the film unrealistically corrupt, which, needless to say, does not do the trick. Happy family moments in the film are punctuated by sickening deaths and disgusting language it seems were added just to avoid the sappy family film cliché. The result is a grotesque family film that involves 12-year-olds idly commenting on young girls' breast sizes to break up the slow pace of the film . Added to this are gut-wrenching scenes of toddlers facing death in a submerged church bus in icy water. I only finished the movie out of a horrified fascination, and the hope that it would have a slightly passable ending. It didn't. "}{"Title":"Manipulative and awful SPOILERS","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Plot The year is 1964. In a small town, there is a boy named Simon Birch (Ian Michael Smith) who is quite short. In fact, he was the shortest delivery ever made in the county. His parents do not care about him. So, he spends all his time with his friend Joe (Joseph Mazzello, and later and uncredited Jim Carrey, who is telling this tale). Joe never knew who his father was. He gets a bit irritated when his mother, Rebecca (Ashley Judd) starts dating Ben (Oliver Platt). Meanwhile, Simon believes that he is God's Instrument. With this delusion, he sets off to right the wrongs of the church, the town, and practically everything and everyone that opposes him.My Critique Simon Birch is arguably one of the worst films ever to be shown in a cinema. There really is no reason to like Simon. He is a hypocritical hero, but not in the style of the classic Jack Nicholson antihero of the 1970's. Simon believes he is God's Instrument and tries to right the wrongs of society, yet it seems Simon is the most corrupt. At some points, he is downright perverted, such as when he verbally ogles Rebecca. At other times, he simply defies authority for no legitimate reason except for the reason he believes he is right and people are mean, such as breaking into the Reverend's office. When the viewer isn't hating Simon, they are hating something else about this movie. I find it hard to take this film seriously when its plot becomes wacky and downright improbable. For instance, Simon plays Little League baseball but the coach never puts him in. Then the coach puts him in for the first time. In fact, this is probably the first time Simon has ever hit a baseball. So what happens when he swings the bat? Simon hits the ball out of the park ... and it lands on Rebecca's head. She is killed instantly. Now, just think about that. What are the odds Simon actually hits the ball ... hits it out of the park ... it happens to land on the head of his best friend's mother ... and the force is so strong, it actually kills her in seconds? But the worst thing is that Joe is cool about it. He isn't even angered at Simon for killing his mother, the only family he had left. At one point, Simon and Joe get arrested for breaking into the Reverend's office and nearly destroying it. Ben doesn't care and takes them out for ice cream. These are just some the absurd, perverted, twisted, and, oh yes, manipulative moments in Simon Birch.At one point Simon blurts out in the middle of church that If the church bake sale is God's priority, then we're all in trouble. Frankly, if this movie is a film lover's priority, we're all in trouble.My Rating  1 "},{"Title":"Read the book instead.","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Prayer for Owen Meany, by John Irving, is my very favorite book. When I found out it was being made into a movie, I was initially excited...until I learned that John Irving requested that the main character's name and movie title be changed to avoid it being associated with the book. This was a bad sign, but I went to see it anyway. Perhaps the book couldn't have been adapted, but no movie at all would have been better than this. It turns a tragic story of friendship and faith into a clichéd hero tale. Now when I describe my favorite book to those who haven't read it, I cringe when they mention they have seen a movie that sounds similar. "},{"Title":"Order from chaos","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Released in 1998, Simon Birch was directed and written by Mark Steven Johnson (Daredevil, Ghost Rider) loosely based on John Irving's novel A Prayer for Owen Meany.The story takes place in 1964 coastal Maine and involves two misfit friends, both 12 years old, both outcasts Simon a dwarf and Joe a bastard child.Despite his challenging condition, Simon believes there's a reason he's a dwarf and that God has a purpose for him and more. Does he have any proof for this belief? No. It's just something he knows.Joe, on the other hand, desperately wants to know who his father is. His mother (Ashley Judd) got pregnant during her senior year in high school but she never revealed the identity of the father. Much of the story involves Simon and Joe trying to figure out who Joe's father is.The reality of Simon's condition is driven home when Joe tells him a local girl finds him cute. Simon responds, She means cute like a baby turtle is cute. Girls don't kiss baby turtles. How do you know, Joe asks. I just know. If you were me you'd know too.Simon Birch is reminiscent of 1994's Forrest Gump. Both are named after their protagonist, both take place in the 60s, both involve outcasts who are challenged mentally or physically, both have the same style, both are heavy and light at the same time -- serious drama balanced out by humor and tragedy. Director/writer Johnson was obviously shooting for the next Forrest Gump.Although Birch isn't as good as Gump it's pretty good. Unlike Gump it failed at the box office, making only $18 million in the USA while costing $20 million, but word-of-mouth has spread.For the first 10 minutes or so I wasn't sure if I was going to buy into the film's inevitable contrivances and melodramatics, but the next thing I knew I was sucked into the story and having a good time. When it was all over I had a lot of things to reflect on. In fact, I watched it again. Yes, there are some Yeah, right moments but watch a few old b&w flicks where contrivances and melodramatics are a way of life. A film can get away with being a tad unlikely or sentimental if it plays its cards right.One scene involves a baseball hitting someone in the head. This brought to memory something that happened when I was around 8 years old My family and I were walking the trails of Theodore Wirth Park in Minneapolis when we came to the edge of a baseball field. As soon as we entered the outfield somehow I just knew that the current batter was going to hit the ball and it was going to hit me right in the face. I knew it but I didn't know how I knew. I just knew. Next thing you know the batter hits the ball into the air -- it was like slow motion -- and it came and hit me right on the cheek! (The only good thing was I think it was a softball). How did I KNOW this was going to happen? I don't know, but it's pretty amazing. I bring this up not only because there's a similar scene in Simon Birch but also because I believe it relates to Simon knowing and believing he had a purpose and was going to die a hero.The idea of Simon dying is no spoiler, by the way. It's revealed right from the start that Simon and someone else would die before the film ends. This, of course, softens the shock when they do and allows the tale to play as bittersweet nostalgia. Some people call the story sad and tragic, but it's not. We know right from the get-go who's going to die. We just don't know when and how. Besides, everyone dies sooner or later (but not every one grows up).This is the first and only film I've ever seen Ashley Judd in and she's ANGELIC. Seriously, Ashley is the definition of spirituality, not to mention stunningly beautiful.Another likable character is Ben Goodrich, played by Oliver Platt. He assumes the father-figure role to both Simon and Joe, but he's very natural about it, not pushy.Some of the themes addressed are-- Order, purpose and love in a bloody realm of chaos. -- It's possible to be religious but not spiritual. -- If you KNOW something in your heart, never give up or stop believing. -- Who is your real father, the man from whose loins you came or the one who loves & mentors you? -- The conflict of flesh and spirit, random chance and order, meaningless existence or purposeful life. -- Sex/romance can cause you to make really stoo-pid mistakes. -- Going through religious motions but no longer really believing. -- Religion and truth are not one in the same. A person can get bogged down in the mire of human religion and miss the point. Truth sets FREE.The characters are likable. There's some crudeness and cussing, but it reflects real life rather than crudeness for the sake of crudeness. Even the 'villains' are not totally unlikable or without sympathy. Rev. Russell comes across more as a man who's simply lost his way while going through the motions rather than a man out to abuse people. Same thing with the Sunday school teacher.Watch out for the laugh-out-loud scene involving the manger, the baby Jesus and the girl who plays the virgin Mary.Jim Carrey has a small role as Joe when he's an adult, bookending the film and narrating. The locations are gorgeous, filmed in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia, and on the French River in Ontario.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Corny movie not worth the time","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the corniest movie I have seen in a long while. The main character is unbelievable and the scene where Ashley Judd's character is 'knocked out' is totally contrived and unbelievable. How could such a small person hit a ball so hard as to kill someone? People with diabetes should avoid this film due to its sugary composition. The main character is not only unbelievable but not very likable. His complaints about church socials having a continental breakfast make him sound like a Christian tali-ban. I would not let my children see this film because of Simon Birch's pretentious and self-righteous view of the world and religion. "},{"Title":"Birch is predictable but good family film","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some people fish for stories that reaches to the heart, but some has trouble finding its route. Mark Steven Johnson's Simon Birch is like that. It's a film with fine performances and a bit of spirit, but midway, it goes into a predictable route. Based on John Irving's novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany, the film, which takes place in Maine during the 1960's, is about Simon Ian Michael Smith and his best friend, Joe Joseph Mazzello. Simon was born as the smallest kid in town. The doctors and his parents didn't know if he was going to survive, but he did. Simon and Joe have been best friends. They hang out by the lake, go to Sunday school, and play Little League together. Soon, Joe's Mom Ashley Judd gets a new boyfriend, Ben Oliver Platt, a drama teacher.But tragedy comes when Joe's mom gets killed accidentally by a foul ball that Simon hit during a game. After that, Joe begins to find a search for his father. Meanwhile, Simon tries to find out who he really is inside.The film has a promising first half, but after the accident and before the satisfying final act, it goes into paint-by-the-numbers mode. In its 114-mintue length, it seems too long. Mark Steven Johnson's direction is a lightweight effort, but his script is half original and half automatic and has little character development. Songs from the 60's and Marc Shairman's score gives a dreamy touch to the proceedings. Smith is very touching and funny as the title role, and throughout, we see him as a real character. But, he gives jokes that feels corny for example, I not sure whether or not they want us to play Little League or to pee. Mazzello Jurassic Park gives a smart and kind personally to Joe. Judd as Joe's Mom is wonderfully delightful, but has short time and Platt gives a little everyman effort to Ben. Jim Carrey's narration as Old Joe is kind, but distracts a little from the film's enjoyment.The film is rated PG for mild language and adult themes. Parents may tell their kids You didn't hear that word when mild curse words are heard, and young viewers won't mind about the little adult themes. In the end, it's a too long but good family film that insults a little to the viewer's eye.My Pick Yellow Light Think about It "},{"Title":"Disappointed, yes, a bit","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've read several people complaining about one part of the story that does not seem credible in the film, when the mum dies after being hit on the head by a foul ball in a little league baseball game, hit by the weakest person in the world.The thing is, this is the only part of the film that is true to the book! As someone said, the book is 600 pages long and it's too difficult to make it into a movie, but not impossible so I hope that someday some director will take the challenge on.I thought the acting was very good, especially the two boys. Yes, why Jim Carrey was not credited? "},{"Title":"Simon Birch Worthy of Viewing","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having seen, and been somewhat dissatisfied with, The Cider House Rules and The World According to Garp, I was, as I've previously remarked on this very site, pretty much convinced that the novels of John Irving are inherently unfilmable. Simon Birch, billed as suggested by A Prayer for Owen Meany&#x97;my favourite Irving, and perhaps even favourite novel&#x97;is so titled at Irving's request, so different he felt were the stories.Showing the titular character's grave at the film's beginning, Simon Birch follows its namesake from birth to death. Extremely small, shrilly-voiced, and devoutly religious, Simon believes himself to be God's instrument, put upon the earth in his unusual form for a distinct purpose.Firstly, I feel the need to vent. What is it with Irving adaptations and this horrid reliance on saccharine music? It's so bloody cliché it makes me want to weep with frustration, tear my hair out, and howl for hours. Now that that's said, shall we move on? Commendations firstly to star and one time actor Ian Michael Smith, who delivers a convincing, humorous, and persuasive performance as the zealous young Simon. Indeed the entire cast is solidly... well, cast. A special mention is reserved for Oliver Platt, whose character's original literary basis was a favourite who seemed misrepresented at first, but was eventually realised well in Platt's performance&#x97;a considerable task I assure you. It's not difficult to see why Irving declined to permit the usage of his character's names, the plot taking a complete turn about halfway through the film. This turn makes sense, given the time restrictions of a feature film compared to a novel, though it leaves the former considerably less impactful than the latter. The movie offers a story which moves steadily forward, honouring the book for as long as the two overlap. The relationship between the young characters at the film's heart is well appropriated, Joe's fondness for his minuscule friend articulated through the nuances of their dialogue as well as the actors' respective performances. It's in the last act of the film that it loses itself, the inevitable foreseen incident&#x97;beautifully constructed in the novel&#x97;poorly brought to fruition. One understands the reason behind changing the ending to this, but it ought to have been handled with much more grace. Plot holes emerge, grow, and eventually suck the film into them, so distracting are they from the poignancy of the drama. Yet, that said, the drama loses poignancy all of its own at this point anyway. The ending&#x97;I am permitted to reveal it is Simon's death; the film begins with a shot of his gravestone including dates&#x97;feels shoved in to align with the book. I found myself wondering why exactly the boy had died, no sufficiently decent reason offered by the film. The ending places a severe blemish on the rest of the film, marred particularly in no small part due to the final overly sentimental return to the graveside.Starting out well, inasmuch as it follows more or less exactly the book's path, Simon Birch shows promise of a decent childhood drama. It maintains this facade for some time, before the ending finally exposes it for the lacking piece it&#x97;rather unfortunately&#x97;is. There is a gaping chasm of narrative quality between the two halves, no doubt the result of adapting just half a book; the latter section demonstrating wildly its inferior writing. Nevertheless, the film has its merits, for which it is worthy of viewing and appreciation. "},{"Title":"Good buddy movie","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe and Simon (Joseph Mazzello, Ian Michael Smith) have always been best pals, maybe because they both felt like outsiders; Joe is illegitimate and Simon is a dwarf. Now, at age twelve, Joe sets out to find his real father and Simon wonders what special plan God has for his life.This touching story of kids growing up in a small town has the same nostalgic feel of movies like Stand By Me, painting an idyllic picture of youthful hijinks, loyalty, and courage. Ian Michael Smith, in his only movie role, is excellent as the spunky, brave Simon. Joseph Mazzello, so memorable in Jurassic Park and Shadowlands, is good but has outgrown the adorable little-boy stage and appears stiff at times. The boys are ably assisted by Ashley Judd, Oliver Platt, and David Straithairn and Jim Carrey has a brief cameo as the adult Joe.The movie is an affectionate homage to childhood innocence and is recommended although some dialogue may not be suitable for children. "},{"Title":"Owen Meaney - Light?","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story is set in small town New England of the early 1960's and tells the story of an underdeveloped boy named Simon (Ian Michael Smith) and his unwavering faith that god has made him the way he is for some special purpose. His best friend Joe (Joseph Mazello) just wants to discover the identity of his father. This is nominally a story about small town life and growing up, but it's also about faith, religion and a number of other themes (though apparently not all the themes were found in the novel).Simon Birch manages to be atmospheric and mystical and also quite funny at times though it is unquestionably a dramatic film with some tragic elements.We get a pair of good performances from Ashley Judd as Joe's mother and Oliver Platt who plays a drama teacher with an interest in Joe's mother, it's a bit of a departure for Platt but its nice to see him in a role with a romantic interest. The two boys are also quite effective in their roles. Some of the supporting performances are less effective; David Straithairn who I usually enjoy comes across as wooden and Jan Hooks performance as the Sunday school teacher kept reminding me of her work on Saturday Night Live. Although it's a very small role Jim Carrey is also effective in one of his first dramatic film roles, he is also the narrator.According to the credits the film is suggested by the book A Prayer from Owen Meaney by John Irving, this was done at the request of the author because either the film only covered a small part of the 600 page novel or because they only bear a passing resemblance to one another. The author also requested the name change of the title character which necessitated the title change as well.The film was written and directed by Mark Steven Johnson who for the most part has stuck to comic book adaptations since this film.While this could be a film for the whole family (the film was rated PG) it might be little to emotionally charged for children. "},{"Title":"A very touching story that leaves you with a good feeling!","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon birch was a very touching and moving movie that leaves you feeling good in the end. It is personally one of my favorite movies ever made. Ian Michael Smith surprisingly did a great job at acting seeing as how it was his first experience in a movie. Joseph Mazzello, Ashley Judd, Oliver Platt, and David Straiharn also played great roles. Simon Birch is a movie filled with lots of laughs, yet also tears. It has a lot to give and is such a great story that will make you think about God and life in a different view. At least it did for me... Simon Birch is like any other average movie. No special effects, action scenes, or things like that but it still is better than most movies out there. This movie is good without the special effects and such. Overall I give it a 9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Touching allegorical story","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very sweet and touching story, with some allegorical references that are emphasized effectively. It's the story of a growth-stunted boy named Simon (Ian Smith), and Joe (Joseph Mazzerello), the boy who befriends him. It's a story of small time life, with several characters living interconnected destinies.Because it's allegorical, some of the border line fantasy elements have to be given dramatic license. I doubt a feebly hit foul ball could cause the result that occurs in this film. The acting by the entire cast is quite good, especially Smith and Mazzerello in the lead roles. Simon is seeking his purpose in life from God, after some events lead him to believe he has been tapped for a mission. The suffering endured by Simon sensitively related, as the film captures both sad and comedic moments well.One weakness of note is a mystery involving Joe's family, but the identity of the party involved is a tired cliché, and is painfully obvious as soon as the characters are introduced in the first few minutes of the movie.Good character development and a thoughtful plot line and message. A fine movie. "},{"Title":"An excell film","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a good dramedy (comedy, drama). I liked the actors. It's about this boy named Simon Birch (Ian Michael Smith, in his debut and only role as an actor) who is very diminutive and is a misfit. His parents totally ignore him. His best friend Joe Wenteworth (Joesph Mazzello) is always by his side no matter what. He is secretly in love with Rebecca (Ashley Judd), his friend's mom. They're in baseball together and go to the lake together and he also secretly likes Marjorie (Cecilly Carroll). The funny part of the movie is when Simon says 'Boobs' to Majorie and yanks her down then she kicks Joe in the balls. The sad part is... I cannot say it. It will spoil it to people who haven't seen it. So rent it, watch it, laugh, cry and if you love it, own it. XD. "},{"Title":"Pleasently surprised....","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I happen to be on a Jim Carrey kick at the moment, which means I go out and find ANYTHING with Jim Carrey in it and rent it and watch... and usually laugh my butt off... Well, I saved this one for last cause I got the impression he was only in it for two seconds, and probably at the end cause he was the older version of Joe, who I knew was the second of the two prime characters.  Well, I was pleasantly surprised to see him in the FIRST scene, and his sexy voice was sprinkled all over the movie to further please me. I've always liked odd movies and movies that talk to the audience through voiceovers or talking to the camera like in High Fidelity  What an odd choice though, for Jim Carrey to be the older, wiser, serious voice to tell a tragic tale of poor Simon Birch.That seemed sarcastic, but it's true.  While I could tell that this tale was sad and tragic, and that the movie was trying to get you to be upset and sad and cry, they just, in my opinion, didn't pull it off.However, I loved the film.It had a great, interesting story.  The acting was great, Kudos to little Ian, Joe, always lovable Oliver Platt, and the beautiful actress Judd, Ashley.Also, I found this film to be a refreshing change.  It didn't pander to the critics, nor did it pander to the audience.  There wasn't ludeness, or crudness, though there were a few shit's and damnes, but overall it was a nice, familial-type movie with enough witty lines and funny subplots to keep you entertained.Not a bread winner, but a nice movie that will stand the test of time. It's the kind of movie that you can watch thirty years from now and still enjoy it (that is, if you enjoyed it in the first place!)And, I gotta confess, the best line of the movie goes to Ian Michael Smith/Jim Carrey...Simon (older Joe) I've been thinking.Joe (older Joe's son) Yeah?Simon (older Joe) Last year we(you) were in the squirt league, and this year we're(you're) in the pewee.Joe(older Joe's son) So?Simon (older Joe) So what do they want us(you) to do, play baseball or urinate? (PAUSE while Joe/Joe's son looks on in perplexed that's retarded wonderment) Anyway, I was just thinking.It was sort of funny when Simon said it, and even funnier when Jim said it... just for sentiment's sake.  Nice deja vu type thing there, I like that.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I truly do not understand the movie going public.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have been reading a lot of reviews today on IMDB, and I am quite frankly shocked at the reviews I am seeing for this movie as opposed to some of the others.  I do not mean to offend, but Simon Birch was the all time worst movie I have ever seen in my life.  I can't think of a movie that I hated more.It is not that I cannot identify with some of the sentiments, but it was poorly cast, terribly acted, and had some of the stupidest scenes I have truly ever seen.  *Spoiler -beware*  Are we really meant to believe that a 3 foot little kid is going to dive into freezing cold water and save a bus load of kids?  Really.  And what's all this about Ashley Judd getting hit in the head with a baseball and dying INSTANTLY?!  No struggle, no revival attempt, no bruise for crying out loud.I am not a cynical person, and I love touching movies, but this was over the line.  I will never see this movie again, and I wish I would have never spent $8.00 to see it in the first place. "},{"Title":"Check out The Mighty if Simon Birch interests you.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is a good film.  Well acted with engaging characters, based on the book A Prayer for Owen Meaney by John Irving. If you are interested in this film you must see The Mighty, based on the book Freak the Mighty by Rodman Philbrick because it is superb. You might also consider reading the book and its sequel Max the Mighty. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie on Starz and thought it was a very poignant, meaningful movie that really touches your heart.  Ashley Judd is great, as well as Oliver Platt who plays her love interest.  Teenage actor Joseph Mazello as Simon's best friend gives a fine acting performance that is quite touching.  Ian Michael Smith who plays Simon Birch is perfect for the role. It's hard to believe it's his acting debut. It has some very funny parts, and some suspense, but if this movie doesn't make you cry, you're not human. I absolutely loved this movie.  It's a great movie for older children if they can handle its rather sad ending.   "},{"Title":"It's not the book, but as a movie it's not bad.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll start out by saying that A Prayer for Owen Meany literally changed my life.  It is the best book I have ever read.  There is none higher. End of story.  That said, I had very mixed feelings when I heard that Mark Steven Johnson was making a movie based on the book.  A story this complicated could never be accurately adapted for the screen.  My doubts increased when I heard that Irving had had his name taken off of it and all the names had been changed.Still, curiosity got the better of me and I eventually went to see the film.  I'm glad I did.  Though not without its shortcomings, Simon Birch is a touching, well-made film that is well worth the ticket price and time. My chief gripe is Johnson's gratuitous use of scenery.  The random New England landscape shots do nothing to further the plot in most cases.  I think the swimming scenes are beautifully done, but most of the other shots of leaves, rivers, trees, and mountains are unnecessary.Oliver Platt is brilliant as always, and plays the role as though it was written for him, even though Irving's physical description of the character differs greatly from Oliver's appearance.  Judd and Mazzello give credible performances.  Indeed, the evolution of Mazzello's character makes much more sense in the movie than in the book.  Finally, Ian Michael Smith is not a very accurate Owen Meany, but he is a wonderful Simon Birch.  Indeed, that's what I had to keep reminding myself as I watched the film.  It's not Owen Meany. If you keep reminding yourself that the two are separate entities, it becomes possible to appreciate this film as a touching story of faith and destiny. "},{"Title":"A charming film with real heart","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  These days, it's rare to see a movie that isn't trying to preach at you or make you feel bad. Simon Birch. is just such a movie, which may explain why it wasn't that much of a success at the box office. Which is a shame, because, to me, it's one of the best films of the last few years.Adapted from a John Irving novel, it benefits, first of all, from its beautiful New England scenery and a literate script. But it takes the performers to really bring a film to life, and Simon Birch has that and then some. Ian Michael Smith and Joseph Mazzello both give good, believeable performances as the title character and his best friend, Joe Wenteworth, respectively. Both get into mischief, have their disagreements, but are always there for each other in good times and bad, as friends should be. Although the two young protagonists are the focus of the film, as they should be, all the performances are uniformally good, from Ahsley Judd as Joe's kindly-natured mother, to David Straithairn as the minister whose outward rigidity conceals a secret that changes young Joe's life forever. And tying it altogether, in a suprisingly good serious turn as the adult Joe, is none other than Jim Carrey(!).In short, Sorrentino sez see this hidden treasure. And I defy anyone not to laugh loud and hard during the Christmas pageant where everything that can possibly go wrong does. "},{"Title":"Witty enough to avoid being sappy. Cute without being contrived.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Simon Birch was the perfect family movie  a great story of courage and character, skillfully told. Its sophisticated wit prevented it from being too sappy and a solid screen-play and terrific acting prevented it from being too contrived.This movie was recommended to me by a 23 yr old woman and by a 17 year old boy.  I'm middle-aged.  Something for everyone, I'd say!  We could use more movies like this one.  "},{"Title":"Joseph Mazzello's spectacular performance.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joseph Mazzello continues captivating. In Simon Birch, the Jurassic Park's star incorporates brilliantly Joe Wenteworth, best friend of the peculiar Birch. Once more, Mazzello exposes mutual condolences between adolescents. Beside Ian Michael Smith, your character appears convincing Joe propagates solidarity and affection. In short this movie is essential with reference to friendship. The director Mark Steven Johnson makes the most of Joseph's talent, so that he cries in several scenes. But Mazzello receives a indispensable support of the extraordinary cast Ashley Judd gives affinity to the drama, and Strathairn really acts like your real father - as well as in The River Wild. Simon Birch is the second best movie of Joseph Mazzello. The Cure, 95, still produces more tears.    "}{"Title":"deeper understanding is what makes this film great.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is one film that really got into my heart. normally, i don't watch dramatic movies but after a recommendation from my sister, i decided to watch this movie.  Apart from a brilliant casting, the story line was quite realistic.  This film also touched me on a personal level, as i am semideaf and in a small town like the one i live in, no one really bothers to understand me and sometimes i lose my faith in life.  i could relate to the bit where simon lost his faith and became depressed. YOu really need to look deep to understood the film and realise the potential of this film. "},{"Title":"Good, but too simple","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, I read A Prayer for Owen Meany, and it was one of my favorite books. But it's not like I *insist* a movie be as good as a book. I just want a movie that reflects the book. Simon Birch starts out that way, but loses it at the end, almost as if the director said, Well, the movie has gone on long enough, let's end it.First a word about some other common comments in these IMDB reviews. Yes, this movie is beautifully filmed to the point where the images take time away from action, and yes some weird things happen, but that's the way John Irving's settings always work! See The World According to Garp or Hotel New Hampshire for more. Part of the appeal of John Irving's books is that the characters go on a wild ride that is just barely normal enough to be plausible, and you see how they cope with changes both normal, absurd and tragic. Usually, in the end, the main character is the sum of and has benefited from the changes, even if some of them were sad.Simon Birch is no different. Simon doesn't pity himself or hide from the world because of his dwarfism. In fact, he is *more* outspoken than most and has a realistic view of his lot in life. Yes, he does seem older than 12 sometimes, but that is what happens when you have to deal with a difficult, adult issue as a child.Simon is charming for his directness. In fact, I could have done with some more Simonisms in church, a place ripe for hypocrisy that Simon could deflate. And his friend, Joe, is a kid you like instantly because he sees Simon for who he is and not as a dwarf.I don't want to give anything away so I'll jump to the contrived ending and say how disappointed I was. The beauty of Simon was his odd juxtapositions... Simon is a child but is wiser than most adults; Simon is a dwarf but is less afraid to try new things (play baseball, run an obstacle course, be in a play) than other, normal kids; Simon is a neglected child but is a caring person; etc. To make him a hero by having him save someone in such an obtrusive, sudden situation was jarring and a let down. Simon should have faced a less obvious task, something that people might see him for as a hero, eventually, but even then not everyone. His faith would never waiver, but others watching him may wonder.In any case, Simon Birch is a pretty, amusing movie that really should have made you think more about its pillars of faith, friendship, and fortune. In the end, it copped out. Too bad, because it's main chracter is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Lead character you can sympathize and empathize with.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon is different, physically, emotionally, and philosophically. This well written screenplay chronicles the life of a boy whose attitude is decidedly positive, and unusually purposeful for someone his age. Several remarks and scenes remind us that Simon is human, making it even easier to identify with and accept him. Ashley Judd does a good job as Joe's mother. Jim Carrey's on screen time is very limited, his narrative is good and unobtrusive. Ian Michael Smith's performance in the title role is great. DVD quality is excellent, including Dolby Digital sound. "},{"Title":"Saw it, loved it!!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An impressive cast highlight this wonderful film. It was heartfelt and it is truly special. Oliver Platt was truly fabulous as was Mazzello & Smith. How could you not love Ashley Judd after seeing her in this film. Jim Carrey's narration was great as was his few moments on screen. Very good film(8/10). "},{"Title":"A heart filled wonder!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ian Michael Smith did a fabulous job in bringing Simon Birch to life.  I've seen the film three times and cried each time.  Ian moved my heart deeply and I wish I could tell him this.  I wish Ian the best now and for his future, and I'll be watching to see if he decides to make another film.  Simon Birch is a heart filled wonder!It was good to see Jim Carrey play a dramanic role.Ashley Judd was as beautiful as ever and made me believe  in Rebecca's love for Simon. I did find, what seemed to me to be a continuity error in the dates.I saw the driest delivery of a line and character ever at the end of this film and wished it had been left on the cutting room floor.  This film did not deserve this, but it won't keep me enjoying it, possibly owning it and recommending to friends.Thank you Ian Michael Smith! "},{"Title":"Good things come in small packages","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good photography, sympathetic though predictable storyline.  Nice human interest story and how character will tell, with some tender and comical scenes.  Good acting overall.  Worth seeing for both genders.  On a scale of 1 to 10, an 8. "},{"Title":"Very good family movie - make sure to have kleenex handy","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Burch was about a little boy who had health problems but who had great faith in God and was sure that God had a plan for him and that one day he would be a hero.  You watch as Simon overcomes many obstacles with his friend Joe and end up with a tear jerker ending.  My 7 year old bawled!! "},{"Title":"A funny, tender look at a very special lad.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any one expecting Irving's novel to be realized on screen will be disappointed; but then, Irving's novel, by the nature of the central character, can't be filmed.  Simon Birch simply puts on the screen a lovely story that can be extracted from the novel. Not so profound.  No statement about the American Experience in Vietnam, just the story of an unforgettable boy who somehow knew that he had a special mission in life. "},{"Title":"Sappy, Predictable, and Brilliant","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Critics of Simon Birch call it sappy and predictable. What it is, however, is a wonderfully-crafted look at small-town life and the lives inside it. Young Ian Michael Smith shows talent beyond his years, and Joseph Mazzello will only get better. The greatest performance, however, is turned in by Jan Hooks, who should win SOMETHING for her unforgettable performance. "},{"Title":"Took me by surprise","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had no desire to see this movie.  On a recent flight to Paris, my wife viewed the tape at her seat and I kept glancing at it and became captivated. After she had finished, I took the tape and watched it and she joined me and watched it again, just minutes after finishing it for the first time.It is a wonderful, uplifting movie, well acted and full of love.  I have not read A Prayer for Owen Meany, but I am going to the library today to get it.See this movie.  "}{"Title":"God did have special plans for Simon Birch","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie broke my heart.  Simon Birch shows us the heart of a true hero. Cast aside by society because he is different, he endures his pain with quiet dignity and a faith in God that should inspire us all.  He wanted nothing more than to have a purpose and destiny in life.  The treatment of the town and his parent should have destroyed his faith in everything and everyone, but he endured, never giving up his hope that God would use him despite his differences.  The saddest moment is when he is on the dock pouring his heart out to God - the only One who was there for him.  I'm sorry, he cried.  And I am too.  That this special little boy would be so alone.  "},{"Title":"Simon Birch - simple perfection","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The beauty of Simon Birch lies in its simplicity. Corny and predictable, it makes no apologies for its cliche'd writing.  We are drawn toward the character of Simon not out of pity, but from the straightforward honesty with which he asks questions we all have asked but never seem to get answered or were afraid to ask. Excellent casting. Brings forth memories of another brutally honest and heartwarming movie - The World According to Garp. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie, Superb Book","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, the movie's not so much terrible, as just really sappy and ridiculous. I was saddened to see John Irving's wonderful novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany, cheapened by this attempt to play with emotions. The book was incredibly deep and meaningful, this movie couldn't be further from that. Read the book, don't even consider the movie. "},{"Title":"Average plot/acting; nice cinematography","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Competent, wistful, but predictable and unremarkable tear jerker, improved by cinematography which is lovely, though as noted by Bob Campbell reviewer of New Jersey Online, a bit self-conscious.  Hey, it's not Days of Heaven or Barry Lyndon, but it's nice.  If you're into that kind of thing, catch it on the big screen, it won't be the same at home, and by a slight margin it's worth the price. "},{"Title":"critique","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best buddy movie since at least The Shawshank Redemption, if not the best of all time.  Simon never lets anything get him down, and when life hands him lemons, he can turn them into ice cream. Simon is a good role model for anybody in any situation "},{"Title":"Brings tears to your eyes and joy to your heart that return even days after viewing","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a delight!  Don't miss it.  Bring tissue.  Scenes from the film keep flashing back to me even now - bringing tears to my eyes and joy to my heart.  Will see it again several more times myself. "},{"Title":"All in all, this is a good film which touches the heart.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is a touching movie which has enough drama and comedy to keep it from being overly sentimental.  The progression of the story itself is excellent and the acting is good.  The only drawbacks it has are the addition of purely silly comedy, which doesn't add to the story and which is trite, and the odd mixture of appropriate themes for the early 60's with speech, behavior, and props from a later time.  For instance, twelve-year-old boys didn't discuss their sex drives with pastors in 1964. And imagine my surprise at seeing a print of Thomas Hook's painting of Jesus With the Children on the wall of the Sunday school classroom in this 1964 setting when the picture wasn't widely available until several years after that and may not even have been done yet!  Also, there is a Roman Catholic picture of the Sacred Heart on the wall of the protestant pastor's office and a reference to behavior during Mass which is a term for a certain kind of worship service in a Catholic church.  Perhaps the people who put out this movie think that any sort of religion is the same as any other, but it would have been nice if they had done some research to help with continuity.   For me, the mistakes were a distraction from the otherwise enjoyable film.  I'll probably see Simon Birch over and over, despite its flaws, because it really touched me and I left the theater with a really happy heart. "},{"Title":"The most moving and special film in years","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is the rarest of movies, a bit of action, a humorous script, good direction, some drama, and incredible acting. Ian Michael Smith was great as Simon, but it was Joseph Mazzello (Radio Flyer, Shadowlands, The Cure) who completely stole the picture. His performance was probably one of the best in movie history, changing a so-so project into one of the best movies of the year (or the best in my opinion). Like Tom Hanks' narration in Radio Flyer I didn't really see a need for Jim Carrey to show up at the beginning and end of the movie, but it didn't hurt. Overall I give Simon Birch ****.5/*****' "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *A Prayer for Owen Meany* is my favorite book.  While *Simon Birch* is able to capture only a portion of the characters' lives and subsequently the plot differs from the book, I still enjoyed the film very much and found it moving.   The acting was incredible. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ashley Judd was stunning.  Joseph Mazzello was fabulous.  Ian Michael Smith was spectacular in his acting debut.  Simon Birch is one of the best if not THE best movie of the year.  It's for everyone!  Fifties nostalgia for the baby-boomers, hilarious adolescent situations for us teenagers, and good moral lessons for the kids.  This is a very enjoyable movie, but I'm warning you  Bring a hankie!  I cried more at this movie than any other movie I have ever seen...including Titanic!  Please take my advice and go see it if you haven't already, you'll be glad you did) "}{"Title":"Third Time's Still a Charm","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  >For the third time in three weeks I've seen this movie and it still makes me laugh, cry, and find things I hadn't seen before.  If you want to read the book, read the book.  If you want to see some fine acting by all concerned, see Simon Birch.  From beginning to end, this movie offers new insights to human behaviour and misbehaviour and reminds many of us of our search for faith. >For those who remember a friendship so loving, the love shared with us by someone else's family, or a weekend that changed our lives, this movie will bring it all back in living color. >Awards?  Give it as many as possible!!  "},{"Title":"Simon Birch a waste of time.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can see why John Irving wanted the characters' names changed, and why he wanted to distance himself from this smarmy film. The movie is a shoddy waste of a glorious novel. "},{"Title":"A Little Film of Enormous Proportions","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is one of the most sentimental films of all time.  That's a big thing to say, but little Simon Birch can affect you in a big way.  I left the theatre appreciating my life more than I ever had before, and I can understand why Jim Carrey says in the beginning of the film ...I thank God for bringing him into my life.  I wish that we can all someone in our life who can teach us about faith and that we don't need to take the little things for granted.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a few days ago, and I was pleasantly surprised.  This movie is one of the best films of the year.  My girlfriend and I came out of the theater in tears, ready to go see it again.  I recommend this movie without hesitation.  I was touched by this film more than any other, including Titanic. "},{"Title":"It's a wonderful story of the perfect faith of a child.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't have been happier to see this film and, what's more, I'm taking a third group of college students to see it again.  Both of the children were excellent in their parts and it took some wonderful acting on the parts of Oliver Platt and Ashley Judd to not be left in the background. It doesn't happen very often in today's world that a movie can touch everyone in the audience and do it in such a clean-cut manner. "},{"Title":"Get over your fear of sentimentalism, this film is great!","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably the only movie this year to contribute in a positive way to our societal development.  It was very spiritual, but not preachy, and I think that there are too few directors who have the guts to examine the deeper questions of life on the big screen.  I would give it four stars if the director had been a little more creative in the hero scene, but it seemed just a pinch contrived.  Still 3 and 1/2 stars is pretty darned good.  I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Faith, Hope, and Love","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a powerful message of faith, hope, and love. We all have a destiny--contrary to what the so-called experts believe. Simon was one that was looked down upon because he believed that he had a purpose--that God had a plan for him. What offends so many that do not believe this for themselves--is that someone so frail, small, and different as Simon, believes it. This then becomes an even greater stumbling block.If we have limited belief in both our mind and our heart, then we cannot see anything beyond ourselves. Therefore, these kinds of people dismiss all they do not understand as myth, or false, or ignorant belief. They soon learn to not only disagree--but eventually even despise people who do think this way.It takes a big man and one of true destiny to admit that there is something beyond themselves. What so many thought was arrogant for Simon to believe the way he did, was the proof that real selfish thinkers limit themselves to only what they understand.Simon asked questions all throughout his life and found no one who could give him the answers to his questions--but God Himself. It seems that He is the only one who will reveal to the weak, the base, the shamed, and the hurting-- that there is something bigger than each of us.Those who have the faith of a child--they will find it. To those who want everything written in triplicate--they will stand back and watch other's like Simon, and only marvel at their faith. Always standing far enough at a distance to only observe.At that time Jesus said, 'I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this was your good pleasure.' Matthew 1125-26 (NIV)  "},{"Title":"A good movie as long as you don't compare it to the book...","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a die-hard Owen Meaney fan I had to go see this movie to see how bad my favorite book had been torn apart.  I went in expecting the worst movie of all time and I came out wiping tears from my eyes.  I did like the movie. It was a little cheesy in some parts but Joseph Mazello was amazing. Mazello played Joe perfectly.  My only qualm about calling Simon Birch a great movie is the fact that so much was lost between the novel and the film.  I understand why so much was cut, but huge pieces that are integral to the novel were lost.  As I said before, it was a good movie by itself, but it pales in comparison to the source of its inspiration, A Prayer for Owen Meaney. "},{"Title":"OMIGOODNESS","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mazello and Smith are a creditable combination.  The plot in many ways was predictable, but the execution was exceptional.  No one was larger than life.  I viewed the cast as ensemble, though I found both kids remarkable. Whether or not the story resembles John Irving's book is insignificant to me.  This movie is a beautiful piece of humanity told with a combination of harsh reality and stunning compassion. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd have to say that Simon Birch is one of the best movies of the year, and probably the decade.  It may sound cliche, but you'll laugh, and you'll cry. A wonderful movie that will touch you forever.  "}{"Title":"The Simon Birch Society","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Basically what I would call a Christian Ethic movie.The plot has a hidden agenda that doesn't come out till toward the end of the movie. While it did have some very good acting, excellent photography, and more than one plot shift, it lacked something that other movies have that make you want to see them again and again.One thing the movie doesn't really deal with is why Simon Birch is so smart for his age. In one scene we see Simon in his bedroom surrounded by books and made up space ships hanging from the ceiling. It would have been nice to show the joy and pleasure one can get from reading and learning.After seeing this movie, it's no wonder most of us never really or completely grow up.Rating 4 out of 10 (stars)  "},{"Title":"A dim take on a wonderful novel","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a real tear-jerker.  Not for its trite and forced emotional content, but because of its attempt to ruin one of the great books of our time.  Save your money and read A Prayer for Owen Meany.  John Irving's anti-war novel follows the life of little Owen Meany.  The film makers, fearing that the book would be too complex for our instant gratification society, removed allusions to the Vietnam War and condensed the events of Owen's life to one year.  John Irving upon seeing the script, attempted to remove himself and asked that the characters' names be changed.  The movie itself is such a great disaster, the plot contrived and acting non-existent, that as the credits began to roll, I felt the need to inform the auditorium that the book had not been that simplistic mental bubble-gum that we had just been subjected to on the screen.  I beg of you, for your own mental well-being, avoid this movie.  Read the book. "},{"Title":"Simon plays the cards he was dealt with brashness.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This rates right up there with one of the better movies  I've seen.  It is a story of friendship, love and of living out a destiny, where one of the characters, Simon, sees his limitations as a means to an end.  The humor and one-liners are priceless, if you can remember yourself being a little boy in or before that era.   The passion and sensitivity Mark Steven Johnson put into this production reminds me of the same feeling I had when I watched Braveheart.  And that had something to do with an underlying quality in this production.  And I think we will be hearing more about Mr. Johnson.  "},{"Title":"Heart-wrenching","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving, upon which the film is loosely based, many years ago.  The film IS different from the book in many respects, but not enough that I was disappointed.  I found the actor who played Simon to be endearing and just like a little doll.  I cried from beginning to end, with howling laughter in-between sobs.  I left the theatre with an up-lifted heart, however.  The story really makes you think about how you live your life. "},{"Title":"It was a good movie, but...","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was a little forced at times... don't get me wrong, it *was* a good little movie, but you could tell that the makers wanted you to laugh in *this* spot, cry during *that* scene, and feel good during *these* parts. It was as if it was created for a film school to show how to put a sappy movie together.  If the movie were a little more natural and a little less formulaic, it would habe been much better. "},{"Title":"A film about humanity, humor and the way things are.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An insightful commentary on society, not only for the past but for the present as well.  Simon Birch is portrayed as a child who has matured faster due to the bounds of his physical limitations, and thereby knows his destiny.  The humor, the time setting and the humanity of everyone involved is remarkable and believable.  As a society, we must stretch beyond what is conventional and strive to look beyond what we know.  Simon Birch is a subtle movie which exampled that. "},{"Title":"Smothered by sentimentality","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A clumsy effort from first time director Mark Steven Johnson that tries so hard to hammer in its uplifting messages about faith and the nobility of its title character that only the most naive and forgiving of viewers will be able to stomach the constant barrage of bludgeoning closeups, cutesy humor, and continuously sappy music.  Not that the lack of subtlety is this movie's only major problem.  A cliche ridden script, plot twists that are predictable from miles away, and an unintentionally funny deathbed scene also contribute to this film's consistent undoing.  "},{"Title":"My 2 Cents","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was filmed in my small town and the surrounding area. So right away I have to be a little biased.  But it doesn't matter because this is a good film.  I'm a little tired of people comparing this to the book.  It's suggested by the A Prayer For Owen Meany not based on.  With movies like Snake Eyes, Knock Off and Dead Man on Campus in theatres, how can you go wrong with Simon Birch. "},{"Title":"A very inspirational movie.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie and so did my six year old nephew.  We both laughed and cried at the different scenes. I wish there would be more movies like this out there.  I think Ian, Joseph and Ashley should all be nominated for academy awards.  I think the movie was very underrated.  The acting was superb and so was the story line.I will be going to see it for a second time and I will also buy the video as soon as it is released.  This is the first time I have ever contacted friends and family for the specific reason of recommending this movie. "},{"Title":"a very moving movie","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie and so did my six year old nephew.  He even cried at the ending.  I have never seen a child cry for a sad ending before.  I think all of the cast did an excellent job and they were all very believable.  I think Simon should be nominated for an academy award along with Joe and Rebecca. Even though parts of it were sad, it still left me with a good feeling and I will no doubt see it again and I will also purchase the video when it is available.  I would have to classify it as one of my most favorite movies. My nephew is often very rowdy when I take him to the movies. He sat and watched this one and was never bored.  It really had a positive impact on him and my sister (his mother) saw some positive behavior as a result of seeing this movie.. I have already placed several calls to friends recommending this movie.  "}{"Title":"A failed attempt to tell an interesting story","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a rather frustrating film in that it seems to have such potential but falls woefully flat. It is a very loose adaptation of John Irving's novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany; in fact it's such an oversimplification that Irving requested the title character's name change and has the credits read, suggested by instead of based on. Without having read the book, but knowing a little about it, I'm sure there is much greater stuff in the source material. What the movie amounts to is a schmaltzy, good-humored, tear-jerker wannabe. It is shameless in its use of manipulation to move forward the story. It practically forces its humor and pathos on the viewer. The director and screenwriter, Mark Steven Johnson, seems to literally indicate to the audience that here's a funny moment, you should laugh, and now get ready to cry, this is poignant. I felt so emotionally distanced from these types of scenes, it was extremely difficult to enjoy the parts of the story that worked. The best bits were of the strengths of the bond of a friendship between outcasts and the non-traditional family. The religious meditations on faith and predestination are rather clumsy and obtuse, while the foreshadowing is unbearably blunt. The movie is never allowed to work on a more dramatic level and settles for being a lighter piece of overly sweet confection. Good period tunes (from the 1960's) seem jarringly out of place with the tone of the story, and the score is overwhelmingly intrusive, serving to emphasize the banality of the filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"Emotional,  makes you think","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie makes you think.  It gets you in the gut without you knowing about it.   Without you knowing,  you get into the character "},{"Title":"God has big plans for little Simon Birch","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An extremely moving film that addresses subjects like God and God's plan without being preachy.  Ian Michael Smith's physical appearance (not just his stature but also his thick glasses, hearing aid, etc.) are used to excellent effect.  You truly care for Simon as he struggles to maintain a faith in God that defies his life experience.  The film raises many intriguing questions.  Redemptive is the best single word to describe Simon Birch.  Belongs on your see it now list. "},{"Title":"A modern-day classic","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, all I can say about this move is that it is terrific. Not many movies make me actually cry (except for the Land before Time but everybody cried on that movie) but this really did. There were parts in here that just sunk into you and it felt like you were a part of the scene and you cried. And you weren't the only one. You are amongst a whole theater of tears. That's how serious this movie is. GRADE A+ (Definitely Oscar worthy) "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I highly recommend this movie.  Very simple and very rewarding story. Not an action packed, special effects, bah.  If you like this movie, What's eating Gilbert Grape? sits on the same shelf. "},{"Title":"Made you laugh and cry","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to go down as one of those movies that really make you laugh and cry within the entire movie. Very effective film. "},{"Title":"Very, very good film.","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I REALLY enjoyed this film.  I figured that it might be good, so I decided  to go see it and it FAR surpassed my expectations.  I haven't yet read the  book, so I'm not sure if my response to it would be different if I had,  however my friend who saw the film with me had just read the book and he  enjoyed the film as much as I did.  This is a touching and funny film, and  though it is manipulative in parts as the critics claim, it isn't horribly  so.  Though I must admit the music (esp. the 60s tunes) did get a tad  distracting.  Ian Michael Smith as Simon, does a very good job, esp  considering that this is his first acting job.  But Joseph Mazzelo is  AMAZING.  This kid is about the only child actor that I actually really  enjoy.  He has SO much talent and I cannot wait to see him in future  projects.  Go see this film if you are interested in being entertained, and  touched by a warm and inspiring story.  Don't bother if you are a film  critic!  Because obviously they have no clue how to spot a really good film  when it is right there in front of them.  Great movie.  "},{"Title":"Cried all through the movie... for John Irving.","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tired of hearing that everybody cries  through the whole movie, I decided  to give it a shot myself and paid my usual $7.50 to see the picture.    I belive that the only person crying through this movie should be John  Irving. His wonderful novel A Prayer for Owen Meany has been taken to the  slums of Hollywood in such an incompetent manner that I am not even sure  if he would be  able to sit through the movie without crying himself to  death.   The characters, including Simon, are extremely underdeveloped.  The building  of elements necessary for the accident scene (like holding breath under  water) has been put in the movie in such a perfunctory manner that the  scenes feel weird and out of place.   When one thinks about how John Irving integrated the slam dunk (as opposed  to holding breath) in to his novel, you cannot help but realize that if  John Irving is at the height of virtuosity, the director of this movie is  in the depths of mediocrity.  Another point, Jim Carrey keeps talking about how if it wasn't for Simon  Birch he would have never found out who his father is.  Although this is  the case in the novel, in the movie the father admits to being the father  before Simon has anything to say about it.  So that's a big goof in this  parody of underdeveloped Yankees.   If you have $7.50 to spend this weekend, please spend it to buy the paper  back edition of A Prayer for Owen Meany and save yourself from boredom  and emotion exploitation that this movie intends to impose on people.     "},{"Title":"Charming and touching. Finally a movie with heart and a positive message.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone in the theater was laughing and the funny parts and bawling at the  sad ones.  Very moving and endearing.  The characters drew me in  immediately.  Simon, with so large a faith despite his small package was  truly a big person.  Joe Wentworth was the kind of friend I would hope to  be and surely hope to have.  Rebecca was charming and seemed to glow with  kindness. Her love and compassion for Simon was evident in her smile.     Ben Goodrich had a casual wit and a good heart.  I went back to see Simon  Birch for a second time and am looking forward to purchasing this movie  when released.  I am thankful to see that faith in god and loyalty to a  friend are not  forbidden subjects in movies today.  "},{"Title":"Incredible and underrated","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the most touching films I've seen in recent memory. The characters are so real it's scary. The actors who play Joe and Simon are great and the attachment created to Ashley Judd's character is practically unnatural.Kudos to Jim Carrey in his understated role as Older Joe, though it's too bad his presence isn't hyped more. It could help more people see this movie.This movie has Oscar all over it. I hope to see two Jim Carrey films at the Awards this year. "}{"Title":"an amazing film that made me cry - A LOT!","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film should be watched by anyone and everyone. Its the story of Simon Birch, a young boy with a growth disorder who makes friends with Joe. Even though Birch kills his best friends Mum by firing a baseball at her head (accidentally) they still remain best of friends throughout the film, proving that friendship can surpass anything. But on a bus on a cold winters day the bus swerves and crashes into a river where Birch helps everyone get off the bus alive. He too gets off the bus alive yet dies in hospital some time later. This is a superb family with strong acting and, being a 16 year old guy im not scared to admit that it made me cry because it was so thought provoking and well acted that i believed what was happening. Superb stuff! "},{"Title":"Simon Birch has it moments, and as well some flaws","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is a nice film with good acting but it does has some holes in it. This movie will bring a lot of people to tears but it will have a hard time wowing the more selective members of the Audience.*SPOILERS UP AHEAD*STORY We open with Jim Carrey standing before a Head Stone. We see the name on the Head Stone is Simon Birch 1952-1964 so here we already know that he will meet his likely death at the end of this movie. The adult Joe Wentworth (Carrey) then flashes back to his childhood. The young Wentworth is played by Joseph Mazello (Jurrassic Park, The Cure, River Wild). Then we see a phyically challange man named Simon Birch, played by Ian Smith. Joe and Simon are both Outcasts in the town they live in. Simon is subjected to bigotry because of his very small size and Joe is teased because he grew up without a father and his mother would not disclose who his father is. Apparently this is considered a taboo in that Area. We later meet Joe's sweet mother, played by Judd. Joes mother is very sweet to Simon and also all the town men seem to take a liking to her. Although not stated directly we get some clues that she may have slept around a few times in her day. We later learn that she got pregnant with Joe by one of those encounters. Simon believes that god put him on Earth for a reason. The reverand at church and his Sunday school teacher try to tell him that this is silly talk and that he is frightening the other children. He was evena asked not to come back to church.GOOD This film is wonderfully acted. Mazello, although sometimes overacted, gives a convincing and poweful permormance as the young Joe Wentworth. I was mostly impressed by him because I am used to seeing movie where he was just alittle boy. Simon appears loveable, intellegent, and has great quotes. This movie is not too lengthy and nicely paced.BAD Let's flash forward to the scene were Joe's mother is hit by a pop fly foul ball and killed at a little league game. The scene from when the ball is hit until it hits her head is done in entirely slow motion. I was not sure what the producers were trying to achieve here but I assume it was for dramatic and shock value but the extreme slow motion drains most of it if not all out of it. Also I could not believe Joe's bereavement pains after the fact. He was upset the first night but the next day he seemed normal as if it never really happened. Also some of this movie gets to sappy that it makes it not believable in some instances. The movie seems to try to remind us over and over again of how sad this was supposed to be. It tries to suck your tears using a shop vaccum cleaner but it did not do it for me. The final goodbye scene in the hospital where Simon tells his loyal friend Joe that he has to go. They exchange a few goodbyes and Simon quietly passes away. I found this to be bogus because it plays like those goodbye scene with Bubs Bunny and Elmer Fudd.Rated PG for some strong language and 2 accident scenes invloving deaths. Some christian members may be offended by the use of the lord's name in vein in church by both the congregation and church officials. "},{"Title":"this is really a touching movie","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER!! Simon Birch was so sad. I cried a lot. The story is so touching and i have learned that i shouldn't judge someone by looking at their physical appearance. I should talk and understand.When Simon Birch saved all the kids in the bus, I was so amazed. He knows that he will die and of course he would be scared but he saved every single one. If I was him , i probably be scared and go out first. But, after watching this movie, i learned that i should be like him. "},{"Title":"Charming by-the-numbers drama","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Touching story of friendship set in a 1964 New Hampshire town riddled with perky characters. Despite suffering from an overall air of predictability the story is made watchable by engaging performances from newcomer Ian Michael Smith and the always reliable Joe Mazzello (of Jurassic Park-fame).Oliver Platt leads a nice supporting cast including David Strathairn as the town priest, a beautiful Ashley Judd as Mazzello's mom, and Saturday Night Live alumni Jan Hooks as a Sunday school teacher on the verge of a nervous breakdown.But despite all that charm, that wonderful cast and the good production value SIMON BIRCH is yet another John Irving-adaption that just misses the mark of greatness. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not Bad At All","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I Give It A 7, And I Know Some Of You Are Gunna Hate Me For Giving It The Same Rating I Gave American Pie, But Ill Tell You Why I Did So. I Came Out From The Start Knowing American Pie Would Be Hillarious, And It Was. No Surprise. I Came Out Thinking Simon Birch Would Be A Horrible Movie. It Turned Out To Be One Of The Most Surprisingly Funny, And Sad Movies I've Seen. Big Surprise. I Would Have Rated It Higher, But Some Of The Parts Where Boring, And It Needed A Little More Of An Edge "},{"Title":"needs more irving and less hollywood!","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film succeeds as a movie, but fails as an adaptation. a lot of the most magical scenes in the book were replaced or taken out altogether, and i'd have liked to see them as a movie. either way, this is a fairly enjoyable movie. gotta love that armadillo. "},{"Title":"I love Joseph Mazzello!!!!!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love the movie Simon Birch i watch it so much i know the entire movie word for word. Joe if by some miracle you read this i think your movies are great and you did a great job in Simon Birch!!! Simon Birch is a very unique movie the way Simon and Joe connect is amazing. two friends brought together bye destiny. thats how i think of it. its a heart warming film that touches everyones heart, and the best part about it is it's for all ages.Joseph Mazzello and Ian Micheal Smith give an outstanding performance. So everyone needs to check out Simon Birch it's a great movie for the whole family to enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A touching story of a neverending friendship. Simon(Ian Michael Smith) a small boy with his best friend Joe(Joseph Mazzello) are embarking onto a grand adventure. Simon,who beleives he is Gods instrument ,  kills Rebecca , Joes mother, on accident while they are playing baseball. The two are on the search of Joes father, who's identity was taken to the grave along with Rebecca. Ben Goodrich(Oliver Platt) was to marry Rebecca, but now looks after Joe, helps look for his real father.As the story goes on narrated by Jim Carrey, the two boys still searching for Joes father get into lots of trouble. Simon, who doesn't apoligize, is in constant conflict with Rev. Russell. Fighting, comedy, drama, and a surprise ending, givin two thumbs up by Siskel and Ebert, is a great family film that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Doesn't compare to Irving's A Prayer for Owen Meany","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This comment includes SPOILERS for Simon Birch as well as John Irving's novel A Prayer for Owen Meany.My expectations weren't exactly high when I pressed play on the remote control yesterday. I read Irving's A Prayer for Owen Meany earlier this year and I am still thinking about it quite often. It is without a doubt the best novel that I have ever read -- and I read a lot. Simon Birch is very far from being the best film I have ever seen. Sure, the story is only suggested by Irving's book, but most scenes in Simon Birch are identical to events that take place in Owen Meany and the things that are not like in the novel are really irritating. Especially the last scene where the sentimentality is almost vomit inducing. For anyone who has read Irving's novel it is preposterous that the narrator has a son. In the novel he remains a virgin. In the novel Irving didn't have to make up a son who could be named after Owen Meany/Simon Birch. The film's ending is about as subtle as a dinosaur on a bicycle, while the ending of Owen Meany will stay with you for a long time because it is so masterful.To the good things...Simon Birch is certainly not a bad movie, far from it. It is entertaining, funny, and interesting. But please, *please*, read John Irving's novel instead. It is a true masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Movie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Taking this movie at face value, Simon Birch is an easy to like movie. It has all the components, boy with disabilities, dysfunctional family, likeable boy, likeable mom, grumpy grandmother, lustful church worker, and a pastor. It has a small town setting, and all the wonderful things that can be had living in a small town in the early 60's. There is little profanity, no sex, and a accident scene that is needed for the story to be told. You can let your children watch this movie without reservation. It will be an especially big hit with boy in the 8 to 12yr. range as it has many silly moments directed to that age group. It also tugs at the heart strings. Adults as well as children will love this movie. Don't read anything more into it, don't try to analyze this movie, take it for what it is on the surface- a movie for the whole family which we need more of.  "}{"Title":"Runt of the litter has the biggest heart","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent film about an undersized 12 year old and his best friend. A funny picture with a serious side to it as the little guy tried to figure out the meaning of his own existence, while his friend went on a quest to find his father. One of the high points of the movie was the hilarious Christmas show the kids put on in the local church. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"The kind of movie people say should be made, but won't attend.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is beautifully filmed and wonderfully acted.  This movie does not hide the fact that it is designed to manipulate the viewer into sentimentality.  So what?  It doesn't pretend to be anything else.  It also has one of the most hilarious comedy scenes I've seen in years.  Parents claim to want wholesome movies without all the violence and bad language. Here is a movie that has what parents say they want.  Yet most people won't support such a film because it doesn't have enough action.  Roger Ebert wrote an excellent review of this movie.  Please read it.  Then see the movie and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    I loved this movie.  I can think of atleast two places where I actually cried, and that doesn't happen a lot.  I have never read the book the movie is based on, nor ever heard of the author, but I must say the movie is top notch in my opinion.  I wanted to see this movie when it was at the theatres, but I never got the chance.  I saw it tonight when it premiered on STARZ!  The acting, even tho the leads are basically children, is superb, and the movie as a whole is excellent.  I disagree with one of the comments someone made about the use of all the scenery-trees, leaves, rivers, etc.  I think it was useful in that it showed all the beauty the world has to offer, and the feeling this movie gave you was similar to all of the uses of scenery.  The movie gave you the same feeling you get when you go out in the fall and the leaves are all different colors, and the wind is blowing everything around, and the world is completely changing as winter starts to set.  It worked for setting mood for me, but that's just me.  I loved the movie, and I love the story...the friendship the two boys has is something I wish everyone could have.   "},{"Title":"Not Perfect, but An Absolute Delight","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I for one loved the movie so much, I went out and bought the book.  I had a tough time getting through the book - didn't in fact.  I much preferred the movie.  It seemed to have shaved away the excess and brought the story down to a warm, funny package filled with inspiration that was easier to digest. But also, it could have been the wonderful performers in the film that brought the tale to life in such an endearing way.Definitely well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"We Laughed, We Cried...","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first went to see this movie, I was a bit reluctant. I thought it would be a copy of another movie coming out at the same time, The Mighty. They were nothing alike! This was a touching story of friendship and discovery, a tear-jerker, but also a roll-in-your-seat comedy. That's what made it a great movie. Again, GREAT casting! I read that Sandra Bullock was almost Ashley Judd's character (Rebecca Wenteworth.) I was glad she wasn't, no offense, but I think that Ashley Judd gave the character a certain old-fashion class that Sandra Bullock couldn't do. Some people complained that it didn't follow the book, I was relieved it didn't! The book is great and enjoyable, but I wouldn't want it to be a movie, it would be too weird as a movie. I recommend this movie to EVERYONE! It is GREAT! "},{"Title":"The writer and the director failed..","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch as a film was quite good yet the writer failed to make it even better.The script wasn't what I expected,the fact that it was very predictable made it very boring.Directing a film like Simon Birch is not an easy thing to do but the director didn't get even close.I'm not a writer or a director but such a story shouldn't be wasted.The casting was very good and so was the acting.I liked the idea of Simon Birch but not the actual script.It was touching and rather amusing but it could be better.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My biggest fear was that Simon Birch would not be enough like the book upon which it was based - A Prayer for Owen Meany. The movie is different, but I loved it as much as the book. It is so extraordinarily fine that one wonders if the critics who panned it were secretly bothered by the positive spin put on God and faith. This is one of the finest motion pictures I've seen! Period! "},{"Title":"Unconventional watch.","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sad, tender, naive... This is a sui generis movie because it deals with a truly sad, moving situation that is carried by a light comedy aspect.The character of Simon Birch may be an example of exploitation but it serves for the movie's purpose. I don't know, this movie may divide opinions. Some people love, others are moved by it, I think that Simon's character is displayed as some kind of hero or something like that. I didn't like at all that he was the center of the movie while there were other many situations. Yes, he was a special person who had a pure soul and thought God had planned something special for him. In my opinion he was selfish at some points.I haven't read the novel so I guess that many things are explained on there. Still, give this movie a chance. Good performances by the way. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it at all","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of John Irving, and have read A Prayer for Owen Meaney a couple of times. Such a wonderful book, with such a large scope that I can't imagine a good adaptation of it for the screen, as much as I would like to see one.Perhaps this is why I found this film so disappointing. I really don't feel it captured the magic of Simon's relationship with Joe, with God, and with everyone who meets him. It skimmed the service, never touching too deep. The sweet, sentimental music,  swelling at all the appropriate times,  made me roll my eyes in dismay. This is a manipulative movie, meant to bring tear to the eyes.I don't think I'll ever see a good adaptation of this book, or of any John Irving novel. If you are a fan of the book, avoid this movie at all costs. If you love to be forced into feeling sad, and reaching for the tissues, this is just the film for you.    "},{"Title":"Mawkish","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1  having an insipid often unpleasant taste 2  sickly or puerilely sentimentalThat said, you might LIKE this kind of HBO-genre film. Hmm, well, apologies to HBO. Sorry, this film is utterly predictable ... and drags it out to boot. Every Awww shucks ...  string in your body is plucked ... you are played like a celestial harp throughout. Sit down, glass of wine in hand, lush music swelling, keep a box of tissues handy. And kudos to him, if you want to see every film Oliver Platt has made, don't miss this. Just remember being an actor is a business; Oliver Platt is making a living. "}{"Title":"A Really Great But Sad Movie.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"                            (Contains Some Spoilers)      Simon Birch is one of the saddest movies I have seen. Ian Michael Smith, Joseph Mazello, Ashley Judd, and Oliver Platt were completely great. The scene that was really sad was when the bus went into the icy lake, and Simon tried to save all of the people on the bus. I give Simon Birch a 10 out of 10. If you have never seen this movie, see it now!!! "},{"Title":"struggles to find the right tone","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon Birch (Ian Michael Smith) was born with a deformity that left him very short. He is smart and challenges authority like Reverend Russell (David Strathairn). His biggest supporter is his best friend Joe Wenteworth (Joseph Mazzello)'s mother (Ashley Judd). Her new boyfriend is the friendly Ben Goodrich (Oliver Platt). However, Simon accidentally kills her when he hits a baseball that strike her dead. Simon believes that God has a plan for him. The boys go in search of Joe's biological father. When they find the baseball that killed Joe's mother, Joe smashes up the coach's office and they end up doing community service.I was with this movie until Rebecca's death. It screws up the tone. I was expecting the movie to go a bit darker after the death but it got even lighter. At times, the movie is trying too hard to be light and fluffy. The movie struggles to find the sweet spot with so many different aspects of the story. I'm not saying the Christmas play wasn't funny. I just don't know which way the movie is going from one section to the next. "},{"Title":"Magically Delightful","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't have got to seen this movie if I hadn't run it as a VHS for a literature class and I have to admit it has a wonderful script with both comical, fantasy and dramatic touches. Nathan Lane is a gem as always and Ashley Judd looks great in the period costumes as well as all the boys pine for her. I would want her as a mom. Joseph Mazzello of Jurassic Park pulls off a great performance for a young actor and so does Ian Michael Smith, this being his only movie. Their craziness in the Christmas pageant in this movie rivals the tomfoolery in another movie known as The Best Christmas Pageant Ever. The boy's two objectives/destinies mesh together in one incredible movie meant for anybody who's anybody to see. I would see this movie again even with Jim Carey in it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon Birch is one of the most compelling, beautiful, and heartwarming movies I have seen in a long time. I was assigned to see it for a Theology class this semester, and it is now one of my very favorite story lines. Simon has more faith than you could shake a stick at, and makes you realize that though you may be going through a tough time, there are people out there who have it tougher. He accepts who he is and lives life to it's absolute fullest. He is inspiring and a joy to watch. I laughed hard, cried harder, and loved it all the more. Ashley Judd could not have been more perfect for the roll of Joe's mother, Rebecca. The roll had to have been written just for her, because she took life on screen and made it seem so plausible. I cannot say anymore good things about this movie; it was utterly fantastic and I urge everyone to see it. "},{"Title":"Angels and Armadillos","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie at school and it led my class to laughter and tears *even me!* This is a great movie which makes us understand the life of a disabled kid.The plot is really good and I love the idea of the baseball tactic with Simon! (You have to see it to know it!) It really touched me! My class were talking about ever since!This film isn't only about Simon but about his friend Joe/Joseph who has no dad and Simon accidentally kills his mom while playing baseball. They both try to find Joseph's real father. Simon only had two people who were like parents... Josephs mom and Ben. The reverend and his teacher treat him like a freak because he believes that God has a special plan for him. "},{"Title":"A sad movie that will actually make you feel good.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ***Starring Ian Michael Smith, Joseph Mazzello, Ashley Judd, and Oliver Platt.A young boy, tragically born being very small, works his way through the troubles of his disease with his best friend.  Simon tells his friend and a man that he wants to be a hero.  His wish comes true.  The movie is very sad in a way but it makes you feel a lot better about life.   "},{"Title":"So powerful, it hurts","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I was watching this film, I was angry at my best friend for something so petty. Then I sat down, very angry, and switched this movie on, thinking I'm only watching this cause Joseph Mazello is a good actor and a bit of a spunk. But then as the movie went on, i realised that the petty things in life don't count. And while watching this movie, i knew what friendship really meant, and how it should be appreciated. I lost my friend 2 years earlier to an accident, and I knew I didn't need it to happen again, so now I really hold onto my friends, and I don't think about the petty things, cause you will never know if you will ever see your friends again. You will never know if what you just said was the last thing you ever said to them. "},{"Title":"Joseph Mazzello - What is there to say?","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any movie that stars Joseph Mazzello is a winner. He can carry off any movie. Simon Birch is no exception. What a brilliant little actor. The scene in the hospital at the death of Simon Birch where is was in tears was just a bit to overwhelming and realistic. Brilliance at its best. A bit of a long story but just wonderful overall. What I find interest about this movie was that Jim Carrey's name was not featured in the opening or trailer credits. "},{"Title":"too sentimental","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The problem with this movie is that the script is far more sentimental and far less intelligent and thoughtful compared to the book and that ruins the film. Every scene is trying to touch you, but it never does. The script lacks the originality of the book. Both the direction and the acting are average. John Irving-films should be made by people with more talent.(5/10)  "},{"Title":"A very fine film","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, wonderful characters, great story line, what more can you ask for. Jim Carrey's presence hooked me to watch this film on cable today. As a big Carrey fan I wanted to see all of his films, but was totally blown away by what I saw today. Although Carrey is barely in this film, I didnt care. Once I met Simon Birch I wanted to see more. I had tears streaming down my face at the end of the film. I think I may have to watch this one a couple of times. "}{"Title":"Funny, Touching and an emotional rollercoaster.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is (very) RARE that a movie can move me to tears.  But this one did it to me.  It gracefully portrayed a character that was so easy to love.  It was a funny and touching movie. Ian Michael Smith was marvellous in the film as was all of the supporting cast.  The writing was outstanding.  I cannot think of another film that will make ANY one feel their heart inside.  I loved the movie (so much that I don't know if I could ever watch it again). "},{"Title":"This movie broke my heart for two reasons...","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie broke my heart in more ways than one.  First off, I loved this film.  Everyone in it, especially Ian Michael Smith, was brilliant.  The direction, story, and cinematography were all just beautiful.  This movie manages to be inspiring without being heavy-handed, touching and wrenching without being maudlin.  Many critics seemed more interested in comparing it unfavorably to the novel which inspired it instead of judging it on its own merits.  I work in the film industry and rarely have I ever heard my peers talk about a movie like they do this one.  It's become a kind of cult film among my friends (I'm 26) and those I know in town.This movie breaks my heart for a second reason in that so many people have never gotten to see it.  I hope that with video they will be able to see what I see, and make up their own minds as to what this movie has to offer.A resounding 10. "},{"Title":"Fall in love with this movie","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My entire family has fallen in love with this movie.  I don't understand critics who would be so cynical in regards to the honest emotion and warmth of this film.  If this movie errs at all it's in trying too hard to make you feel--but since when is that such a bad thing?  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Charming story.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very mature yet very sweet story about a vertically challenged pre-teen's life chronicled by his best friend. Anyone who has zero-tolerance for enchantment will despise this. Ian Michael Smith was great as Simon Birch. His philosophy that God has a purpose for everyone drove me up the wall but plays itself really well. I NEVER saw it coming when Joe's father was revealed until it was too late. The movie suffers from being too long, as you will start forcing yourself to stay with the movie until it catches your attention again. But it's sweet and since this is the type of movie you can easily judge by its cover, you would probably be able to tell right there if you will enjoy the next two hours or sleep through it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Cast; Strange Story","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, first off, this wonderful cast of Joseph Mazzello, Oliver Platt, Ashley Judd, and Ian Michael Smith were absolutely incredible the whole movie. It's just a shame the movie was so strange.Well, I mostly thought that the story was quite confusing. Who came up with the idea of having Simon Birch kill his best friend's mother? I mean, that would only lead to the fact of Joe Wentworth was trying to find his father, which was predictable. But, I believe that it may have been necessary, too.Also, I think Joe and Simon were too mature for their age. They were supposed to be 12 but they acted at least 15. Especially in Simon. And I hate it when that happens.But, overall, I thought the movie was fairly good, and on a scale of 1-10, I would also rate it an 8. And I also agree on the rating. It should be rated PG-13. "},{"Title":"Good performances do not make a good movie","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't remember the last time I hated a movie this much smarmy, predictable, self-satisfied.  The leaden retelling of the birth of Christianity through a few months in two boys' lives is an insult to true believers.  Nor have I ever seen so many geographic inaccuracies and anachronistic detail in a movie.On the other hand, the performances (even Jim Carrey, whom I generally hate) are generally excellent and kept me watching the whole film.  The actors went way beyond what the script gave them and developed, for the most part, likable, interesting people.Yes, I read and enjoyed A Prayer for Owen Meany.  Maybe I'm mad about what was done to a fine book. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personally have never seen such a wonderful movie! I loved everything about it. If you have any compassion whatsoever you will be crying your eyes out! I watched it three nights in a row, and cried harder every time! It's just an incredibly moving movie, and, obviously, highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A Prayer For Owen Meany","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, it started out good.  Remained faithful to a wonderful novel for about 15 minutes through, but then rewrote John Irving's classic novel.  This could have been a great movie.  But it wasn't.  Maybe someone will make another movie out of this touching book.  A good movie. "},{"Title":"It is superb, and the saddest movie in1998","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the cover of the video cassette of this film, I thought it was another film for kids, but when I watched it, I knew it wasn't. Not simply because Simon Birch was a special kid, but the storyline, casts, and almost every aspect of the movie attracted a movie goer like me. The story touched me deeply and is one of the saddest movies I've ever watched. And how they recreated the scene of the 60's was superb, especially the songs. "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Out of all of the movies that came out in 1998 Simon Birch is the #2 Best movie I saw in '98. Simon Birch should have been nominated for the following Academy Awards -Best Picture- -Best Actress-Ashley Judd- -Best Supporting Actor- Ian Michael Smith, or Joseph Mazzelo, or even Oliver PlattMy #1 choice for the best movie of '98 - Life is Beautiful.  "}{"Title":"The saddest movie I have ever seen!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film did not compare to the novel what so ever, but it was still good. I knew that the movie had done it's job when the two jocks in the row behind me left sobbbing like babies. "},{"Title":"Simon Birch is not just a picture about a dwarf.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is absolutely the best picture ever made in the history of the motion picture industry (in my opinion).  This picture has a little of everything for everyone.  It has elements of comedy, drama, tear-jerker, horror, mystery, adventure, action and a touch of romance.  I have seen many movies in my time, which range from release years 1931-present.  This picture made me laugh, angry, sad, happy, etc.  It made me run the gamut of emotions. When a picture makes me run the gamut of emotions then the picture itself does the same.  For example, I was livid when Simon was getting mistreated by both his peers and authority figures.  However, I was happy to see that Simon was not alone and he had a few people to turn to, namely his best friend Joe Wenteworth and Joe's mother.  The director could have easily just presented a picture about a dwarf adolescent.  But the director did not. The director gave us much more than that.  The director made me feel that everyone is God's instrument in some way or another.  The director however, made the picture real and just not one sided.  For example, when Simon gets lifted up or scorned.  Dwarves generally dislike being picked up.  However, this presented some realism because there are always those people who do not care what others feel.  It also presented some interesting conflicts A lot of us would not condone some of Simon's actions; at the same time however, we would also condone Simon's other actions. Ian Michael Smith gave a spectacular performance.  Mind I say that this was the little guy's first picture.  He brought Simon Birch to life.  He did not just go through the motions like a lot of performers do nowadays.  Ian gave that character life, an identity.  He formed the character with the precision of a veteran performer.  Mind I say he did this at the age of 11. Ian Michael Smith should (in my opinion) win the Oscar for Best Actor.  He did that well.  Ian took Simon beyond the dwarf facade that we saw.  He made the character human.  By that I mean, the character had emotions.  It was as though Ian was feeling the emotions that Simon was scripted to feel.  It was as if Simon was living through Ian. "},{"Title":"Equally emotional like...","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you liked The Man in the Moon(1991), this is a MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is now my favorite movie. The acting was great especially by Joseph Mazzello. He is such a great actor, yet he goes under rated somehow. When I first saw him in Radio Flyer back in 1992, I knew this kid had a great future in the movie industry. He is what made this movie so enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not quite the book, but not bad...","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the WONDERFUL novel, A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving, long before I knew that Hollywood would embark on a filmed version.  When I heard that this movie was in production, I could only come to the conclusion that the novel would be impossible to film.  I was right.  The movie wasn't bad, but it left out SO MUCH of the novel.  Like...the fact that Owen's (Simon's) destiny was related to the Vietnam War was completely overlooked.  I am glad that John Irving had most of the names in the novel changed for the purpose of the movie.  Simon Birch is adorable, BUT HE'S NO OWEN MEANY. "},{"Title":"Give these boys Oscar nominations!","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great year for movies!  First Truman Show, then Ever After, then Saving Private Ryan, and now Simon Birch!  All of these movies blew me away in some way (even *if* Ever After is kind of silly).  Simon Birch is witty, beautiful, brave, MOSTLY non-cliche (though I did note some obvious heartstring-tugging near the end), and I HIGHLY recommend it!  Excellent acting all the way around, a well-written script, and beautiful visuals all the way around. "},{"Title":"A different look at a different life.","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unusual in honesty, clarity, and simple straightforward storytelling.  Not a blockbuster, but something well worth study and most likely to be considered more important twenty years from now than next week.    "},{"Title":"Eat with ice cream, not with pop corn...","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Upon watching Simon Birtch I felt that the director wanted me to go out and do something uber Catholic. What does he do? He makes a film packed full of catharsis. Just because a film makes you cry doesn't make it a good one.This film employs far too many pity tactics like that Simon and Joe have no friends and that Joe accidentally killed Simon's mother in a baseball accident (I hope insurance covers that, never know if it will happen to me some day). What the hell is the point of all this? Is it to hide the fact that there is almost no actual story going on here? Overall, this film is like the passion of the Christ, except with a midget Jesus. Basically every bad thing you could possibly imagine, plus some you wouldn't (when he grabs the girls boobs), happen to poor Simon, which makes dumb teenagers cry their eyes out and call this a masterpiece. I'd call it a propaganda film, but it deters me farther from Catholicism. "},{"Title":"One could do far, far better than be a viewer of Simon Birches","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anyone remember that kid in grade school who tried real hard to be cool? You know him, that one guy/girl who just kept coming up to you, day in and day out, just trying to impress you. He'd be in the back of the classroom making rude flatulent noises, or sticking food up his nose during lunch. And no matter what he did, you could always just tell the kid was trying too hard, and it got to the point where it was embarrassing just to watch him. This movie is that kid.You can tell this movie wanted to be hot sh*t, that it wanted to be the next great cinematic classic for kids. It wishes it could hang out with The Sandlot or Stand By Me, but instead it ends up being... well Simon Birch. There's one scene in particular in the film, where Simon is portraying the Little Lord Jesus in the church's nativity scene, at which point it becomes infinitesimally clear what a failure the film is. Mary, or whatever her name is, leans in to check on Simon. Just as she does this, the song Fever (You give me fever...) cues in, and Simon screams BOOBS! You can just tell how much Jacobsen wanted every kid to laugh and cajole like this. But Simon isn't a kid; he's a character. Irving was right to disassociate himself from this cinematic violation of his material. The character's in his book are well rounded, fully featured people who could be as real you or I. Jacobsen seems to have forgotten this. Even movies I mentioned above like Stand by Me feature the characters reacting in real ways to real situations. Simon Birch just tries too hard to act, and forgets to act real. Oh, and that last part, with Jim Carrey and his kid... Wow. It took every last bit of Willpower not to storm the studio lot and demand my money back right then and there. And keep in mind I saw this on television and had not actually paid anything. The whole Pee Wee vs. Squirt conversation was bad enough. Then that kid shows up and gives what is quite possibly the worst performance since Benjamin Mackenzie in the trailer for Johnny Got His Gun. (YouTube it folks)At least Daredevil was good. Oh, wait... "},{"Title":"Simon Birch was suggested by the novel","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was suggested by the novel A Prayer For Owen Meany by John Irving and says so in the opening credits. I think that to say it was based on the novel would definitely be stretching that definition. In my opinion, this was a book that was never meant to be brought to the big screen. Owen Meany was almost impossible to envision even with Irving's considerable descriptive prowess, and he didn't even let the director use his characters names, so that should tell you something! I think that this film was a big stinker. I am a huge fan of Irving's and this suggested character of Simon just came off as a dirty minded, small, offensive and imperfect kid. The film didn't carry though any of the beauty of the novel and by the end, I could not have cared less what happened to Simon Birch. If you think this was anywhere close to being a fair representation of the novel, I might suggest that you re-read it. "}{"Title":"It left out something...","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I noticed that the movie forgot to say that it was based on the book A Prayer for Owen Meany. Though the end was different, it was obviously based on it. In fact, there so similar that they even used the same intro. Has anyone else noticed this, because the book was a lot better. For example, Owen changed the Christmas pageant all around, while Simon just screwed it up. Don't get me wrong, I loved the movie, but I just thought they could have done it better. There were a lot of key characters in the book that they left out in the movie, and in the book, you got to see Owen grow up. I hope someone agrees with me. I encourage everyone who enjoyed the movie to go and read the book. "},{"Title":"Simon Birch is not Owen Meany...","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you loved John Irving's novel A Prayer For Owen Meany (the basis for Simon Birch), you will be disappointed in this movie.It bears little resemblance to Irving's great novel. Director-screenwriter Mark Steven Johnson turned an epic life-story about the plan God has for Owen Meany that uses Owen's personal faith to prepare him for the heroics he is destined to perform, and changed it into a simplified, children's fable. In the novel Owen Meany is not a large man, but he is of normal physical appearance, except for his voice-which is unusually high-pitched, and for a reason! In the movie Simon is a teen-aged dwarf with cuteness as his primary reason for being. And a squeaky voice that clearly belongs in this squeaky movie.  "},{"Title":"An emotional exploitation film that didn't really work","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now I can be a real cynic, but usually movies like this have me crying like a baby. Usually.*** SPOILERS ***But not this one. It just didn't work for me. I suppose it was a combination of things. Have you ever noticed that most of these characters like Simon Birch or Rocky Dennis in Mask, these challenged or different kids, are usually cocky, opinionated and downright obnoxious? It could be that writers are so afraid of creating a character that just feels sorry for themselves that they do the opposite and make them arrogant instead. I think that's a mistake, the audience doesn't mind a bit of self pity if a person is really unfortunate, but most people are annoyed by disabled or different people who act and insist that they are the same as everyone else in every way.Also, another actual detractor from this film is the appearance of the all star cast. Well, really the absence. Jim Carey does about 5 minutes total of voice over work and 2 minutes and has 2 minutes of screen time, but probably half the budget went into paying him for that. Ditto for Ashely Judd, who only hung around long enough to die in the most stupid and unlikely way. She dies after being hit on the head by a foul ball in a little league baseball game, hit by the weakest person in the world.Now let's move onto the title character. Frankly, he freaked me out a little bit. Not in his appearance, but in the way he acted. To put it bluntly, he was a little pervert, obsessed with touching some girl's breasts... and he eventually did just that, groping a girl in a Christmas play - growing the girl playing Mary while playing baby Jesus no less, which makes it even creepier.Obviously they were just trying to say this little pipsqueak had the same normal hormonal urges as any other 12 year old boy, but they didn't have to have him mentioning boobs and intercourse every 5 minutes. And yelling stuff out in the middle of a church service, what a little punk. I also disliked the stupid storyline that he thought he had a special purpose and reason for being a dwarf, and the way they executed this at the end was so contrived and stupid it made me laugh.The film aims for your heartstrings but sorely misfires, and ends up just being boring, weird and in some ways insulting. You won't cry at the end when the little monster dies, because of the blatant, weak and unnecessary way they set it up.If you want to see a truly beautiful movie about someone different, please see the classic The Elephant Man. It's a thousand times better than this.3/10 "},{"Title":"READ THE BOOK INSTEAD!!!!!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know it's a cliche but it's never been so true as it is for this movie the book is WAY BETTER! there is nothing good to be said about his movie if u've read the book. everything... THE IMPORTANT THINGS... were all changed for the movie and completely flubbed up the story. the essence of what was supposed to come thru has been completely demolished, as hollywood can only do! if u saw this movie, and u liked it, i pray that u're illiterate.this movie makes me want to wretch.  "},{"Title":"More Pathetic Clerics Pictured","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is another one of these modern-day movies that deceive the viewer into thinking he is seeing a nice family film only to discover either profanity, sexual remarks and innuendos, some Liberal heavy-handed propaganda and/or some anti-Christian bashing. What's in this movie is mainly the latter as the Catholic Church is blasted.The priest in this film not only fathers an illegitimate child but also believes God does not have a plan for people. This is a priest is totally ignorant about anything Biblical - in other words, the kind filmmakers like to give us. As bad as the priest is the head lady who works at the church. It's ridiculous. The kid in here, Simon Burch (Ian Michael Smith) has more faith than anyone else in the film. Good to see at least someone does in this wonderful family film.The ending is a sweet one, and one in which Simon's friend now believes in God because of him, but that doesn't make up for all the damage that is done in the previous 95 percent of this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent and poignant drama about loyalty and destiny","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Set in a small New England town, this is an excellently acted and intensely emotional drama taking place during one fall and winter in the early 60's. Simon Birch, played by Ian Michael Smith, is a very small 12-year-old who has all the same feelings and emotions as his best friend Joe Wenteworth (Joseph Mazzello), except he has something more.Simon has the unshakable belief that he has a destiny, that he was put on this earth to serve a grand and heroic purpose. His friend Joe, having endured a personal loss and frustrated in his search for his natural father, bitterly disagrees. Nevertheless, the two share an intense loyalty to each other, even to the point of getting them into trouble at their church. There are some funny parts, too the school nativity play becomes a comedy of errors.Ashley Judd is very good as Joe's mother Rebecca, a warm and caring woman who shows Simon Birch more love and respect than any other adult, including his own parents. Her recent date Ben (Oliver Platt) is a somewhat nerdy, gentle character at first shunned by Joe, but whose true value as a source of strength and love becomes apparent as the story develops.And that, fundamentally, is what the movie is all about. It is about the power of love and faith over all odds, and the true goodness in people that is often hidden at first, whether because of their role in life or their physical size. Throughout the movie, we sense the eventual poignant outcome, but are still moved long after the credits. This movie has what is probably Jim Carey's smallest, almost cameo, role. But, I hope you'll agree, one of the more meaningful ones. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is funny and sad, an immediate classic family film! Ten out of ten! There is the part in the church when Simon talks about what donuts and coffee have to do with God, I was drinking and I spit it out it was hilarious! My kids loved it too. The want to get the DVD so I am guessing that we will be watching that over and over again. It's okay by me though, I loved the film I thought that it was wonderful. Even mt husband liked it and he is not one for Disney movies. He came in about half way through and within five minutes (not even that) he and the rest of the family were totally absorbed in the film. My youngest, actually turned to me half during the movie and said, Isn't that the kid from Jarassic Park? So me and Mike (my husband) looked it up and he was right, the boy, not Simon but Joe Wenteworth, is Joesph Mazzello, the little boy from Jarassic Park. I was amazed, it looks like him but it didn't dawn on me until my son said it. Once again, this movie was wonderful, one of my favorites! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!!!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simon Birch is a great, heartwarming, emotional, funny movie. I have seen this movie several times! The first time I saw it with my husband and he liked it as well. The second time I saw it myself because I really liked it the first time and wanted to see it again (just in case I missed anything...LOL). I actually just finished watching it a few minutes ago (on the family channel). Every time I watch it I laugh and cry. It is so moving and there is a lesson to be learned. I wish that I had such a great friend like Simon and Joe. These two 12 year old boys are best friends and stick by each others side through thick and thin. Joe stands up for his buddy Simon and tells Simons parents off. They really deserved it. Please rent this movie you will not be disappointed, and if you are then you don't get the point of this movie and are just immature. Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Best movie I've ever seen","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now there isn't a lot of movies I like, but this one is one of the movies that stays with you forever. It is a good movie for all ages and I recommend anyone and everyone to see it sometime in your life because it will really touch your heart, even if your heart is as cold as ice. Even if you don't like sad movies, this one will really get to you because it has every thing a good movie needs good actors, good plot, climax, and it has a moral. I won't tell you what it is, you can go watch it your self. If you are ever in need of a good time passer or a good movie to show off to your dumb little buddies, then this is definitely the one to watch because, trust me, you will be very impressed. "},{"Title":"My favorite","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best I've ever seen in my life!It is so true and honest to every one who see's it and also Joseph Mazzello is in it and he is so HOT!And i had to search 4 ever to find it.So thanks for making it! "}{"Title":"Somewhat disappointing.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, I read the book, but I came into the movie knowing that there were many changes, and was merely suggested by A Prayer For Owen Meany, not based on it.  Frankly, I just couldn't understand why the boys were such good friends.  The scenes of them running through the woods and playing in the water just didn't quite create the powerful friendship in my mind that was necessary.  It had the smaltzy, sentimental moments, and I'm a sucker for those, so I did like the  movie, but I was really hoping for more... "},{"Title":"Ambitioned movie, but a disappointment for those knowing Owen Meany","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While Simon Birch is a good movie regarding the set, the actors and some kind of general quality, it is a disappointment for someone who has read Owen Meany, the book which (according to the title sequence)inspired this movie.While it is certainly difficult to bring a book to the movie theatre which covers about 15 years of real time (not regarding the framework of comments on political and personal issues which the narrator of Owen Meany embeds in his storytelling), I think it would be doable.The whole drama of envisioning the own death years before (which is so apparent in Owen Meany) is completely lost due to the shortening of the story by introducing the idea of Simon becoming a hero by saving the children when their bus crashes into a river.The whole idea of diving as a supplement for practicing the shot is awful; while it is no specific challenge for a small person to stay underwater for a long time (well, at least it is not more of a challenge to a small person than to a taller person), it _is_ a challenge for someone with less height to reach for a basket in order to dunk a ball. And even more of a challenge to do it within a certain time. And it would be strange that a small person would indulge endless hours into such activity. This motive of Owen Meany is lost here, and this is especially bad.The Christmas Pageant did not live up to my expectations as well.While I couldn't stop laughing while reading the specific pages in Owen Meany, the events in the movie did just produce a small smile on my face. In my opinion it would have been so simple to reproduce exactly the set from the book here.Finally, the exterior shots and the general acting qualities were really good. Had the author of the script focussed on the original book a bit more, the quality of the story would have been far better.By the way -- a nice idea to have a doctor named Wells deliver Simon Birch. At least to someone who has read The Cider House Rules. -)  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is about an 11 year old boy born with a sickness that makes him about 3 feet tall.  he believes he has a destiny in life to be a hero.  Joining him is Joseph Mazzelo aka Tim from Jurassic Park.  Joining joe is his mom Ashley Judd.  joining all of them is Oliver Platt.  They all do good for what they're given and I liked them all.  The only thing is when Simon has an accident with someone, Joe doesn't seem to care.  he really should.Overall the movie is really good with minor flaws but it was still cool.  Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Didn't deliver","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this really tried to be a heartwarming movie, but something didn't mesh. The characters where pretty flat and though you would think it would be sentimental...it just really didn't come across on film. It lacked the quality that makes a movie good or great. Rating 4 "},{"Title":"A Hallmark card of a movie","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simon Birch is an extremely mixed film, and I see it as something of a Hallmark card, among the ranks of Stepmom, Bicentennial Man and the like. The characters (with the exception of the title character, who is perverse and at the same time, sweet) are all one-dimensional cardboard cutouts with personalities pointed directly in one direction. They're either perfect, or they're evil (Simon's parents, the priest). I liked Oliver Platt's character, particularly the scene with the armidillo It's not so bad, once you get used to it. I don't exactly know why, but I thought there was some genuine warmth in that scene as well as SOME others. But the movie is too delightfully coincidental; lovable protagonist born with disability. Everything horrible happens to him. He ends up saving the day. Well, that's nice, but it's not like real life. This aims too hard to be a sex comedy, a drama, a family movie and a film about people. It had a good message and some great scenes, but overall it lacked the initial realism and emotion ACQUIRED (not forced upon the viewer) that most of the world's greatest films have. And I can see the director of this piece wanting to create one of them. But the overall feeling is that this piece is unaware of what it exactly wants to be as opposed to what it IS. The result is a displeasing mixture of forced sentiment (sap, even) and perverse comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny, well-made and watchable... but I really didn't find this as moving as some people claim it is","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, I'm an atheist. That means I don't believe in any higher power or deity, and that I am in no way spiritual. So naturally, when one of the first things said in the film was about how the main character gained his faith in god, I wasn't too thrilled. Still, I decided to give it a shot, if for nothing else then to trash in it my review. Well... now I've seen it... and I don't really see any reason to trash it. Truth be told, it's not half bad. It's actually fairly well-made, though this was no big surprise to me, as the director is the same guy who made Daredevil(one of my favorite of the new superhero flicks). Now, like I said before, I'm not big on spirituality or faith in god. I'm of the opinion that if you need to believe in something like that, you're fooling yourself, and merely proving that you can't accept the world's harsh realities. Religion is simply an invention designed to make our seemingly pointless existence, as well as our ultimate death seem less empty and bleak. Personally I've found constructive thought and the gathering of useful knowledge to be a far better way to fulfill this purpose. Anyway... I'm getting off track here; even though religion is a big theme in the film, I still found it to be pretty good. It's quite funny, for one. The plot is good(enough). The acting is very good. No complaints in that department. This contains what is arguably the best acting by Jim Carrey ever... he does a voice-over narration throughout the film that underlines what happens. The characters are all well-written and credible. Some of the humor is overly childish, but most of it works. The direction was one of the best points of the film. Mark Steven Johnson proves his worth and talent as a director, using interesting angles, great cuts and displaying some of the best usage of slow-motion I've seen for a while. However, I didn't really find this movie to be particularly moving. I see a lot of people comparing this to The Mighty... now, this has better direction than that film, but this doesn't evoke even a fraction of the same amount of the emotion as The Mighty does. I never really found myself saddened at Simon's lost battles, though I did cheer a bit at his victories. I guess that counts for something. All in all, a fairly good comedy-drama with very good direction, acting and writing. I recommend this to fans of comedy and drama and fans of movies in general. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Loved it until I read it...","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is based on A Prayer For Owen Meany by John Irving...based!! Yeah right! This movie was nothing at all like the book; the names weren't even the same! But this was an enjoyable movie, and if I hadn't known that they got it from this book, I would have liked it more. But the book is about 100 x's better than the book. All of you should read it cause it freakin' rocks!! "},{"Title":"Suffers by comparison","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a sweet, charming movie that stands up well on its own. It is a good evening's entertainment. It seems to have had some problems with the fact that it is loosely based on John Irving's _A Prayer for Owen Meany_, which is too complex a novel to be compressed into a movie.I liked the movie on its own merits although I think it's worth about 7/10, no higher. I really think the character of Simon could have been developed over a longer period, and the movie given a more dramatic ending, given the excellent material it started from. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a film about a 12 year old dwarf who believes that he has a destiny. It's based loosely on a book by John Irving who wrote The World According To Garp and The Hotel New Hampshire, both of which have been made into notable movies.I hasten to add though that Simon Birch isn't in the same league as the other two, probably because Simon Birch can't seem to decide whether it's supposed to be catering to a child or adult audience.Young Simon (Ian Michael Smith) is an outcast in his archetypal New Hampshire, small America town. He's not much more that a meter tall and a bit misshapen. He balances his disadvantages with a gently sarcastic, questioning view of the world and a willingness and ability to speak up loudly and wittily in for example Sunday School.His parents don't care about him, and say as much. He runs foul of  the authorities in town, in particular the local priest (David Strathairn).His best mate is Joe (Joseph Mazzello,  Jurassic Park) who is also on the outer. His Mum (Ashley Judd, Kiss The Girls) won't own up to who his Dad was and that's pretty unforgivable in a small American town apparently.Anyway young Simon is cute and he's interesting with his disabilities. Ian Michael Smith gives a strong, thoughtful performance and Ashley Judd is beautiful. The wrecked Nativity play scene is genuinely funny. But I found myself thinking of a couple of genuine dramas that have been made with short people in lead roles and Simon Birch seemed pretty wimpy compared with The Tin Drum and The Year Of Living Dangerously.First time director Mark Steven Johnson who wrote both of the Grumpy Old Men movies tries to slot this film somewhere between the over acted style of children's movies and the wry satire suggested by many of Simon's lines, not to mention Garp and The Hotel New Hampshire.But we're left with an amalgam of styles that will end up pleasing very few patrons. "}]