[{"Title":"Interesting, if not wonderful.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To say that this movie is shallow, or unrealistic, is to miss the point. While it certainly has a lot to say about sex, and especially sexual fidelity, the point of the film is not that at all, but that concerns of sex are not truly the most important factors in a relationship.  While loyalty and honesty certainly are, forgiveness is still a virtue, and lying about sex is not the same as lying about feelings.  Though I, of course, do not agree with what the female characters in this movie did, at least the movie makes the oft-overlooked point that sex isn't everything, a point seldom made in movies, and often made in life.  Though it is certainly not an exceptional movie, it is worth seeing, and an interesting look into the privileged status sex has attained in our modern society.  "},{"Title":"Talky.....But Good","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this, but I felt that it moved a bit slow, and there were a few scenes that could have been cut/shortened. I was impressed by Heather Graham, but Natasha Gregson Wagner left me sort of empty. Don't get me wrong, it's a decent film that I'd surely recommend, but in the same token it seems like something's missing. Like there's a better movie trying to get out, but it's trapped by monologues and general dialogue that run way too long. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched it last night and thought it was brilliant.  Robert Downey is just stunning, and the final scene of the movie floored me.  I''m not sure how to use the word pathos  properly but that final scene exudes it.  But before that the whole movie is an excellent examination of an actor who can't stop acting and the two girlfriends and mother he loves. Very witty and exciting to watch.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Downey Jr. is what Brando intended on being in Last Tango","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Toback's backbone of a script is great- it sets up the finest young actor of my generation (debatable- but worth saying) Downey Jr. is masterful in adlibbing and improvising. He accomplishes what Brando failed to do in Last Tango in Paris. Downey is real. His problems, his inner angst, his troubles all surface. This is like being with him. His magic and charm are entrancing and enchanting.  Pretty cool. Worth a watch late at night- intense though. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary  Toback's best work to date","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Convict/thespian Robert Downey, Jr. tops his frenzied role in Natural Born Killers with another manic Tasmanian Devil-style performance.  It's the funniest of the year, an actor's nightmare (how far do you go when you can do whatever you want?), but also the quintessential Downey, Jr. persona.Heather Graham is my baby, she just doesn't know it yet.  Just kidding--truth be told, she excels in the part of one of Downey Jr.'s girlfriends.  Wagner nearly matches her in the role of the other.Toback's direction is stagey (what else can you do with one set?), but his writing is on fire.  Sometimes, you snag bits of the actor's riffs and laugh at what you can get your hands on.  At other times, you sit back and let it flow over you--this is high-speed Jack Kerouac, coupled with Whit Stillman's keen ear for American bourgeois speech patterns.  Wagner and Graham test each other on Downey Jr.'s lovemaking speeches, tying a noose for him before he even arrives, later Downey Jr. verbally abuses and repairs himself in his bathroom mirror--highlights of a dynamite script.1998 was the year for actors and actresses, and many notables (and a few unknowns) did landmark work  Jim Carrey in The Truman Show, Jane Horrocks in Little Voice, Warren Beatty in Bulworth, John Travolta and Kathy Bates in Primary Colors, Roberto Benigni in Life is Beautiful, Bill Pullman in Zero Effect, and Robert Downey Jr. in this one.  James Toback, who also penned the wretched (and similarly themed) The Pick-Up Artist in '87, is back on track.  With Bugsy, The Gambler and this film on his record, I eagerly anticipate his next picture.  "},{"Title":"Underrated, sadly so","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i admit my love for this film is twofold--the setting (my City, Soho loft vibe!) and of course Robert himself. he is sexy, period. he is talented beyond what the public at large has realized. this was shown in his fabulous singing in this film. who knew he could sing? and don't start me on his acting--he is fantastic. this script is brilliant, tantalizing, intelligent, refreshing yet also so real that it's kinda eerie, but in a good way. so he's caught playing boytoy to 2 different girls. the girls could hit him, be stupid, and ruin the film but instead it gets heady, dare i say cerebral? and unlike most stuff out now that feels it must include a dyke subplot to be hip, it doesn't go there but rather focuses on the dysfunction of this man and the 2 lovers he's been simultaneously f-ing. the staging is perfectly set--a tight, confining setting of a loft. perfect. and the lighting is great, a light you'll only find in Soho. just amazing. all the actors give perfect performances. every nuance is right, every word is felt, believed. it's simply divine. "},{"Title":"Much deeper than it seems at first sight.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think all the performances were very good, although Downey's overshadows his two fellow actors.  As I watched, I laughed a lot.  When it ended my first impression was that it is a very clever lightweight comedy.  Since then, the film has made me think fairly deeply, a rare effect indeed from any film.To date it poses two questions to me  1-can a man/woman love two people at once (or is s/he a simple philanderer)?2-is fidelity possible or desirable in the milieu of this film?A last question is whether self-destructiveness is inseparable from the talent of actors like Downey and Robin Williams and others?I have revised my first assessment of the film upward. "},{"Title":"A great movie, but would be better on stage.","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw Two Girls and A Guy, I thought to myself that something was wrong.  The storyline impressed me, but the feeling that I got was that it would flow much better in the theater.  The script through the whole movie seemed much more like a play, and not a film at all.  After I noticed this, I began to watch the movie as if it were on stage, and it made it so much more meaningful, and the acting performances much stronger.  If Robert Downey Jr. performed this role on stage, the audience would walk away with something really special.  He is what makes the viewer forget that they are watching a film.  He is outstanding in this role.     "},{"Title":"This is RDJ's best performance","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie, may have been the best to focus on the many talents of Robert Downey Jr.  I'm not sure if the movie was a full script for this movie, or if a lot of it was ad lib.  It all seemed so very natural. About 90% of the movie takes place in the living room of RDJ's, character's NY loft.I was never aware of RDJ's talent for singing, piano, and theatrical performances.There are a couple of graphic moments, but all in all, it's a GREAT movie. Anyone who loves RDj, should most definately give this one a chance.  Even though I hate Heather Graham, with a passion, I am able to watch this movie, over and over. "},{"Title":"A poignant and witty slant on the downside of monogamy","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its quite funny that many people who i've spoken to after watching 2gg, really seem to have missed the entire point of the film. For me, the production is summed up by the line maybe we aren't designed for monogamy uttered by a flawless Heather Graham. In what has been an almost institutionalised habit, the film industry has focused primarily on the joys and wonders of dual relationships without even giving airspace to alternative lifestyles that are far more rational and far more realistic.The film itself is a classic hitchcock-style piece, set more or less in one day in one apartment. Two girls (graham and wagner) discover whilst waiting for there boyfriends to return home, that they actually have the same boyfriend. Deciding to confront him, but unsure how, they break into his loft and from there the hijinx begin. Truly a modern classic, and have i mentioned how good Robert Downey Jr is yet?? Boy he is good. "}{"Title":"Good Ensemble Acting","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Two Girls and a Guy consists of an extended conversation between three people; a guy played by Robert Downy, Jr and two girls played by Natasha Wagner and Heather Graham.  Both young ladies have been Downey's lover over the past year, and through that time each believed they were his one and only.  Unfortunately they both show up unannounced at his loft apartment to 'surprise' him and discover the charade.  The discovery occurs in the first scene and what follows is a verbal confrontation between the three in which they discuss love, sex, commitment, truth, yadda-yadda.I'm not knocking it; the movie is really very good.  The three actors work very well together in what is sometimes fine improvisation.  Definitely worth the rental when you are in the mood for something different.    "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was flipping around from channel to channel on the weekend and stopped on this.  It held me instantaneously and I watched the whole thing. The writing is special.  Downey's charisma on the screen is almost unmatched, and he is in top form here. (Contrary to one review on this site, with Downey, as opposed to most effeminate, loser leading men of today, you actually see why the girls would, even should, stay). The two ladies are very attractive.  The story becomes increasingly touching throughout, until you realize you have not been watching exactly what, or who (in terms of character), you thought you were watching. A special, memorable movie full of feeling.  I would bet that many of the negative reviewers failed to watch the entire movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know if I love it or hate it...","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much because for 1 Robert Downey Jr. is in 97% of it & it's different from any other film I've seen. It is weird, thats a given, but I found it to be entertaining. One of the best sex scenes take place in this movie, very erotic. Seriously though I voted this movie a 10, only thing about it that I found even slightly disappointing was the ending. It was vague, lacking & kind of confusing. You can basically guess what happened, & guess whats going to happen, but you get nothing to back up your assumptions. Still, it lets your imagination do the work which is sometimes funner. Very artistic film. If you enjoyed the movies Dreamlover, Freeway, Sex Lies & Videotape, Slow Burn, Showgirls, & Crash I think you might enjoy this one.P.S. If you think hearing the word f*** used at least 100 times in a hour & 1/2 might drive you insane, maybe you better skip this one. "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is great.  It manages to stay interesting even though it is shot essentially in real time and in just one scene.  The dialogue is great and the acting is wonderful, particularly by Downey, who offers up one of the best performances of the year.  "},{"Title":"Scathing, perceptive, and funny.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A two-timing actor/singer is placed on the spot by his two girlfriends, to both of whom he swore unremitting fidelity.  The bulk of the movie occurs in his NYC apartment where they debate sex, monogamy, honesty, and fidelity.  Another underrated but sharply written comedy-drama from James Toback.*** out of ****Make sure to rent the NC-17 version which contains the sex scene in its entirety. "},{"Title":"Downey's performance is the best part of the movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Or maybe it's the two female co-stars' atrocious acting that makes him look good.  I've seen kindergarten plays with better acting than that.It's a pity because the script was pretty decent and the conflict was good. The director took a big chance by staging the entire movie practically within one room and hiring the first two women he met on the street as actresses, but the story is a perfect example of a love triangle that verges on a menage a trois and making it believable.  However, the ending left me with the impression that nothing was resolved.Downey is very impressive and the movie overall is refreshing and different; it's worth a watch.  But it's not worth more than a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been something special","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After an intriguing start, this little drama quickly descends into the ranks of sheer mediocrity. The start of the movie sees two women (Heather Graham and Natasha Gregson Wagner) meet each other while waiting for their boyfriends to get home from their holidays. Natasha Gregson Wagner is a lovely looking actress, and she plays Louise; a cute girl whose beloved boyfriend is an all round entertainer; music, movies you name it, he does it. While she's telling the other girl, Carla (Heather Graham) all about her wonderful boyfriend, it soon becomes apparent that the similarities between their two male friends are too much.... and it's obvious that the two girls are dating the same guy. Oh Dear. Enter Robert Downey Jnr, the sleaze-bag that has two girlfriends while some poor guy somewhere has to go without one. Downey plays the sort of guy that the ladies like, but men find repulsively annoying; he is, basically, a mummy's boy. The worst kind too; on the phone ringing mother all the time, continually showering his girlfriends with ambitious (albeit empty) promises etc. It's enough to make a normal guy sick.The film knowingly rips off superior three-way love triangle films such as Jules et Jim. This film doesn't work though; mostly due to the fact that it's story is so unbelievable. Seriously, if two women had just found that they were dating the same guy...they wouldn't stick around to talk about it. Another reason why it falls down is that it's just so turgid. There's no end of possibilities for the outcome of the situation that this movie presents, especially with the claustrophobia of setting it all in a small apartment; but all the movie does is get lost in masses of dialogue; badly written and poorly delivered dialogue, that is. The film is also massively overacted; it just isn't believable that people would act like they do in this film after finding themselves in this situation. Robert Downey Jnr is one of the many things that is wasted in the film. With Natural Born Killers, he proved that he could give brilliantly entertaining performances, and that is something that this movie could do with. The two females aren't wasted because nobody expected anything from them anyway, but Downey could definitely have been better utilised. Overall? A waste of time. Don't bother, see Jules et Jim or Natural Born Killers instead. That's my advice.  "},{"Title":"An underrated, underappreciated masterpiece.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  James Toback's Two Girls and a Guy is a unique and extraordinary film.  Its characters are so genuine and its dialogue so brilliant that it is beyond me how so many people detest this film so much.  It is extremely smart and funny, superbly acted, and even better directed. A lot of people panned TGAAG because it was boring.  It's true that there aren't a whole lot of earthshaking events going on.  There are no loud noises, explosions, or automobiles catching fire.  However, someone who bases their opinions of films on how much of this stuff is there is missing the point.  In fact, they're missing the point of cinema altogether.  Films are made for art, not to present us with a bunch of miscellaneous objects blowing up.  If you respect the art of film, then there is no real reason that you should not like Two Girls and a Guy.**** out of ****.  One of the best films of the past ten years. "},{"Title":"A movie you have to see to believe","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Downey's expression when he realizes that he's dealing with not one but both of his girlfriends is priceless. Other than that, this movie is just ridiculous. It's done in an improv style and it comes off as pretentious and an exercise in banality. The actors try to sound intelligent and come off sounding juvenile and whiny. Downey does what he can with the given material but Heather Graham and Natasha Wagner give excruciatingly bad performances here. The movie plays like a reading session for a film rather than polished. After this movie was over, I felt like a dog that had just been kicked. I might have even made the same sound a dog makes when it's kicked. An ex-girlfriend of mine told me that she met James Toback in a bookstore years ago and that he was a real weirdo. He asked her if he could watch her sleep and use that as a reference in writing her a screen role. Watching this movie, I completely believe the story. This guy obviously has issues and making a movie where a guy spends an hour talking his way out of a really bad situation just confirms that. There's one point where he actually fakes a suicide for the sole purpose of shock and.... look, see this movie. I'm not recommending it, it's just so utterly ridiculous that it begs to be made fun of. This is a real chock but it's funny chock. Rating 1/2* out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Script lets it down. Downey Jr Shines","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the prominent and over use of the play-like format is in total operation throughout the film, it is not however this that lets this picture down. Rather it is the unconvincing female performances and rather tedious script that the film so obviously relied on a little too much. With an idea that had potential, the simple plot is diminished still by Graham's failure to truly express the devastation her character so adamantly claims to experience. The use of improvised scenes by all the actors would not be such a bad idea if only the two leading ladies could take advantage of this privilege. As Downey Jr proves as usual what a gifted actor he is, he shadows the two actresses in their scenes together which is constantly noticeable. The pointless yet intense sex scene seems merely to exist in order to prevent the film from being too verbally expressive giving the actors a much deserved break from talking. With an unsatisfying conclusion, Two Girls and a Guy has very little to recommend it other than Downey Jr's formidable if not out of place performance. "}{"Title":"It did have a character driven plot...","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...which was good, but a little of nothing goes a long way. It had some potential, but everyone in the movie was so repellent (even though Downey was made to be the real bad guy) it was difficult to appreciate. The sex scene (which garnered the NC-17) was unbelievable; even laughter wouldn't be possible if someone went experienced the trauma that the characters went through. I think the whole point of it, despite so little of such, was to shock.I don't know. You decide. "},{"Title":"self-indulgent tripe","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most self-indulgent movie I have every had the misfortune torent. Unwatchable. Much of the movie is obviously improvised,and not well. It looks like Toback took the first take ofeverything. The movie gets good for a couple of minutes whenRobert Downey Jr. shows up, then goes to hell again realquickly.  "},{"Title":"And I thought there never would be a worse film than Face-off","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow! I truly regret watching this picture... Funny, I agreed to see it just for my wife, who endured the torture of seeing it about a half an hour before retiring, while I stayed in front of the TV, but only to feed the the masochistic in me and I because I wanted to know if this movie was so bad in its entirety or if there were some redeemable aspects which might alleviate the feeling I had of being a stupid for watching this **** called Two Girls and a guy...Everything in this picture is wrong, totally wrong... since the initial, absurd, premise of two women stupid enough to stay with their common boyfriend, until the awful, but merciful, end, not forgetting the horrible acting of the three actors... Don't believe the rumors, the junkie's acting is bad and I don't see how Graham has made herself a known name within the movie industry...I wonder why, after the producers saved some bucks with just three actors and an only location, they didn't hire a person to write the script instead of putting a monkey to do it with his ***...At least, I felt a little fine when I destroyed the DVD and threw it to the trash... Anyway, I liked somehow (and just a little) the brunette actress, Natasha something, but that was not enough to beat the incredibly stupid and crazy premise of Face-off (changing faces), so Two Girls and a Guy to the bottom goes... Stay away from this ****! "},{"Title":"What just happened to me????","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had to watch this movie twice just to make sure I watched the WHOLE thing. This movie has been reviewed by some pretty snotty people that think it's genius. If genius is defined by making the viewer uncomfortable, then yes this is a work of genius.This movie is dark and disturbing.  I get the feeling that Robert Downey, Jr. is playing himself.  There is a very dark scene where he confronts himself in the mirror, and I don't think anyone could have possibly written that dialogue.This movie pushes the envelope on the way we think about relationships. The gritty, unrehearsed style may be a bit rough on an audience that is used to a polished performance.I didn't hate it, but I didn't love it. Robert Downey, Jr. is always worth watching, even when it isn't much fun.   "},{"Title":"Quirky, Urbane, Crisp","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I came across this movie while reading up on Downey's biography. I must say I would have dismissed this movie if I had not known about Downey's history & how this movie was made. just 5 characters; 3 major & 2 minor, I didn't think I would last an hour. But, to my surprise, I did. Boy, oh boy! I quiet enjoyed it. The plot is simple - 2 girls are wait outside a building. They chat and in the process find out they share a common, 2-timing boyfriend. The rest of the movie is about how they confront him and how he reacts to being busted. Yes, it is chatty, yes, there are monologues, but, enjoyable and witty nevertheless. Downey carries the film with ease. One can relate to the plot. It can happen in everyday life. This is a refreshing take on the situation. We are treated not just with Downey's acting powers but also to his other gifts that are cleverly packaged in the movie. It does have a flavour of being a stage play but, that does not come in the way of the final experience. "},{"Title":"Lying and not lying","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is about lying and not lying. In this movie sex is the subject for the discussion about lying. I could be more clear about what I mean but I do not want to spoil the story.Except for the opening scenes, the entire movie happens in the apartment. It is nearly entirely the two women and the man having discussions in the apartment. Many would call it arguments but it is how some people have discussions. There is a little action thrown in that seems more for the purpose of making the show less boring than what it actually adds to the story otherwise.There is an important message that many people might miss but I think the message could be made in about one-fourth as much time.I get the impression that the writer was unable to provide better dialog for the women. I would have preferred that the story allowed Heather Graham to show more of what she is capable of (I do not mean sexually) instead of Robert Downey Jr. "},{"Title":"The movie works because RDJ could be THAT guy","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Carla (Heather Graham) and Lou (Natasha Gregson Wagner) are both waiting on the street to surprise their boyfriends. However it's soon obvious that both of them are dating the same guy Blake (Robert Downey Jr). The girls break into his apartment to confront him. When he arrives, he starts talking to the girls and will he be able to turn things around? Written and directed by James Toback, this is basically a three person play. The scenes are long and uncut. The dialog flows like an improvised rambling train of thought. Wagner is the rambling young naive girl. Graham is the more experienced woman. This movie depends almost solely on the magnetism of RDJ, and he makes it work. The two girls play off of RDJ like stereo. He could be THAT guy and I buy that he could actually talk his way out of the situation. "},{"Title":"Painful to listen to","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was just painful to listen to. No, not just because the audio sounds like it was mixed by a bunch of third graders, thought that is a huge part of it. The audio levels were so harsh that is like hearing nails on a chalkboard for 90 minutes. (With Natasha Gregson Wagner's voice being just plain shrill on its own.) But there is also the constant talking over each other. To some extent, that adds a little realism, but it is overdone and just makes the movie hard to listen to. But even THAT is not all. There is also the ridiculous dialogue that was clearly written by a pretentious writer who is trying to make himself seem intelligent, having all his characters use big words and phrases that NO ONE in the real world uses. And with that, there goes the realism. But I guess that is why they threw in the semi-graphic sex scene. To try to get some buzz and take away from the rest of the awfulness of this movie. "},{"Title":"Great idea; bad result.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My biggest problems with this movie were the inconsistencies in the character's personalities and the fact that two thirds of the acting was horrible (not to mention the guy in the white suit). They had a story, but I felt like this movie could have been made by an adult movie director, because the whole time it was like I was watching a porn without any sex. If this story had have been played out on stage instead of on film, I think it would have done much, much better. When listening to the dialog in this film, it was like I was overhearing an argument my neighbors were having through the wall of my apartment. As for the inconsistencies; one minute the characters felt hate, next love, then they all hated each other again, it was all very back-and-forth and very confusing to get a feel for what each of these characters were actually like and to connect with them. The last thing i'll mention is the mirror scene. I didn't like it, it was borderline disturbing for me to watch, and went on for far longer that what it should have. "},{"Title":"This movie reeks of NYC area's culture and self-consciousness","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not a New Yorker, but have spent enough time around there to get a feeling how people think. Clevernesss and fast-talk are the name of the game there, whether you're high-brow or low-brow. Two Girls and a Guy is an excellent product of that culture. The two girls are smitten with the fast-talking boyfriend, an actor, fantastically played by Robert Downey Jr. But they face reality after realizing he's been two- timing them. It's a shock at first, and this produces some of the best confrontational dialog in the movie, but his theatrical talent is overwhelming to them. They still want him, in spite of his lies. The wild card in the story is his mother's illness...is it real or just a way to avoid talking to them? You don't really find out until the end, because Downney is such a phony, you're not sure he knows what's real to himself, forget about the two girls. The ending is cathartic. Will he learn from what he has done and from the power of love and human forgiveness? "}{"Title":"Like Robert","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i admit my love for this film is twofold--the setting (my City, Soho loft vibe!) and of course Robert himself. he is sexy, period. he is talented beyond what the public at large has realized. this was shown in his fabulous singing in this film. who knew he could sing? and don't start me on his acting--he is fantastic. this script is brilliant, tantalizing, intelligent, refreshing yet also so real that it's kinda eerie, but in a good way. so he's caught playing boytoy to 2 different girls. the girls could hit him, be stupid, and ruin the film but instead it gets heady, dare i say cerebral? and unlike most stuff out now that feels it must include a dyke subplot to be hip, it doesn't go there but rather focuses on the dysfunction of this man and the 2 lovers he's been simultaneously f-ing. the staging is perfectly set--a tight, confining setting of a loft. perfect. and the lighting is great, a light you'll only find in Soho. just amazing. all the actors give perfect performances. every nuance is right, every word is felt, believed. it's simply divine. "},{"Title":"This flick really needed a pizza place","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Downey Jr. just saved my life. No, he didn't find me lying unconscious on the street and give me CPR. No, he didn't inspire me to get off drugs. And he didn't swoop down in a suit of high tech armor and rescue me from The Unicorn. I did just watch Two Girls and a Guy and his performance is the only thing that kept this movie from being slit-my-wrists unwatchable. This is the sort of film that makes otherwise normal people hate independent cinema. It is dull and pretentious and phony and is the sort of New York City storytelling that even Woody Allen finds a little too self involved. Imagine Kevin Smith without a sense of humor, Quentin Tarantino without a sense of irony and Michael Bay without a drop of adrenaline. That's writer/director James Toback in all his ignominy here.Here's the whole deal. Carla (Heather Graham) and Lou (Natasha Gregson Wagner) find out they've been dating the same guy for the last 10 months. When Blake (Robert Downey Jr.) returns to his insanely huge loft, they confront him and blather commences. They talk about hurt feelings. They talk about relationships. They talk about acting. They talk about Blake's mom. Carla and Lou talk. Carla and Blake talk. Carla, Blake and Lou talk. Blake and Carla have sex. Then they talk and talk and talk some more. But for all that chatter, the best scenes in the whole production are when Blake is talking on the phone to someone the audience can't hear. That's because only the awesome power of RDJ's talent is able to take this fake, unrealistic dialog and make it sound like something a human being would say.It's not that Heather Graham and Natasha Gregson Wagner are without talent. It's just that you don't need talent for this material. You need (trumpets blare)&#x85;TALENT!!!!!! Whenever Graham and Wagner open their mouths, they can't do anything but recite this crap. It doesn't sound like anything people would say. It's not structured like anything people would say. The motivations and behavior assigned to Carla and Lou by this script are as realistic and believable as the special effects in Plan 9 From Outer Space.Let me give you one example of what I mean and I'll only give you one for fear that remembering more of Two Girls and a Guy would send me into a self-induced coma of disgust and ennui. When Blake returns home, Lou and Carla initially hide. Then Carla emerges and slowly works up to an argument with Blake where she gets him to profess his unshakable fidelity to her. That's when Lou emerges from the closet to expose his romantic perfidy. But what woman is going to sit in the closet for the better part of 10 minutes while her boyfriend's other girlfriend talks to him? It's not Carla and Lou planned to trap Blake somehow. Lou just sat in the darkness for no reason until the Almighty Plot Hammer knocked her into the light. What kind of person could both control her own emotions and trust a near total stranger enough to let the situation unfold like that? And that scene is not the most contrived one in the script.Somehow, RDJ is able to take this dialog that even George Lucas would choke on and make it not only fun to listen to but sound like something which could come out of the mouth of a living homo sapien. How does he do it? I don't know. That's what makes him so great and should make all of us so thankful he didn't wind up dead in some alley from a drug overdose. But even RDJ can't salvage things when he has to interact with his less gifted castmates and their vain attempts to do something with this garbage writing.Do you want to know how bad Two Girls and a Guy really is? If, at some point in this movie, Graham and Wagner had gotten buck naked and engaged in a 5 minute long lesbian sex scene, I still wouldn't recommend watching it. Not even to fast forward to that scene. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. "},{"Title":"Would have worked better as a play...","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Considering this film is set in and outside an apartment throughout the whole movie and with a story line driven by dialog, it really would be better to consider the film as a play. With three main actors playing, it's a minimal cast. The plot is as simple as can be Two girls find out that they both have the same boyfriend, they hide in his apartment and then confront him one at a time. Like in a play, events are told through conversations and arguments that the three of them share. There's fierce accusations, faked suicides, lots of singing from Blake and a very graphic and hot sex scene between himself and Carla, while Lou listens. The possibility of a threesome is discussed but not accepted. Blake confesses that, since he's been juggling with the two of them, he's had a good handful of meaningless flings on the side, and Carla and Lou also reveal that they have had numerous affairs, something that takes Blake completely by surprise. Throughout the film, Blake calls his mother constantly, worried about her health and trying to distract himself from other things.The last scene, I'll admit, is the best. Robert Downey Jr displays a tremendous talent in putting all of his emotions and strength in his performance. His ability to act and communicate so well earns him a reputation of being a brilliant and underrated portrayer.If this were to be live, it would work out just fine, and of course, seeing live actors right in front of you on a screen is better in some cases. "},{"Title":"best seen as the Robert Downey Jr show, and a good acidic relationship drama","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two Guys and a Girl is a stage play put on film, but what sets it apart are what make any play interesting some staggering scenes of drama and conflict (or even humor) and the performances. The film is ostensibly about two girls (Wagner and Graham), both dating the duplicitous actor Blake (Downey Jr) and how by chance they see each other on the steps of his building waiting for him, figure out who the other is to him, and then ambush him with the big question Why the lies? This becomes the main crux of what Toback is after, which is an investigation of lies in an actor and the sexual truths in a man who seems to be obsessed with his (supposedly) sick mother, and even reverts into performing Hamlet, oddly enough, rather than face up to the big questions at hand.Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage deep? Not entirely, and as a director of actors with such a low-budget AND ambition he takes a few minutes getting things feeling right (maybe this is due in some small part to Wagner not being the strongest actor, at least compared to the other two around her - or maybe just the one really) with the weirdly fast dialog. But when Downey steps into the room the film takes on a whole other air. There's complaints to be had about the film, such as a script that only usually, not always, takes very seriously what a confrontation-mega-argument like this would really turn into (albeit, and I must say it, the ill-rated NC-17 sex scene is about as hot as anything in late 90s cinema). And a couple of scenes contain, again, some clunky dialog that maybe needed a polish over - keep in mind this is a script Toback wrote in a little over a week, and maybe didn't know at first if it would be film or theater bound.And yet, with the complaints to be had, there's Robert Downey Jr. Toback wrote the film for him and it's hard not to see him fulfill the character every single moment on screen. Maybe it's a little easy to see an actor like Downey playing a full-of-himself actor/whatever who dances around relationships with women and commitment since Blake is a character who can't even trust himself let alone others. You don't want to take your eyes off this guy for a second, and that's the genius of Downey Jr whenever he's in material that calls his attention. If nothing else, Two Girls and a Guy becomes an actor-movie must-see for the scene right after he's punked his girlfriends by pretending suicide, face half blood splattered, and has a talk at himself in the mirror. It's a moment of madness that could give Travis Bickle an eyebrow raise.And that ending - one of those rare twists that somehow makes the rest of the film look in a different light. It also provides one more scene of amazing acting from one of America's best. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought this movie because I am a huge Robert Downey Jr fan again and i am trying to get a hold of all of his past stuff. Now, this one intrigued me and after watching it, still does. It more plays out as something that belongs on the stage rather than screen. I could very much see it as a play. I do say that the most emotion went to Downey while the two girls were very good when they went on the attack. After seeing the whole movie, you see the two girls in different lights. Carla had the deeper emotional attachment to Blake even though she seemed cooler at the beginning. Lou seemed to be more enthralled with the idea of dating a celebrity. Over all good but it takes some thought. "},{"Title":"Light entertainment or great performances?","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First, ask yourself this question What i am looking for? a) Light entertainment b)Great performances?. If you reply a) pass this movie, it will be booooooooooring. If you reply b) then this one's for you. Robert performance is great, and the two girls are good partners. Just to give an example check the scene at the jacuzzi. That scene was than only once, with dialogs between the 3...!!! I know there's a kind of monotony being filmed only in an apart but it's just a moment in the life of 3 people showed in a direct way. Now, that the studio's marketing dpt decided to promote it as a lightweight comedy is real, just look at the video cover and these comment (and others comments) and we'll agree. "},{"Title":"Showcase for Robert Downey Jr.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a remarkable showcase for the talent of Robert Downey Jr. as an actor, singer and piano player. The plot is forgettable. The characters, underdeveloped. The conclusion, implausible. But the performance of Downey is relentless and enviable. Worth the price of a rental just to see what this man can do.This is also an excellent chance to see Heather Graham in a young role, developing her talents as an actor.Just suspend your disbelief and watch the emotions displayed in this film. The film should have one of those alternative endings, one that begins early into the film. But if you get past this hurdle, the performances are extraordinary. "},{"Title":"Well, It is not as bad as many here say","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes the script was kind of weak and I could not figure out if it was a real comedy or straight drama in the end.  Robert Downey JR. Does very well with what he had to work with and was the only bright spot in the movie OTHER that a very interesting and realistic sex scene.I'd rate this ** 1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"call me daddy, call me daddy","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ok this is probably not a great film. the ending doesnt really work, the chemistry may not be perfect, the scripts is not the greatest but at least robert downey jr is great. he's just so perfect for this role. long improvised takes. spectacular. hes just such a b******t artist, such a liar, which is really what makes this film great. the fact is he just made me laugh and laugh. just brilliant. also ive been a huge heather graham fan since boogie nights, so i dug her as well. natasha gregson wagner was just really cute and funny and great. its not perfect but who cares. it was written in 4 days and shot in 12. thats really whats so great about this film, its a knock off script. its not well thought out, or well scripted so they're gave it to these great actors and they just kinda went with it. see it because robert downey jr is superbly funny and a really really great actor. "},{"Title":"Why, oh why","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film must of looked good on paper. Two young women meet at an apartment block. They are both awaiting the return of their respective boyfriends. They proceed to swap stories about their  boyfriends only to find out that they are dating the same guy. The two then proceed to tackle said boyfriend about his infidelity. The film felt about an hour too long. I had problems with Heather Grahams character. I never really felt any sympathy towards her. Natasha Gregson Wagner doesnt seem to be very convincing as the other duped lover either. Robert Downey jr is on top form, but his talents are completely wasted here.The film brings up many issues that could of been explored in great depth, but never deals with them. When it finally ends you are left thinking what was the whole point of it ?  "}{"Title":"interesting premise; so-so execution","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the trailer for this movie was fairly appealing. plus robert downey jr. is a fine actor(pick-up artist, back to school) when he isn't in court battling the law. the filmed stage-play idea is well shot, but the story just wasn't executed really well. downey jr. is almost too over-the-top, but good nonetheless. graham is ok, but i worry that she may just be one of those actresses that stands around and constantly reminds the audience how beautiful she is. i fault the script for my disappointment. early on in the movie, through the phone messages and demeanor, you can tell who downey really wants, and the ending predictably justifies this, making wagner's part seem even more wasted because he doesn't develop any chemistry with her. it would have been more interesting if he had been with her sexually as well. then he would have had to seriously make a decision. unfortunately, it should have been called one girl and a guy. if you like downey jr., then see this. otherwise, skip this. it'll leave you feeling cheated.  "},{"Title":"Funny box but that's all","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had so much potential.  Two girls figure out they are dating the same guy.  What revenge could be dealt.  But it doesn't.  To top it off the movie just ends and there is no hint of closure.  The comedy is trite at best and the drama reminds me of a bad after school special.  Robert Downey tries his luck with Shakespeare and even fails at that.  Such high hopes with flat rewards. "},{"Title":"Please burn every copy of this film!!!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terrible, Terrible, Terrible.....I was really looking forward to this movie...Robert Downey Jr. has proven he's a formidable actor in the past (Chaplin), as has Heather Graham (Boogie Nights), and Natasha Gregson Wagner..well I'd never heard of her.....and she was the only good thing about this film, but she alone couldn't save it....Heather Graham gave such an unappealing performance, it was appalling. But I guess it wasn't all her fault, you can only do so much with a purely mundane script like this one. "},{"Title":"Downey Fresh.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only one reason to see this film, and that's Robert Downey Jr.  If you don't love him, beware!  I think he's amazing, never more so than in this thin tale of a man drowning in the shallow end.  Graham and Wagner are the shallow end.    "},{"Title":"Idiotic","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Immensely stupid; the movie revolves entirely around showcasing Downey's overacting ability. Presumably we're meant to find him magnetic enough to understand why the two girls of the title continue to hang around his character (Blake Allen) after they've found out what he's been up to.Also contemptible was the sudden dash of pathos at the end. This tiresome formula - to add depth, add death - seems to be getting a real workout, providing illusory depth to both this movie and to Ang Lee's cretinous movie The Ice Storm.Finally, the disclosures that the two girls have notched up a fair number of infidelities themselves seems designed to undercut their earlier outrage so that we can be more sympathetic to Blake. This seemed more like a manipulative attempt to improve his moral position in the movie, not a reasonable plot twist. "},{"Title":"an overrated performance from Downey Jr.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a perfect example of a director far too in awe of his star. You get the feeling he just let Downey Jr ACT (with capital letters!) No direction, no restraint, nothing. I am not generally this down on Robert Downey Jr. He has done at least two amazing  roles (Chaplin, Less Than Zero) but he is all over the place here and just TOO much. so over the top he's back down again. In contrast the two girls (who are ignored in every review) fare better--particularly Heather Graham who gets more watchable every year.I generally love talky dialogue-filled movies but this was just self indulgent, annoying, and repetitive. Really hard to sit through. "},{"Title":"Tried a little too hard","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie started out with promise, but tried a little too hard to appeal to the Gen-X crowd. The philosophical conversations seemed tired and a cliche. Nevertheless, Rob was in top form...as usual. "},{"Title":"Interesting, provocative, nice work from Wagner.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Downey evinces spectacular technique (how about that Shakespeare delivery?). Graham is beautiful, radiant.  But, in a strange way, Wagner carries most of the dramatic/emotional burden.  She's the one who has to listen to Downey's initial protestations.  She's cruelly shut out of the love-making.  Her proposal for a 3-way solution falls on deaf ears.  When she leaves, the drama sags; we're left with an uncomfortable finale that is anything but dnouement.  The movie is mainly watchable because of little nuances in Wagner's performance that happen quickly, but for some reason just take your breath away.   "},{"Title":"A very talky movie about relationships,love and sex..","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very much like a play in the sense that is is very chatty and talky, everyone is constantly moving and shaking. The characters are ok, with some decent performances by Heather Graham and Natasha Wagner, with a good performance by Robert Downey Jr, being one of his best since Chaplin.Not recommended for those who are happy in their relationshps, a good pick-me-up for the recently dumped since their boyfriends are probaly much better than this guy, thank GOD!!!.  "},{"Title":"Average writing and directing, tour de force to one dimensional acting","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a much darker than I expected but it was solely Downey's tortured and magnetic performance that lent the film its edge. Much of the writing was trite and obvious- his favorite song is Nobody Knows Me and Wagner responds, No wonder that's his favorite song! and the set decoration (e.g. the poster of Jules et Jim on the wall) was a silly allusion to a masterpiece with which shares little else beside the genre.The acting ran the gamut from Downey's tour-de-force performance to Graham's complex portrayal of an intelligent modern woman who shields her heart yet allows us to see glimpses of that pain, while Wagner's was a horror show of one dimensional acting which made me want to leave after the first fifteen minutes. To be fair, Wagner did get a little better once Downey came on the scene, but never rose to the level of her peers and petered out well before the end. Downey and Graham plowed full steam ahead, giving us great performances. Downey still overshadowed Graham, but this seemed to be a result more from the script than lack of her acting ability, and I look forward to seeing her in another project. And hopefully Downey can resolve his personal problems, because we would love to watch his performances for a long time to come.Overall 2/4 stars  "}{"Title":"is this the same movie?","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At my local video rental store, they have a special place for Two Girls and a Guy. It's a long running joke really. The clerk lets people rent it for free. They value their customers too much to let them waste their hard earned money on it.I was extremely surprised to see that people gave this movie a good review. Maybe someone can explain it to me. (or maybe the positive comments were jokes? Did people involved with the movie write them? Perhaps the mother of the director/writer?)Maybe I've just seen so many good movies that this one fails in comparison. "},{"Title":"A total waste of time","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For people who like a PLOT - rather than merely movies with sex, violence and the like - commonly found in the best-selling movies of the day, this movie is empty and I kept waiting for it to go somewhere. OK, so I only have an IQ of 137 (MENSA) - maybe I just didn't get it. I just didn't understand why the characters didn't take a smart direction. They, on the other hand, took the day-time shock-jock talk show direction (where we see people getting all worked-up after doing idiotic things, then make-up on-screen ... totally forgiving the one who did them wrong - without well thought-out discussion and pondering).I'm sure this film appeals to a certain audience (mentioned above), but for those of us who actually want a PLOT, it was a total waste of time. The acting was good? It had BETTER BE - for the millions they are paid.In conclusion, if you are shallow, or like bisexuality and Ricky Lake or Jerry Springer - you'll LOVE this film. If you like movies with a good plot, skip this one. "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie because of the fact that the whole thing takes place in one setting. Almost like a theater production. Great acting too. The weakest link would have to be the dialog. A bit corny at times and a bit slow in a few scenes as well. I really like the film though and purchased it. Robert Downey Jr. is one of the great actors of our generation.Most 20-30 somethings can relate to the storyline. Or maybe it was just me relating to his character and his emotional immaturity.I highly recommend at least renting this film. Of course, there aren't too many Robert Downey films I wouldn't recommend. "},{"Title":"Realistic except the end","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think the dialogue was pretentious, all 3 characters made the lines their own. It was all fairly real. It all made sense to me except the conclusion. James Toback is talented but his talent was never big, he understood 2 very different woman but I think he failed as he concluded what they wanted in the end. He wanted to empower the 2 girls so he concluded that they're like men and they want to screw around. Towards the end, one girls says she had sex with 4 other men while with Blake and the other says she had sex with 3 girls, and just about right after that the bisexual says she's leaving and the other proposes to Blake that why not allow each other to screw around and never repress sexual desires. Blake then has to go out for a while to check up on his mother and when he returns he says she died, so the remaining girl cuddles with him. The end. I felt cheated because I thought that both girls loved Blake judging by the rest of the movie. It definitely would've been a more compelling movie if they did. I didn't know what was wrong with how they were at the end, I guess personally I just didn't see human sense to it. As for the guy, the movie still failed to let us understand Blake except that he's self absorbed, confident and self righteous towards his understandings of people(he's a very genius and flattering sweet talker), a funny, talented guy, good son, but what does he want? I guess free sex like the rest of them.  "},{"Title":"theres just one little thing","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off his is a very interesting movie and it brings up unique ideas all and through out most of the running time.  Robert DOwny jr. Heather Graham and Wagner, all perform their parts well and with feeling as well as realism (somewhat).  However, there is just one little thing that will either break this movie or get looked over due to the great performances which why in the world the two girls stayed.  I was able to look over it because it lead to some interesting diolgue of which no character really had the upperhand but the fact that they stayed to understand why they were cheated is one (if only) of the most unrealistic aspects of this movie.  Of course maybe this story came to be by the writer asking himself What if someone really wanted to know why they were cheated on?p.s. the very explicit love scene, I beleive, was done very well.  It was not presented in an overly romantic manner and instead shown in a more raw style which was very beleivable. "},{"Title":"this is the worst movie i have ever seen","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of all the movies that i have ever had the pleasure of seeing this is by far the worst. The diologe is so dumb it makes me want to rip my hair out. I believe that this was the biggest waste of time in the history of movie making. The idea was a good one but the execution was shotty at best. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THAT YOU WATCH ANOTHER MOVIE. thank you "},{"Title":"no good, not good no..","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, well here we have it then, this easily takes the flag  and is placed on some imaginary mountain full of  all rottenness,  all things universally horrible. I've seen 'em all  -  Omega Doom, Holy Smoke, Scary movie others like that in the'Hall of Notoriety'nothing to this though. Director James Toback , have a look at some of his other works ,  read the comments about those and you'll  get the general idea 'The Pick Up Artist'  - 'Black and White'and others, he seems to cast Downey Jr in the leading role of  most of the few films he's made. This is no Ed Wood and Bela Lagusi .You should have better things to do than watch this. "},{"Title":"Not even worth watching on cable","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has really bad dialog.  It sounds so completely contrived and forced that it's embarrassing to watch.  Robert Downey, Jr. is a GREAT actor, and he does well, but the script is terrible.  There is no plot, and the ending is stupid. "},{"Title":"A total waste of time, an incredibly poor film.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS if you can call them that.  This movie is a complete waste of film stock, DVD ROM, VHS tape, cable signal, or whatever other medium you use to see this film.  The plot/story has less thought put into it than... well ANYTHING.  Here's the movie in a nutshell.  Robert Downy jr. comes back from vacation.  Two women he was dating both end up at his house and learn of his infidelity.  The rest of the movie involves the two women incessantly bitching at Downy for being a chauvinist, while Downy whines, moans, makes up excuses and just generally looks pathetic.  What's so startling about this movie is that it's completely unreal!  Two women who discover their man has been sleeping around behind their back aren't going to stick around that guys house together and let the guy know exactly what they think of him.  And if they tried any self respecting man would say this is my house, get out.  But that never happens.  The girls don't trash his house (too much) or make off with all his furniture while he's away; they just stay there and bitch at him.  Quite painful to watch, the acting is absolutely horrible.  It's topped off with an equally horrible ending that leaves everything up in the air, nothing resolved, and no conclusion or finality to the film.  This film is a complete waste of time, and should only be viewed by skeptics who don't believe the film is as bad as my reviews and the reviews of many before me.  0/9 stars "},{"Title":"should not have been made","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really awful.  It was clearly meant to be a stage play, but the script was probably so bad that no Broadway producer wanted to pick it up, so it was sold to a movie director or studio or whatnot.  Robert Downey Jr.'s performance is the only redeeming quality here.  I can't believe how easy it is for crap like this to be produced. "}{"Title":"The Single Worst Film I Have Ever Had the Displeasure to Watch","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Avoid this movie at all costs.  Come Hell or high-water, regardless of what personal injuries you may have to suffer running from it, do not see a single frame of this filth.Incidentally, this is the only movie I have ever walked out of IN MY LIFE!And to think I actually liked James Toback's work in Fingers (1978). "},{"Title":"ZZZzzzZZZZzzZZZ","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the worst one I have EVER seen!  Heather Graham couldn't act her way out of a wet paper bag in this movie.  The other girl, the Wagner girl, was better, but still not all that good.  Downey was good though....very good actually.  He did the Hamlet thing well, and sang very well too.If not for him, this movie would be even worse than it already was.Stay away from this movie... "},{"Title":"Boring flick - just made to show off Downey Jr.'s talents","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I simply didn't like this movie. It was a real snoozer. I think the movie was only put together so Robert Downey, Jr. could display his broad ranges of talent... dramatic acting, singing, piano... I really like him as an actor, so I was disappointed at this one. It was really boring. "},{"Title":"ehhhh","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This wasn't the worst thing I've ever seen, but nowhere near the best. It was actually pretty boring, and the ending left me sitting with my jaw open, not in amazement, but disbelief of how many questions were left unanswered. If you're at home and it's on TV and there is NOTHING else on TV, watch this. Otherwise, don't spend your money or your time. "},{"Title":"NOT JULES ET JIM","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film with moments and a good cast, that still struggled to sustain itself over it's short duration. Despite the poster constantly being in shot, this is not 'Jules et Jim' with a 1990s spin. The film couldn't decide whether to be erotic, intelligent or a comedy. It failed on all counts. "},{"Title":"C**p","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The plot is stupid to be blunt.  I think it was made on a shoestring budget and given a title to make horny teenagers think there is going to be a money scene at the end.  If you are forced to watch this movie at gunpoint or something, beg to have it muted and just watch Heather Graham.   "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    TWO GIRLS AND A GUY doesn't waste any time making its points, and therefore results in an entertaining, if somewhat shallow, 90 minutes of sharp dialogue and intrigue. In the wrong hands, this film could have easily digressed into a tiresome succession of arguments or a psuedo-intellectual piece of pornography, but director James Toback handles the material simply and straightforwardly.    The real star of the production, however, is Robert Downey Jr, who delivers a loose, inspired performance that captures the absurdity and hidden demons of his character. BLAKE ALLEN isn't likeable or even admirable, but he's got a certain charm. And you can't help but sympathize with him at the film's somber conclusion.... "},{"Title":"Even Robert Downey can't save this one","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently rented this movie, and having found it in the comedy section of the video store, I thought I was in for a few laughs. Instead I ended up with a head-ache. Listening to the characters constantly bicker and scream at each other was like watching re-runs of the real world. The story-line was bland and exceedingly predictable.The characters were greatly undeveloped-why does Natasha Wagner's character seem so in love with Blake and care so much about him and what he does when she turns out to be a bisexual who is more interested in women anyway? It was an all too convenient way to get rid of her. I found Heather Graham's acting to be very unconvincing and unnatural. Her lines sounded too rehearsed and flat. Natasha Wagner's acting was better, but not by much. Robert Downey Jr.'s part was well acted but, like the other characters, not very interesting. While I am a big Robert Downey Jr. fan, I can't help but dislike this movie greatly.  "},{"Title":"Overall, a pretty bad movie but an interesting undertaking.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although a decent idea in concept, poorly executed.  An almost real-time movie, full of long shots, made it critically interesting but the seemingly unrehearsed banter and inexplicable continuation of the plot is unconvincing.  Downey Jr. does a fairly good job, when given the chance. Graham is gorgeous, as always, but does not give much to the movie.  The NC-17 rating is surprising due to the existence of only one steamy scene with no nudity.  As to the genre, comedy it may attempt to be but it is nothing but drama.  Laughing at it was near impossible and the ending left me surprised.  It ended abruptly and without conclusion.  Overall, a pretty bad movie though I am pleased at their attempting to do it. "},{"Title":"A real sleeping pill of a movie!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fine supporting performances by the two girls (Heather Graham and Natasha Gregson Wagner) are weighed down by pathetic performance by the guy (Robert Downey, Jr.) and a very lousy  plot.  Instead of leaving the guy, the two girls stay in his apartment and try to put him in his place.  I fell asleep on this loser twice and sat through it on the third attempt with a cup of coffee.  Boooooooring!  I would rather watch daytime soaps than this lame piece of crap.  My evaluation (no stars).  "}{"Title":"ugh.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Director James Toback takes the talents of Robert Downey Jr. and attempts to squeeze 100 minutes of feature film out of a 20 minute short-feature script. Stays interesting, but ultimately an unsatisfying experience.  My vote? 4/10  "},{"Title":"Can't Stop Thinking About This Film","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found myself not liking this film as I watched. But, I stuck through it because I love Robert Downey, Jr. and I kept saying to myself There's got to be a point here. I still don't know if I've got it all figured out -- in fact, I know I haven't. I can say that this is not just a film about the man and his lifestyle of portraying himself as what he wants people to see him as in order to get what he wants (or needs, for that matter). Rather, I believe it is a study of how WE ALL live our lives in this way. After all, it turns out that the two women are not who and what Blake believes them to be. NOTE The symbolism of the mirrors -- the manner in which they are positioned. ie., when he is talking to himself, there are several of him; during the sex scene, the mirror that they bump is turned away from them; and when the women confess in the tub, he turns away from them only to see himself (through his hands) in the mirror, and so on. This film is as complex as life itself. Downey is spectacular.  "},{"Title":"Some interesting acting moments, poor plot","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite the mostly good reviews, I did not like this movie.  Downey had some good moments, (as well as some over-acted ones) and the interplay amongst the cast was enjoyable.  But this movie was, apparently, simply a vehicle for allowing Downey to strut his stuff.  The plot was insubstantial, and the characters were cartoons, behaving unbelievably. "},{"Title":"Unfulfilled Promises","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk about missing an opportunity!  The great premise was wasted by a tawdry dialogue that never promised resolution viewers can relate to.  Why have oral sex as shown?  It suggests a complete sell out by the girl moments after discovering she's been cheated.  Is it supposed to show that she can use him equally?  Is it supposed to show anyone can be caddy?  What's the point? "},{"Title":"Waste of Time!!","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The author tried to make a Kevin Smiths style movie , but he definitely failed. The result is a boring film that cannot sustain itself using only the dialogues. Fortunately I had my remote control and could see the tape using the 2X speed. "},{"Title":"I Want to Have James Toback's Agent!","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After sitting through this god-awful 82-minute excuse of a film, and having previously wanted to gouge my eyes out after having watched another James Toback-directed mess called When Will I Be Loved, I've come to the conclusion that he has the best agent in the world. How else can these horribly written, painfully-directed pieces of trash get made in the first place.I like Robert Downey Jr., but perhaps being in this movie drove him to substance abuse.Heather Graham has to be embarrassed about her zombified performance. Half the time the camera is on her she just is looking off in a daze.Such a crappy script. Prepare yourself for Hollywood name-dropping galore (example five minute meandering discussions on Denzel Washington's acting....etc.)There's a great character in Joseph Heller's novel Catch-22 named Dunbar. He spends most of the time in the novel shooting skeet, which he abhors. When asked why he shoots skeet all the time if he hates it so much, he replies that it makes time CREEP by, and he'll have a longer life. Well....if you really want to feel time creep by, watch this film! I swear...the 82 minutes will feel longer than a 4 hour David Lean epic. It goes on and on and on and on...I hope I never watch another James Toback film again. If I could give this NO STARS, I would. "},{"Title":"Pretentious Tripe","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First and foremost, an utter waste of three extremely talented actors. Though, since they chose to appear in this pretentious tripe, maybe one should put the blame on them? But no. An actor has to earn a living just like the rest of us. I feel sorriest for Wagner. She was a talented nobody going into it and a talented nobody coming out of it.Stagey in the extreme, it is like a piece of pretentious, off-Broadway, New York psycho-drama in fear of disappearing up it's own...you know what! Why on earth would two attractive, intelligent women stay in the apartment of the contemptible philanderer that Downey plays having once confronted him except to stretch out a ten minute drama into a full length movie??? I have no sympathy for any of the characters. It's all a load of bunkum. Watch and waste valuable hours of your life. Clipping your toenails would be more productive and profoundly more desirable.Utter rot. "},{"Title":"Sleazy Film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is probably the worst film I've ever watched. The sleazy concept of Robert Downey, Jr. trying to juggle between two girlfriends is horrendous. The graphic scene that gave this film an NC-17 rating was unnecessary. This film is highly degrading to women because it tries to pass them off as submissive sex maniacs who want nothing but threesomes and sexual satisfaction. Aside from that, the entire movie takes place in Downey's apartment, so you get bored with the atmosphere. The acting is on the level of softcore porno acting, and the script was obviously not present during the filming. "},{"Title":"Amateur Hour (and a half)","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've rarely seen a movie by a Hollywood pro that had dialoge as stilted, fake and stagey as this. Makes the dialoge in old Charlie Chan movies seem realistic and fresh. This reminded me of the many bad community theatre stage plays I saw when I was a theatre critic. Characters talk in staccato, finishing each other's sentances cleverly. Made me wanna puke.Skip to to the BJ and blow the rest of the movie off. "},{"Title":"Collapses in...","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Downey Jr. delivers another delicious performance in TWO GIRLS AND A GUY.  Unfortunately, the story makes absolutey no sense.  I mean, let's be honest.  Why would the two girls hang around in the first place?  In reality, their initial reactions would be anger and loathing, not some philosophical kind of curosity.  Not to mention, Graham and Gregson Wagner struggle tremendously within the confines of their poorly written characters.  They're like these caricatures of James Toback's hallow, stale, complete lack of creativity.  And that makes for a debilitated picture. One that shakes and sputters.  And you just want to shut it off.Also--BEWARE of Toback's HARVARD MAN (worst picture of 2001)        "}{"Title":"a stimulating examination of intimacy and honesty... superb performances!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This great little film stars Robert Downey Jr., Heather Graham and Natasha Wagner as three caught up in love and lies in search of truth and love. Hmmm... how's that again?  Well, picture this... out-of-work actor Downey falls in love with two women, woos each independently, falls for them, loves each and then by random chance each girl discovers the other (this is where the movie starts!).  Next they confront him.  Things begin to get strange. All three deliver maddeningly exceptional performances, which apparently included some improv!  The dialogue is superb and real, the situation exciting and surprisingly (for Hollywood's standards) dealt with rather sensitively -- moving through the realms of intimacy and honesty, examining the concepts of monogamy and other expressions of love.   I enjoyed the film immensely because I know people like this! hahaha  And the dialogue fit the REAL people I know!  I was ROLLING on the floor throughout the whole thing! Great flick.  Watch it, you will NOT be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie because I was in the mood for something lighthearted and fun. The truth is that it's much more a drama than it is a comedy.Downey's performance is beautiful and heartfelt and the script is very rich and realistic. Heather Graham is too pretty not to like, but Natasha Gregson Wagner's performance is nonexistent. This movie is worth seeing, just don't expect a comedy! "},{"Title":"Oh My Aching Stomach...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Completely atrocious movie, and I LIKE Robert Downey Jr. $3.00 I'll never get back.    Terrible waste of intelligence, the rushed filming shows. "},{"Title":"The worst film in the history of mankind","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am being in no way facetious when I say that this movie was worse than any other movie ever made. Worse than Batman & Robin. Worse than Manos, Hands of Fate. Seriously, it's that bad. When people tell me that a movie is terrible I use the Two Girls scale to figure it out. If the movie is comparable to Two Girls then I won't watch it. If it's twice as good, maybe I'll watch it, but only to laugh at the retards who paid somebody to make it, because a movie twice as good as this one would still be a piece of garbage.  "},{"Title":"Robert gives a great performance here!","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can see through all of the nonsense of the plot and subtle nuances to find one of Robert's best performances as an insecure, trapped little boy with the talents of a genius. I can still see his face when he sees that he is busted, classic. He works the room like a charm, and has two women eating out of his hands, while at the same time screaming inside. I was not all that prepared for the hot and heavy oral sex, but it made the point. His performance was remarkable, his musical talents showcased with seamless beauty.....sorry folks but I loved it! I recommend it for those who want to see the raw Downey. This man is a true talent. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Brutal Movie","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is awful in so many ways. The acting is stilted, especially in the opening scenes where the female leads are getting to know each other. If you close your eyes and only listen to their voices, it sounds like they are reading from a script. If I , a rank amateur, can tell the pacing of their conversation sounds like it is from a third rate school play, it makes one wonder about the director. Secondly, the viewer does not feel for the characters as they are cardboard representations of actual people. The plot is boring and the ending, while bringing relief that the torture is over, does not bring proper closure. I do not understand how anyone could like this; even the payoff most male viewers are hoping for does not occur. Sadly, I own this movie. Anybody who wants to rectify this situation, please contact me. "},{"Title":"wonderful!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  what a totally refreshing film.  the performances of the three actors were all brilliant. downey shines like never before. this guy is amazingly talented. i always loved his performance in less that zero, but this was something different. he really must have loved doing this film. what a great chance to show his stuff. i hope that he can get his life together so not to rob the world of his brilliance. "},{"Title":"an actors workshop","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film looked great -- lighting and cinematography very well done given that 2 girls & a guy was basically a one-act play with one location.But more than that, it seemed like the actors were given a lot of freedom within the basic framework of the script.  They must have loved it.The whole debate about fidelity, monogamy, etc is answered by Blake's relationship with his mother.  He knows her so well that he realizes that she is dying before the doctor -- and is devastated when she does.It's not your usual Hollywood movie.  James Toback must have a lot of juice to have gotten this made and distributed.  My hat's off to him! "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSAn interesting idea on paper which isn't badly executed in direction. The film's plot is simple and is presented to us in 10 minutes. The rest of the picture is totally dialogue driven which is fine although there is plenty of paraphrasing going on.The idea of having two women (infidelity) is quite appealing, the film doesn't seem against it, it's not easy trying to decipher exactly what the director is trying say. I think the actor is acting until the real world hits him in the final scenes.The director's shot composition for close-ups was frustrating, I wanted to see 2 people in the frame. Other than that, the film was made well.The acting by Downey is excellent, he can produce excellent performances and this is one of them. Heather Graham isn't bad, nor is the other woman.Overall, not a bad picture at all, the ending seemed tagged on. It should've been executed much better. The film has a short running time, but I don't think there was enough material for another 10 minutes.Good, but not great.  "},{"Title":"6 on a scale of 10","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what part of this movie was supposed to be believable. The story is about a guy who is simulatneously dating two girls very steadily. After many months, neither knows anything about the other until they happen to both decide to surprise him in front of his apartment after a trip. They discover each other and the rest is about their confronting him.The fact that they end up wanting each other as well as him despite breaking into his apartment, listening to a huge number of lies by him, tolerating his maternal complex, is ridiculous to put it mildly. They don't tie him up and do bad things to him. Instead one wants a threesome and the other has sex with him - while all parties are present.Despite the implausibility of the script, I was somewhat interested in what would happen next. I watched to the end. That was a mistake, because the end was a weak letdown.Not for everyone. "}{"Title":"Hard to watch sometimes - but watch it!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Downey, Jr. is in love with two women. Two very interesting, very beautiful, and very different women. They find out about each other (don't worry, I haven't given anything away - this happens in the first five minutes). So what now?What happens is that they spend a very intense day discussing things. We get an intense look at his troubled personality, and a lesser glimpse of the women he loves. There's a lot of tension in this film, but it's worth the effort to get through.I will add though, that in my opinion, you should stop the film after the end of the main scene. (It will be obvious where the right moment is.) The last five minutes feel tacked on, and try to artificially impose a resolution to a situation that shouldn't have been resolved by the film. The main body raises a lot of questions, and the ending tries to answer them unsuccessfully - better to just end it with the questions on your mind. "},{"Title":"Flawed but worth looking at","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The good parts Fine acting, a fascinating one-set, filmed play style, an intelligent premise.The bad parts Lack of delivery in the script, an inability to move past the inarticulate shock, an ending that belies the setup.The details Downey has told each woman that he loves her and her alone. In fact, he's told them in the same words, using the same special phrases, as they discover in the first few minutes. They break into his apartment to confront him.Downey is flabbergasted, insists he loves them both, and struggles to break past his web of lies as each woman struggles to discover why she's there, if she loves him, and if fidelity is really all that big a deal. Maybe, Carla suggests, Monogamy poisons some essential part of ourselves.But the dialog rarely breaks into any actual discussion, like the intriguing quote above, and stays on the level of I don't like this, I can't do this, You're a liar. Well, we knew he was a liar at the beginning, so the repeats don't enrich.This is a film with great potential that occasionally shines through a mediocre reality. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A witty satire that finds two young women discovering they have the same boyfriend. Excellent performances and sharp dialogue overcome the weak storyline. The throwaway subplot of Robert Downey Jr's mother dying simply serves to elicit sympathy from the audience. In writing the script, Toback must have doubted that Downey's performance could do this without the crutch. He should have had more faith.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Effective","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anticipating a sexual romp, this movie was somewhat of a surprise.  Dialogue driven movies are tough to do well, and this does a fairly good job.  An change of scenery may have helped.  The dialogue is tedious at times.A fine ending that leaves a mark. "},{"Title":"Two brats and a dick","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is about pathetic, spoiled, ego-driven winers who think they have something interesting to say, performed by pathetic, spoiled, ego-driven winers who think they are interesting. Straight from the coke-filled gutters of New York's arty farty incestuous drama scene.How so many viewers get tricked into making them think this carries any substance remains a mystery to me. Maybe they secretly long to belong too to this overpaid and overestimated 'actor guild' or maybe they have never seen a decent movie?Get out, put your hands in the dirty earth and get a real job. Otherwise, kill your self with a real gun. "},{"Title":"Two Girls and a Guy","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a ridiculous film that goes on and on. Basically these two girls meet each other outside an apartment and soon discover that they are both waiting for the same man. One of them is Heather Graham, I don't recognise the other one. They decide to teach their boyfriend a lesson. They sneak through the window and wait for him to arrive. He is Robert Downey Jr. This is the part that goes on for ages, they just keep going backwards and forwards, argue again and again. This gets really annoying and confusing after a while. This is why I have given it such a low rating. Also I was hoping Heather Graham to get her clothes off, as she usually does. I mean she did, but it wasn't good enough. I admit I may want to see it again to confirm my opinion. Poor! "},{"Title":"Know the facts before you watch","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was directed by James Toback. He likes to allow his actors some room to breathe.  In this film he did just that.  He only gave the actors a few plot lines and then allowed them to Ab-Lib the rest of the movie.  He has done this since then with Black and White also starring Robert Downey Jr.I really enjoyed this movie.  The love affair that Toback has with camera angles and the human condition are very previlent in the movie. the previous person that commented mentioned that he has wasted his time watching to the end. I beg to differ.  The Dynamic that these three people have is pretty intense.  The two women don't know each other but become friends while waiting for Blake to come home.As you watch the film, you can see why Blake loves both of thise women equally. Carla is a little WASPy and Lou is street wise.  they both have traits that has attracted him to them.  As the film goes on, it shows you how we can love on many levels.If you have never sat in a room with your lover and just talked about your lives and the problems relating to them then this movie is not for you.  I can remember conversations with lovers.  They start with one topic and then keep going to many others. We would talk as our lives happened.  Phone calls from family and other friends, as well as appointments we had or what ever was on the agenda for the day.This film is about the complexities of love. The people that we meet mean something to us at any given time. If you want to see a relationship expand past the limits of the Average film, then see this movie.  Or any James Toback picture for that matter.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought all three actors did an amazing job.This movie has great dialog and feels much more like real life than so many other movies today.  I like movies such as Die Hard and The Fast And The Furious, but it seems like with those types of movies the filmmakers are always trying too hard to entertain the audience with one-liners and cool stunts.  While watching Two Girls And A Guy, I was not distracted from the story ONCE because of something that felt out of place.(SPOILERS in the next paragraph) I also love the lack of political correctness in this movie.  For instance, feminists might complain that the two women should never think about staying in a relationship with this guy.  However, I think it is more realistic to think they would.  Women who are the age of Lou and Carla are usually looking for one man to spend the rest of their life with.  It is much more difficult to do that if you have to start over in the dating process.  Most people would try to make the relationship work, even if the other person had cheated on them.  Political correctness might dictate that the filmmakers show the women as strong females who would not settle for such a man, but it is much more realistic the way the movie is presented.I caught the rated-R version of this movie on cable and have not seen the NC-17 version, nor have I seen the movie in its original aspect ratio of 1.851 since most of the movie channels still aren't broadcasting in widescreen.  However, I will be certain to purchase it on DVD now that I have seen what a wonder of moviemaking Two Girls And A Guy is.  "},{"Title":"This is art.  Maybe you get it, maybe you don't.","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Because no two people on earth have the same experiences, everyone gets a different impression of what they are viewing. Please don't take personal offense at what I have to say.This movie is as artistic as any painting in which the artist(s) has bared his (or her, please sub for either gender) soul. Regardless of how bare your soul is, many people, perhaps even MOST people, will not understand. They will not understand the characters' reactions, they will not understand the choice of words, they will not understand that what they are looking at is intensity and not merely intent.Before I make my point, some info on the reviewerI just saw this movie for the first time, I viewed it alone. It stopped me in my tracks. I saw it on the 5.99 cart and picked it up for a 'rainy day' movie. It was meant to happen.I am in my mid 30's and have seen a lot of films, and have always been fascinated with both the mainstream and the not-so-mainstream films. I agree with the possibility that this may be so intense because it may very well be simply a portrayal of Robert Downey Jr.'s real life. He has an interesting life. See?There are a lot of intertwined dynamics happening here. At the beginning Lou is excited about having a boyfriend (we find out why she is excited later) and Carla doesn't really want to call Blake her boyfriend, until she has to. Interesting because ***STOP - SPOILER*** Lou ends up running out but Carla remains true. This movie has a central question. If you love someone, can't you forgive them for anything? Even lying? Some people can't. Some people can. If you can, then you are in Carla's world. If you can't, you are with Lou. I think this makes it a deep movie. Since this was filmed in '96-97 when lesbianism was in vogue in the techno club scene (ask me how I know) it was OK for Lou to go both ways. Some people will be shocked. Some people won't.Some people will scoff at this film for 2 minutes and move on, feeling un-entertained. Understandable if you can't identify with the generation, the scene, the situation or the characters (that's actually a lot, a whole lot; I think it will be difficult for the majority of the population to truly identify). I can identify with it all. What DO you do if you meet two people that both really seem special, even to the point of love? Some people think it impossible. Some people don't. Well, my impression was that Lou did not really feel love. Maybe nobody did. Maybe Blake and Carla did. It was art. Art doesn't provide answers. Art leaves the answers (and the impressions) to the viewer. 10/10, I was entertained thoroughly.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is freakin hilarious and deserves much better than a 5.7 rating!!! I mean how can you not love watching Robert Downey Jr trying to bull**** his way out of f****ng two different chicks!!! Plus when he fakes his own suicide to get both of his girlfriends feel sorry for him is the funniest  I have ever seen! He claims to do it because he wants to make a point. Then he replies that it was f***ed up, but oh well.This is a must see!!Heather Graham + Downey Jr. = Robert Magic10/10  "}{"Title":"tOBACk slays cliches into too much theatricality and gives Downey Jr. a great role","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- What's so provocative about this movie? Why did Robert Downey Jr. lie to the two girls? Here's my take on it. SPOILERS AHEAD. Not because he couldn't 'bag' (if you're offended by that word you shouldn't go anywhere near a Toback movie) both of them without lying after all, neither of the girls are married to him, and he could've openly had two or three semi-serious girlfriends and a whole truckload of groupies as a bachelor and up-and-coming actor (as many young studs in the 'business' are known to have); he lied because he wanted two serious relationships at the same time, two real girlfriends at the same time, almost like bigamy; he didn't lie to get the girls to physically put-out, he lied to get them to spiritually commit a part of themselves that they otherwise wouldn't. So when he says that he loved both of them equally (or almost equally), he pretty much means it; and when he had said to each girl that other girls now disgust him, he really meant that too, in the spiritual sense that is. He may have had a few mainly physical encounters but spiritually and romantically he's basically tied to these two women, one of whom will eventually have to go because of time constraints or a slightly higher level of incompatibility. The same would obviously apply if a girl had willingly put herself in this rather flattering dilemma (as the poster for Truffaut's `Jules et Jim' on the wall constantly implies, a film in which there was no deception but which ended tragically because Jeanne Moreau refused to give up her irrational desire to be loved by more than one man until she turned off both of them).What I think Toback is trying to do is show people ways of communicating they haven't considered or have been programmed to overlook. He's trying to say that this situation doesn't have to end up negatively or in some kind of overblown melodrama, though it's definitely prime material for farce. Every attempt at taking it to that cliche area of hurt and shattered and devastated feelings, and overblown psychotic role playing imposed by half-baked and prejudiced societal rules is shown to be not only ridiculous but transcendable by only a little strength and street-or-book-or-other-wise perspective. Of course, the Natasha Gregson Wagner character is the one that shows the most strength because she gets the short end and refuses to stoop to fighting for her man with Heather Graham; not only that, she doesn't even break relations with Graham and asks her to call her. . In 99 out of a hundered other films as soon as Graham and Downey start getting it on in that other room, Gregson Wagner would've broken a whole bunch of Downey's bric-a-brac-furniture, stormed out the apartment cursing and slammed the door, or, barged in on them and had a tantrum wanting to kill both of them. But is that kind of impulsive over-reaction all human beings are capable of? No, and Toback shows that 'it's just friggin sex' it's not the end of the world and it can be dealt with intelligently and calmly, not through some ridiculous tantrum. Toback is a guy who came up in the sixties and was mentioned by Football-Hall-of-Famer Jim Brown in the book `Out of Bounds' as one of the frequent guests at the pre-planned and carefully orchestrated open orgies he used to host at his Hollywood Hills home back in the wild days when the parties wouldn't end. If his widely publicised reputation is correct then he's definitely not new to womanizing, promiscuity and weird relationship scenes, and, apparently he's learned some hard lessons from his experiences and is trying to impart some of them in this film. But what he's laying down here in this film for the so-called 'repressed-propogandized-and-politicized-fear-of-death-thru-AIDS '90s' isn't anything new but basically what many widely read books of the late '60s and early '70s dealt with, books like `Pairing,' `Open Marriage,' etc. They dealt with the fact that sexual desires don't go away but are willingly not acted upon because the time spent pursuing them could be better spent in the main relationship. If they're acted upon physically, that's where it usually ends and the level of intimacy doesn't seem to be worth it compared to the main relationship, therefore further reinforcing the main bond. Also, if there's no strong relationship to hold a man and a woman together, traditional restraints will make cheating more attractive, not less. And even if there is a strong relationship, traditional restraints will definitely work to weaken it by not offering free access to curiosity and making the grass seem greener on the other side than it is, not offer any kind of ridiculous 'insurance' against cheating. The problem, of course, is always TIME, all serious relationships must in the end end up pretty much monogamous (in spirit if not exactly 100% in physical fact) because there is simply too much time and energy required to carry on even as little as two serious love affairs on a high level.. That's the whole argument of the classic book `Open Marriage' which is sneered at by many a pseudo-intellectual '90s 'New-Age Hick' but still as thoroughly relevant today as it ever was, and which amounts to a license to cheat only for people who do not have a serious enough relationship to begin with. Because it's an 'individually tailored' one-to-one thing if it happens to be working on a compatible level no other relationship could duplicate the uniqueness of what you have with that person and it would simply take too much TIME to build the same level of relationship with someone else, time which would be much more rewardingly spent on the relationship you already have. And if you look at all the 'traditional marriage' people who sneer at that, the statistics speak for themselves for every relatively good relationship you'll most probably find 10 dead or happy-to-be-mediocre lukewarm ones maintained for the sake of appearances that can be seen through in two seconds, 10 more that have gone beyond the stultifying effects of a 'closed relationship' to cheating and deception to find some 'happiness-fix' on the side, or, most abundantly, divorce. In Toback's film, Downey's deception leaves Natasha Gregson Wagner out in the cold but she's strong enough to not give too much of a damn about someone like Downey whose lying has put her in a position to get hurt because she happens to be a tad less interesting to him than Heather Graham who has just reclaimed him by giving him sex; she's strong enough to not show her hurt for his satisfaction or to stoop to wanting to fight for a weasel him with Graham. She stays above it, talks things over a while, wishes them the best and moves on. Not realistic? If we're talking in general terms absolutely not; but in individual terms, absolutely yes. There are 4 or 5 people out of a hundred maybe strong enough to pull a Natasha Gregson Wagner exit. And the value of Toback's film is that it chooses to show that rather than the 95 ways how it ought to end in total disaster. As good an actor as he is, Robert Downy Jr. (much like the great Kevin Friggin Spacey) can get incredibly annoying, especially when he's basically playing versions of his obnoxious real-life self he just never seems to be able to calm down for even two seconds without some other arrogant wise-crack spurting out of his mouth again in the next instant. This is pretty much his real personality as evidenced in some of the documentary work he did interviewing people at the Democratic convention a while back (where he made a fool of himself). He's perfect for this role, of course, but I often find him so grating that I can't help wondering what a more controlled master actor like like Sean Penn or a 'cool' actor like Matt Dillon would've done with this role (Dillon's 'coolness' may have gotten in the way, but Penn has played many characters like this before). They may or may not have been better I don't know. Downey's perfect because he's just the kind of weasel that shouldn't be fussed over too much, or god forbid, fought over as he'd no doubt like Natasha Gregson Wagner to do. But, overall, the hilarity outweighs the nausea factor enough for me to stay interested. Heather Graham is also perfect for her role because she's not only a talented actress but has a uniquely 'angelic' character, a girl who at her angriest, cursing ten miles a minute, still seems nice and sweet and not all that b---chy. She can also do a sex scene that's a shot or two away from being X-rated, in which Downey Jr. tries to give 'addicted to crack' a new meaning (in the NC-17 version out on this video that wasn't shown in the theatres), and then come out looking like an untouched, virgin schoolgirl, again owing to her Botticelli-angel-like look (the great French-American actress Julie Delpy from `Before Sunrise' `Passion of Beatrice' and `Killing Zoe' also has that look, but less raw sex-appeal). Graham's 'angelic' look totally creates the erotic tension and shock Toback is looking to induce when things get a bit hardcore because you certainly don't expect her to be quite as wild as she suddenly shows herself to be, especially with Gregson Wagner being in the other room. Her very unique, almost one-of-a-kind look and temperament puts her in very interesting contrast to Natasha Gregson Wagner whose anger is more directly cutting, familiar and menacing but the sting of which is taken out a bit by the fact that she's so cute and petite and all that, like a little cartoon-minx version of mom Natalie Wood (and how much better does Toback use her talents in this film than Larry Clark did in that pretentious, awful, mess `Trouble in Paradise'!). I liked the fact that Toback lets the characters get right into flawless recitations of the lines, Greek-tragedy-Shakespeare-like without any method acting nonsense of intentional mistakes and mumbling Brando-pauses thrown in to add 'real-life' realism and naturalism and all that. He doesn't mind being pseudo-transcendent and bogus-mythic as long as it saves him from the dead-end of naturalism. He gets right down to the point in as clear a way as possible, and who says people can't be this articulate at-the-drop-of-a-hat in 'real life?' Why the hell not?! There are some articulate people around who don't talk like Pesci and DeNiro and Brando in 'real-life' (or any other 'life' on the world's stage, for that matter), you know! But the drawback here, is also precisely this theatricality which gets a little too heavy handed and is not as light-touched and subtle and cinematic as it needs to be to achieve greatness (as in the amazing 'invisible total cinema' films of Eric Rohmer who also puts in tremendous amounts of dialogue in articulate mouths). So what's my two cent verdict, Jack and Jill? Here goes `Two girls and a guy' is definitely not a great film because it tries a little too hard to be provocative and titillating and shocking, but a quite valuable one nevertheless because it breaks cliches at every turn in the dialogue, tries to promote intelligent ways as opposed to culturally pre-programmed ones of dealing with painful dilemmas, provides two very dreamy contrasting girls for guys to lust after and aspire to be worthy of in a slightly more gallant fashion than they are subjected to in the film, and creates the perfect setting for Robert Downey Jr. to be as hilarious (and also, to the sure annoyance of many like myself, as super-obnoxious) as he can. "},{"Title":"It's a pleasure watching Robert Downey Jr. but it doesn't save this film.","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are absolutely in love with Robert Downey Jr., this little slice of life will probably be your cup of tea. Don't expect a great story nor should you expect a great script but Downey does make it interesting in spots. It should have been a stage production. For the most part, takes place totally in a small apartment. Two girls wind up there thinking they are going to meet their one and only love interest only to find Downey has cheated on both of them. Instead of doing the right thing and leaving, they stick around and confront him. Somehow, in very short order,they all seem to make up quickly and surprisingly even have sex. Give me a break folks. I guess the message here was that you can be happy with two partners instead of one but it left me not caring about any of the characters. I'm as liberal as the next guy about the subject of sex but this was not even remotely realistic.  "}]