[{"Title":"a gem of a film","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is an original - a gem.  Fifteen minutes after it was over I began weeping - I was so touched.  It is never too late.  One can lead a rotten life,  but there is always hope - even in the strangest of times - to find love and to become a person worthy of being loved in return.  To provide more details would undermine the movie's original theme.  Indeed, the description on this web page is not at all what the film is really about. I don't know why the ratings aren't higher. Perhaps the movie is lost on impatient souls who need lots of action to keep their attention intact. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites -- here's why","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I see that opinions for Lulu are either 'I loved it' or 'I hated it.' There's a good reason. This is a very different film, with spiritual and other-worldly overtones -- it's definitely spooky. I could not have imagined where the story finally ended up, but it requires a lot of imagination to understand it (think, Where does the mind go when it loses consciousness? And, what is the real meaning of 'time'?). If you don't like it, that's fine -- maybe you just don't get it. Nothing wrong with that -- it's pretty deep. But for me, it's a form of pure entertainment that I cannot find anywhere else. I loved it. I bought a copy on DVD. I tell my friends about it. The ending is a definite surprise, but there are lots of other surprises throughout. Why not find out for yourself?  "},{"Title":"Actually, Kind Of Neutral On This Strange Film","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is mainly a two-actor film with Harvey Keitel playing a low-key (at least for him!) character and Mia Sorvino playing his young girlfriend. They dominate the story. In an odd way, this is an interesting film although a bit soapy in parts for my tastes. It has a bit of a mystifying element with this strange stone as part of the story, yet they don't elaborate on it. Actually, this is more of a romance story....but at leaves a number of questions. One doesn't quite figure out Willem Dafoe's character is in here and the ending was very strange and not altogether satisfying, either. Perhaps another look or two would have been a better option before writing this. I haven't read any reviews but I suspect people really got into this film and liked it or were bored to death. Actually, I was somewhere in the middle. I was more interested in the cinematography. Note Lulu is named for a character played by silent screen star Louise Brooks. "},{"Title":"It is only at the film's end that the discerning viewer understands what has really transpired.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Like many of New York City waitresses, Celia Burns is an aspiring actress. Izzy Maurer, a jazz saxophonist recovering from a gunshot wound, contacts her after finding her name along with a stone having magical properties, one of which propels them into a love affair. Through her talent, and friends of Izzy's ex-wife, Celia is able to land the part of Lulu, one which most actresses could only dream of. Izzy is held captive and Celia chased by a mysterious man claiming to have a doctorate in anthropology who wants the magical stone. It is only at the film's end that the discerning viewer understands what has really transpired. The all star cast does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Multi-layered masterpiece","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this little gem of a film last year, forgot about it, then decided to buy it. On a second viewing I realized how much I missed the first time around. The scientific/mythical/mystical/spiritual interpretations are left up to the individual, and I found myself leaning toward the mystical/spiritual, especially when the film-within-a-film (Pandora's Box) entered the plot. While some might have felt this whole episode was irrelevant, to me it  was central in a kind of a skewed way that wasn't really developed. Anyone familiar with the myth of Pandora's Box  will recognize the significance of the rock in the box that causes lives to change in a dramatic, profound way. Izzy's state of consciousness during the film is simply a device -an interesting one- to tell a story.Seeing Dafoe and Keitel working together again (first time since Last Temptation of Christ?) was a delight. Both are capable of a tremendous range, but chose restraint in this film, and it worked. The interogation scenes in the warehouse were mesmerizing. I love this film! "},{"Title":"A nice little sleeper of a movie","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect before viewing this film. Certainly the title gave no clues and was a bit of a turn-off. However, right from the start I found the story to be interesting. It had a lot of twists and turns that kept my interest throughout. It is one of those pictures that you are better not knowing anything, so I won't reveal any of the plot. Suffice to say this script made for enjoyable watching and I am surprised that other viewers did not rate it as highly as I did. "},{"Title":"Worked for Me","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Here's a movie that has a Zero Rating at Rotten Tomatoes. It has some tremendously bad acting. The story ends in a way that most viewers seem cheated. Its poorly edited and photographed. But it still worked for me because the idea is so clever that I happily make the leap, completing the movie.Here's the general shape man is shot and lays dying. He has a vision of girl who he falls in love with, a magical stone causes this. (This is a piece of plaster that falls on him when he is shot.) Its a sweet love story and the magical nature is apt for a movie about an inner movie.But there are two complications that help. One is that our hero is captured and quizzed. Some dreary writing and the roughest parts of the film are associated with this bit. Its the second complication that has a special sparkle. Our girl is an out of work actress who &#151; again magically &#151; gets the starring role as Lulu in a remake of Pandora's Box. This is perhaps the most sexually charged film of all time a perfect confluence of actress, svengali filmmaker and the cinematic properties of silent film-making. Its a rather clever fold, yeah? A film about an inner film of love that both references and includes a landmark film. Its being made in Joyce's Dublin by a character played by Vanessa Redgrave.More our guy is particularly fond of Singing in the Rain.The fact that the girl in this case is profoundly unsexy and unappealing in most ways deepens the notion for me.It works, if you let it.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Really excellent, captivating movie, makes you think and feel","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I got in one hour after it had started. It starred Harvey Keitel, whom I especially like and wanted to watch it because of him. Then Wilem DaFoe was there also, second reason to continue watching. Then, again, Mandy Patikin, number three great actor. I liked the character Harvey was playing, a soft spoken, quiet man, much different than many of his other characters. It was more like his character in 'The Piano'. I was pulled in and couldn't stop watching. I didn't know what had come before, so couldn't completely understand it, but just had to keep watching. As in a mystery, I thought I knew what was going on and I knew I had to see the entire movie at that point. It's more like a play than a movie, and excellently done. Great cinematography. Great suspense. Stunning finish. Really made me think and feel deeply. "},{"Title":"Disappointment of a lifetime","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Being an eager fan of Paul Austers writing I was very excited to get a chance to watch a film which he had both written and directed. All of his novels are clever, philosophical, and thrilling at the same time.This movie, however, was a huge disappointment! The whole story, the script, and especially the pretentious acting made the watching of this film a semi-horror. Sorry to say, my idol, Paul Auster obviously has achieved a master degree in writing novels, while the form of a movie script seems to suit him all too badly.My hopes for the future are twofold either Mr. Auster learns from this experience how to do better movies or, simply, he'll stick to what he does best writing novels!As for all of you who have only seen this film and not read any of his novels go now! to the library and dig in! "},{"Title":"Passing Grade","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I first separate films such as this (some refer to them as art films) into two categories. Does the maker(s) take the attitude, I'm an insightful, sensitive genius and if you fail to notice you're an imbecile. or does he/she/they make an attempt to have the work be interesting and thought provoking to the average person? I put LULU in the latter category. It seems to me the work was truly trying to place some positive human attributes, aspirations, etc., above this life of suffering and sorrow. The acting was also exceptionally good.But even if a film passes the sincerity test, it does not necessarily mean it works and/or is a great film. LULU lacks the sheer audacity of a David Lynch flick, the disturbing impact of a Von Triar movie or the passion of a Herzog effort (I'd throw Aranofsky in, but he's really mainstream). Its enjoyable enough to watch but I didn't find myself torturing myself later on to find answers because I just don't think there was enough behind LULU's creation to make examination efforts worthwhile. I am left with some pleasant thoughts of love and life angst. But LULU just doesn't qualify as a heavy; e.g., like BLUE VELVET, DOGVILLE, or GRIZZLY MAN. Would definitely watch another film by this dude though. "}{"Title":"a stone is not enough...","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" ...even if it's mystic. if you always have to find a moral or a message in a movie, you may find this one in here. but this not what makes this movie fantastic. for me this is the quiet tone, the realistic unrealistic (dream)world, the metaphors, the profound humor and the actors. the cast of character is great Harvey Keitel, Mira Sorvino, Gina Gershon, Sophie Auster, Vanessa Redgrave, Willem Dafoe & Lou Reed (as not Lou reed;). exspecially Harvey keitel & Mira Sorvino are 'extraordinary' good. the movie refers to Frank Wedekinds drama 'Die Büchse der Pandora' which the man from Izzy's ex wife wants to film new with the title lulu on the bridge. as auster names his movie the same way, you can hint that he indirectly refers to that drama to. but you can enjoy the film without knowing the drama. like any other stuff from auster the movie works on more than one level. there's the dream that pretends to be reality - by the way there's no reality in movies, it's always fiction, even if it pretends to be realistic or/and authentic. auster is playing with this 'knowledge'. so the unrealistic breaks into realty, to show you hey, this is fiction, enjoy it. besides that the movie of course tells a story about the L word, bittersweet. i don't think that the plot is confusing, in my opinion it is quiet simple, if you learn from auster to watch behind the things and see the obviously hidden.the plot (SPOILER!) - of course simplifiedjazz musician Izzy gets shot on a concert. as the result of this he can no longer play his instrument, his career is over. he's hiding in his flat, not answering the phone. so his ex wife, that don't love him anymore, but still cares about him, shows up, to bring him back to life. after spending a evening dinner with her new family, on his way home, he finds a dead man in a back street. he takes the bag that lies beneath the man. there he finds two things, a phone number and a weird stone. in the night the stone is glowing blue (a naughty little beggar who things of austers earlier movies smoke/blue in the face;). next day he calls the number he had found. it belongs to Celia, a fan of Izzy's music. she invites him to her apartment. when he arrives there, Izzy gets very angry & wants an explanation from her about the stone. of course she has none. then they both touch the stone and feeling better after wards (mhm...what the stone might be standing for?). so the story goes, they fall in love. Celia wants to be an actress, but is not very successful yet. she tells him about an upcoming audition she's going to have for a movie lulu on the bridge (see above). as Izzy knows the producer & the director, he helps her to get the job. Celia leaves to Ireland, where the movie is shot. Izzy wants to sell his flat & then follow her to Ireland. but before that happens, he get caught by some evil looking men, that want the mystique stone (surprise, surprise). they lock Izzy into an empty hall & and a guy named Dr. Van Horn (the names of the characters are awesome chosen) question him about his life (so we learn more about Izzy's past & what a man he has been). the doctor knows more about Izzy than Izzy himself, even things that Izzy pretend to forget (so we see that this is not reality, but a dream). in the meantime Celia is very upset, because she don't know what had happened to Izzy. she things he might not love her any more. then one night she throws the stone into a river (...maybe because a stone is not enough to remember a beloved person...even if it's mystic - the stone & the person). later on the evil men finally found out about Celia & chasing her to the bridge where she has thrown the stone into the river, now she's throwing herself after... not the end.if you think this is a sad story, don't forget, it's just a movie, it never really happened. and if that makes you sad, you may watch a funny movie to cheer you up or better, simply fall in love. or you can search for weird looking stones. and if anybody you like asks you what's that? you can answer a blue glowing stone. and if the person then asks what can it do? you can say glowing blue of course. and we can touch it & feeling much better after wards......as you may have recognized, I like the movie, so watch it, if you get the chance! "},{"Title":"A rough jewel; charismatic, intriguing, but scrappy...","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Unreleased theatrical feature, first seen on cable-TV and video, isn't particularly well-made yet has a mysterious quality and fine performances which make it worth-finding. Harvey Keitel plays a jazz musician sidelined by a gunshot wound who hooks up with waitress/actress Mira Sorvino by chance. Film's objective is to show the criss-crossing patterns of human lives, as well as being a modern-day play on Pandora's Box. It features plenty of emotion and feeling, and it works wonders despite some crass dialogue and a finale that isn't really satisfying (it feels truncated). However, the central relationship between Keitel and Sorvino is tremendously charismatic; Keitel in particular is surprisingly warm and real. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, but take the chance.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The kind of film that leaves its audience speechless. You'll either love the dark, often gothic overtones of this mysterious world, or hate the seemingly gaping holes in the plot. Agatha Christie this isn't, but rather a film of emotion, suspense and wonder. Brilliant acting all round, striking cinematography, and a soundtrack to kill for. Enjoy it, and don't ask too many questions. "},{"Title":"A Rip Off","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Sure it was suspenseful. It was fascinating for about 90 minutes until the anthropologist (Defoe) grilled our protagonist (Keitel) about his childhood and his relationship with his brother and father. Then I knew that I had been had! The writer and directors had adopted a staple of the soap operas and TV movies, but instead of just a little dream sequence, the whole thing was a dream sequence. The whole story came crashing down when I realized that the only mystery in the movie was choosing between Keitel imagining this as he lay on the night club floor or laying in the hospital bed. I hate dream sequences. One can do anything with them. People fascinated with this movie after seeing the distasteful ending are deluding themselves. Shame on the director. Go back to the soaps. "},{"Title":"Captivating, certainly worth viewing","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I'm am not familiar with any previous work done by the writer/director so I began with no expectations. No, I've not read the book.As it goes, I happened to catch this film on IFC channel. Honestly, I can'e explain why a title with the word LULU in it caught my attention, but it did, and it made me look twice. I realized it was a film with Mira Sorvino so I thought Ok, this could be good.I quickly realized I was entering the realm of films like Memento, where you really aren't quite sure what's going on... and answers are coming slowly. I realize Memento came later in 2000, but it's the style I'm talking about, not a similarity to Memento's plot.Overall, the casting was surprisingly dead-on perfect with every role! While viewing, I thought there we a couple of over the top melodrama moments... but, that all came together by the end and made sense.Essentially, the film is a puzzle... A nice little what-if jigsaw puzzle that you see slowly dropping into place. The questions... They were such a perfect vehicle to convey what was really going on with Izzy... we find out what's in his head and his heart... what he's done and what he desires... what he became and what he regrets... his experiences of love and his loss...In the final scene... as the last jigsaw puzzle piece is finally laid down... I was profoundly moved. The connection is made, and in a flash all the symbolism makes sense. I suddenly understood what I was really experiencing. This moment of realization was very important to me personally because I too was now connected. It was an epiphany. It was joy.Not may films have left me feeling this way. Kudos.Job well done by all involved! "},{"Title":"Love this movie - well parts of it.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I just love this movie. Well parts of it. The entire movie, up until Izzy get's kidnapped, is great. I, believe it or not, did feel the connection between Izzy and Celia. I love Willem Defoe, however it just dragged after that point. I bought the book, have the soundtrack, just love love love it. I especially love the restaurant scene where Izzy loses his temper. Funny. "},{"Title":"Lovely; Tragic; Haunting.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I usually avoid relationship movies like the plague, but films like this have made me rethink my position. This one is difficult to watch because it's so well done. In some ways it reminded me of Somewhere in Time (or Romeo and Juliette) the perfect couple are torn apart by a (seemingly) uncaring world. This movie adds a little something of its own - but I agree with others in saying it shouldn't be revealed here lest it spoil the effect for first-time viewers. One thing I couldn't get over, though, was the many things that were never explained (not to my satisfaction, anyway - but maybe that's a good thing) Who's the doctor/scientist (or what did he represent), what's up with the rock (or what did it represent), etc., etc. ... Okay, I'll desist! But it's definitely one I'd recommend. The acting was unsurpassed. I've been impressed with everything I've seen of Harvey Keitel's work; I've only seen Mira Sorvino in this film but so far so good; she was right up to par with Keitel. Both of them made it all hypnotically real. "},{"Title":"wonderfully abstract, Paul Auster is amazing","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is really quite amazing.  It is definitely not your typical hollywood storyline, so you have to be pretty open-minded.  With this film, Auster was able to conjure up some very deep emotions, but it is very abstract.  You might have to watch it twice to get more out of it.  I have seen many parallels between this and his novels, so if you enjoyed this movie, try reading City of Glass. "},{"Title":"Avoid the Director's commentary","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  As much as I like Harvey Keitel, I gave LuLu a run because John Lurie and Richard Edson have a way of ending up in cool off beat films (with the subtle caveat that Edson has done a ton of trash but usually not with Lurie in tow).  On the other hand, Auster has never excited me.  Smoke was in no way memorable and neither Wayne Wang, Lou Reed, Lili Tomlin, or Jim Jarmusch could elevate Blue in the Face beyond the mundane.  Yet, truth be told, the state of cinema is so bad these days that Auster's mundane is leagues above main stream Hollywood, thus I return to his work.  That being said, this effort is an absolute waste of time.  The ending was no surprise and why was that? Because of a little film called Jacob's Ladder.  If you have seen this work by Adrian Lyne then spare yourself this low brow rip off.  If you haven't seen it, do so and save yourself from this low brow rip off.  Whatever you do, do not listen to the director's commentary on the DVD version.  I hope Auster was drunk because what little dribble he managed to focus on the ethos and pathos of the film, was so insipid as to make it difficult to ever trust his work again.  This was my first experience of a DVD providing me too much information by removing any benefit of doubt I had given his writing.  Alas, another writer/director falls upon the dung heap of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"It's Still The Same Old Story","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  How you feel about this film may depend on your tolerance for its plot, one that has become very familiar in recent years (two words Sixth Sense). That said, this particular version of the idea, chronicling the romance between a jazz musician played by Harvey Keitel and a struggling actress played by Mira Sorvino, is murkier than it needs to be. Their scenes together are very convincing but once the film has played out, what has gone before doesn't make a whole lot of sense. There are a lot of familiar faces in the cast including Vanessa Redgrave, Gina Gershon and for music fans, Don Byron, Lou Reed and David Byrne. "}{"Title":"Wonderful little gem of a film","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Paul Auster has earned himself a good reputation for making films about everyday people. With Lulu on the bridge he didn't disappoint me. Leaving the cinema I felt a strange aftermath and wasn't sure whether I really liked watching it. The film continued to haunt me, in a very positive sense, for the next day, and I started to appreciate its qualities genuine acting, believable characters, and, if you believe in magic (it's everywhere, you just have to look for it), there's a good dose of that, too.Harvey Keitel, Mira Sorvino, and, of course, Willem Dafoe, carry this film, but let us not forget the supporting cast of Vanessa Redgrave (she's always wonderful!), Mandy Patinkin, and Gina Gershon.A wonderful little gem of a film. Not just for Paul Auster fans. "},{"Title":"Love and Loss, and the little stone that makes it real.","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Keitel, Dafoe, and especially, Sorvino carry this film.  Those who criticize their performances as emotionless don't seem to understand that episodes of love in 'real' peoples' lives need not be filled with overt rapture.  In other words (appropriate to this film), we don't need to be re-creating Gene Kelly's 'Singing in the Rain' scene when fate brings us into those moments of untainted happiness.  The actors brought to their roles exactly what was necessary.  The film is about the unpredictable yet apparently fatalistic turns life can take.  Though we might not be able to say what is going to happen next with each passing scene, there is some method (guided by an inanimate object in this film) to the madness.  As the viewer, you sense, for better or worse, that the characters are inexorably moving toward an end, traversing both love and loss on their journey.  This film will either captivate or alienate the viewer, just rent it and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Great little movie, reminiscent of Kieslowski's work","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie on a whim because I like Harvey Keitel and Willem Defoe...I found it somewhat reminiscent of Kieslowski's Colors trilogy, or The Double Life of Veronique, and fans of these movies will definitely like this one. The movie's ending (which I won't give away) turns what you think is an interesting set of plot twists into a dreamy, allegorical tale that stays with you for a while. All in all, an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Change in Feelings","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  At first I didn't really like the movie, however it's one of those movies that you keep thinking about long after you have seen it.  I couldn't get it out of my mind and kept having flash backs to the bedroom conversation and the rock episode.  Then I finally watched it again and it all made sense. I did a complete 180, and now it is one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"thank you, Paul Auster","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Reading the negative comments to this movie is the most baffling experience those who hate it seem to take action flicks as comparisons, talking about holes in the plot or whatever else that is pointless, failing to understand that this movie comes closer to poetry than most. Needless to say, the script is superb and Paul Auster shows to be a modern master of the literary genre, excelling as much on the screen as he does on paper (the scenes with Dafoe and Keitel are stunning, Dafoe telling the firefly story is memorable) this movie is all about reality and exactly because it feels so real it couldn't care less about realism. I watched Lulu with an open heart and it was all clear to me, all the words made perfect sense. But criticizing this Paul Auster gem because of your typical, run-of-the-mill Hollywood expectations is nothing but a crime. "},{"Title":"Poor Direction and Writing","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  If you need an example of how a director and script can make excellent actors perform flatly, this is the movie for you.Excellent actors Keitel, Dafoe, and Sorvino have their performances ruined by an indecipherable script and lousy direction.Save your money and your time. "},{"Title":"Respected actors but no plot solution","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Lulu On the Bridge had all kinds of potential but didn't go anywhere near fulfilling them.  The actors were all of very high caliber but they were not given a story line that made any sense in the end.  Even trying to complete the story after the end of the film proved almost impossible.  There were so many possibilities the time needed to create a viable conclusion would be far too much even if one felt the exercise worth the effort.  "},{"Title":"A thoughtful and magical film by a talented artist.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Paul Auster's film is nothing short of genius, both in its unconventional structure and its intelligent examination of a 'life that might have been' through its main character, 'Izzy' and his idyll, 'Celia'. The narrative is suffused with magical details which propel the story along, keeping the viewer thinking all the time. The two main actors give engaging performances that succeed in creating the film's intimate atmosphere, well-supported by beautiful cinematography. 'Lulu' should appeal to viewers interested in thoughtful stories that work on a number of intellectual and emotional levels.  An outstanding film rendering Auster's immense talent.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good debut by Auster!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Lulu, as I prefer to call it, is a sentimental, yet mysterious movie. One  has to feel that this is Auster in a nutshell, covering humans dark sides  as well as their fabulous way of finding meaning.  Auster has done a good job when it comes to the actors and actresses, they  are perfect. The soundtrack is perhaps the factor that makes the darkness  of the movie even more conclusive. Whenever the CD is out, I have to buy it!  Overall, Auster did a pretty good job with Lulu. Recommended, also for non -Auster fans.  "},{"Title":"A movie best avoided!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" There are bad movies. And then there are those that go beyond. This is one such film. If any hopes are held that Harvey Kietel's presence itself will imply some quality, they are belied here!It's a poor movie in so many ways. To begin with, the storyline is ridiculous - there's barely any plot, and still the movie drags on and on. Dialogues are mediocre - there are several occasions when Harvey breaks down based on words which seem absolutely mundane! So, we've a poor storyline, and poor dialogues - what's left? Yes, the acting. That's sketchy too, in case you were hopeful! not one single character seems to fit into his or her role...there's a whole bunch of uneasy actors trying to make a movie tick!in a word, i'd say - avoid this movie with all your might! "}{"Title":"Michelangelo's The Thinker","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I rented this DVD online and after it arrived I wondered what possessed me to order it at the time. The odd title and the seemingly droll storyline of a depressed musician was my first reflection of memory, but knew I HAD to have had a good reason to rent it. Knowing nothing of the artsy stuff in the movie realm, I do appreciate art when I see it and feel it ... and this movie has art written all over it. In viewing the great sculpture of The Thinker, this movie was sculptured with caring hands/thought and designed by a true thinking and uniquely creative artist.One area of imperfection here is that the sex scenes could have been lessened and shortened as I felt it took much away from the movie's fine craft(iness). Fast-forward 2x, 4x all the way to 8x .. sex scene way too long. Padding or filler .. should have been on the editing cutter's floor.This movie was more of a sculpture made of marble or bronze or perhaps gold? ... or silver? It has a beauty that is not easily defined or describable, but when viewed it leaves one with a distinct impression of stunning and thoughtful awe. After viewing, I asked myself how could the title have been made better, but the symbolism involved of the one scene makes the title appropriate and yet carved with a slight Mona Lisa grin.Harvey Keitel's character was unique and I can't imagine anyone else being able to pull it off as he managed to do. I watched the movie as it unfolded each new particle of new thought to bridge to another, leaving me with using my own skills to fill in pieces and parts .. which was really enjoyable to do! And then, the surprise at the end, which I won't reveal, was charming and captivating. This one I'll definitely watch again before returning it in the mail and am considering buying it for my library. If you don't like symbolism, and are not a deep thinker, you'll not like this movie. This one is definitely a Criterion Collection formula. I can't say enough about it, but yet can't convey in words to properly give it the kudos that it deserves. Not a 10 vote, but a 15 or 20! "},{"Title":"Plot too mixed up.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I was hoping the story line would pick up, but scenes were thrown in that didn't make sense, or didn't provide answers. True, no chemistry between Mira Sorvina and Harvey Keitel. I figured having heavyweights like Vanessa Redgrave, Willem Defoe, Gina Gershon, and Mandy Pantikin would add some depth, but their talents were wasted on a very abstract story. Overall, I was very disappointed. I expected more of this movie, because Vanessa Redgrave, Willem Defoe, and Gia Gershon are very good at doing independent and unusual movies. Anytime I see the name Vanessa Redgrave, I figure I'm in for a good movie. But I was let down completely by the story and cast! "},{"Title":"Paul Auster directs","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Some authors, as is the case with Paul Auster, can involve a reader with a novel. Mr. Auster, with a few exceptions, has produced a body of work that will be his legacy. Alas, this is not going to be the case of his directorial career. Like Julian Schnabel, a painter turned film director, Paul Auster seems to be a logical candidate for bringing his stories to the screen, but as proved by this effort, one hopes he keeps his day time job.The large, talented cast of Lulu on the Bridge can't overcome some of the problems the film presents. The mixture of a thriller with esoterica sounds like an intriguing idea for a film, but as one witness the movie unfolds it's clear these elements don't mix well together under the director's guidance with the screen play he wrote. The film has moments in which it transcends and shows a promise of working, but in the end, it's too contrived for its own good.Even an intense performer like Harvey Keitel is bogged down by a character that doesn't awake much interest in the viewer. Mira Sorvino is, in our humble opinion, terribly miscast. There is no chemistry between the two main characters. William Dafoe, Victor Argo, Vanessa Redgrave, Lou Reed, Gina Gershon are seen in minor roles. "},{"Title":"Awesome multi-layered film","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  ***MAJOR SPOILERS***A lot of people seem to compare this to Jacob's Ladder. I understand the connection but what makes Lulu On The Bridge a better film (in my opinion of course) is that it's not only about Harvey Keitel's character but also about Mira Sorvino's and her longing for someone she can be in love with. She's indeed not just a fantasy but a real person as the final scene confirms. I think the combination and interaction of these two characters makes this film much more intense than Jacob's Ladder. As for the people who think the ending is a plot twist - I can't believe it wasn't already clear to them what this was all about. There are many many hints throughout the film (maybe too many actually) to make sure you understand that it's all just taking place in the head of Harvey Keitel's character. It's a bit sickening to see that a shallow movie like The Sixth Sense with Bruce Willis is considered as being more subtle than this when it's just as predictable but also much emptier.I'm really looking forward to seeing Paul Auster's next film ! "},{"Title":"It's been done before...","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  In a brilliant film called Jacob's Ladder. Paul Auster is a fine novelist but to ride on the coat-tails of JL seems to be beneath him. Some novels should just never be made into a movie. This one is one of them.  "},{"Title":"Do not watch, it is bad bad bad.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Bad bad movie.  Idiotic, adolescent dialog, stupid story, ridiculously sappy, unbelievable.  A frightening and sad waste of marvelous acting talent.  It is very difficult to make the connection between this and the wonderful smoke movies (Blue in the face and Smoke).  Only for that connection did I watch this waste of time.  This may be the all time worst movie I have seen.  It is worse than The Deep End.  By the time I got to the plot twist at the end, I could not care at all about any of the characters, I was just glad this horror had ended. "},{"Title":"Remarkably disturbing film with a terrible title!!..","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I caught this film on HBO and it was really quite a remarkable experience.  I had never heard of it before, and checking the External Reviews Link, I'm surprised so little of the mass critic media never reviewed it, such as Roger Ebert.The title of this film is completely deceptive.. you'd think it's a kiddie film.. trust me, it's anything but.  It has NOTHING to do with Little LuLu or kids for that matter.This is a deeply disturbing, involving, dark, mysterious mystery/romance/thriller with some fantasy elements, but totally without glitz or pretension, beautifully filmed and acted, with a twist ending right out of Ambrose Bierce. Saying any more about the plot would spoil it, so that's all you get out of me..I will say this.. if you enjoyed Jacobs Ladder you'll like this one. Even more so, if the title Occurance At Owl Creek Bridge means anything to you, then you'll know what I'm talking about.As to the two leads Mira Sorvino is absolutely stunningly beautiful and radiant and you simply can NOT take your eyes off her.. she goes through a myriad of hairstyles and styles of clothing, everything from bed-wear (lingerie), to around-town casual, to elaborate film costuming (she acts in a film towards the end of _this_ film), and she is totally convincing, believable, and riveting.Harvey Keitel delivers an absolutely gut-wrenching performance - as good as anything I've ever seen him do.. considering the emotions required of his character, and what he's put through, he too is totally convincing and riveting.  Here you have a pair of leads who spend a LOT of on-screen time together in a VERY complicated and mysterious relationship and they meld with each other almost perfectly.The supporting cast is also excellent.  Willem DaFoe does fine work in one of his dark, sinister trademark characters.  The other big-name actors, including a cameo by Lou Reed as Not Lou Reed are solid as you could want.This is an engrossing, engaging, adult film that for some reason, the critics almost completely ignored.  Why?  If you sit down to watch it, watch it from end to end without interruptions.. you will be drawn into it, and involved and aborbed in it and when it ends, quite unexpectedly, you'll be left with some very interesting emotions.  If only they had given it a more suitable title..9 out of 10 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Will It Ever End?","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I know that it was not, but it seemed like this film was about six hours long. Now by saying that, I am not implying you get your money's worth, quite the opposite. What I want to know, is how you could put together a cast this interesting and make a film so boring. I would feed you the plot, but it would bore you so much you would stop reading this review. Meanwhile, the Academy Award Winning Mira Sorvino (choke choke gasp gasp) is more and more being referenced with I can't believe the Academy actually gave her an award. Cheer up, Mira, Angelina Jolie got one as well, she will take some heat off of you. * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Between a Rock and a Hard Place","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie gives new meaning to that phrase.  An excellent movie that makes you think.  Well acted, well directed.  The movie has scenes that represent feelings, thoughts, and concepts.  It's not a dream with wild scenes for art's sake.  That would be precocious. It's not meant to follow traditional story lines.  The story gives the audience a feel for one man's regrets and one woman's compassion.   "},{"Title":"I will say that it kept me enthralled","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  On a Sunday afternoon I was captivated by a film starring Harvey Keitel. Being a big fan of his work I watched...and watched...and watched as a very convoluted story unfolded.  It seemed too long and told enough to get you interested, but not enough to fill you in.  I will say that I have attempted to watch it again to gather the meaning and plot of the film, but gave up remembering the disappointing ending.I would suggest this to anyone who is up for a confusing film.  The acting is great, the story has too many holes. "}{"Title":"Auster is so awesome","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie for free it was premiered only last week,  (August 99) in Chile in the artsy flicks circuit.  I never thought it was going to be so great,  I thought it would be like Smoke but this one is so much better,  it is a really magical love story,  Izzy makes up this girl while he´s dying but you don´t know if she´s real or if she ever met him,  it is really a nice movie.  If you want to see good movies at theaters do not come to Chile because you´ll only see blockbuster films,  such as 13 Warriors or Titanic. "},{"Title":"Auster demonstrates his talent behind the camera...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" After taking part on Smoke and directing Blue in the face Paul Auster kept on feeding his cinematographic interests with this Lulu on the Bridge. He count one more time on his friend Harvey Keitel who plays a jazz musician whose life gets shattered because of a shot. He'll get his energies back thanks to a delicious an adorable girl called Celia (Mira Sorvino, why don't they hire her for the big productions? Jesus, she's a hell of an actress, and so gorgeous!!).Lulu is a story that deals with real, intense and true love, full of symbols (nothing is as it seems here). The beginning of the movie, when Izzy (Keitel) and Celia meet is much more interesting and moving than the final parts, which are a little bit confusing.Auster demonstrates his talent behind the camera and his good taste choosing actors and music.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"THE love story!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" If I rate this movie up to 10 on 10, it's because i consider this movie as the best love story ever. Well, i must admit that my over-sized romantic side may be kind of subjective.. But when you see Izzy and Celia looking at each over that way.... You can see true love, the one, the best, the last.(Great actors!!!) And all of the magical stuff is just an allegory to thelove at first sight and the intangible way of falling in loveIzzy isn't handsome...(well, Harvey is full of charisma, but...) Celia is divine(Who couldn't fall in love with her when she smiles?) They are forevermore in love.... Then Willem Dafoe comes...Satan...the splitter(that's what Satan means). Hard times... This film is not an easy going film, it's just beautiful. Celia, i will always love you, i wish i had been Izzy for half a minute... "},{"Title":"Firefly Paradox","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Ignore the dreck comments about this movie, and especially anythingwhich connects LULU to JACOB'S LADDER, a film whose ending so completely and utterly sucked that you could feel the wind for miles. Talk about pretentious, mechanical drivel (JACOB'S ending will forever be a cheap out, even to the most lame-brained b-movie hack writers who'd have sniffed such a metaphysical cop-out coming for half the movie). But enough about JACOB'S LADDER.LULU is written by a writer, directed by a writer, and features a male character, a directionless Jazz sax player whose life is scum-slathered, gray rest-rooms beneath dungeon-like clubs in NY; one night he sees the photograph of a beautiful woman he does not know taped to a wall while taking a leak. Harvey Keitel is nearly assassinated onstage by a demented shooter in the audience. After that, his entire life changes, he meets the beautiful girl, and he worships her.Here's the thing Keitel WORSHIPS her, this woman, her beauty, the preternatural immenseness. This young woman captures the hard face of Keitel in her hands and is fulfilled by him, a man like him with nothing to equal what she is, not even his music; in fact, his music means nothing, it is merely how he is able to elevate himself out of the thick dirty rest-room so that this woman can see him and (through a transcendental mutual encounter with a glowing rock, about the only way a man like Keitel might have a chance to be with her by pure coincidence) love him for his kindness and total devotion and loyalty.Auster's a novelist; he writes damn fine movies. He's not trying to mimic or reproduce real life. He's a writer who understands the power of a two-dimensional character or situation hit by a 3D meteor from beyond their understanding, and the character's emergence as a human being from that instant of understanding. LULU ON THE BRIDGE is a poignant, believable, and wrenching story of adoration for a woman who seems to drop down like a UFO, all mystery and the unknown (as the connection is made to Louise Brook's dark mistress from PANDORA'S BOX) to abduct Keitel and show him things he'd never know, in his lonely night world. It's pointed out that only once before did the man Keitel plays encounter glowing beauty, and desire it as a child,trying to catch fireflies and put them in a jar, to look at. He was never able to catch his own fireflies, and it is that haunting symbol of loss, that empty jar, that is the grown man who is filled by the beautiful woman from nowhere. And then the jar shatters. A great movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is good. It changes from the classical Hollywood style. I liked the story. Good interpretation from the actors.The story is sometimes hard to follow, but it is interesting. I very like the division in two parts, the first one shows what happens if Izzy survives and the second shows what happens if he doesn't. It is interresting to see the idea of Paul Auster. That is good that Paul Auster adapted his own movie. This way, there is no interpretation, the movie is equal to the first idea of the writer.That's bad to see that the independent movies aren't distributed the same way than the Hollywood ones.This is a good movie in the style of Paul Auster writing "},{"Title":"Kafkaesque Dream","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Most of the criticism I see for this film is from people looking for objectivity  where it doesn't belong.Do you find Plot Holes in dreams? A fine little gem.A Noirish love story with magical overtones that works on many levels.The reference to the classic silent film Pandora's Box with Louise Brooks is fascinating.One thing-On the DVD version there are several deleted scenes.One has Mira Sorvino as a prostitute in a shabby apartment with two male characters not in the final cut.Where would this have been intended? "},{"Title":"Bad acting, misguided, trite","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is basically 3 or 4 bad movies rammed into one incomprehensible mess. This story can't decide if it is about a soulful musician learning to deal with loss, or a needy ingenue looking for acting work, or some X-files type creepy guys and a glowing stone. Although the movie has fine actors, none of them live up to their names or reputations. The acting is stilted, unemotionless, and trite.The ending is a seriously big let down. Basically, the whole movie is nothing.  Avoid this and see something with some real depth about the afterlife, like Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure II or such.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing and worth viewing","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film very enjoyable and also challenging. Whether this is by accident or intention I won't pretend to know, but watching this film is quite an interesting and enjoyable experience. Rather than filling the screen with explosions and forecasting every plot twist three or four times so even the least attentive viewing will get the point, this film takes a different approach. It wraps the viewer in ambiance and possibility, leaving them to determine the meanings and possible meaning of the events. It's nice to find a film that doesn't hold a low opinion of viewers. We don't have to be taken by hand and walked through every scene. Imagination and subtlety are also part of film, and I for one am glad to see films like this that challenge and respect the audience.  "},{"Title":"I felt I had to work too hard...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Not that I don't like to work, but this movie has too many loose ends to warrant the praise heaped upon it. It reminds me of being back in Freshman English 101. A lot of pretension flying around. On the positive side, the acting is marvelous. The rest is muddled, IMHO. "},{"Title":"Wasn't This a Twilight Zone Episode?","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  ******Minor Spoilers************ I liked the atmosphere in Lulu on the Bridge more than anything else. The atmosphere of New York City, of jazz, of Harvey Keitel. Too bad it didn't have a better script, it could have been a real good movie and a hit. It's a fantastical tale about the near-fatal gunshot wounding of jazz saxophonist, Keitel, that leaves him with a perforated lung, and unable to perform. He's depressed, but then his ex-wife takes him to dinner and on the way home he finds a dead body (with a perfect hole through the head) and a package containing a very mysterious blue glowing and levitating stone. And then things take a turn for the weird, including an improbable love affair with the Mira Sorvino character.  I wanted to like this movie more than I did. It was hurt by a weak script, and a director who couldn't overcome it. "}{"Title":"Arthouse misfire","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  It's pretty easy to see why this went straight to cable. Lulu on the Bridge tries desperately to be profound and mystical and ends up being a weird jumble that simply makes no sense. The cast is game and quite watchable, especially Harvey Keitel and Willem Dafoe, but the story is so convoluted that the viewer (at least this one) is left confused and disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed bemusement at such a waste of potential","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This may be the first film since Darkman that is bad enough to warrant my posting about it.  If you don't have a good reason for watching this film don't.The cast is undoubtedly fabulous and they all seemed to relish their roles.  The direction and production are technically capable or better.  The problems are the story and the screenplay.  The story is awful with too many essential points left unexplained.  A bit like the suitcase with the golden glow in Pulp Fiction, except there's no sense of wonder.  And the screenplay seems to pick up on the lack of wonder, as it is dry and banal.  The only reason I stayed until the end was that parts of the film were set in Dublin (which was fairly faithfully represented).  "},{"Title":"A fable, a fraud, a huge disappointment.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Lulu on the Bridge is pointless nonsense featuring some fine acting talent which is stifled by the absence of a worthy story. Anybody could have written this piece of amateurish drivel which is no more than a contemporary fairy tale. Granted there are good and bad fairy tales. This is a bad one which is why anyone could have written it. Recommended for no one. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I saw that movie in 1998 and since I can't get it out of my mind. The story is complete, you don't have the feeling to be puzzled as in Lynch's movies and that you're missing the biggest part.This movie had a weird effect on me, some weeks ago (seven years after having seen it), I needed to begin playing saxophone and some days after, a story about a stone such as the one in the movie obsessed me, I'm going to write a novel based on it.I don't really know why but this movie, and only this movie, changed my life.The actress is so beautiful she'll hardly come out of my head too, and I find Harvey Keitel very good in this movie, he fits his role perfectly. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  It is unique opportunity to see good American movie. For thinking, not brainless people. I haven't seen for a long time an american movie I wouln't be able to guess the ending. This one really surprised me. I see two parralels to other artists.My first impression - this film has a lot of Krzysztof Kieslowski spirit. I can see the same sadness of loneliness in Mira Sorvino's eyes as in Irene Jacob eyes in Double life of Veronique. LULU tells the same story - how lonely we are on this planet.Second impression - the movie is similar to The Sixth Sense in matter of post mortem life. It's hard to guess what is real, and what is imagination.Great movie for thinking people. Very positive surprise. And Lou Reed as not Lou Reed - great joke. "},{"Title":"Bad script, nice atmosphere","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Whereas I agree with many critical voices stating the script would be a bit unlikely, I just loved the mood and atmosphere of the movie. Of course, Keitel and Sorvino are so different that only magic can make them fall for each other. But what happens then is just very charming and touching. It is similar to recent blockbuster Amelie You just have to buy the setting to get a delightful time with the movie. And certainly, Sorvino, Keitel and Dafoe are fun to watch. "},{"Title":"love on film","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  i can think of no movie that better captures an incredibly powerful love between two people.  I was speechless at times and brought to tears at others.  The most powerful movie I have seen since Il Postino... mira sorvino completely reinvents herself once again.  and keitel doesnt get undressed for a change so it was great all around =) "},{"Title":"Did I like it or did not?","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I've read through all the comments, and I agree with the most of them, the good and the bad ones. I also think that the first thought is the film is a rather boring piece, but it's true that some of the scenes hit soundly and live in your mind for months, and that the last minute make the rest of the movie more interesting. The movie also reminds me some of Kieslowski's works. "},{"Title":"American creativity","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Let's be honest  90 % or recent American films are just formulas. There's no surprise, no sense of creativity.Director Auster is not part of it I saw his Smoke and it was very fine. Here, he sets a story a little bit away from Hollywood clichés. I love the many references to Louise Brooks and her film Pandora's Box. Sorivino, in the way miss Brooks was a femme fatale without knowing it, did the same thing with the same sense of innocence. And like the men in Pandora's box, Harvey Keitel goes crazy for her. Auster ads some strange parts which made his movie fascinating. This is what I mean by creativity and it's good to see that some Americans can still go on that way, while mainstream American cinema is such a bore. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film even if you don't look for Auster's deeper meanings","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Lulu on the Bridge is so beautiful and so confusing at times. The beauty comes from the great acting and also from the warmness of the ambiance between the characters. The movie is a book by Auster that is visually broadened. Sorvino and Keitel fit in gracefully to their roles and their interaction is so real and beautiful. What makes the movie so embracing is this interaction. And Auster's script is what makes this interaction and the whole mood of the movie possible.Unfortunately people who are not accustomed to Auster's style may find the movie full of plot holes and loose ends which are actually what Auster leaves to his audience to think about and sometimes fill in by themselves, according to themselves.Even for the 'plot holes' and ambiguities, this film is worth watching just for the acting and the mood. And if you are an Auster fan, don't ever miss this great piece. "}{"Title":"A movie that forces you to suspend disbelief","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  A movie that forces you to suspend disbelief, told equally in words and images, and paced with a subtle rhythm. There is not one superfluous word, but many beautiful close-ups, and all is framed by an engaging story about a musician who has lost his gift of music, an actress who goes to Dublin to play Lulu, and a mysterious stone. "},{"Title":"Mystical","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this film, even though the ending seems abrupt and unsatisfying.  The performances, especially by Harvey Keitel and Mira Sorvino, are truely exceptional and the mystical mood of the film is compelling.The weak spot is the screenplay, which has as many plot holes as a hunk o' swiss cheese.  Still, I would watch Lulu again for the acting and ambiance alone.   "},{"Title":"File it under the letter O, for Otherworldly, in the Twilight Zone.","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS** Strange little movie that has to do with a man who's forced to see himself for who he really is not who he want's people, as well as himself, to think what's he's really not. Famous jazz saxophone player Izzy Maurer, Harvey Keitel,is doing his gig at a Greenwich Village night spot when this deranged lunatic bursts in with a gun blazing away and catches Izzy with a bullet in his left-lung and then turns the gun on himself. Izzy recovering from this life-threatening injury at a local NYC hospital is told that his left lung had to be removed and that he'll never be able to play the saxophone again. This to Izzy is like being told that he died. Alone and depressed Izzy walks the streets of New York aimlessly until one night when he comes across this body in a dark alley shot dead with a bullet in his head. Checking out the stiffs wallet Izzy finds out that the dead mans name is Stanley Mar and among his personal effects is a napkin with a telephone number written on it and a small box that has a smaller box in it with a small red-striped stone. At his apartment Izzy finds that the stone has these strange magical powers that he just can't phantom and then calls the phone number on Mar's napkin to find that it belongs to a Celia Burns, Mira Sorvino. Celia is ironically listening to a CD of Izzy's music when he calls her! Izzy makes a date with Celia to come over and when he does he treats her so rudely that she almost asks him to leave or she'll call the police. It's only when Izzy explains to Celia about the stone, that emits a bright and soft blue light and levitates as well as shows her it's strange powers that she realizes, like he did, that it's something beyond the forces of nature! The stone also seems to have magical powers of healing and creating luck for those who have it in their possession. It's after that strange meeting the two besides falling madly in love with each other have things start to change for the better for both of them. Celia a struggling young actress who supports herself as a waitress working gets a major part, in fact the leading role, in the movie Pandoras Box playing the role of it's star Lulu. Izzy's depression suddenly disappears because of his affair, and attachment, to Celia but there's things that are about to break that will turn this blissful dream for the two lovebirds into a dark and terrifying nightmare. Traveling to Dublin Ireland to do the movie Celia tells Izzy to keep in touch by phone and come visit her but as the days go by there's no word at all from Izzy. Getting kidnapped back in New York by a bunch of hoodlums who think that he has Stanley's Mar's magic stone, which he gave to Celia, Izzy is locked up in this empty warehouse and threatened with death if he doesn't talk. Celia shooting the movie Pandora's Box is a sensation on the set but at the same time is worried about her love Izzy who she hasn't heard from since she left New York. She soon get's so depressed by not hearing from him that one evening Celia, feeling dejected and abandoned, throws the magic stone into the nearby Liffey River. Being visited by this pseudo-shrink Dr. Van Horn, Willem DeFoe,Izzy is mentally tortured about his past and what a low-life rat he was to both his dad who's funeral he didn't attend and older brother Franz who hasn't spoken to him for seven years because of that. Izzy is about to break under Dr. Van Horn's brain-twisting tactics when he finally breaks out of his confinement and runs to the safety of the home of his friend Philip Kleinman,Mandy Patinkin,who's involved in the film that Celia is staring in.To both his surprise and shock Izzy finds that Celia had disappeared just before the filming of Pandora's Box was finished! It later turned that the poor girl committed suicide when after being chased by Dr. Van Horn and two of his goons thinking that she had the mystical stone on her Celia jumped off the Dublin Ha'Penny Bridge into the Liffey River and her body was never recovered. Izzy sobbing and in a state of complete depression sits alone in his apartment watching the out-takes, that Philip gave him, of the movie Pandora's Box with Celia in them. It's then that the biggest surprise of all in the movie Lulu on the Bridge is about to come and hit the audience with the force of a sledge hammer right between their eyes! A real honest to goodness LuLu! "},{"Title":"Huge admiration - and two critical remarks.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The originality of the screenplay, the pace of the story-telling, the cast and the direction, the photography and the editing -- as much suggestive and poetic, as they are soft-voiced. What an extraordinary treat for the many lucky few, who can savour the refined taste offered here!Huge gratitude to the makers of Lulu on the Bridge, for demonstrating their faith in the sensitivity and intelligence - of at least a significant part - of today's movie-lovers... A final praise is reserved for Harvey Keitel's depth of performance.Apologies for also dropping two critical remarks but, if I give 8 stars out of 10, then perhaps I may be excused The last scene of Keitel with Patinkin should have been cut, as being superfluous. And that phrase, when Willem Dafoe claims 'Oh... We are the good guys, I can assure you!', seems rather an unworthy device (used by a lesser script-writer) of assuring us, the audience -- because... a·n·y singular difference between them and the bad guys remains unexplored, and undefined.Nevertheless, allow yourself to be completely mesmerized, by this very precious little stone! "},{"Title":"worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Well, that's exactly 103 minutes of my life I'm not getting back. This movie is the most useless, boring, incomprehensible piece of trash I've ever had the misfortune to view.  I had to check my own pulse repeatedly to make sure the stupidity of this script had not killed me. I do not know why some users have rated it above zero.  In fact, I think the rating parameters should extend well below zero to accommodate the incredible atrociousness of this disaster.  imdb readers, be warned.  Do NOT rent this movie.  And to those who may rent the movie to see if it is as bad as I say it is...trust me. This is not a good kind of bad, like a cult classic.  This is just a videocassette that should go straight into a landfill somewhere. "},{"Title":"Double lifes in Paul Auster","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  In Lulu on the bridge, Paul Auster show how simple and incredible things are in our lives all the time. With one of the most beautiful scripts in nowadays he speaks about the impossibility of living alone and in the fantastic end he show the relativity of the lose of love. Don't care who die, live alone is the worst thing in the world.   "},{"Title":"Uninspiring","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I really think this movie is terrible. I bought it in Paris because it came free with Mean Streets(a real movie) . The plot is totally ludicrous. What was the story with the weird stone? I have never seen such a load of garbage in my life. This movie is real gay. i felt so strongly about this that i should warn people about it. I would have expected an awful lot more from Harvey Keitel. Seeing him like this is like seeing Clint Eastwood sweeping the dirt at your feet. Do not watch this movie. What really annoys me is that I actually paid money for this tripe. Had i known it was so bad, i would have bought Mean Streets elsewhere. I never heard of this film before i bought it. it is so gay "}]