[{"Title":"Outside Providence does not seem like much from the preview, but it turns out to be a surprisingly good comedy.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence seems like just another low budget, goofy high school comedy from the preview, but it is really a good movie. Timothy Dunphy is the lovable high school screw-up whose father sends him off to boarding school after he is involved in an accident with a parked police cruiser while smoking pot with his loser buddies. He develops an unlikely romantic relationship with the stunningly beautiful Jane Weston (Amy Smart) at the repressive school while fighting off the disciplinary excesses of the school faculty. This seems like the premise of the kind of ridiculous high school comedies that characterized the 80s (Screwballs, Ski School, etc.), but Outside Providence works well because it has heart. Timothy Dunphy is sent off unwillingly to this hellish school, and it turns out to be a really eye-opening experience for him. He develops a lot of insight about himself, his friends, his romantic endeavors, and his family. The story is not exactly something that is entirely original, but the presentation of the film and the acting are extremely good, and the end result is a great comedy. Alec Baldwin delivers a hilarious performance as the emotionally closed-off father, regularly referring to his own son as dildo. He steals every scene he is in, and he should be particularly noted for his ability to give such a convincing portrayal of an emotionless, macho father and still be convincing in the emotionally tense scene between him and Timothy where he describes Tim's late mother. That scene in particular is unexpectedly intense.Outside Providence is a good comedy. It does not resort to tasteless sexual fourth-grade humor to pull it along (which is one of the biggest problems with teen comedies lately - American Pie, Scary Movie (there was no hope for that one from the beginning), There's Something About Mary, and Road Trip, which should have been a great movie). Instead, Outside Providence focuses on character development and a good story, and tops it all off with a healthy amount of comedy in the form of the cast, the characters, the script, dialogue, and pretty much everything else. Probably one of the best elements of this movie is that it is not a relentless comedy. It doesn't grab desperately for a laugh every second of the way, but instead it rounds out the content with drama, romance, skillful comedy, as well as good writing, directing, and acting. Outside Providence is badly underrated and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Corrente and the Farrelly Brothers Deliver","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ambiguity of youth and the road to maturity are addressed in a somewhat stoically humorous manner by the Farrelly Brothers in the comedy, `Outside Providence,' directed by Michael Corrente.  Set in New England in 1974, the story centers on Tim Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy), an irresponsible seventeen-year-old who since the untimely death of his mother has lived with his gruff, blue-collar father (Alec Baldwin), his crippled younger brother, Jackie (Tommy Bone) and a one-eyed, three-legged dog.  Life is less than idyllic for Tim, but it doesn't seem to make much difference as long as he can live in the moment and get high with his friends.  In that respect, in fact, life is pretty good.  Tim's a senior in high school with nary a care in the world, until a car accident involving drugs and alcohol lands him in big trouble, and he avoids incarceration only by the grace and intervention of one of his father's `connected' cronies.  Instead of jail time he is sent away to the prestigious prep school, Cornhill, whereupon graduation his offense will be expunged from his record.  All he has to do is toe the line and get through his senior year.  But that senior year can last a long time, especially after he meets Jane Weston (Amy Smart), the girl of his (and everybody else's) dreams.  So what is a lad to do, knuckle down, follow the rules and put his life in order-- or follow his heart?  Or, as Tim replies when a teacher asks him to name his favorite author, `Hamlet.'  To be, or not to be.  And that is the question.While not terribly original by any means, Corrente's film (which he co-wrote with Bobby and Peter Farrelly, adapted from the novel by Peter Farrelly) is funny and well presented, and has that quirky, recognizable Farrelly Brother's touch.  There's even a poignant moment or two, and most importantly, this isn't a `silly' movie, and though the characters are fairly stereotypical, Corrente manages to give it something of a fresh face and allows the humor to evolve naturally, never fishing for laughs or manipulating the situations purely for the sake of hilarity.  And it works well; there are some genuinely funny scenes, some side-splitting lines and one signature Farrelly Brothers scene that involves a flashback of the traumatic `hazing' of a freshman named Irving (Jack Ferver).Shawn Hatosy gives a believable performance as Tim, and though he's not overly charismatic or likable, he does create a character with whom many peers and parents will be able to relate.  Tim is a very real person feeling his way through a very precarious period of his life.  And beyond the humorous aspects of the film, there is actually some very credible character development evident in Tim's behavior, and in the final analysis the overall picture not only aspires to a higher level because of it, but succeeds in that regard.  Hatosy's Tim is very much the average kid who lives in your neighborhood and works at the local fast food joint while he figuring out what life is all about.  Without anything singular or remarkable about him, he is entirely true-to-life and honest.As `Old Man Dunphy,' Baldwin gives a solid performance, and with limited screen time manages to establish his character with astute precision. Like Tim, Baldwin's character is real, and serves as a kind of core for the story, and that realism of the characters is one of the strengths of the film.  The `Old Man' maintains a gruff exterior-- a bravura by which to live, if you will-- but you get a sense that there is something deeper to him, while at the same time you realize that what you see is very much a true perspective of who he really is as well.  It's a matter of Baldwin's ability as an actor enabling him to infuse some complexity into a character that could easily have been one dimensional in less capable hands.The supporting cast includes Jon Abrahams (Drugs Delaney), Richard Jenkins (Barney), George Wendt (Joey), Adam LaVorgna (Tommy the Wire), Timothy Crowe (Mr. Funderbeck), George Martin (Dean Mort), Gabriel Mann (Jack) and Kristen Shorten (Bunny Cote).  In a market veritably saturated for some time with comedies about teen angst (most of which are silly, insignificant, devoid of real humor and not worth the film they're printed on), with `Outside Providence,' Corrente and the Farrelly Brothers have to be given credit for delivering one that is truly funny while at the same time anchored in reality.  There is, in fact, more here than meets the eye upon the initial viewing.  Not only does it capture the essence of the era in which it takes place, but a sense of reality that in the end is definitive of it, as well. And it's done with humor, and without taking it over the edge, as the Farrelly Brothers are often wont to do.  Ultimately, it's a satisfying experience, and it's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I overlooked this movie when it was in theatres and just saw it on video. I was very impressed. It wasn't the dumb gross out movie the Farrely's are known for. It had some laugh out loud moments, and some surprising tender moments as well. Alec Baldwin was hysterical as Old Man Dunphy and the supporting cast of friends like Drugs & The Wire were funny as well. This movie is a lot better than you'd probably think. It certainly surpassed my expectations.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully crafted and understated movie from the kings of gross-out comedy.  Poignant and hilarious this film is a beautiful departure from the Farrely Bro's typical fare.  It follows the (mis) adventures of a 1970's era RI kid who runs afoul of the law and is sent to a stuffy boarding school. It sounds like a fairly redundant storyline but the emotional underpinnings and underlying angst of the young characters are subtly, yet powerfully displayed.  9/10. "},{"Title":"The preppy","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Farrelly wrote the novel in which this film is based. This was a change of pace for Peter and his brother Bobby, coming right after their hit There's Something About Mary. Although they entrusted the direction to Michael Corrente, their presence looms large in the background.The film succeeds in presenting characters one can identify with. Timothy Dunphy is a teen ager who has grown with his younger, handicapped brother, Jackie, in a small town in Rhode Island. Timothy's future is uncertain, at best. Coming from a working family, his prospects for higher education are nil. Like other young men in his area, he is aimless and the guys he pals around with, are not exactly college material.When Timothy is granted admission at the preppy Cornhill Academy, his life takes a turn for the better. At first, Timothy fights the rigid standards of the place. He doesn't like the atmosphere, but he is completely won by a pretty co-ed, Jane Weston, a rich girl, way out of his league. It's easy to see the combination will see trouble along the way.The best trait about Timothy Dunphy is his honesty that comes into play right after Jane is caught with some boys smoking pot, and her ambition to go to Brown University is doubtful. Timothy does the right thing in going to the admissions dean at Brown to speak on behalf of the innocent Jane, who didn't bring her fate upon herself.Shawn Hatosy, an actor who is always effective no matter what part he is playing, makes the most out of his Timothy. Surprising also, is Alec Baldwin, seen as the older Dunphy in a sincere performance. Jon Abrahams is Drugs Delaney. Amy Smart makes a valuable contribution to the film as Jane Weston.The teaming of Michael Corrente and the Farrelly Brothers show a winning combination in an enjoyable film that will stay in one's memory for quite some time. "},{"Title":"I actually enjoyed this movie quite a bit","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe some reviewers here have been put off by the fact that it's a mingling of different genres (romance/comedy). But I think the movie is vastly entertaining and satisfying. There's more substance to this movie than there is to others of a similar vein -- Detroit Rock City or Almost Famous or Dazed and Confused. You're not supposed to cry and you're not supposed to split your sides laughing, but you are supposed to enjoy it, and that I did. Plus, Alec Baldwin is truly excellent in his role as a gruff, blue-collar dad. "},{"Title":"Good Solid Movie","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the better films I have seen in the last ten years. A perfect amount of Comedy mixed in with just the right amount of Drama. The two leads do a great job in the movie and become instantly likeable. Everyone was cast well. Even Alec Baldwin shows up and does a good job as the main characters father. The story draws you in. One of the better coming of age movies ever. I definitely recommend this especially to guys. "},{"Title":"Mike Corrente's Best!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally....we get to see a Mike Corrente film where he actually moves the camera! Unlike Federal Hill and American Buffalo, Outside Providence has a number of dolly and pan shots instead of keeping the camera still for 90 plus minutes. The film also had three montage sequences that made the film move faster. The sound track of the film alone makes the movie worth watching.Any viewer from New England will be amazed to see Foxboro Stadium in the film. I think its safe to say that Outside Providence is the first and only film to shoot a scene at the not so famous stadium where the Patriots play.Overall, This was a great film ! Shawn Hatosy hit the Rhode Island accent like it was his second nature. A new comer to the screen, a lot of us will remember Shawn from the hit comedy   In and Out. Like Alec Baldwin, Shawn Hatosy gave a realistic and heart filled performance. Outside Providence is a winner! "},{"Title":"you knuckleheads!!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Michael Corrente, Script Peter Farrelly (Novel), Michael Corrente, Bobby Farrelly, Cast Shawn Hatosy, Tommy Bone, Alec Baldwin, Amy Smart, Jon Abrahams.Coming of age film about a group of stoner friends from the poor neighbourhood in the blue collar town of Pawtucket, R.I. The film is told from the point of view of Timmothy Dunphy, an underachiever whose main goal in life seems to be how much dope he can smoke. His mother committed suicide when he was just a small boy so it is just him, his disabled little brother and his father. One night while high on dope Tim smashes his car into a parked cop car! His old man has to bail him out of jail. In an attempt to turn his life around, old man Dunphy makes his son cut his hair and forces him to go to a strict boarding school in Connecticut. So here we have a poor kid at a rich prep- school. While here, he meets a rich, smart, preppy co-ed totally the opposite of himself but of course, they fall in love! This film has many funny as well as serious parts. During periods without dialog we hear many great rock songs from the 60's and 70's. The film was set in 1974. The 'bad guy' in the film is Mr. Funderberk (Timothy Crowe),the strict resident adviser or whatever you want to call him. Although a comedy, the film does have elements of drama. The scene with Tim talking to his old man about his mother is sad. His girlfriend Jane (Amy Smart) gets accepted to Brown but she gets accused of something she didn't do so her acceptance gets reversed as a result. Tim goes to Brown University and tries to see the Dean but the secretary told him he was booked the whole day and that he would have to make an appointment. Tim manages to get into the Dean's office through the window. He then proceeds to tell the Dean the truth about Jane.This movie was based on a semi-autobiographical novel by Peter Farrelly. The Farrelly brothers are from Rhode Island and many of their movies are filmed there. I wonder how close this film parallels his real teenage years. It would be interesting to read the book. "},{"Title":"a very good 70s coming-of-age movie","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence.  ***1/2. Timothy Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy) lives in Pawtucket, Rhode Island.  He's 17. He and his friends are stoners.  They hang out and argue the relative benefits of moving to California or staying in Pawtucket after high school.  Their criteria for deciding revolve around the potential quality and quantity of drugs and sex.  Dunphy lives with his dad (Alex Balwin) and his younger brother (Tommy Bone).  Dunphy gets in trouble. One of his dad's friends is connected and gets Dunphy's jail sentence deferred if he enrolls and successfully completes his senior year of high school at an exclusive prep school.  Dunphy moves from stoned fish in a small pond to fish out of water. His ensuing adventures are predictable but fun.  There is the geeky roommate, stoner pals, beautiful girl that's out of his league, and the Dickensonian schoolmaster.  I enjoyed most every moment.  No scene ever got too melodramatic or silly.  The stoner jokes and other one liners are funny.  Outside Providence plays as a very good 70s coming-of-age movie.  The writing credits for OP goes to Peter Farrelly of the Farrelly Brothers (There's Something About Mary, Kingpin, and Dumb and Dumber).  Given the Farrelly connection, I was surprised by the restraint and tenderness of this movie.  Very much worth the rental.   "}{"Title":"A title with several meanings","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is not as wild as THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, but it is amusing, touching, annoying, vulgar, funny, and goodnatured -- pretty good for one movie.It is an odd stew of the 3 Stooges, Huck Finn, SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER, and THE DEAD POET'S SOCIETY. Hatosy is endearing as a softhearted lunkhead -- he shows great tallent for both serious and comic work here. Baldwin is in rare form as an Al Bundy of the 70s who is truly a working-class Socrates.The title is a play on words that indicates the various ways you can view life -- beyond help or help from beyond. It's a charmer in its own knuckleheaded way.  "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  am i the only one who thinks that this movie is great?  there's just something about it that really gets to me.  that scene with alec baldwin teaching his son how to tie a tie?  all the great one-liners? the fantastic soundtrack?  amy smart?  i'm probably gonna get alot of s*** for this, but please, if anyone else out there loves this movie, please tell me so i don't feel like i'm taking crazy pills! "},{"Title":"I Was Expecting A Teen Comedy But This Is Much More Than That","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It turned out that there was a lot more to this movie than I was anticipating when I decided to watch it. I watched it largely on the basis of Alec Baldwin, who's a pretty good actor. But at the same time I knew that the basic plot revolved around a kid from the wrong side of the tracks, so to speak, who gets sent to a snooty prep school after getting in some trouble at home. I figured this would turn out to be a pretty typical teen-style comedy, with the bad kid heading off to the good school and turning it upside down, with the movie becoming little more than sex and drugs. It's true that there's a lot of weed in this, but much to my surprise there's no sex and not even a hint of nudity. It actually turns out to be a fairly complex study of relationships and commitment and the importance of taking responsibility for your actions.Shawn Hatosy was Tim Dunphy - the kid who gets sent off to this school. We find out early on that he has a troubled home life, loyally devoted to his wheelchair bound little brother Jackie (Tommy Bone) but with a distant relationship with his father, who's played by Baldwin, and who seems to have time to do little else but play poker with his buddies. (As an aside, dad's buddies are played by a pretty decent cast of actors, including George Wendt and Richard Jenkins.) For much of the movie we know nothing about Tim's mother, except that she isn't there. When her absence finally gets explained, it resolves some of the issues about what's going on between Tim and his dad, and perhaps explains his dad's emotional emptiness.The prep school part of the story is also more interesting than expected at first glance. There's some teen cliché stuff going on, but really less than I expected. Yes, as I noted, there's a lot of weed smoked over the course of an hour and a half, and there's the requisite evil adult character, in this case represented by My. Funderburk, played by Timothy Crowe, but even Funderburke (while a bit ridiculous at times) is less over the top than most similar characters in teen movies. As I said, there's neither sex nor nudity in this, but there is a surprisingly well portrayed romance between Tim and Jane (played by Amy Smart) - a girl from the right side of the tracks. It's one of those unlikely and somewhat unbelievable romances that nevertheless worked in this case, and I thought that Hatosy and Smart were good together. Ultimately, of course, what hijinks there were at the school leads to problems, and Tim has to decide whether to take responsibility for his actions or not, and the revelation of why Tim's mother is absent even leads ultimately to a sort of warming in the relationship between Tim and his dad.This actually turns out to be a much more interesting movie than one might anticipate. In fact, although it's set in a prep school and is at times humorous, I wouldn't really call this a teen comedy at all. It's got too much going on for that; it raises too many issues to be dismissed as just that. It's surprisingly well done. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Sweet but odd...in a good way","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised how much I really enjoyed this movie.  It was funny, it was sweet and the plot was interesting.  It was also really plausable and very familiar to kids that age.  I actually didn't want to rent this movie because I am not a fan of the Farelli Bros. but it took me by shock.  I loved the characters, especially the main character.  This movie was sweet but at the same time sort of odd (3 legged dog).  I always enjoy a movie that I find to be slightly on a different track than others that come around around the same time.  This movie was something unique and I wish I'd seen it earlier. "},{"Title":"Terrific-- funny, touching, outstanding peformances","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would never have believed that such a gem would come from the farrely brothers, and i'm disappointed by all the critics and apparently imdb members who panned it. This is a terrific movie, and Alec Baldwin among others delivered such fine performances in this film that combines coming-of-age wit and drama with 70's nostalgia. I guess if you can't relate to a kid so poor his suitcase is a trashbag, or if you shun any movie that reminisces fondly of kids smoking pot and drinking (an accurate portrayal of the times), then don't even bother. But if you're looking through the premium channels looking for something to get you through summer reruns, trust the words of this stranger and you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Dead on Portrayal of Prep School Life","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very charming and sweet movie.  First off, after having attended a prep school for four long years, I can say that this is a great representation of one.  Kids double-crossing you for favor of the headmaster, sneaking around for fear of being booted, and the general backwardness in thinking of those that were in charge.  Supposedly, Peter Farrelly also went to the same school as I and used it for the movie albeit with a name change.  Cornwall is only 10 miles from the Kent School so its possible, but you know how rumors fly.  Anyways, the movie is well acted and has a great soundtrack.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this on Comedy Central a few years back and it instantly became one of my favorite films made in the 90's. You don't see many good smaller films with a good story and characters anymore. Made for Americans by Americans. Excellent Cast, Screenwriting and Direction. Alex Baldwin even shows up here in a great character role. A must see for anyone who grew up in the states in the 70's or around the 70's. I think even the teens would still get a kick out of this. Check out the soundtrack too, it contains much of the music but not all of the music in the film. If you liked Dazed And Confused you will probably like Outside Providence. "},{"Title":"One of the first lead roles for Amy Smart.","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good coming-of-age story with solid acting, plenty of humorous takes on the 1970's, and an excellent story arc. However, even if it wasn't, the luminous beauty of Amy Smart would make it worth watching! "},{"Title":"Sweet but odd...in a good way","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised how much I really enjoyed this movie.  It was funny, it was sweet and the plot was interesting.  It was also really plausable and very familiar to kids that age.  I actually didn't want to rent this movie because I am not a fan of the Farelli Bros. but it took me by shock.  I loved the characters, especially the main character.  This movie was sweet but at the same time sort of odd (3 legged dog).  I always enjoy a movie that I find to be slightly on a different track than others that come around around the same time.  This movie was something unique and I wish I'd seen it earlier. "},{"Title":"I Liked It!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alec Baldwin has finally made another good movie with this little gem. Alec's great as grumpy Old Man Dunphy and this is good, but not great, story about his son's coming of age at an expensive prep school.If you like flicks like this with great 1970's soundtracks, see Outside Providence.  You'll definitely dig it. "}{"Title":"Toss This Film Outside Providence and Into the Trash.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Outside Providence (1999) Dir Michael Corrente / Cast Shawn Hatosy, Amy Smart, Alec Baldwin, George Wendt, Jon Abrahams Advertizements emphasize the fact that the Farrelly brothers wrote this film. Perhaps marketing figured that it had nothing else in its favour. Title refers to activities or lifestyles outside one's normal agenda. After his umpteenth mishap Shawn Hatosy is sent to Cornwall Academy where he is not a hit with the dean. His friends are on drugs, and his father refers to him as Dildo while drinking with his buddies. Pointless subplots include a guy who is interested in a girl but the screenplay forgets that situation. Predictable with vulgar humour that falls flat. Director Michael Corrente does his best but perhaps the Farrelly boys might have made it funny. Hatosy is hardly sympathetic and not a good lead. The role is predictable with Hatosy getting into trouble and out. Amy Smart serves no other purpose than to possibly sleep with him. Alec Baldwin comes through for dialogue as the father but the role is flimsy. George Wendt plays one of the buddies who will reveal that he is gay and get mocked out of the room. No points to figure out whether they will understand. Jon Abrahams plays a misfit named Drugs Delaney, which pretty much speaks for itself. Devoid of worth, this crap should be left outside Providence in a dump somewhere. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Outside Providence &#x97; Feel Good Movie","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Outside Providence is a real feel good movie. It's starts out and you think it's going to be a stoner movie, or maybe a kid rise out of a broken family movie, you even hate the father immediately. Alec Baldwin is over acting that role, but at some point... you're saying to yourself It's just right. It is a caricature, but a sensible one.The evolution of the main character is truly believable, and you're given all the right milestones to his progression. The rescue he conjure up is even realistic.The acting is good, even if the stoners are overdone, especially the main one. The editing is invisible, the soundtrack well incorporated, the story interesting, the dialogues solid, and the romance very sweet.See it, and you'll have a good evening. "},{"Title":"Outside of everything but its comfort zone","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the nineties, the Farrelly Brothers were dominating the comedy/drama genres with their energetic, screwball scenarios for their quirky, genial subjects to fall into. From the charming goofiness of There's Something About Mary to their passably dopey Dumb and Dumber, the Farrelly's seemed to pitch every possible idea to Miramax and they willingly committed to making it happen. The directors were the studio's biggest moneymaker, so as a result, we got all different kinds of films from the directors, good and bad.And after watching both of the previously mentioned efforts and was met with marginal satisfaction, my idea to venture into the Farrelly's lesser-known film Outside Providence, which was critically underwhelming and financially disastrous compared to the previous films. The film is simple, good-natured, and an easy watch, but at no point does this become more than a methodical tip-toe through the woods of clichés.Our main character is Timothy Dildo Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy), an underachieving high school senior with a strict father (Alec Baldwin) and a handicapped brother (Tommy Bone) he treats like a regular person to avoid showing any resemblance of superiority or difference towards him. The small family resides in Pawtucket, Road Island, and after Timothy and friends crash into a parked police car with marijuana on their person, his father tires from his blatant incompetence and sends him to Cornwall Academy, a strict prep school in Connecticut.Upon arriving, Timothy is placed in the lower-level classes and is mocked, tormented, and left a social pariah with the other more advanced men of the school. He quickly becomes acquainted with Amy Smart's Jane Weston, an attractive blonde girl he believes is the nicest, prettiest one there. At the same time, while being harassed by a number of the kids, Timothy finds that Cornwall's dorm master, Mr. Funderburk (Timothy Crowe), is out to get him and continues to devise plans to avoid him or even pull the occasional prank or two.The film was based on a book written by Peter Farrelly a year before, with Farrelly stating the film is a marginally fictionalized account of his real experiences at a prep school in Connecticut. I could already assume that the film is pretty fictional, because I would expect quirkier, more unique experiences from one of the most famous comedy directors in the business.Shawn Hatosy gives us a kind-hearted, but overall, bland character to deal with, proving that he has the charisma and screen presence but not the proper material to sustain a ninety-five minute excursion. The most admirably compelling performance in the film is that of Alec Baldwin's whose cut throat, east-coast attitude is somewhat out of place but not the less welcoming in a film filled dead-end material.Ultimately, the highest regard I can pay to Outside Providence is its wonderful use of seventies songs, all of which easily recognizable and wonderfully engaging. From All Right Now to Free Bird, and don't forget the little nuanced things like a copy of Hunter S. Thompson's Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, the Farrelly brothers and co-writer, Michael Corrente, clearly recall the seventies with vivid clarity. And to be fair, as competent, basic entertainment, Outside Providence maybe just what some are looking for. It's a rather quick comedy, over in the blink of an eye, and you're left to either praise it for its simplicity or bash it for the same reason. For the comedy genre, it won't be the straw that breaks the camel's back. For the Farrelly's, it may have gotten Miramax to wake up.Starring Shawn Hatosy, Alec Baldwin, Amy Smart, Timothy Crowe, and Tommy Bone. Directed by Michael Corrente. "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven and a bit of a disappointment .............","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Part stoner movie, part Animal House at prep school, and part family drama, Outside Providence really doesn't succeed at any of the above. Part of the problem is the chop shop editing, which unevenly shifts from comedy to drama. Special mention must be made of the soundtrack, which happens to be excellent. Alec Baldwin and his card playing buddies seem more like an afterthought, than an integral part of the movie. The whole thing comes across more like a music video than a feature film. Character development is spotty, and most of the story appears underdeveloped, probably because everything moves at such a rapid pace. - MERK "},{"Title":"A serious Farrely movie","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Recap Tim Dunphy grows up in Pawtucket. His brother is in a wheelchair, his father raising them alone and struggling to get by. There isn't much to do but drink and smoke pot. But after driving, both drunk and stoned, and crashing at full speed into a parked police car, his life is about to change. But not in the way he thinks. Due to some odd connections, instead of getting jail, he get sent to a posh prep school. There he got to fight for his place and identity, and fight against the sadistic student master Funderburk. And then there is a girl.Comments An average and pretty standard growing up story with most of the clichés about growing up. The struggle to find one's identity and path in life. You got the struggling youth in a struggling home, drinking and smoking, who then due some hardships learns to take responsibility and set a path for himself. And of course meets a girl. Nothing new.A movie written by the Farrely brothers and director Corrente this should not be confused with comedies like Dumb & Dumber or There's something about Mary. Outside Providence is quirky and delivers a fun remark now and then, but not at all in line with movies more thought of when you hear that the Farrelys has been involved. Outside Providence is much more a drama with a romantic flair and some comedy spice.A lot of known actors appear, mostly in small supporting roles, while the story is more focused on young more unknown actors. The exception being Amy Smart that of course is the romantic interest. A solid performance from her once again, it is still a puzzle for me why she hasn't made it bigger than she has. As far as I can tell she both got the looks and the talent.Not a movie to remember, and not a movie I would recommend. Not that it is bad, because it certainly isn't. But because there are others that are much better in each comparable genre.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great take me back Movie","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a great movie. I laughed and cried. It took me back to high school senior year.. i did it all....and had too much fun... Alec Baldwin was so out of character and he was great, all actors did a wonderful job representing the era that others who didn't live it, wouldn't get it. This movie showed life from both sides of the track, which you can relate to in any era. A great feel good movie, in that, even though you don't realize what your doing in life, if you do what is good, it will all work out. The soundtrack had everything, takes you down memory lane! They put a little of something of everything from that era in the soundtrack. Movie is great! However, the soundtrack you can buy, is missing many songs, i.e., Mountain's Mississippi Queen, Grateful Dead, Argent, etc., and many other songs as well. They should have put all music on the CD soundtrack. See this movie, especially if your over 40!!! "},{"Title":"The Farrely Brothers Best Movie","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike other Farrely brother movies which though entertaining only aim at making the viewer laugh Outside providence is just a good old fashioned comedy that tells a great simple story that is not only funny but touching "},{"Title":"Better than some","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence is not the best movie I've seen but it's nowhere near the worse. It has some funny moments scattered throughout the film and Alec Baldwin's performance was very good. The soundtrack is probably the best thing about the movie if you like 70's classic rock. The premise of the film has been done before with a few twists but most movies are remakes in some way or another. Browsing through IMDB should show you that. If you're not offended by the drug counter-culture, or looking for the silly humor the makers of this film are known for, Outside Providence may entertain you for an hour or so.  "},{"Title":"Funny Farrelly Brothers movie.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"      Outside Providence was made by the Farrelly Brothers who made There's Something About Mary and Dumb and Dumber.  These two guys try to make there movies as vulgar and gross as can be.  Dumb and Dumber wasn't what I would call gross however There's Something About Mary was.  Outside Providence did not bring as much publicity as Mary but it wasn't a bad film.      I didn't feel like spending money on renting this movie so I took it out of the library.  I was laughing through much of the movie and I was enjoying the great music it had as well.  After the movie I saw an alternate ending which was confusing.  I think that the alternate ending should have been the original ending in the final cut of the film.  Outside Providence is something great to watch if you come across it.  I liked this one and I give it **1/2.  "},{"Title":"A movie about a stoner from the 70's","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie about a Stoner from the '70's and his friends. It follows them from their small town, to a private high school.When Dildo, the leading role, crashes into the back of a parked cop car while smoking a bong, he is sent to private boarding school where he is kept under lock and key. But this doesn't stop him from continuing his habit and meeting the perfect girl.Great Movie! "}{"Title":"cliched but likeable coming-of-age film","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers (the makers of such laugh-a-minute gross out fests as `There's Something About Mary,' `Kingpin' and `Dumb and Dumber,' among others) take a decided stylistic turn with `Outside Providence,' a low-keyed, laid back coming-of-age tale set in Rhode Island during the mid 1970's.  Shawn Hatosy stars as Timothy Dunphy, a likable, not-very-bright high school student who, like many of his generation, would much rather party than study and would rather smoke-out than think seriously about his future plans for college or career or even life in general.  When he crashes his vehicle, packed with other drinking and pot-smoking teenagers, right smack into the rear of a parked police car, Tim is sent by his working class father to finish his last school year at a nearby prep academy.  Alec Baldwin, adopting a dese-dem-dose accent for the occasion, plays Tim's father, a well-intentioned widower whose brusque demeanor hides a filial love that Tim is only vaguely aware exists.`Outside Providence' certainly does not bring a whole lot of fresh insights to this well-worn territory.  We have the obligatory scenes of non-stop pot smoking (this being a depiction of 1970's adolescence after all), the inevitable first love between the hero and the sweetest, most understanding and, of course, most beautiful girl from the local distaff school, and the predictable confrontations that develop between the freethinking teen and the anachronistic stuffed shirts of the school's administration.  There is also, of course, the mandatory death of one of the members of the original gang to act as a device to sober the boy's up to an awakened awareness of the seriousness and responsibilities of adulthood.Yet, for all of its adherence to the formula of this particular genre, `Outside Providence' wins the audience over, partly through the breezy likeability of the actors and performers, partly through the unforced realism of the screenplay, and partly through the film's dead-on accurate recreation of a decade that is fast becoming the era of choice for modern day nostalgia.  Like so many films that tie themselves strongly to a time long past, `Outside Providence' relies (and perhaps even over relies) on a soundtrack filled with memory-inducing tunes of the period.  This is the easiest trick in the book for filmmakers to stir an audience's fond recollections &#150; but, damned if it doesn't work every time.  In addition, the film is set within the beautiful environs of autumnal New England, a factor that contributes to the overall laid-back charm of the film.`Outside Providence' provides a relaxing, unfrenetic trip down memory lane for those of us who happen to have come of age in the era the Farrellys arepresenting.  The film ultimately doesn't amount to much, but one could find worse ways to spend 90 minutes &#150; and a worse group of people with which to spend it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was MUCH better than I had expected. Very low-key at times and not as asinine as the other Farrelly movies, this one was interesting all the way through. Much better than Me, Myself and Irene. The kid was ok and the girlfriend was ok. The best thing about it was Alec Baldwin. I wish he'd take a few more chances and do stuff like this - he was great. Plus the dialogue was good. A nice little period piece too, dildo. An 8 of 10; a B-. "},{"Title":"A good film that deserves more attention","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that this movie was a wonderful film that addresses some very real life situations in the most beautiful ways.  It's dark humor is perfect to make some of the subject matter easier to handle.  This is a serious comedy that pulls off melodrama in an amazing way.  One that people should look at more.  It is very underrated. "},{"Title":"Looking for gross out humor?  Look elsewhere.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you see the Farrelly Brother's Outside Providence looking for more of the gross-out style humor you saw in Something About Mary or are currently seeing in Me, Myself and Irene you're going to have to look elsewhere.  Outside Providence is a coming of age type movie with little in the way of gross out and more in the way of story.  It concerns the trials and tribulations of young Timothy Dumphy, who is shipped off to an exclusive private boarding school by his father after an arrest on a drug and drink filled night with friends.  Shawn Hatosy plays Tim (his dad has a less than flattering nickname of a sex toy for him).  This is a good portrayal of a young man who is growing up and learning life's lessons.  His younger brother Jackie (played by Timothy Bone) is in a wheelchair after a touch football accident (the explanation is hysterical) and is dependent on Tim driving him around to do his paper route. Tim is a good character, hard to dislike him and as the central character he remains constantly interesting.  Alec Baldwin plays Old Man Dumphy, and as a blue collar working class guy is great.  Wonderful personalization and sounds so much like my father it's frightening.  This was a nice return for Alec, and he plays a surprisingly strong supporting character.The lovely Amy Smart plays Jane Weston, the object of Tim's affections at school.  She is the main turning point in Tim's life and this character has a pivotal role in his outcome.  Smartly played (no pun intended) Amy.  I like you more and more every role you do.  Supporting cast is good. Jonathan Brandis and George Wendt are about the only names you'll recognize, but Jon Abrahams as Drugs Delany (Tim's closest friend) is a nice sideman.  Loads of fun to be had by this bunch. Outside Providence was a good changeup to follow Mary, but was done in by the from the people who brought you.... bit.   Had it stood on it's own merits, Providence would have been better received in my opinion.  Instead, people looking for more of the same were disappointed and word of mouth killed this wonderful film.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Nice Movie-- Great Soundtrack","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is yet another attempt to depict the free living days of 70's teens (See also Dazed and Confused, Detroit Rock City, and to a lesser extent Boogie Nights). The characters are typical, like the wisecracking cynical father, the picked on friend, and the underdog struggling to make his way whom we can root for. This wasn't a bad movie if you are looking for a few chuckles and are a fan of the Farelly Brothers. You may, however, be surprised by the heart that this film shows in the relationship of the broken family wounded by the untimely death of the mother.The best part of the movie for me was the soundtrack. Threaded throughout the film was nothing but the best music from the time. Nothing but the heavy hitters of the mid-seventies like The Who, Paul McCartney & Wings, Yes and many others. It truely sets the mood for the film and reminds the watcher how powerful the music of the time was.All in all, it is worth a viewing, although other seventies retrospectives leave the viewer more satisfied. 6 out of ten "},{"Title":"Not Much Ado about it and I know why","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, although directed by the Farrely brothers and has Alec Baldwin, George Wendt and a solid young cast, is barely known outside the local Blockbuster. It had a brief stay in the theatre. I thought this would be good, for i love dumb and dumber, Kingpin, and Something About Mary, but this movie is lacking big time in plot and it gets lost several times in the middle and kinda flounders. It doesn't know if it wants to be a teen comedy or a Teen Afterschool special. This movie does not lack in teen drug use, which most of this movie is really. You didn't miss anything if you missed this in theatre. If you are a huge fan of the Farrely brothers, see it, If not skip it!! "},{"Title":"A movie with heart, but little else","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Something About Mary showed signs, beyond the hilarious and ribald gags, of emotion and real storytelling in the filmmaking of the Farrelly's. It was a quantum leap beyond their previous efforts. Unfortunately, with this entry, they focused too much on those new aspects at the expense of their strengths. In fact, I do not believe this film was intended as a comedy. As such, Dumb and Dumber fans be forewarned. While I applaud this attempt at a heartfelt, personal film, the movie fails. The simple kids vs. establishment narrative is lame, the characters are stock and the inclusion of a handicapped brother seemed pandering and desperate to me. I did like the father-son relationship and Alec Baldwin's non-leading man turn as well as some of the well observed period details (Remember clackers? ---- I ,too, got Goodbye Yellowbrickroad as a Christmas gift). The soundtrack is also solid. Rent Dazed and Confused instead. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed Outside Providence. Its a classic example of teenage angst and struggle that is present in every decade. The fact that it was in the 70s was even better. o) The situations the characters were in were definitely suited toward the decade. Shawn Hatosey was excellent as Timothy Dunphy. His performance was very heartfelt and you just fell in love with him. You felt sorry for the way his family life was and then even worse as he struggled at the academy with Mr. Funderburk. Drugs Delaney played by John Abrahams had me falling out of my seat with laughter! The scene as the headmaster read the letter that Drugs sent to Dunph was the funniest thing I've seen in awhile! lol Anyhow, I definitely recommend this movie! It was an extremely heartfelt piece that will make you laugh and will make you cry. Enjoy! o) "},{"Title":"*** Touching and memorable","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alec Baldwin's touching performance is the heart of this sharp and moving film about growing up on the wrong side of the tracks. Shawn Hatosy plays a high-schooler from Pawtucket, Rhode Island, whose lifestyle of hanging around, smoking up and joyriding is cut short by a car accident, prompting his exasperated father (Baldwin) to send him to prep school. There he encounters the elitism of the high class students who attend the school, makes friends with his fellow misfits and falls in love with the golden girl (Amy Smart) who eventually falls in love back. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Feels like this kind of movie has been done a million times, but Michael Corrente's sensitive direction and a script by Corrente and the Farrelly brothers (of There's Something About Mary fame) easily avoid most cliches and go straight for the heart. These guys sure know how to tap into the blue-collar American subconscious, and for the most part they get it right. "},{"Title":"a$$ craking humor for every  3 min.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have seen movies like Heaven help us, or Confused and Daved you might feel this movie has sort of same taste. The time is 70's laid back and smoke mary jane until sun rises. Some gets in always trouble but always survive for some reason like Dunphy. Dunphy and his girl friend made companionship through out the school year, it was very heart touch story although there was a$$ craking humor for every  3 min. You got to see this ... "}{"Title":"Surprise!  It is good!!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I was surprised.  It is a good movie.Shawn Hatosy carries the lead role of Tim as a real person.  His best friend Drugs is another good role too.  All though the rest of his Providence buddies lack character.  The theme of the film is endearing.  This film is a winner and better than the other teen flicks out there.  It is more than a teen flick but a good overall movie. "},{"Title":"Stale Plot, Fresh Performances.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OUTSIDE PROVIDENCE is like any number of Coming Of Age type films--seen one, you've seen 'em all.  There are no plot surprises in this one; working class boy gets into trouble at home, is sent off to preparatory school as a way to get out of trouble, and finds that the people at prep school aren't any different from the ones he left behind in his working class neighborhood, except that one of them--a smart girl--falls head-over-heels in love with him for no apparent reason.Shawn Hatosy as Tim Dumphy won't win any awards for this; in fact, by the time the movie ends, you'd be hard-pressed to even remember his name (and my husband and I both tried).  What makes this movie worth seeing, though, are the performances by the undercharacters.  Tommy Bone as Tim's younger brother Jackie is outstanding--funny, witty, undeterred by life in a wheelchair and unafraid to use it to his advantage.  Alec Baldwin, often the best thing about any movie he appears in, turns in a brilliant performance as Old Man Dumphy--vulgar and crude to the point of appearing cruel, but loving and giving to his children in moments that are unexpectedly touching. A funny and moving performance by George Wendt as one of Old Man Dumphy's card-playing buddies with opinions and ideas that make him the odd man out rounds out the undercast.See it once in theatres before it disappears. "},{"Title":"The Sound of One hand Clapping","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why was Kingpin king? Why was Mary extraordinary?Well-let me tell ya--because the Farrellys can really stretch. They can combine the crudest jokes with the sweetest love story. And the combination is what makes it all work.Enter Outside Providence A sweet coming-of-age / coming-of-age movie. Is something missing? You bet. The stretch is missing. The Farrellys doing sweet without the sour is like the sound of one hand clapping.Oh, it was basically OK. Sweet, smart, and hilarious at times. Some fine acting. But at the end of it, I felt like I have seen a small movie. And I mean-a real small movie. Extra fitting for television. For this I dragged my ass from in front of the set?Hey Peter! Hey Bobby!  I got an idea for you match your story with the media. Small movie = small screen. You want my 10 bucks? Give me what you are really good at. Stretch honeys, streeeeeeeeeeeeetch.     "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They should have re-named this movie Non-stop weed smoking.  Alec Baldwin, as usual, gives a great performance.  Outside Providence, in my opinion, tried to be all things to everyone.  As a result, I left this movie wanting more.  Overall I liked the movie - it was funny.  "},{"Title":"Teen angst, class war, young love, & humor in a warm blanket!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence evoked memories of Breaking Away (1979- the film not the TV series) for me...and that's a very good feeling. My friend Kim and I laughed our butts off at a number of its comic turns and interractions but worked into the well-traveled plot of boy-girl and school class divisions are some natural, seamless acting and plot turns that lift this film high. Part of the film's strength comes from its source, Peter Farrelly's novel and the fact that as with the late Steve Tesich in Breaking Away, there is a continuity in the script that evolves unsurprisingly, but well.  The Bowery Boyz in the Dazed and Confused 'Hood....and Alec Baldwin puts in a surprising performance that easily could have descended into a trite Archie Bunker spin. A wonderful film easily deserving of an 8 from this critic. Just Bogart this film! "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie, but dazed and confused.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its hard to comment on this film, I didn't read any hype, and had no idea what to expect, I didn't know it was a Farrelly Bros' movie, etc.  I only saw one clip w/ Alec Baldwin and was captivated and had to see it.  To me, the movie was not sure what it was about, part coming of age, part vulgar comedy, and part drama.  The the subplot w/ George Wendt's character went nowhere.  The best parts of the movie were the scenes between Old Man Dunphy and his son Dildo. I was left starving for more of the two interacting on screen.  The scenes at school were fun but predictable, kind of Dazed and Confused meets Dead Poets Society.  I liked the movie, and enjoyed it, but felt it could have been so much more.  Trying to hard to appeal to a teen crowd, but the majority of the audience in the one I attended was middle age and older.  Odd sort of marketing I suppose.  The teen crowd most likely will not see this movie.  Should have given up the coming of age story line and stuck with the father and son and dead mother conflict, that was the most interesting and intriguing part of the movie, and most engrossing. "},{"Title":"outside of originality","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  saw this little farrelly bros. flick last night. sure, there are some of their toilet humor trademarks, a lotta of herb smokin', and that's about it. the lead actor did a competent job, alec baldwin hammed it up, and had some amusing lines as well. in fact, the acting was serviceable. nobody really stood out. as i was watching this, i kept thinking dazed and confused, dead poets society, good will hunting, except those were better-written, funnier, and had more emotion even though they were predictable at times. all in all, an ok movie, but we've seen this before many times. and done better.  "},{"Title":"What a surprise!  I thought it was just a simple comedy...","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent in every way.  The acting was perfect and the kids were cast so well.  There are a few great things that this movie does so well such as the depiction of Dunphy and Jane's growing romance through high-school.  Neither say outright what they want, it just comes out after they hang out repeatedly.  The confusion of the accident scene is amazing and you know exactly how everyone is feeling though it is only about 10 seconds.  Alec played his part beautifully and the viewer really feels for every character as you learn that there is more going on than a bunch of stupid high-schoolers getting wasted every night.  Dunphy's growing up during senior year in a different environment progresses just like a real coming-of-age story should.  Damn good movie and I'm going to see it again.  FUNNY TOO! "},{"Title":"Not too far Outside...","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I approached this movie much differently than I have many others I usually see. I heard no pre-release chatter or buzz about this film. I actually saw it on a whim, and partly because it was a slow week as far as new releases go. I must say I was so very glad I did see this movie. I actually enjoyed Alec Baldwin's performance in this film. But the glue that held this film together was Shawn Hatosy as Timothy Dunphy, and Amy Smart as Jane Weston. The two actors just clicked and made the story flow so very nicely. I would reccomend seeing this picture, especially for anyone who attended High School in the mid to late seventies. I'm sure you will enjoy the soundtrack as well, and I know it will bring back many fond memories. I gave this move a solid 7 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Too long, too unfunny, too overplayed","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film had real possibilities.  It was more than unbelievable that the Dad character was so over the edge with his name calling, phony emotion after being abusive to his children and goofy reason for leaving his wife she couldn't leave the house...now there's a reason to divorce.   The teens were unbelievable with the dorky kid, the foreign kid, the cute one, the stupid one.  I was appalled at the drug use.  If these kids were so poor, how did they afford the alcohol and other drugs?  Not one of them held a job.  I gave this movie a rating of three, but I wish I had said one, now that I think about it. "}{"Title":"Funny, but not hilarious","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence will always be compared to Something About Mary because the Farelly Brothers produced Providence and Peter Farelly wrote the novel over ten years ago.  I think that it is unfair to hear opinions such as, Well, 'Something About Mary' was better! and This film has nothing on 'Mary'!  It will be pretty hard to top Mary and we can't expect this film to accomplish that feat.  Don't get me wrong, Providence isn't horrible but it just isn't that funny.  They changed the storyline of the movie when you compare it to the novel.  The novel was extremely dark and funny but the good people at the MPAA would have slapped a NC-17 rating on it as fast as Chris Farley reaching for a bottle of whiskey.  There are a few good chuckles here and there but it's not rolling in the aisles funny.  There was too much teen pot smoking and drinking, a quality that is ever so slowly wearing itself out.  No matter what teen film you see, with the exception of maybe that piece of crap Teaching Mrs. Tingle, drugs and alcohol play a large role in them.  I'm not a stuck up prude but after you see Providence, you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"what was this supposed to be?","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't deny that I laughed a lot during this movie.  However, through the entire film I kept asking myself, What is the point of the film?  I am not convinced it is a nostalgic look back on the writer's life.  Mostly it feels like an excuse for people with heavy accents to be crude and do LOTS of drugs.Maybe the reason this feels like a very loose collection of situations and non sequiturs is because it is adapted from a book, and much of the connecting material was discarded.  "},{"Title":"Decent film with some pretty funny lines.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Outside Providence had some flaws to it, but all in all was a very decent movie with some memorable and quotable moments and lines. The character of Drugs Delaney was hilarious and really made the movie's funniest moments. As a film student at the University of Miami I enjoyed the line that mentioned my school when everyone was talking about where they were going to college. I won't ruin the part for those who have not seen it, but it was pretty funny. I recommend the movie and give it about a B. "},{"Title":"Not your typical Farrelly Brothers movie...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After having read some of the negative comments about this movie, I have to wonder if these people saw the same movie as I did. (I also have to wonder where they learned to spell, but that's another issue). The movie I saw was charming, funny and warm. Not at all your typical Farrelly Brothers movie. For the record, I should say that I enjoyed all of the brothers' previous efforts, especially There's Something About Mary. But this one was different. Sure, it had some of the Farrelly trade mark gross-out humor and a few phrases I'd heard in a couple of their other movies. But this one featured realistic, honest characters with realistic, honest performances. Part drama, part comedy, part romance, I found the whole thing to be very entertaining and well worth an evening at the movies. "},{"Title":"funny,and full of heart","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i really liked this movie. it just gave me a good feeling while watching it. the soundtrack is really good too. this movie may not be as funny as there's something about  mary,but it does have more heart,and is a little more  entertaining. it's just a nice movie. i felt there were touching moments in this movie. all in all a good-  hearted,and entertaining movie. i give outside providence*** out of **** "},{"Title":"a lot better than i expected...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  wow.  i walked into this movie expecting nothing more than a few good laughs, and i was surprised to realize that there was much more to it.  this film actually has a plot!  it was really funny, but it also had it's sad and dramatic moments, which makes it perfectly balanced in my eyes.  i'm not saying that this is one of the best movies ever made.  i'm just saying that you should go see it, because it's a lot better than i expected... "},{"Title":"Much of this movie is a documentary","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I grew up in the town next to Pawtucket and worked in Pawtucket two summers. These are real people and real attitudes.  It is a slice of America and real life that many people miss.  It is real challenges and real decisions about goals as well as right and wrong and the consequences of the wrong choices.  The Farrellys have given a gem of America to us all! "},{"Title":"Crap!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie sucks! This isn't nearly as good as  Dumb &  Dumber, Kingpin, and There's  Something  Mary. One of the lamest and worst Farrelly's movie ever written. Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Another Farrelly Bros. Treat!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So there's not the same bodily-function humor as there other movies. Outside Providence is nonetheless a riot at moments, and a tender story at others. All in all, it's a solid movie with a talented cast. I wasn't 16 in 1978, but this could have been 1988, or 1998. A story like this applies to all of us. See it in a rocking theatrer too. The music is great! "},{"Title":"No laughs, but a decent love story","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm kind of baffled as to how Outside Providence could be billed as a comedy.  I think I laughed all of three times during the movie, and none were more than a chuckle.  This film has also been called a gross out comedy.  The only gross thing I remember is a guy getting puked on.In spite of that, I did like the movie.  I thought the relationship between Dunph and Jane was very comfortable and believable.  And some of the interactions between Dunph and his friends (at home and at school) were entertaining.I went into this film with very low expectations.  I left with my expectations slightly more than fulfilled.  One note.  The teenagers, to whom this film is targeted, will most likely be board.  "}{"Title":"genius","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to say that the Farrely Bros are just pure genius.  But I would also like to give credit to local boy Michael Corrente, the director of this film.  The movie was very, no, extremely funny, but it was also a quality film.  I just saw it tonight with an audience full of Rhode Islanders who think anything that relates to our state is awesome.  But anyway, it was a great movie and I recommend it to anyone who wants to have a good time. "},{"Title":"A wonderful refreshing movie!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found Outside Providence to be a wonderful movie experience with a nice balance between comedy and drama, well-defined characters and a well-paced story.  Worthy of commendation because my friend never looked at his watch once!Alec Baldwin was exceptional and certainly has potential for Oscar recognition.  As a former resident of Providence, some of the inside jokes were well worth it.  Shawn Hotasy has a bright career in films. "},{"Title":"A sweet and funny movie","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence was a great movie.  It broke away from many of the cliche fish out of water story elements and delivered many sweet and funny moments.  Newcomer Shawn Hatosy was so natural and likeable as the lead character Dunph.  I was thrilled to see Alec Baldwin take a back seat in a supporting role.  It's one of the best performances of his career.  (With the exception of his imitation of DeNiro on SNL, of course!) I was also surprised to see the Farrelly Brothers of Mary fame, go for the heart instead of the groin.  Not that there aren't plenty of groin jokes to be had!  Again, this was a great movie and I think many people will enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Loved the humor, intelligence, sweetness and music","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Outside Providence last night.  It was not only funny but had a warmth that I really appreciated.  I enjoyed this more than other Farrelly Bros. pics because of the intelligence, acting and sweetness of the film.  Also, the music was far and away the best of any of their films and perfect for the picture. "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Be sure to see this film if you like offensive, gross, and predictable movies. Although this movie had a couple of funny moments, I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. I'm not a prude, but I didn't think the drug jokes were very funny and I thought the language was a little over the top. I also thought the movie seemed very familiar and predictable. Every plot development from the hero's romance to his high school graduation seemed like a foregone conclusion. This is film is just another rehashing of Animal House. Save your money and avoid this movie! "},{"Title":"An end-of-the-summer sleeper","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie will definitely appeal to fans of the Farrelly Bros. other films.  Although this movie has something that was missing from There's Something About Mary--poignancy.  Hard to believe that it exists in a movie with a character named Drugs, and a hero whose father calls him Dildo. The Farrelly Brothers' overlooked Kingpin contained a bit of a serious undertone--Woody Harrelson returning to his hometown, for example.  Outside Providence contains a bonding sequence between Alec Baldwin and the hero that rivals anything in Good Will Hunting or other male bonding films of late.  But this film is not depressing...in fact, I predict it will eventually surpass Bruce Willis at the box office.  The audience loved it and gave it a standing ovation during the closing credits.  Despite its tendency to cross over into Dazed and Confused territory, the film manages to be completely original in the end (loved the last scene between Tim and his girlfriend at the campfire).  "},{"Title":"A lovely surprise.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having been one of about 2 people who hated Mary, I went to this movie figuring I'd be seeing more of the same.  How great it was to see this engaging, funny and sweet movie.  I wish Alec Baldwin would work more, because when he is good, he is SO good.  The soundtrack was amazing, but when I stopped by the record store after the movie, I was disappointed that so many of the songs I liked best were not on it.  Outside Providence II, anyone?  Well, it worked for Boogie Nights.  There were some very funny moments and really great scenes.  I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Quite the movie...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say, I was expecting to enjoy the movie, but not nearly as much as I did.  I always love a good teen coming-of-age type movie, you know the ones where the characters hang out, and learn about life, and this one was no exception.  Very funny at times, and emotional at others, with some good messages mixed in there.  And Alec Baldwin, you just have to love the guy, especially in this movie.  Overall, I have to say that this movie is not just funny and entertaining, but it does have a little bit to say. "},{"Title":"A thoughtfully funny movie.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only went to see this movie because of the Farrelly Brothers' involvement (I loved There's Something About Mary).  I'm so glad I did!  This movie is truly, honestly funny, and not only in a juvenile way.  Of course, being written by who it was, it does have its share of pot jokes and 4-letter-word induced chuckles.  Alec Baldwin gives a wonderful performance as a crusty dad, and  Shawn Hatosy proves that he isn't just another average teeny bopper movie actor.  This movie is a must see for anyone who enjoyed such movies as The Breakfast Club or Fast Times at Ridgemont High, but its appeal won't be lost on those who prefer deeper movies (dare I even say heartwarming?).  Go see this movie -- you will laugh, you might cry, and you will certainly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Funny, sometimes endearing coming-of-age dramedy","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Michael Corrente must be credited with the more humane parts of this atypical Farrelly Brothers outing.  It's hilarious in spots, some provided by Alec Baldwin as a tough-guy father, others by his son's burnout friends.  The lead, Sean Fatosy, plays a character named Tim but called Dildo by Baldwin.  Fatosy is convincing as he navigates the intricacies of prep school, family matters, drugs, and affairs of the heart, and the emotional honesty of his portrayal holds the movie together.  The outlines of the story are VERY familiar (it's sort of Cheech and Chong meet Summer of '42), but there are a lot of details which ring true.  It's too spottily effective to pack a wallop (and I don't know what fans of the Farrelly's previous films will make of it), but I had a good-enough time to make me glad I went. "}{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outside Providence is a great movie. It's funny and well acted. Although Alec Baldwin didn't play a large role in the movie, the other actors did a great job. Once I saw it, I said to myself, I can't wait to see the finished version. If you liked Something About Mary, you'll love Outside Providence!  "},{"Title":"Is there a means to an end(ing).","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very funny film from one of the gifted Farrely brothers. Great soundtrack, but have we seen this before? Yes, but we might not have laughed as much as one is likely to in Outside Providence. I saw this film after it had been roughly assembled and screened before a test audience at the University of Rhode Island. Fortunately for those who will rush out to screen it they are likely to see a completely different film from the one I witnessed. Rumor has it that an entire new ending was formulated due to the misgivings that my fellow testers agreed upon. After the final cuts have been made the film will no doubt have some very strong performances by the likes of Alec Baldwin and George Wendt which will contrast strongly with much poorer performances by some of the newfound talent that dominates this film? However, the clear winner will be the the music and humorous writing that almost equals much of the qualities found in There's Something About Mary.  "},{"Title":"a breezy movie","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Outside of Providence is the kind of movie you put on when your bored or you've seen everything else. The movie itself isn't that raunchy or crude nor that funny. But outside of providence has it's moments most of the scenes with Jon Abrams as Drugs Delaney will get a few laughs but what my personally favorite parts in this film were the hilarious annual poker games with Alec Baldwin and his friends, every time they played cards i laughed out loud. I don't think the movie was written like most farrelly bros movies with a laugh a minute movie but this is rather more relaxed and it's an easy film to digest, once you leave you'll probably feel good about yourself. In conclusion, if you like easy and nice movies or you're just in the mood then give this one a try. One more thing although there is no sex in the film there is a lot of profanity and A lot of drug use (Smoking) and there is a scene of some sexual dialog so this isn't a family film either. "},{"Title":"Question about something that Drugs said- need clarification pls)","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hello, this movie just happened to be on the other day and I had nothing to do so I just watched it. I ended up absolutely loving it! Anyway, I did not understand something that Drugs said. He was asking Dunph if Bunny Cote ever went out on dates and then after Dunph replied, Drugs stated that he goes to the movies by himself. I don't understand why he said that or how that related to the scene. Even though I don't understand what he meant, it really broke my heart when he said that. He was my favorite character and it was just TERRIBLE that he died in the film!!! If anyone could tell me what he meant by that, my understanding of the movie would be greatly improved. Thank you very much!!! "},{"Title":"The trailers made it look funnier than it actually was.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was disappointed with this one. I guess, after watching the trailers, I fell for the advertising, because I was really expecting this mediocre mess to be much more.I look at Outside Providence as a more sedate version of the 2002 drama, The Adventures of Sebastian Cole. Set in the 1970s, Shaun Hatosy plays a misfit teen who gets into trouble with the law, and I suppose as a punishment (or rather, to avoid jail time), his father drunk father sends him to a prep school in Connecticut. An underachiever all of his life, it is hard for him to adjust, and worse, care enough to actually graduate. Of course, expect romance and new friends to give him a new outlook.An odd choice for Farrely, but one that still seeks to introduce some of the Farrely comedy trappings, though the whole thing seems to shift between trying to be comedy and a drama. Unfortunately, it was not very interesting and, following a story told so many times before, did not offer anything different enough to hold my attention. It wasn't the acting, there just didn't seem to be enough here to work with.Look for Jonathan Brandis in a supporting role as one of Tim's friends (uh...Tim is Shaun Hatosy, the misfit main character). "},{"Title":"I'm not too excited about reading Peter's novel after seeing this...","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before their success with both Dumb and Dumber and There's Something About Mary, the brothers Farrelly, Peter and Bobby, had written a novel. Now, wait, that's not true. Peter had written a novel, despite the fact that the front cover for the film boasts From the Guys Who Brought You....Then, after the success of D & D in 1994, and the continual success of Kingpin and There's Something About Mary, Peter finally got the chance to turn his original work into a feature film - by co-scribing the screenplay and passing the director's chair off to Michael Corrente, probably anticipating the fact that the film was far from his brand of humor, and many devoted fans might start to doubt their crudity.Unfortunately, though, the Farrelly Brothers are best at crude humor, and are the rare filmmakers that make the audience want -- or EXPECT -- crude humor. So trying to mix a coming-of-age story with an aimless preachy screenplay doesn't help.Outside Providence is about a kid named Tim Dunphy. Tim is played by Shawn Hatosy as a whiny drug addict who is sent to an all boys prep school after one too many run-ins with the law. His father, Old Man Dunphy (Alec Baldwin), is a grim sterotypical Rough Father Figure, who likes to cause his two sons -- the younger a wheelchair-bound cripple -- lots of trouble. He affectionately (or not) nicknames Tim Dildo, and enjoys humiliating his sons in many, many ways.At his all boys school, Tim meets Jane (Amy Smart). Don't ask how there are girls at an all boys school, because the film never pauses to explain this. Anyway, Jane has her eyes set on the future -- she wants to get into a fancy college in Providence, Rhode Island, where Tim grew up.Meanwhile, Tim parties throughout the school year and takes the occasional trip back home via hitchhiking. When it is time to head off to school again, Tim asks his father, How 'bout a ride? Old Man Dunphy just gives him a hitchhiker's thumb and poor Tim takes this as what it means.Old Man Dunphy is played by Alec Baldwin as the same old type of gruff careless father who really does care, but is hiding behind an exterior of awkwardness. The movie has a touching moment between Old Man Dunphy and his son, when the two discuss Tim's dead mother while Tim's father teaches his son how to put on a tie. But the film's uneasy mix of crude humor (a three-legged dog) and sentimental rubbish (the ending) makes it hard to like.I liked Dumb and Dumber because it was exactly what its title implied. In a way, it became a greater comedy simply because it was quite silly and funny and just altogether dumb. Kingpin was, I'll admit, quite hilarious the second time around. It was proof that the Farrellys had a gift at crude humor, and hadn't just struck gold with Dumb and Dumber. Then came There's Something About Mary, which is perhaps the Farrelly's most famous title, and I liked it enough to buy the newly-released DVD.Those films all work because they are what they are. They don't try to be anything more. And while some moments in Outside Providence lightly touched me, the stupid throw-ins (drugs, off-color humor, pointless scenes, etc.) makes the film just another forgettable coming-of-age tale in my memory.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Where are the special features?","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was playing in theaters and I loved it so when it came to video, I bought the DVD. To my surprise, there were no special features on the disc. Not even the theatrical trailer. I found this movie to be one of the best movies I had seen in years so it was very upsetting to me that there weren't any extras on the DVD. It deserves better DVD treatment. Maybe there aren't any extras because the movie flopped at the box office. It's know surprise that it flopped since it was released in September. If it were released a bit earlier or later in the year, it might have done better. The movie is an excellent example at how great a movie can be if the filmakers put heart into a movie instead of special effects. Most movies today are so filled with special effects that they get in the way of the story. Here, we get a movie that does not focus on special effects, but focuses on what's important in a movie the story and the characters. I loved the story and I loved the characters so in my mind, the filmakers did their job. The movie did have a bit too much drug use and all the foul language wasn't needed, but it still is a movie that will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"This is *not* Sidesplittingly Funny","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is nothing like the cover makes it out to be, there is very few funny pieces in it.  I do not recommend you spend money to see this movie.The cover front shows a modern looking situation, the movie is set in the seventies... "},{"Title":"Boring and Cliche","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers appear to write their films by a specific formula now, and it's getting boring.  This movie is so lame it's hard to watch in one sitting, theres just nothing new or interesting in the plot, and the gags are straight out of their earlier material.  That, and it's paced horribly.  I can't recommend this at all. "},{"Title":"Dead Poets Society meets Rushmore meets Something About Mary","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Farrellys have delivered the goods once again with Outside Providence. Playing off of the time-tested classic coming-of-age plot, they've made another indy-spirited, off-beat comedy.Tim Dunphy gets into trouble and is in danger of not graduating high school, so his mob-connected scumbag dad (Alec Baldwin!) gets him enrolled at a top-notch school in Connecticut. While there, he makes good friends, has a good time, gets in trouble and learns a little about life.The Farrellys are very aware of the coming-of-age teen drama that they are satirizing. Much of the humor is subtle. But exaggerated characters such as Drugs or Old Man Dunphy bring the film to life ala Warren from Something About Mary. Of course, you'll feel guilty for laughing when Tim's wheelchair-ridden brother acts excessively handicapped to gain admission to a Patriots game.I highly recommend this movie, especially if you are a Farrelly fan. It hits the comic funny bones as you would expect, and also adds some surprising heartwarming and provocative stuff to round it out. (Does Old Man Dunphy maintain his friendship with his recently-out gay friend? Where does everyone end up in life?) Contrast this with Kingpin, which takes a bizaare premise with bizaare characters and produces bizaare results. Outside Providence takes a cliche premise and adds bizaare characters, subtle plot twists, and produces solid results. "}{"Title":"Aside from Hatosy, not much to recommend","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Shawn Hatosy very much in In & Out and The Faculty, so I wanted to see this movie as well.  He is easily the best thing about it, as the screenplay is ridiculous and the plot points are worse.  I don't want to mention them all, thereby spoiling anything for anyone, but suffice to say that following a good beginning, its all straight down-hill.I must mention a sub-plot involving Alec Baldwin's poker buddies and their treatment of one of their group.  When the abused returns the next time these men are seen playing cards, its not only ridiculous but insulting.Its not the actors fault, in this case, because they really try to bring some humanity to the proceedings.  "},{"Title":"insubstantial","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ads for this film led you to believe that this was another one of the Farrely Bros movies.  It led you to believe that they were going to give you another movie like Dumb and Dumber and Something About Mary. They lied.Is that to say that this was a bad film?  No, not really.  But is it a good film like the other two?  Not even close.  The other two were hilarious, they were crude and they took humour to a different level.  Outside Providence is tame, sort of funny, kind of sweet but mostly lacking that certain something that will make it fun to watch.  I guess the best way to describe it is to say that it is just like most of the films that have come out in the last few years.  It's just okay.  And when the best way to describe a film is with the bland word, okay, then you have problems.Perhaps this film tried to take a page out of Dazed and Confused by setting it all in the 70's.  Evidence to that can be attributed to many things, not which the least of it can be pinpointed to the drugs, the free sex, the school theme, and a few other issues.  But this film doesn't contain the charm of Dazed and it certainly isn't as smart as Dazed.  It is a cheap imitation and it was a deserved failure.The film tells the story of a father, Mr. Dunphy, or Old Man Dunphy, that is tough on his kids but loves them very much.  His oldest son, Timothy, just called Dunphy by his friends, is at that stage of his life where he into drugs, partying and insubordination.  After he goes a step too far ( ramming a parked police car while smoking from a bong that would make Cheech and Chong jealous ) his father pulls a few strings and gets him into a private school.  It'll prepare you for not getting smoked by me, his father explains to him as he sends him off to the school.  Upon reaching the school, he learns that it is more like a prison as there is no drinking, no drugs, no sex, no trips into town without permission, no locks on the doors,  F*** me,  Dunphy says,  and no swearing, the dean informs him.  The deans name is probably the funniest part of the film, Mr. Funderberk  Say it fast enough and you could get kicked out of school for uttering an obsenity.The usual things happen at this prep school.  The kids find a way to do drugs and party and then our little recluse meets the girl of his dreams.  Her name is Jane and she is played by Amy Smart.  I immediately recognized her from Varsity Blues and Road Trip.  She was Vander Beek's plain girlfriend in Blues and she was Beth, the gorgeous sexpot that Breckin Meyer sleeps with in Road Trip.  In Outside Providence, she is supposed to be the unobtainable vixen, the Rose DeWitt Bukater of this prep school.  Of course Dunphy ends up dating her and she changes his life in many ways.  He also becomes noble and at the end of the film he does something that shows how much he has grown.The film is not bad, it's just that it is a nice film.  It is kind of like Mumford, the film that came out last year that no doubt looked great on paper but when it transferred to film, it just lost some of it's edge.  There isn't anything hysterically funny about it, there is nothing new to be said about teenagers, the school isn't different than any other school I've seen in the movies and the characters aren't anything more than cardboard cut-outs of other characters I've seen in a dozen other films.  Alec Baldwin is good as the caring but insensitive dad but that is just a portion of the film. Maybe I've seen too many films and I am expecting to be shocked too much and too often, but this just felt old, stale and tired.  Outside Providence isn't bad, but it isn't that good.  Not quite a ringing endorsement for a film.6 out of 10.  If you want to see a tame side of the Farrely's, then this is for you.  If you want another Something About Mary, then stay away.   "},{"Title":"Finally a funny movie from the Farrely Brothers!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's exactly what I said after seeing this movie. I was hesitant because I haven't thought any of their previous movies were funny at all, but this one was a gem. Alec Baldwin was absolutely halarious, as was most of the rest of the cast. There's not a whole lot I can say other than to recomend that you see this film if you're into laughing, if you're not then go rent any of the other Farrelly bothers movies. "},{"Title":"not youre typical Farrelly Brothers fare","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not going to be what you expect - you would expect some rather interesting (sic.)  sick things with a three legged dog and a brother in a wheelchair from this now notorious duo.  What they deliver instead is a somewhat heartfelt story of a stoned, dysfunctional circle of friends and an even more disturbing family.  Dangerously treading on formulaic and bordering on a music video to chortle away the day with your favorite bong, the movie does have some redeeming characteristics.  The relationship between Timothy and Jane is compelling, Alec Baldwin may have found a perfect role, Timothy's friends are good for some quality laughs and are notoriously similar to friends that I had when growing up; but the move gets a bit too feel-goody at times.The multiple subplots aren't adequately flushed out and as with many other coming of age movies, they end up spreading the story too thin.  If you can see beyond it's faults, Outside Providence is a `good s**t..' and works as a date rental.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Funny stuff","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Peter Farrelly's Outside Providence is a funny pic, but not as funny as the past (and future) Farrelly brothers projects.  I think the reason is because they left the directing up to Michael Corrente.  Not that that's completely bad, it just gives a different look to the picture that might've been given by the brothers.  Story is based on Peter's novel (probably based on real life) about a kid who has to go to a preporatory school after crashing into a parked cop car.  Alec Baldwin plays it good (yet with a complex Providence accent) as the kid's father and some other things are funny, but they can't match up to the funny pics that come around every year.  B+ "},{"Title":"humorous nostalgia","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This comedy has more heart than you would expect in Farrelly'sbrothers movie. But make no mistake it is still a gross-outcomedy. The plot may be a cliched coming of age story but thereis enough truth and pathos to forgive that fault.                                                            Alec Baldwin's performance is a standout. His superb comedicskills have never been showcased well. His gruff, curt fathercharacter is played almost to a caricature but cut short beforethe line of no return. Not a standout film but a descent one andworth  "},{"Title":"eecchhh","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't like this film at all. It was slow, long, boring, and unfunny.  A waste of time. Before we get off on the wrong foot, I want you to know that Dumb & Dumber is my all time favorite, ...Mary is not too far behind. Kingpin was great too.  Know why, cause they were funny. This movie shouldn't have been marketed as a comedy.  It just wasn't funny. There were three scenes that erupted a little chuckle, but that was it for the almost two hour movie.  The Drugs Delany nod-off-letter scene was funny, the narration of why Jakcie is in a wheel chair, and the scene when Drugs is helping Jackie with the paper route. That it. Not a good ratio for a two hour movie huh.   "},{"Title":"Did this movie have a plot?","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If so, I missed it. It wasn't so much that the movie was bad (as in, I couldn't stand it) that I didn't like it. It was the realization, probably 3/4 through it, that I had no idea how it could possibly end, due to the fact that nothing had happened in any sort of ordered plot line (you know, connected events, the usual things you expect in a movie or other work of 'literature'). Unfortunately there are too many movies like that out now. "},{"Title":"Did this movie have a plot?","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If so, I missed it. It wasn't so much that the movie was bad (as in, I couldn't stand it) that I didn't like it. It was the realization, probably 3/4 through it, that I had no idea how it could possibly end, due to the fact that nothing had happened in any sort of ordered plot line (you know, connected events, the usual things you expect in a movie or other work of 'literature'). Unfortunately there are too many movies like that out now. "},{"Title":"Farelly brothers have become synonymous with serving up hilarious politically incorrect comedies.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Farrelly brothers have become synonymous with serving up hilarious politically incorrect comedies.  Outside Providence starts out in the same veign.  It promises to be a 1970's stoner comedy with all the political correctness thrown-in.  There's a three-legged, one-eyed dog, a kid brother in a wheel chair who has a paer route, not to mention the drunk Dad who sits around with his poker buddies and labels every guy queer.Then suddenly it turns into a comedy about fitting in, then a love story, and before you know it, it's a cautionary tale about being responsible for your actions.  All Farrelly movies have heart, but this one tries to hard to have heart, and under Michael Corrente's tries too hard to be too many different movies at once and ultimately collapses into a heavy-handed tale of woe.The cast gives it there all and there are plenty of funny moments in here. "}{"Title":"A nice movie that made me laugh","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so it didn't make me look at movies in a whole different light, but it wasn't supposed to.  This is a very funny movie that fully entertained me while I was watching it and that I'm glad I saw.  It's hilarious, I'm not kidding. Alec Baldwin is WONDAFUL!  He's such a good guy even when he's being stupid, and the I hope you never forgive me, then! scene really showed how much his character was dealing with. Watch this movie if you want to laugh (and don't mind all the crap people inhale into their lungs).  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Outside Providence and really enjoyed it.  I've read many reviews on it though, and critics seem to bash it quite a bit.  They say it's cliched, and maybe it is.  But there's something basic and honest and very likable about the characters presented here.  The Characters make you love them, because they are good people, maybe a little mixed up, but good hearted. That seems to be a theme for the Farrelly Brothers....showing good, if dim people, on the road to happiness and redemption.I recommend Outside Providence it was very enjoyable.  I'm not going to sit here and blow holes in this or that.  It's a movie, so enjoy it... "},{"Title":"Charming but insubstantial","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This mid 70's slice of life comedy is charming in spots, but mostly insubstantial.  It is the story of a working class teenager from Rhode Island named Timothy Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy) who is sent to prep school for getting into trouble with the police.  The story meanders through his exploits with his friends at home, his relationship with his father (Alec Baldwin), and his situations with his new preppy friends and with the evil headmaster.  The film has its moments, but mostly it is a nostalgic retrospective on prep life in the 1970's with little in the way of a plot.Having gone to college in Rhode Island in the 1970's, I can identify with the period, and Rhode Islande born director Michael Corrente, through the look and feel of the New England settings and the background music, did a good job of bringing back a flood of memories from that time.Shawn Hatosy did an excellent job in his portrayal of a working class teen, trying to make the best of what he considered a bad situation.  His acting, though not yet very polished, is very sincere and this part seemed to fit his personality well.  Amy Smart, as his girlfriend Jane, is a fresh face with a sweet look; just perfect for the nice girl role.  Smart also exuded sincerity so the screen chemistry between the two was excellent.Alec Baldwin finally found a role where his new paunchy look was an asset.  Actually, he was quite good as Timothy's rather crude dad, doing the best he could with limited intellectual assets.  Baldwin, who usually plays clever characters, gave a realistic and enjoyable performance of a working class stiff, though his accent was a little too stereotypical and not true to Rhode Island.I gave this film a 6/10.  It relied too heavily on New England charm and there was just not enough story.  Though there were funny scenes sprinkled here and there and the ending was nice, it just lacked the horsepower to really keep the viewer engaged throughout.    "},{"Title":"OK, but what's the point?","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So-so film about a young man sent to a prep school by his obnoxious dad, so he won't get sent to juvenile hall.  That's it--the whole film.  It's well done, well-acted, fairly good dialogue, but there's nothing to it.  No conflict, no real problem, no nothing!  I think the real problem here is editing...this film shows HEAVY signs of prerelease cutting.  More than once events are referred too and never shown.  And we're talking significant events, not just minor little things.  A revelation at the end of the film makes no sense because if refers to (VERY casually) to something that we never saw!  Also the kid supposedly has problems with his mother's death (and it leads to a big out of nowhere speech), but it's not even brought up until the end of the picture!  So, what's left is an OK movie, just very jumbled and inconsequential.  Worth a video rental on half-price night...maybe. "},{"Title":"nope!  Outside Providence lacks the charm of Mary and hilarity of Dumber","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I viewed this film as a free screening at Woodstock '99.This film is based on a novel written by one of the Farrelly Brothers (directors of There's Something About Mary and Dumb and Dumber).  Outside Providence is a serio-slapstick coming of age tale that meshes together the disgusting charms of Mary but attempts its hand at serious comedy.  Sorry, but it doesn't work.  Especially the depressive conclusion which follows a hilarious beginning and some sentimental but light-hearted moments. Outside Providence does not flow.  Although the Farrelly Brothers did not direct this one, Outside Providence still contains moments featuring vile bodily fluids meant to solicit laughs, but these do not work either. Honestly, there isn't much going for it except the first five minutes of the film which are hilarious, and unfortunately, these moments are all displayed in the previews.  Reminiesence does not work for these gentlemen. "},{"Title":"Life according to a stoner","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had no common values with this movie.  It was almost a theme of life problems solved through smoking weed. I saw no cleverness in this movie at all.  If you ever wanted to look inside of the farrelly brothers and see what life is like according to them, this is it. "},{"Title":"Do not see this movie!!!!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree, the Farrelly Brothers have made some very funny movies, but Outside Providence is by far their worst. Simply put, this movie is not funny!! It is not funny, nor amusing or entertaining in the least. I'm angered that I've wasted 96 minutes of my life.Please, whatever you do, do not see this movie. You will regret it forever. "},{"Title":"Well, what can i say?","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Those wacky brothers who gave us 'Me, Myself and Irene', now give us...... a drama? Hang on, something must be wrong here.....No, this is a very boring coming of age story, that wants you to laugh, cry and sing.....I sure cried all right.....Cried that i rented this garbage!!! A loser scores with the most beautiful girl in school, in a very contrived plot, that has characters no one cares about. I kept waiting for Jim Carrey to come in and to something funny, which he never did....This film will keep you waiting for the good part, and only when it is almost over, do you sadly realise the 'good' part will never come..... "},{"Title":"There once was a film that BLEW....","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After having seen this movie, I felt HAD.I've not felt this strongly to WARN anyone who might spend either time and/or money on this insipid and lousy movie since Shazam. Which was my own fault, heh! WHY, I hear you cry.Well, for starters, the box said HILARIOUS comedy, which is a downright LIE. I think I SMIRKED about 90 mins into the film.....that was as good as it would get. Furthermore it boasted to be by the same people as Smth abt. Mary, thus alleging it to have any sort of writing merit. About half way through there was still no real plot development. If it didn't crawl along like a geriatric snail then it was blazing ahead like a gramma on speed. Baldwin doesnt change his facial expression all movie and several seemingly illogical subplots are thrown in (Norm is gay), only later to apparently disappear...as I hope this movie will into the bargain bin. The father-son talks, the evil principal, the bad kid sprouting a conscience, the jaded old admissions director turning around on account of 4 rambled words......it all served to make me wonder to myself WHY good money was spent on making this.Needless to say, one of the worst movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"This was a comedy?","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps I went into the movie with the wrong impression. I thought I was going into a comedy. I thought I was going to laugh. I thought incorrectly. I am not sure what happened in this movie. What I am sure of was that it should have been 10 minutes long, to ease the suffering of the audience. I tried to fall asleep. Sadly, I failed. I am a worse person because of it. "}]