[{"Title":"Good old-fashioned dirty-minded fun, even when Jennifer Love Hewitt isn't on screen.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Director David Mirkin used to write for The Simpsons, which explains why Danny Elfman did the main theme for Heartbreakers - a movie that, success-wise, has more in common with The Greatest TV Show Ever than with Mirkin's earlier Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, and not just because Shawn Colvin makes a guest appearance here as well. Don't get me wrong, it's not nearly as clever - but it IS often as funny. Plus you get to look at Jennifer Love Hewitt a lot.Mother/daughter grifter duo Sigourney Weaver and JLH are on the verge of splitting up, but agree to do One Last Big Score (isn't it always the way) in order to get out of trouble with the IRS and part sufficiently loaded; Gene Hackman, as a chain-smoking pensionable zillionaire (His liver spots are positively luminous) is their mark in Palm Beach and also the source of a lot of the fun. In fact, he and an under-used Ray Liotta come close to swiping the film from the leads, but Sig and Love make a good team, each complementing the other - Weaver's the better actress, but Hewitt holds her own; and though the former's attractive, the latter - even in her blonde disguise - is smokin' (something the film never forgets - you get to look at Jennifer Love Hewitt a lot).The Robert Dunn/Paul Guay/Stephen Mazur script won't win plaudits from the PC brigade; Heartbreakers is often a farce in a good sense, but the female characters come off for the most part not as morally upright as their male counterparts (though Hackman's moneybags is by far the most repellent person here). Pacy for sure, and often funny if not always in what the late British DJ Kenny Everett's Cupid Stunt character called the best possible taste (witness the oral sex gags early on), there's a distinct slowing down as the tale unfolds and Jen's growing feelings for a potential mark (Jason Lee) makes it more sentimental than cynics would like; the first half of the movie is funnier and edgier than the second. But you get to look at Jennifer Love Hewitt a lot.In the end, Heartbreakers has a tone a bit too much like the likes of Are You Being Served? to be a must-view for all; the movie sometimes comes across like a Carry On film. Only with a budget. And good performances. And decent writing. And funny. And with a fine soundtrack. Okay, so it's not much like a Carry On film, but it does make for a good two hours' watching; Weaver fans will get a particular kick out of her rendition of Back In The U.S.S.R., and Hackman fans will enjoy seeing him upstage everyone except for Hewitt's anatomy; I gave this 7 out of 10, but I should have given this an 8 purely on that count. This is one movie that lives up to its title.And did I mention you get to look at Jennifer Love Hewitt a lot? "},{"Title":"So cool to watch again and again!!!!!!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"41 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" What a fabulously funny film!!!! Jennifer love Hewitt and Sigourney Weaver work so well together, and the emotional scenes in the film are so believable. Plus looking at Jennifer love Hewitt in a series of brightly coloured micro dresses is fabulous. You can really tell she is turning from a little bitch to a sensual beauty who cares. Sigourney Weaver is so funny, I was in stitches listening to her as olga. What I did find confusing though was her constant hair colour and length change. One minute its long and red, the next like a bob and blonde, was it a wig, if so where was the indication!!!! Her rendition of back in the U.S.S.R was hilarious yet catchy. Ray Liotta, Gene Hackman and Jason Lee as the love-struck victims are perfectly cast.In the scene where Jennifer Love Hewitt is on the bed sleeping, and opens her eyes crying, I was and still am choked when I see it. Fab film folks 10/10 "},{"Title":"I Loved Heartbreakers!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Pussy Power is this films message,and Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt are two hot actresses who team up to create Max and Page Conners,a seductively sexy mother/daughter con team who deviously lure men into marriage and then leave them broken hearted,and....Broke. Heartbreakers is a delightful comedy that proves how deceitful a clever woman can be,as Weaver demonstrates as the gorgeous and alluring Max Conners,who targets wealthy gentleman,walks them down the aisle,and then empties their pockets through divorce when she discovers that they have eyes for other women.But the amusing thing about this film is that the other women is Max's sexy younger daughter Page,and she can turn just as many heads as her mother.Unknown to her husbands,Page is trained to seduce them,helping her mother get out of her newest marriage with a few bucks in her pocket,and the freedom to put more foolish men under her spell.Ray Liotta is hilarious as Dean,and Vinnie Stagliano,the ex husband of Max,who is bitter and desperate for revenge when he discovers how much of a bitch his ex wife is.Meanwhile,Page believes she could just as easily lure men into marriage like her mother,and sets her sights on Jack Withroe (Jason Lee)a bar owner who falls in love with her,unaware of her game.But the plot really gets interesting when we learn that Page has a heart and is in love with Jack.The ending is exciting,enjoyable and romantic.Heartbreakers is a fun film for the females,with plenty of eye candy and cleavage for the males! "},{"Title":"Screwball comedy; Hackman steals the show","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This screwball comedy brings together some great dramatic actors in unaccustomed comedic roles.  The results are mixed (but mostly good), with some terrific slapstick and some pure drivel.  Maxine (Sigourney Weaver) and Paige (Jennifer Love Hewitt) are two very slick con artists who find rich patsies and marry them, only to divorce them for big settlements after enticing them into indiscretions.  When they get nabbed by the IRS for not paying their taxes, they must score one more time to climb out of their financial mess.  The target is chain smoking billionaire William B. Tensy (Gene Hackman) who is dying before our eyes of lung disease.  The only question is whether Maxine can get him to propose before he keels over.  Meanwhile, Paige is running her own scam on Jack (Jason Lee) who owns a bar resting on prime real estate worth $3 Million.It is mostly pratfall humor, with lots of sight gags and general nuttiness, which is often uproariously funny.  The whole idea that the diminutive Paige could have been spawned from the Amazonian Maxine is implied comedy at its finest, leading us to conclude that Paige's father could only have been a midget.Gene Hackman completely steals the show as the wheezy billionaire.  Hackman, who is one of our national treasures as a dramatic actor, shows magnificent range, and he turns out to be the best comedian of the bunch.  Sigourney Weaver is also in rare form brandishing some bodacious outfits and undergarments.  She is especially funny as Olga, trotting out impressive broken English and even doing some vocals accompanied by a Russian balalaika band.  Ray Liotta gives a lighthearted and funny performance as a chop shop owner who can't get over his love for Maxine, even though he knows she scammed him.  Jason Lee's understated nice guy portrayal serves as the perfect counterpart to Jennifer Love Hewitt's bratty vamp.  The perennially cute Hewitt still can't seem to transition into grownup roles.  No matter how sexy they make her up (and they do quite a good job with her considerable attributes), her pubescent mannerisms and delivery still make her come off as a teenage harpy.  In her defense, this is what the role required, but it doesn't do much to move her out of her character rut.Overall, there is a lot of good fun here that is often dissipated by puerile absurdity.  Still, there are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, mostly delivered by Weaver and Hackman, that make this a better than average comedy.  I rated it 7/10.  Fans who like seeing Sigourney and Jennifer in sexy outfits will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies of the year. *** (out of four)","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  HEARTBREAKERS / (2001) *** (out of four)Starring Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ray Liotta, Jason Lee, Jeffrey Jones, Gene Hackman, Nora Dunn, and Anne Bancroft. Directed by David Mirkin. Written by Robert Dunn, Paul Guay, and Stephen Mazur. Produced by John Davis and Irving Ong. Rated PG-13 (for sexual content and language). Released by MGM Productions.It is becoming a genuine tradition for movies with sexy stars and seductive content to believe that males of all ages view the world not with their brain, but with the external organ between their legs. Heartbreakers does a convincing job at persuading us to agree, if we guy audience members can ourselves get past the ample amounts of cleavage and sexy dialogue inhabiting by this PG-13 rated comedy that contains enough suggestive material and revealing midriffs for many parents to pause over. The film is another mother-daughter story about letting your children grow up-but disguised itself as a hilarious comedy about sensuous swindlers who make their own luck. It makes us laugh because of the irony of its situations, and it makes us smile because of the knowledge of the writing by Robert Dunn, Paul Guay, and Stephen Mazur. Heartbreakers is easily one of the funniest comedies of the year.The film stars Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love-Hewitt as Max and Page, two conniving con artists who use their good looks to get what they want. As the movie opens, Max is married to small-time Jersey womanizer Dean Cumanno (Ray Liotta), but the marriage is short lived when Max shows up at his office the next day only to find her newlywed fooling around with an attractive younger woman-her daughter, Page. The whole act was a setup for a abrupt and easy divorce settlement, with the two double-dealers coming away from the act with their pockets overloaded with three-hundred thousand dollars and a really nice car.Page is growing up and wants to start a business on her own, but her mother thinks she is not yet ready and finds them both in a demanding circumstance the IRS needs lots of money real soon from Max and Page. A spiteful agent (Anne Bancroft) explains that their accounts have been drained and criminal charges are about to be pursued. Page coincides to help her mother with one last job in order to pay off the alleged debts. They find the perfect target in Palm Beach, an aging tobacco exec named William B. Tensy (Gene Hackman), who is worth over twenty million. Although neither Page or Max find this smelly chain smoking, old man particularly attractive, Max poses as a Russian aristocrat named Ulga Yevanova, while Page finds her way with Tensy as a revealing housekeeper for his local mansion.This last job ultimately poses a few problems for Max and Page. Max finds herself followed  by Dean, who seeks another martial bliss. Page finds herself falling in love with the kind-hearted owner of a local bar (Jason Lee), who is worth three million dollars. Max wants her to go for his pocketbook, but Page really has feelings for this person-even though romance is against her better judgment. The two must decide how to deal with these situations, all while persuading Tensy to further fall for Max in attempt to pay off the IRS.Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sigourney Weaver deliver performances that are both sexy and funny. They are also very well cast; making perfect and believable mother-daughter chemistry. There are also some funny performances from the strong supporting cast. Gene Hackman makes a fool out of himself with a character on the other side of the world from anything he has recently done. The charismatic young actor Jason Lee (Almost Famous, Mumford) furnishes a convincing romantic interest-although there is little chemistry between Hewitt and him. Anne Bancroft (The Graduate, Great Expectations) fits in with the crowd gleefully. Other small roles from Jeffrey Jones (The Devil's Advocate, Sleepy Hollow) as a hotel manager and Nora Dunn (Three Kings) as a maid framed for house robbing her own employer, are also entertaining.Director David Mirkin struck out with the 1997 comedy Romy and Michele's High School Reunion, but here captures the perfect tone for the comic material. Hearty laughs are frequent and big-and it takes a lot to make melaugh. The film prospers with a script that provides its amusing characters with many active situations and plot twists that are unanticipated and effective. Eventually, however, the film becomes rapped up in a sappy love story that somewhat gets in the way of the comedy. The movie's tone becomes a little too serious, and we end up feeling cheated out of even more boisterously entertaining moments.When it comes to getting tons of laughs out of the audience, the film prospers with no problems. Hewitt and Weaver make great career moves, especially after they each tried their strings with failed serious films (Weaver's past several Alien movies have bombed, and Hewitt could not do a thing with I Still Know What You Did Last Summer). Heartbreakers contains enough effective comic material to warrant more than a single viewing. It is one of the best comedies of the year.  "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy (Not Exactly)","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The film was billed as a romantic comedy, but I didn't see it that way. It's certainly a comedy (with a little romance) but this is far closer to Dirty Rotten Scoundrels than Pretty Woman.Anyway, when i watched it i found the film to be one of the best comedies i've seen for years. Its about a sexy mother and daughter pairing of Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love-Hewitt who basically marry men for their money; every character seems to be double crossing every other character, and it makes for terrific viewing.Each member of the cast puts in a top performance, the characters are all intelligently written and the story is very strong and interesting.I have to recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a good laugh, this is definitely not just a another chick flick, it is a brilliantly funny movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Con Is On","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  	A movie that proves that what you see is not necessarily what you get, as a mother/daughter team con one well-heeled member of the opposite sex after another, in `Heartbreakers,' directed by David Mirkin and starring Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Yes, the con is on, as mom takes &#145;em to the altar, daughter seduces &#145;em (getting caught in the act by mom, of course), and mom settles for a divorce and some big bucks.  For the women, it's like having the goose that laid the golden egg, and all is going well; the bucks are rolling in and Cupid's path is being littered in their wake with the carnage of the men they've despoiled.  Then Page (Hewitt), much to the chagrin of her mother, Angela (Weaver), decides it's time to strike out on her own and take down a score for herself.  But as fate, luck, chance or what-have-you would have it, at that moment the IRA steps in and not only wipes out their bank account, but hands them a bill for back taxes that far and away exceeds the amount already confiscated.  At that point, what's a girl to do, but find another mark.  Only this time, it has to be one rich beyond their wildest dreams.  And with that, the hunt is on.	An amusing, and at times hilarious comedy, the fact that it works as well as it does can be attributed to two things, by category  Weaver and Hewitt; and Ray Liotta and Jason Lee.  For what the movie lacks in originality is made up for with the performances of the aforementioned four.  As far as the women, such a pair of femmes fatales you've never seen; Hewitt has it and flaunts it, but she's still overshadowed by the gorgeous Weaver.  Looks aside, however, what really makes it cook is their shared if-you-see-me-comin'-better-step-aside, take-no-prisoners attitude, a Mae West meets Kate Hepburn persona that gives their con its zing.  Weaver plays it to the hilts, saucy, seductive and sharp as a tack.  And not to be outdone by her co-star, Hewitt stays right there with her, by giving a performance that makes you believe that this is a young woman who could actually pull this stuff off.  Together, their antics on screen are reminiscent of Lemmon and Curtis in `Some Like It Hot,' or Caine and Martin in `Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.'  There's a refreshing lack of pretentiousness about them that really makes them fun to watch.	As for the guys, Liotta gives a sharp performance as Dean, a guy with a hard edge and a soft spot for Angela, and Lee does a notable turn as Jack, a regular guy who finds himself in the eye of Angela and Page's storm.  Lee has an especially engaging screen presence, and some of the most memorable moments of the film are in the scenes he shares with Hewitt. 	Last, but far from least, Gene Hackman scores some guffaws as billionaire tobacco magnate William Tensy.  He gets a bit tongue-in-cheek with his character, who with his tobacco stained teeth and smoker's cough is at the same time hilarious and repulsive.  When Angela demurs his attempted kiss, you'd swear you can smell his breath and the reek of smoke from his clothes.  And you have to give Hackman credit for this one, because to play this role all vanity had to be stuffed in the closet for the duration. 	The supporting cast includes Anne Bancroft (Barbara), Jeffrey Jones (Mr. Appel), Nora Dunn (Miss Madress), Julio Oscar Mechoso (Leo), Carrie Fisher (Mrs. Surpin), Ricky Jay (Dawson's Auctioneer) and Elya Baskin (Vladimir).  Director Mirkin must be given credit for his imaginative approach to some fairly unoriginal material, and for making up for it's lack of substance by extracting some top performances from his actors.  The real strength of `Heartbreakers,' however, is the fact that it never takes itself too seriously.  If you look deep enough, you may find some insight into human nature, but for the most part this is a movie that was made with nothing but fun in mind.  It's entertaining, there's some laughs and some nice moments, and it's easy on the eyes.  If you let it, it's a movie that will let you off the hook for awhile and show you a good time.  And for my money, that's not such a bad deal.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"one of the most underrated comedies in years","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers is one of the most underrated comedies in years. The dialogue is chock full of juicy one-liners. The chemistry between Hewitt and Weaver is fantastic, and Liotta is terrific as a near-parody of his previous mobster roles. Hackman is solid as usual although he isn't given as much funny material to work with. "},{"Title":"Utterly delicious!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Stories this luscious and sumptuous, well directed and seamlessly edited, with characters faultlessly portrayed by an outstanding cast, come along rarely, and this is one of the best.  It is so good that there are not superlatives enough to do it credit.  The basic setup is that the principal characters, a mother, tantalizingly portrayed by Weaver, and her daughter, multifacetedly portrayed by Hewett, are artistes confidence to the core of their superficial existences.  They cannot so much as have lunch without practicing their arts of the scam, but mainly they work the old betrothal game.  Mom gets her rich mark to the alter, then even before the marriage can be consummated, the daughter, pretending to be unrelated, exploits the man's foolish libido, resulting in a substantial settlement after mom catches them apparently in flagrante.  But then things start going haywire when the daughter decides to strike out on her own, because the guy she fixes on as a mark is not like other guys at all.  How he is not, and how her character develops as a result, makes for two hours of outstanding comedy and drama. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Love Comedy","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Funny how easily guys can be fooled by women, but this movie is all about that. Tragically some women can't be trusted, especially when they're working on man's weakness, by using temptation.The movie takes maximum advantage of all the funny things that can happen when a mother and daughter team of marriage con goes out to dig the gold out of rich men. Unfortunately, the daughter falls for incorruptible decent bar owner. But the plan is still to con the guy into being seduced by the mother (who's pretending to be the cousin of her own daughter) on the night of the wedding of the daughter to the bar owner.The movie is a comedy but hits close to home about how men can be conned by having wool put over their eyes in the name of love, and by some forceful means. That's what makes this movie an extra delight to watch.The movie is actually a love comedy with a twist, and lives up to both the comedy, and romance aspect of the story as well.Jennifer Hewitt and Sigourney Weaver puts on great performance as well as the supporting casts.Great movie that I wish they made more of its kind. "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Mercenary mother-and-daughter Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love-Hewitt have cruised their way through life by cheating money out of various men with the tactic of mother marrying rich man, then conveniently catching him with another woman, the strategically placed daughter. This way only gets them so far, when, fresh of such a con with Ray Liotta, their hard earned cash is taken right out of their hands from their dear friends the IRS, and they decide to target the big guns in the form of multi-billionaire Gene Hackman.With a tacky premise such as this, it may seem somewhat of an embarrassment to have some talents (and Jennifer Love-Hewitt) involved. But it pays off surprisingly well. Heartbreakers is not a film that tries to be revolutionary in any way, just good entertainment, and that it is. Weaver is hilarious as the old-age goldigger, and Gene Hackman coughs and curses appropriately through his carcinogenic, repulsive richman. But for quality comedic turns, the best is by Ray Liotta, as the resentful ex who refuses to forgive and forget, who apes his own GoodFellas turn, freaky style, with laugh-out-loud consequences. From the younger actors, Jennifer Love-Hewitt is less capable, her constant bitchy act getting somewhat annoying. Her love interest, played by Chasing Amy's Jason Lee, is more likable, utterly adorable in his naivety and dedication (some would say stupidity) to his wretched girlfriend, who originally only pretends to be interested in him for his money, but ends up falling for him.I'd like to think that Heartbreakers had set out to be more than a generic comedy, and to be a film with a few lessons to teach about love. However, in its 2 hours, it ends up using the standard template. Girls tricks boy, girl falls in love with boy, girl regrets mistake, etc. For that, the film seems pretty average. There are severe plot holes and thinly sketched characters too, plus the fact that the women's aspirations can fall from billions to millions in the space of seconds &#150; it just doesn't make sense. There are additional problems that blaze out so obviously that they are impossible to ignore. But for the most part, this is a superior romantic comedy, with some excellent moments. A key one is when Weaver, keen to prove that she is, ahem, Russian, does her rendition of The Beatles' Back in U.S.S.R. There are some snappy one-liners, amusing physical comedy (Gene Hackman dying never seemed so funny). The direction is nothing special, but the stars raise their mediocre material and aim for comedy heaven, often reaching it, in a deeply entertaining, sometimes sweet, movie. "},{"Title":"Cute comedy","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First, before I get into the review itself, let's get this out of the way. For all those guys who debated seeing this movie because it looks like a chick film, but you really like Jennifer Love Hewitt.....GO SEE IT! Trust me, she is hot in this film. Not just hot, but smoking hot. I mean hot enough for you to cry in pain at how unfair life is hot. So hot she might as well have wore a nun costume in I Still Know What You Did Last Summer because she was never as hot as this. There is no excuse for you not to see this, as well as BUY it (Not rent) on DVD or VHS when it comes out. Oh, and if you like Sigourney Weaver, the same goes for you. But I can only speak for Love fans.As far as the film, I liked it. I thought the comedic chemistry between the characters was on target, and while it wasn't roll on the floor funny, there were some pretty amusing bits. A lot of risque humor of course, and I was surprised this got a PG-13 rating. You might want to keep the kids home for this one. The Gene Hackman character was funny, especially regarding his obsession to smoking. I thought Weaver and Hewitt had good byplay as a mother/daughter who just tolerate one another. The plot is easy to figure out as to where it's going, but it's funny along the way and that's what matters. And Jason Lee was really good as the average guy who has to put up with the coniving ways of the Hewitt character. Overall, a good way to spend a couple hours at the movies.By the way.......did I say how hot Jennifer Love Hewitt was?....... "},{"Title":"Overall funny and carried on by great performances.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is a surprisingly good comedy that has been overlooked for it's simple plot. The situations are funny and creative, and so are the dialogs. I think this is a really funny movie with great performances. I watched it on late, late cable and I don't regret. Watch Heartbreakers if you are in the mood for a light, fast paced Romantic Comedy with an edge. It deserves more recognition.The acting is really great and that's what makes this movie. Sigourney Weaver shines in her role; I didn't know she had such great comedic skills. Ray Liotta also shines even with minimal on-screen time. He's always great. Gene Hackman proves once again he's one of Hollywood's most talented actors; the man is hilarious! Jason Lee also does what he can but come on! how can you go wrong when all you got to do is make out with Jennifer Love Hewitt? Which, by the way, she's the main reason to watch this movie. She's extremely hot, unbelievable. She's curvy, voluptuous, and sexy. I really dug the scenes where she wore sexy, tight mini dresses. Her legs are perfect. Oh my. She's probably the hottest woman in the business. "},{"Title":"A really funny romantic comedy.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really funny. I saw it maybe eight times when it was in theaters. The first time I saw it, I didn't know what it was about, but all I knew by the end of the first five minutes was that it was really funny. I almost died laughing about twenty times during the film.PLOT (spoilers) Max Conners (Sigourney Weaver) and her daughter, Page (Jennifer Love Hewitt, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER) are professional cons. Max marries a man, and then Page sets him up to cheat, then they walk away, after a divorce settlement with half of the guy's money. After heisting a rich, Italian, mob-boss like car dealer (Ray Liotta, HANNIBAL), they head for Palm Beach, where they begin a con on billionaire, William B. Tensey (Gene Hackman, BEHIND ENEMY LINES). But complications arise when Page begins falling in love with a bartender (Jason Lee, DOGMA) who may actually have feelings for her.After the story gets moving, things get really funny. The story is fresh, and different. A rare movie gem that makes us laugh all the way. It is really rare nowadays to find a movie that actually entertains us with good, original humor. Unlike so many other comedies, HEARTBREAKERS did not crash and burn at the box-office (partially due to me, because I went and saw it so many times at the cinema).See this film if you are a fan of good romantic comedies. This is a film that entertains us with loads of humor and some dramatically touching moments. Also, look for Jeffrey Jones (SLEEPY HOLLOW) in a small role as a hotel manager. I'm also glad we got to hear John Lennon's song 'Oh my love' in this film. HEARTBREAKERS 5/5. "},{"Title":"A female Dirty Rotten Scoundrels","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After laughing thru most of this movie, it just really reminded me of another CON artist movie that made me laugh quite a bit.  Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.Although possibly not as great a comedy as that movie, this flick has many good laughs.  And for the complaints of the happy ending, this movie is really a romantic comedy.Sigourney Weaver is great, and is another female Hollywood lead that proves that older women can be incredibly sexy.Jennifer Love Hewitt does a convincing job of playing daughter and has good chemistry from Weaver.  Honestly, the people who don't enjoy this movie, are trying to be some sort of online Siskel and Ebert.  We aren't grading a drama or something here, it is a comedy.  It is supposed to make you laugh, and in this respect for me, it succeeds.I was definately laughing thru most of the movie.  What more could you want.  It is definately worth a rental.  Don't let the few bad comments scare you from getting a few good chuckles from this movie.   "},{"Title":"Amazed, ashamed and loving it","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First a disclaimer - I would never rent or go see a movie like this. It's just not my cup of tea. That being said, when I tore my ligaments and was forced to stay in bed all day long, I quickly ran out of things to do. My brother rents this kind of stuff all the time and out of boredom I popped the disc into my DVD player and prepared for pain. To my surprise I loved this movie. It's witty, it's funny and it's sexy. Of course scantily clad Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love-Hewitt contribute to the last item of praise. Give the movie a chance and rent it. You might like it.  "},{"Title":"Born in the USSR","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Da, Da, Da, Born in the USSR I am Olga from RRRussia I am a little babushka My girl and I have watched this movie before a couple months ago and are still (laughing out loud) on these few quotes from the movie. It was a relief watching it after a hard days work. That is why I grade it with a 10. I recommend Heartbreakers for all ages because it is really a excellent relaxing movie for all members of the family. Funny and romantic with two beautiful and very talented actresses who do not always successfully con the rich guys. The most funny and grouse was the screen with Gene Hackman. Even though it is not a new movie I will get a copy so I can watch it when ever I feel blue. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Comedy","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" 'Heartbreakers' is one of the greatest comedies of the last ten years. You can say that everything works great in the movie. The story is interesting, the laughs are plenty and the acting is top notch.Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt play mother and daughter who con rich men into marrying them, to divorce them soon after for a hefty divorce settlement. For their last con they go to Palm Strings, where they are faced with their biggest challenge ever.Gene Hackman is probably the funniest in the movie, playing a retired businessman fanatical with smoking. Ray Liotta is also extremely funny proving his unlimited talent in a role that is almost a parody of his mafia roles. Jason Lee is the weakest in the movie, not bad really, but rather uninteresting and not that funny.'Heartbreakers' is a rare comedic gem. The story is interesting and funny and this is quite and achievement as the only comedies of the last years that were able to maintain that, were the first three Farelly movies. "},{"Title":"This movie has everything.","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie has everything. Great actors, heist, working plot, well-written screenplay, believable characters, good soundtrack, just enough spice of humor and Jennifer Love Hewitt's sweet breasts.The screenplay was very well-written, not the typical romantic comedy. The creators of Liar Liar made a heist film with deep characters and plot.Everyone's performance was top notch, except the beginning of the film when Max and Page. Danny Elfman's work for the theme song of the film could have been better, it seemed too last minute. I liked the reference to Come Fly With Me though. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly delightful","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a witty, clever and fast paced comedy. It was one of those unplanned viewings. I was scrolling through the online guide and thought why not. Bravo to me for watching. The comedy reminded me of two great comedies... It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World from back in the 60's (I watched as a repeat in later years) and Young Frankenstein.Ray Liota missed his calling. He is wasting his time always playing a bad guy or thug. He should really be concentrating on comedy. For me he stole the movie. Maybe because I wasn't expecting him to be so spot on with his timing and his facial expressions.Sometimes the music in a movie misses the mark but this time it really enhanced a scene. I highly recommend it. It was such a pleasure to watch a movie that didn't have gratuitous sex or nudity or over the top foul language. It was just fun and this movie relies on writing and acting to carry it and not nudity, sex and vulgarity. "}{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A romantic comedy with an unusually varied cast giving good performances. Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt star as a mother and daughter con-team. They are like the legacy hunters of Ancient Rome, following around wealthy men in order to get their money. Their usual scam involves Max (Weaver) seducing a man, then marrying him. Then Page (Hewitt) appears and makes him unfaithful so that Max can divorce him and get half his money. The film begins with such a scam, taking mechanic Ray Liotta for a ride. Max is annoyed though with their slim pickings, and Page claims she can move out on her own. They decide to go for one last score each, to see who can earn the most. Max sets her sights on aging Billionaire Tensey, played by Hackman and Page follows Bartender Jason Lee who is also rich. However, Page falls for Lee and Max realises she may lose her daughter, as well as Tinsey's fortune as he refuses to die. Also, Liotta has found the two and realised their plans. He wants his money back...Although this starts out as quite a dark and cynical comedy it soon becomes more light-hearted and typical fare. There remains though a subtle tone of skepticism throughout which is refreshing in a genre which rarely offers any originality, or entertainment. Each actor seems to enjoy themselves fully, some being pulled widely away from the characters they usually play. Weaver is very strong and in control, Hewitt is extremely sexy rather than her usual roles involving screaming, crying or cuteness, and she does very well. Liotta is excellent giving the best jokes in the film, Hackman is also very funny, and Jason Lee, though toned down from his Kevin Smith roles is still capable of getting our laughs and sympathy. You can usually buy this pretty cheap so it would hardly be a waste, better than most of its type but unfortunately it is a type which is limited. Overall, good fun.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This is almost worth going to see just because of Jennifer Love Hewitt!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Much to my surprise, this movie is actually very funny and entertaining! It's about a mother/daughter con team of Max and Page (played by Sigourney Weaver of `Aliens' and Jennifer Love Hewitt of `Can't Hardly Wait') who prey upon wealthy men with the mom as bait and the daughter as cheating material to end the marriage in a fraudulent divorce. Therefore, they get half of everything he owns, which tides them over until the next poor sucker is tracked down. And these are supposed to be the good guys (or girls)? Just like `Hannibal', you end up rooting for the main characters, regardless of their motives. While this seems to work fine for them on a rich chop shop owner named Dean (Ray Liotta of `Goodfellas') and tobacco tycoon William Tensy (Gene Hackman of `Enemy of the State'), they run into a unexpected problem when Page falls for a bar owner named Jack (Jason Lee of `Chasing Amy') and actually grows a conscience on their supposed `last con'. Meanwhile, Dean tracks the two down and uncovers their scam. Due to the hilarious performances by Liotta and Hackman, and the amazing turn for Hewitt (from the dreadful `Party of Five'), this movie stayed on track and kept the laughs rolling. While this could've fizzled in so many spots, it managed to turn itself into one of the most surprisingly enjoyable comedies in a while, possibly due to director David Mirkin's (Romy and Michele's High School Reunion') fast-paced, yet lighthearted touch.  "},{"Title":"A rollicking laugh filled farce","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  All 4 principals are excellent in this movie, which recalls the best of Billy Wilder, the Marx Brothers and British farce ( remember David Niven? Michael Caine in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels?). There is no depth to the movie, but it retains good pacing and tempo.Gene Hackman is especially excellent. Some comments criticize his over the top performance. I say its just right for this movie. we fell on the floor laughing.Sigouney Weaver shows yet again her exceptional beauty and range, outshining the overheated incandescence of jennifer Love Hewitt. Although not a JLH fan, she shows an unexpected comic talent here. better than Denise richards in wild things. Which, by the way, is a misleading comparision of movies. Heartbreakers lacks the tension, gore or explicit sex of Wild Things, which tries to blend noir and comedy. Heartbreakers plays just for laughs, and, although not a masterpiece, delivers. "},{"Title":"Fun, but horribly predictable","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the things that irritates me a little about Hollywood movies isthat they are normally quite predictable. We can generally tell exactlyhow everything will work out about halfway through the movie, and arecompletely unsurprised when it turns out that way. That's not a badthing in itself, as the journey can often be more enjoyable than thedestination reached.This is the case in Heartbreakers. The ending is horribly predictable,and I was very disappointed to see a couple of possibly interestingtwists passed up. What helped me through this movie in the end were theoften funny situations that these two supposedly professional con-womenfound themselves in, and the bumbling that took place. I was expectingthe girls to be fully in control of all situations, so was very happy tosee so many situations go pear shaped for them.Okay, I'll admit it. Jennifer Love Hewitt's outfits helped a lot too -)This one is definitely a chick-flick, but a good one at that. It will atleast entertain the boyfriend enough that he'll be able to enjoy it (ifonly for the aforementioned costumes).6/ "},{"Title":"Can't stand romantic comedies, but I liked this","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It may be a shameless rip-off of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, but who cares? I liked DRS a lot.Halfway through the movie, I realized the ending would be different. After all, if the ending was the same as the 1988 version, Gene Hackman would turn out to be the Ultimate Con Artist and take the two lovelies for a ride. Well, Hollywood won't allow ugly men to trump pretty women - ever - so that was out of the question. The Hackman thread does arrive at a conclusion that I found entertaining and amusing, but about then the film picked up the pace and seemed to become twice as entertaining.When Ray Liotta showed up for a second time, I let out an audible groan. What's he gonna do now, try to be funny? Don't underestimate this guy. He can be riotously, tears-down-the-face funny, and here, he is. In fact, maybe it's fair to say that in the second half he made this film. I have to seriously re-think my Liotta-o-meter. When all's said and done, he doesn't need to get home brain surgery to entertain me.Jennifer spent a lot of screen time without contributing much, but I'd blame that on the script, not on her. Sigourney was in peak form, and a pleasure to watch. Hackman was, clearly, having fun doing his job. All in all, 3+1/2 stars, 8/10. "},{"Title":"the perfect movie","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie has everything Jennifer Love Hewitt for the Gen-Xers, Sigourney Weaver for Baby Boomers, and the late Ann Bancroft for the Swing Generation. It's always fun seeing an actress with a good-girl reputation play a whore (i.e., Natalie Portman in the vastly overrated Closer) and Hewitt is smoulderingly sexy as Paige, the younger half of a mother-daughter con woman team preying on gullible millionaires. Hewitt lighting up will undoubtedly appeal to smoking fetishists, but the film ironically manages to turn in an anti-tobacco message with Gene Hackman looking like death warmed over as a truly repellant cigarette manufacturer. Sigourney Weaver takes a break from the Alien movies to display her more feminine side; her rendition of Back in the USSR is a comic gem. Hackman is brilliant as always, even when playing a nauseating character. Ray Liotta does a funny parody of his Goodfellas persona as the wise guy with a heart of gold, and Jason Lee plays Hewitt's mark who becomes her true love. Look for super-hot Sarah Silverman as one of Lee's pals and folk singer Shawn Colvin as a minister. The perfect movie for long winter nights, I love this film! "},{"Title":"Don't miss the DVD voice over commentary!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself is well done and VERY funny--for women as well as men. It's a little too long, but otherwise well written, directed and acted (the acting is both believable and hilarious). Some really big laughs, and despite what the Amazon review says, it's not cliche at all. The scams are quite clever.So watch the movie--but then make sure to watch the DVD voice over commentary by the director, Weaver and Hewitt. They are hilarious. They are totally open, just sitting there and talking, relaying stories about the filming, but also injecting a lot of personal comments.It's extremely rare to hear such candor and unscripted humor from actresses--especially stars, but these two (and the director) make the voice over a true highlight. It's funny, charming, and add a whole new layer of entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.One wonders what the pitch was Two hot babes to target two demographics? Non-stop comedy, with lots of dick jokes? Constant twists and turns in the con? Some touching drama about relationships? Or a vanishingly small dollop of all four for the director to grow based on first class acting talent? I suspect the last. Surely, we have had thin ideas before that a talented group brought to life.But this group can't do it. The problem seems to be Weaver. She sorta kinda worked in her last outing as a washed up B-level actress, well past physical attractiveness. But comedy takes real talent. Harrison Ford can't do it. Julia Roberts can't. Weaver can't. Hackman by now just shows up and doesn't try anymore. Sad. "},{"Title":"Saw it coming....","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so predictable that you could literally call out each scene before it even happened.  Add to that a horrible acting job by Jennifer Love Hewitt, and this movie was just a big mess.Now seeing that this movie was a silly comedy, I understand that love is not a central theme, but merely an impetus to push the movie along (but not nearly fast enough).  That being said, the romantic portion of this movie was completely unbelievable and ridiculous, and contained the least amount of originality I have seen in a long time (Chris Lee likes to look at stars in his spare time?).  Add to that Hewitt, and a horrible script for Chris Lee, who I usually like, and it was literally unbearable.Maybe I am being a little critical because I did not have high expectations for this movie in the first place, but the movie did nothing to change my mood.  Ray Liotta's character almost worked on a couple occasions, but not quite.  If you want to see a funny movie about con-artists, see Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.  If you want to see cleavage, see this movie.Take cleavage away from Jennifer Love Hewitt, do we even know her name? "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt is great in this","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really Enjoyed this Movie, Both lead Actresses play well and are funny.I've seen it about 5 times and am gonna buy it on dvd.Jennifer love hewitt was the main reason i watched this as i've liked all her movies but this is probably my favourite of hers,The movie's got a great storyline and laughs from the start, I'd give it a 8/10 "}{"Title":"Barely made it through the first hour.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After sitting through two excrutiating hours of What Women Want, I promised myself I'd never sit past the first hour of a movie simply for the sake of finishing it. I was checking the elapsed playing time of Heartbreakers after only fifteen minutes. The movie was unfunny. The script was plodding, and the plot was, well, just not there. The acting was mediocre - if Sigourney Weaver makes one more mistake like this, she'll end up doing infommercials. I hope she, Liotta, and Hackman were paid well, though I doubt all the money in the world could not compensate for the damage this may do to their careers. And speaking of money, who was paid off to get a PG-13 rating on this trashy piece of bad soft-porn. "},{"Title":"Better than average black comedy has amusing highlights...","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A black comedy with the accent on sexcapades. I caught this one quite by chance on cable and intended to switch channels if I found it boring. I didn't switch--not that it's something you should rush out and see, but it's got some very funny bits of business supplied by Gene Hackman (as a disgusting old man) and Sigourney Weaver, funny when she's impersonating a Russian chanteuse.It's a tepid variation on the Dirty Rotten Scoundrels theme and this time it's a mother-daughter team who make an unforgettable pair of schemers. A scantily clad Jennifer Love Hewitt is a bit irritating as a vampish daughter who can't make up her mind whether to pursue Jason Lee or not. Lee seems willing to take whatever he can get from her, regardless of her abusive treatment.Much of it is very amusing if you can accept the fact that none of the characters are exactly likeable. Gene Hackman has a comic field day as a man with a hacking cough, dingy teeth and deathly pallor who finds himself being pursued by Sigourney Weaver who is after his wealth--what else? One of the funniest scenes has Weaver (with thick Russian accent) having to get up and perform with a balalaika band at a night spot.Moves at a brisk pace with some funny pratfalls and plot twists that will keep you watching until the predictable fadeout. Good light entertainment for a rainy day. "},{"Title":"So-so fun fluff stuff","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The Heartbreakers tells of the misanthropic misadventures of a mom/daughter team (Weaver/Hewitt) of con artists who prey of the male libido and ego. The mom/daughter team offer eye candy and little else while the comic relief comes from marks Liotta and Hackman. A so-so romantic comedy with the emphasis on comedy, Heartbreakers is a moderately fun way to wile away 2 hours if not taken seriously and expectations are kept low. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Clever Film About Filthy, Dirty Women","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" There was a rumor in high school that I had an incredible crush on Jennifer Love Hewitt, presumably based off my love of the movie Can't Hardly Wait. Well, that rumor was false. But if I had seen this movie in high school (a temporal impossibility), things might have been different.This film stars Hewitt, alongside Sigourney Weaver, as a pair of black widows who con men into marrying them so they can reap the divorce money. What is not so interesting is the plot (clever, but nothing special). It's the impressive list of guest stars they con along the way Kevin Nealon, Ray Liotta, Jeffrey Jones, Gene Hackman and Jason Lee.If the cast doesn't sell you, there are key scenes you won't want to miss Sigourney Weaver posing as a Russian woman singing the Beatles' Back in the USSR... and Ray Liotta hunting fish with a pistol.If nothing else, the subtle Chasing Amy reference probably makes this whole film worth it. (Okay, not true... but I appreciated it.) My only two complaints Sarah Silverman needed a bigger part (maybe TJ Thyne did, too). And who is the guy who keeps thinking that Sigourney Weaver should be put in sexy roles? That person needs to be strung up in the alley. "},{"Title":"Hustled hearts","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is a romantic comedy about con artists. Just to ram the point home, magician and con movie veteran Ricky Jay appears.A mother and daughter team (Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt) make a lucrative living out of Weaver marrying rich men and then getting Hewitt to end up in a compromising position with them leading to a quick divorce settlement.After conning Ray Liotta and Hewitt thinking of branching out on her own, Weaver finds that the IRS (Anne Bancroft) have taken their saving and demanding more in back taxes.The two of them head out to Palm Beach to find a big mark for that giant payout and put their conning days behind them. They aim to reel in Gene Hackman a chronic smoker and billionaire that Weaver is desperately trying to seduce. Hewitt falls for a local bar owner but Ray Liotta swindled at the beginning of the film suddenly drops by.A film like this is framed by its subject, the confidence artist. You see Weaver and Hewitt pulling various cons as they go along, slipping on the floor to get good hotel suites, finding glass on food to get free restaurant meals. However in this movie you kind of guess there is a counter-con going on. Bancroft is not someone who randomly turns up at the beginning of the movie.As a romantic comedy it is so-so. Weaver looks good for her age and Hewitt wears sexy outfits. The film works better when Weaver tries to grasp dirty ole smoker Hackman and things do not go rather as planned.However the real show stealer is Liotta. We think he is going to be the hard nosed bad guy but puts on a relaxed comedy turn. "},{"Title":"Good comedy farce...","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies you just keep on watching over and over again and it stays funny! Heartbreakers is a genuinely original and hilarious romantic comedy. The script is very good throughout with some sparkling scenes and one-liners.The best thing about Heartbreakers is the cast. They are really great! Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sigourney Weaver, Ray Liotta, Gene Hackman and Jason Lee are all excellent. Not only do they work well together, but they make their parts believable. Jennifer Love Hewitt really outdoes her acting ability I don't think she's ever been this good! Sigourney Weaver sends herself up brilliantly. Anne Bancroft makes a lovely cameo as an older con-woman, and Ray Liotta is perfectly cast as the criminal link who won't take being conned and won't let the girls get away with it. Lastly, Gene Hackman as the phlegmy dirty old man in the Rolls is positively disgusting, which is, I think, what he was trying to achieve.The film moves at a reasonable pace, although not fast enough to make it work as a comedy. It starts good, but goes downhill way before the conclusion. And it's far too long at 123 minutes - I mean this is not War and Peace. The characters are likable and the chemistry is good, especially between mother and daughter - but good will and likable are not enough to hold a film together. This one needs more cement! Overall rating 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No Heartbreak Here.","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers (2001) Dir David Mirkin / Cast Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Gene Hackman, Ray Liotta, Jason Lee Comedy where a mother daughter combo seduce males for their money. Sigourney Weaver marries wealthy victims and Jennifer Love Hewitt enters as a maid positioned as the victim of sexual play. Together they rob victims through divorce settlements. They sight Gene Hackman in Palm Beach Florida but must move fast because the I.R.S. is closing in. Amusing setup is structured like a sitcom with wayward conclusion. Directed by David Mirkin who previously made the wonderful comic gem Romy and Michele's High School Reunion and here he demonstrates similar timing. Weaver is a steal giving a zesty performance closed in deceit. Hewitt aims for romance and normality in a predictable yet much more moral direction. Hackman is hilarious constantly smoking cigars that threaten his health. Ray Liotta is perfectly cast as a foil who pursues them and eventually takes an interesting comic turn but not necessarily for the ethic better. Jason Lee is weak only due to having to play Hewitt's romantic interest. The role is straight forward and never worthy of Lee's comic potential. Hewitt learns that there are options while Weaver learns that men can be companions. Together they realize that the only hearts they were breaking was their own. Score 6  / 10 "},{"Title":"A fun comedy film with nice cast and hilarious story","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film has nice cast and for me the most interesting was Jennifer Love Hewitt who's character (page) is smart, sexy, intriguing and sometimes even sincere. This film is about that old thing that probably all or at least the majority of men cheat and two main female characters, a mother and her daughter, can seduce men and take their chances in getting lots of money and wealth. I laughed many times during this film cause it has so many fun moments. The best thing I liked is that it ends with happy-end and Page finally finds a man (a bartender, who is in charge of his bar) who is sincere and true to her in his feelings and in his actions. By the way he is also rich enough. Not superb, but if you want something easy, fun and joyful it's a good film to entertain. "},{"Title":"Who is outsmarting who?","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sigourney Weaver is a national treasure. She has given us what are by now legendary performances Ripley from the Alien series, Katherine from Working Girl, among others. This one here is also a match for those She is witty, sexy, and a force of nature. Since she's playing multiple characters, it would be easier to refer her as mother.We are introduced to her act when she's just celebrating her wedding to her latest conquest, and from the looks of it, she's something special. Eventually, we realize what the act is, as she walks away with a nice settlement and meets her partner in crime right when she's leaving town Jane, her own daughter, the result of one trick gone wrong a few decades before.Jane is ready to move on the professional leagues, but mother is a bit overprotective, in spite of what she makes her own kid do. Complications arise, and what was to be their last job together goes bust. Soon, they are in Palm beach, trying to find the biggest fish which will lead them to retirement. Watching them evaluate their prospects is hilarious. These pro's have an interesting set of standards.Soon, the target is chosen, and Gene Hackman, given a hideous makeup job turns out to be them the most unappetizing of their victims. He looks like a living dead who survives from puffing constantly on tobacco. The close ups are both entertaining and disturbing, since his complexion and his teeth-coloring is as close as you get to a corpse with the ability to speak.Any movie would not be fun if there were no complications, and soon mother is facing ghosts from her past, Jane is having second thoughts about what is happening with her life. This begins when she meets a local bartender who has better prospects she originally believed. Add to the developing mess, a faithful maid, unexpected proposals, maimed statues, and the power of true love.The laughs keep coming, and eventually everything is resolved, this is one of the best pieces to see because true nature never quite leaves mother, and she finds a way to turn into a winning hand. Heartbreakers is a classic comedy of the best kind. "},{"Title":"A comedy that can't decide if it should grow a conscious","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" When it comes to comedy films that involves lying, there has to be a clear line drawn of when and where the conscious of the person who is lying begins to work. Unfortunately, this movie can't decide on that. The story follows a mother and daughter who professionalize in being con artists. Their specialty - seducing, marrying and divorcing men into giving them the majority of their money. This would be funny if the film's main characters had focused on a man they had dealt with in the past but no. They decide to take on the everyday guy just for the sake of getting quick money. This is not how it should be done. This should be a revenge comedy against one man, not the entire gender universally.What's even more astonishing is the wide scale range that the casting department chose for their actors. The mother and daughter are played by Sigourney Weaver (the Alien (1979) franchise) and Jennifer Love Hewitt (I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997)) respectively. There's Ray Liotta (Unlawful Entry (1992)), Jason Lee (who would later play Syndrome in The Incredibles (2004)), Jeffrey Jones from Beetlejuice (1988), Gene Hackman from Superman (1978), Zach Galifianakis (from the Hangover (2009) franchise) and even Carrie Fisher from Star Wars (1977) is acting in here. How could such a large cast of good actors still make such an average film?In fact, a lot of these actors' scenes are wasted because they are similar to other characters they have played. Weaver is probably the most complex but also the character with the on-off conscious. Hewitt plays the confused girl not knowing what to think of her emotions. Liotta continues to play his usual violent egomaniac, although there is a scene where he even grows a conscious (briefly); that scene I enjoyed the most. And Jason Lee just plays the clueless cutie boy who has no idea what's going on around him. As for the rest of the cast mentioned before, they really do have wasted scenes. None of them are funny scenes either.It just doesn't make sense. You have director David Mirkin, who has worked with comedies before like The Simpsons (1989) and the same name titled movie of 2007. Maybe it's his lack of directing features that pass 30 minutes. He's only released one other theatrical film, maybe he wasn't ready? And how come three writers couldn't form a more consistent plot. So much of it is back and forth between what is right and wrong which becomes tiresome. It will make people want to tell the characters to make a decision already. And it's not like they couldn't make a good script. Two of these writers were apart of Liar Liar (1997) which many people consider a good movie (speaking of which that that movie was also related to lying). Hmmm.Anyway, so it's not easy to say who is the weak link here. John Debney's music was OK. It had goofy tunes, which did alright in helping the scenes, but still didn't help the consistency of the tone. The comedy was also very bland. The main actors don't give much charm to their characters. Sure they dress up and talk like other people but that doesn't always make them funny. Some viewers may also find it sexist of how it portrays both genders. Men are lustful and dumb, while women are seductive and calculative. Then again, it can also be taken as an empowering portrayal. It really depends on what the audience wants to see. I for one found nothing of either side except an average comedy that had a little promise but didn't accomplish much.For a comedy with such a strong cast, it seems like this could have audiences laugh a lot. Sadly, the characters are too clich and the tone flip flops making it just an average movie. "}{"Title":"Too long and not that funny","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt play a mother and daughter con team. As a light comedy, this is a half hour too long. And as a light comedy, Ray Liotta is too angry and too threatening. He doesn't have the light touch to have fun with the material.Weaver and Hewitt are not the most obvious cons. I don't know if Hewitt has ever told a lie in real life. She doesn't seem to be the type, and that's the problem. The most important contribution from Hewitt seems to be her curves in tiny tiny dresses and what keeps trying to pop out of them.I have a serious need to compare this to 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'. That one had two all-time comedic masters in Steve Martin and Michael Caine working. This one has two actresses who dabbles in comedies. In that one, it wasn't the cons but the wacky antics that was important. No matter how hard they try, nobody can do physical comedy in the same league.Gene Hackman plays a gruff tobacco magnate. He's not a terribly funny comedian. Jason Lee plays the bar owner who falls for Hewitt. I can't fault anybody for the attempt, but I just don't see much in the mean-spirited personality to like. Nobody is likable here and I want Jason Lee to run away as fast as possible. At over 2 hours, this is an impossibly long unfunny comedy. If it wasn't for Hewitt's impressive curves, there would be nothing to recommend. "},{"Title":"The chemistry makes the movie work","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers starts out with a simple idea. An mother and daughter con team scams men out of their money. One marry a guy, and the other seduces the guy to lead the guy to be caught. And the mother and daughter con team is played by Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt. At the beginning of the movie, Weaver marries an chop-shop dealer, played by Ray Liotta. Soon enough, everything is going well. Then, Liotta is seduced by Weaver's daughter, played by Jennifer Love Hewitt. And that leads Liotta into a divorce. After scamming Liotta out of his money and taking away his car, Weaver and Hewitt decide to head to Palm Beach, Florida. But, the movie quickly turn another direction. Hewitt wants to go on her own, but Weaver convinces her to stay together. When arriving in Palm Beach, the duo targets an tobacco dealer, played by Gene Hackman, who does a pretty good job. Meanwhile, Hewitt meets a bar owner, played by Jason Lee and quickly falls in love with him. What I liked about Heartbreakers is the chemistry between Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt. The chemistry between the two really holds the movie together. They are really fun and interesting to be see. To be honest, I really have a celebrity crush on Jennifer Love Hewitt. In this movie, I think she does a pretty good job, playing Weaver's daughter. She is funny and pretty throughout this movie. I laughed a lot during this movie and it may not be the best comedy of 2001, but the question I ask myself always when watching a comedy, Did I laugh? The answer that I have is Yes. I laughed during Heartbreakers. An good comedy.  3 stars. "},{"Title":"Heartbreakers is a hit!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie was not your typical romantic comedy&#x85;it's more. This movie was a delight to watch, and it kept my attention throughout the whole movie. Sigourney Weaver is amazing as con artist mother, and may I say&#x85;she was stunning too. Typically I don't say that about her&#x85;she tends to go after roles that are aggressive, and more manly&#x85;but she was funny and entertaining to watch. Jennifer Love Hewitt was your typical spoiled brat, that fell in love with the man she was trying to con out of money. Gene Hackman played an ugly old (loaded) smoker&#x85;and may I say, he played the dying old rich man well, lol. The movie was funny, exciting, and romantic. I currently own this movie and will be delighted to watch it again in the near future. I do recommend this movie.For daily movie reviews visit kimsmoak.com now! "},{"Title":"Smart , Stylish & Sexy","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've watched Heartbreakers over ten times and it never fails to make me laugh at the crazy antics of the characters who made this movie enjoyable for viewers.Pairing up actresses Sigourney Weaver & Jennifer Love Hewitt to play the mother/daughter con team was genius they're incredibly talented and beautiful women,their performance was fantastic.Gene Hackman's part as the tobacco tycoon was good of all his acting roles this was his funniest one yet. Ray Liotta portrayed the crook with a heart of gold who would do anything to win back the girl of his dreams Jason Lee as bar tender Jack was both genuine and sweet. One of my favorite scenes is when Page falls asleep on the bed and begins to cry it's then shown that she really loves this nice guy.Max (Weaver) & Page (Hewitt) Conners are a sexy mother/daughter con artist team who make men fall in love then break their hearts and steal their cash. The latest con is on Dean Cummano (Liotta) a small crook and car shop owner, she marries him and then Page seduces him into a bad situation prompting Max to quickly divorce and take what he's got. Now that Page is older she's ready to set up on her own but her mother doesn't think she's ready . When the I.R.S. threatens to sue them for tax evasion and fraud Max begs her daughter to help her with one last con, The final candidate is William B. Tensy (Hackman) a tobacco company owner worth $20 million. However complications arise when Page sets her sights on Jack Withrowe (Lee) a bar tender whose property is worth $3 million dollars, she genuinely begins to fall in love with him while Max posing as Ulga Yevonova a Russian beauty is being followed by Dean who wants a second trip down the aisle. Filled with humor, laughter and heartwarming romance Heartbreakers is the ultimate hilarious romantic comedy for everyone. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt is hottest she has ever been in this","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is a comedy with 2 con artists both female named Max Conners(Sigourney Weaver) and her daughter Page Conners/Jane Helstrom(Jennifer Love Hewitt) that go around conning men out of there money, because usually when it comes down to it they know most of the time men tend to think with there dick instead of there brain when dealing with attractive women. And putting a actress such a Sigourney Weaver to play the con artist, the director or the writer probably thought the audience would actually root for her and her scheme. But besides the film portraying these two con artists as the not so bad girls being beyond me, it was actually pretty entertaining. I mean it's nothing to go rush out and see and Jennifer Love Hewitt was hottest she has ever been and the supporting cast did a decent job as well although not as hot as Love Hewitt. The plot and the character interaction is way over the top although it was probably for some comedic value, again okay film to check out if you have few hours to kill, just don't take the film seriously and you will be alright.7.3/10 "},{"Title":"Do you have any idea how much therapy you people need?","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Max and Page are mother and daughter, they also happen to be a brilliant con team. Max lures wealthy men into marrying her, then Page seduces the just married guys into cheating so Max can fleece them in the divorce court. But this time it's not so simple, Dean refuses to give up on his marriage and goes in hot pursuit of Max. But that's not all. The girls are in conflict as Page wants to go her own way, whilst the next two men in each of their lives are literally going to turn their world's upside down.As everyone knows by now, taste and opinions are subjective, none more so than when it comes to comedy in all its various forms. That said, I'm personally surprised that Heartbreakers doesn't have more of a following since it's got a little bit of everything to make it a comedic winner. The cast are working hard and enjoying the material, there's loads of sex appeal for both members of the opposite sex, and crucially, it's very much pinging with moments of hilarity. The ending is perhaps never much in doubt, and yes it's going to be too sweet for some, but preparing for a formula ending whilst having a laugh on the way is, I think, all one can expect from a production such as this.Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ray Liotta and Gene Hackman lead the way. Playing mother and daughter, both Weaver & Hewitt delight in their willingness to vamp it up for their characters. And boys, there are legs, oh yes, lovely long legs. Liotta as the lovelorn and recently cash departed Dean is wonderful. Revelling in a comedy role away from his macho image, his timing matched with his incredulity makes one wish that he had done far more comedy in his career. And girls, if you like Liotta in that way, you are well served here. Especially in one laugh out loud kinky sequence. Then there is Gene Hackman playing the latest target for being stripped of his cash. As an old and crusty tobacco magnate, Hackman disgusts as much as he amuses, and he too looks to be having a right good old time.Zippy one line zingers and visual treats along the way, Heartbreakers holds up on revisits. It obviously isn't comedy genius with a deep cranial worth, but it's slinky, sexy and dam well funny. Give it a go and you may just be surprised. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A hilarious film with a good cast.","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is a hilarious comedy that I will not soon forget. I love the entire cast. Including Jennifer Love Hewitt(Can't Hardly Wait, Ghost Whisperer) Sigourney Weaver(Alien, Galaxy Quest) Ray Liotta(Goodfellas, Hannibal) Jason Lee(My name is Earl, Mallrats) This film also introduces some new people. Like comedian Sarah Silverman and Zach Galifanakis from The Hangover. Heartbreakers was probably my favorite film of 2001. Mostly because it's such a well thought out movie and it's hilarious. Also, I found Jennifer Love Hewitt sexy like always. I did leave out the performance by Gene Hackman as an old guy the two women plan on conning. Heartbreakers is a genius comedy. I know that the two main characters are bitches, but that doesn't ruin a film. The two main characters are supposed to be conning these men, and it works.The Plot A mother and daughter are conning men for the last time. The daughter Paige is conning a bartender who happens to have a lot of money and own the bar. The mother Max is conning an old geezer. "},{"Title":"Silly, Entertaining and Funny","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie despite it is a little bit silly but Hey I had a lot of fun watching it and it has the most important thing about a movie that it is being entertaining which is very rare for a silly comedy film which last 2 hours (a lot of time for this kind of movies which frequently last 100 minutes top).The performances are really funny, Jennifer Love Hewitt looks great with all the sexy clothe she wears through the film (this is a very good reason just to see it). The plot is good and interesting too.Max and Page are mother and daughter who get a lot of money from men. First Max gets married with them and after short time she finds them cheating at her with Page which lead to a divorce and a lot of money, but one day Page will fall in love with one mark, and a former mark will go after Max ........6.5 stars = regular + (entertaining) "},{"Title":"Intelligent and Sexy","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is such a fabulous movie, the right mix of intelligence, humor and sexiness. Jennifer Love Hewitt plays her role so well as a really naive and beautiful woman in need of independence and Sigourney Weaver is hilarious and so convincing as her mother. The movie is so well made and its a movie you'll want to watch more than once. The characters seem so real and so flawed by their prospects. Gene Hackman steals the show with his portrayal of the most unattractive smoker I have ever seen, he is simply hilarious. The events that take place in the movie are so funny and slightly heart-warming. Ray Liota plays his role very well as well- Its one of the best comedies that I have come across in a very long time and its the sort of movie that both men and women can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Good comedies do not come by easily and that is why I liked this one so much. It is slapstick in many ways, but at the same time, the characters are well developed, and the actors were all well chosen for their roles, giving hilarious performances. You can't miss Sigorney Weaver alongside Gene Hackman or Jennifer Love Hewitt seducing Ray Liotta without cracking up. The plot moves along smoothly and the end is satisfying as the mother and daughter team resolve their issues between each other and the men in their lives. It's one of those comedies that you will be able to see more than once. I highly recommend it! "}{"Title":"Mother and daughter swindlers","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Signorney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt, that fat girl in a bikini, are Heartbreakers in this 2001 film also starring Ray Liotta, Gene Hackman, Jason Lee, Anne Bancroft and Nora Dunn. Of course I've seen Jennifer Love Hewitt many times since 2001, and every time I've seen her, she's been a stick, so I still don't get all the hoopla about how she looks in a swimsuit. She has always been a spectacular looking young woman.That's not really beside the point - this is a film about mother and daughter con artists who make their money in a variety of ways, all illegal. Mom Max (Weaver) marries 'em, daughter Page (Hewitt) seduces 'em, mom catches 'em and gets a huge divorce settlement without ever having sex with a husband -she claims her religion dictates she wait until the wedding night, and then on the wedding night, she unceremoniously falls asleep after getting the guy raring to go. So raring that when he sees the daughter's boobs and legs that go up to her neck, he's ready to pounce.But there are other cons. There's the fall on the wet hotel floor which gets them a free suite; the glass in the salad that gets them a free meal, and out and out stealing. In one scene, while a man is filling the gas tank, Page (Hewitt) takes his credit card, inserts it at her tank on the other side, and replaces it on his side, filling her tank on his money. These women are pros.After the two con mobster Liotta, Page announces she wants to go out on her own. Then, believing that the IRS has wiped them out and wants more money, she agrees to stay with her mother for one last con - and it has to be a huge one. Heading for Palm Beach, they have to decide on two men - one decrepit billionaire (Gene Hackman) and a young bachelor Jack Winthrowe (Lee). After Max wins a bet, the target becomes chain-smoking, constantly coughing Tensy (Hackman). Unbeknownst to mom at first, Page goes after Jack. Then the unexpected happens.This is a very funny movie with some great scenes, one of the best being when Max, posing as a Russian, is forced to get up on stage and sing in Russian. Weaver is simply great in this role, not to mention outrageously beautiful and sexy. I asked my mother how old she thought Weaver was, and she answered Thirty. I said, Mom, she's exactly my age. She used to have the voice lesson after mine in New York. She was tall and beautiful then; she was tall and beautiful in 2001, and she's tall and beautiful now. Hewitt is both sexy and trashy, playing the role of a young woman tough on the outside and a marshmallow on the inside very well.Very enjoyable and entertaining, with some excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Hewitt sizzles .... and acts too","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've watched JLH sizzle and smoulder her way through many films, and whilst there's no denying she oozes sex appeal from every pore of her perfectly formed body, often her performances lack a little depth. However I was quite taken by this one - not quite Oscar material, but she definitely makes this movie.Even with the solid sterling cast of Liotta, Weaver, Bancroft, Lee and Hackman this movie could easily have become a little tedious and lack-lustre. What tips it to just short of excellence, and brings it to life, is Ms Hewitt, in one of the most captivating performances I've witnessed from this delectable young lady.I would have like to see a little more spark between Hewitt and the also very-watchable Jason Lee, but they play the humorous side very well indeed. There are some genuinely laugh-out-loud moments in this film - sadly not enough, but Hackman and a bird provide one of the best.I'm glad I ignored my first impressions and stuck with it, and even if you don't love Hewitt, I still recommend it to anyone who wants to relax and be thoroughly entertained and amused. Great performances from a very talented cast, some great lines, and suitable for all audiences. Especial thanks to whoever dressed Ms Hewitt ) "},{"Title":"Nice Funny movie about true love,not being shallow,Humanity and human evolution","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" 1-First of all I have to say that I like the character of Jason lee in this movie _kind,free,romantic,happy and strong Human_kind of guy I like to be something like that.the things he do in different seductive situations amaze me a lot.also lovely Jennifer became a nice and different girl too.that's the main reasons for Me to like a movie. -2-I like the moments when the film was humiliating seduction stuff and being shallow.I recall myself and the funny response I would do in that same moments in my life.in fact it was humiliating that things in me too,and show me clearly a perfect alternative to that,called Love and humanity which I was cast away from that again. -3-the nice things which happens in this movie is lot more than poor and cheap things. -4-This film really catch me and made me cry ,laugh and feeling high and really show and teach me a lot of beautiful and good things. -5-Of course there are some times in every movie which are less or more unbelievable or bad made in the eyes of few or many people ,but this film as a whole entity and through my eyes and feelings was excellent. "},{"Title":"good movie if you like comedy","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I personally liked this movie. Not because it has a good script, nor was it because it had Oscar winning performances by the leads(BTW..it has neither of the two). I liked this movie because it was a good way to pass two hours and not regret it later. Anyone who likes comedies and does not criticize every single detail in a movie is bound to enjoy this movie, just like Kate and Leopold which had a few problems but yet, was fairly good in the end. Jennifer Love Hewitt is great, so is Gene Hackman. I have always liked Sigourney Weaver, and this movie did not change my opinion of her acting skills in any way.It's a an interesting comedy with a good plot and funny situations. It isn't a classic, but a good movie for your comedy collection when it comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Female version of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This female version of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is extremely funny. Excellent, tight, laugh-out-loud script, with acting, direction, and editing to match. Zips along, every line and every scene a winner. In their zeal/greed to con men, mother-daughter team Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt keep getting themselves into impossible situations and then getting themselves out in witty, ingenious ways. Even the usual mother-daughter tension gets elevated to new heights. Everything in this movie is hilarious, including the small scenes and things that go on in the background, like Gene Hackman's parrot; Ray Liotta goes fishing; and anything Anne Bancroft does. Locations are as gorgeous as the cast. "},{"Title":"Underrated fun rom-com","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I was very surprised by the number of negative comments about this movie. Being a big Sigourney Weaver fan, I was happy to see her return to comedy in her best performance since Working Girl. The premise and overall mood of the story is meant to be fun and fluffy, like a party or rainy day film. You cannot possibly see this film in the same light as other classics. That is not its purpose. It's meant to be like any other romantic comedy. But, it has an added twist with its originality.The veterans (Weaver, Hackman, Liotta) are knock-outs with a great sense of timing and wonderful shtick. The teenagers (Hewitt, Lee) have more to learn, but are still likable.If you liked Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, you'll like this. Weaver posing as a Russian and her scenes with Hackman & Liotta are the funniest in the movie.This was my first DVD upon getting my player two years ago, and I still enjoy watching this movie time and again. Very funny!P.S. My mom and I watched this together and she really liked it. We were hesitant in suggesting it to my dad, but he eventually saw it and I'd never seen him laugh so hard over a movie (he's 57!)8/10- enjoyable "},{"Title":"Heartbreakers featuring lungbreakers","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A mother and daughter con team are out to make one last sting....a big one at that. So far so unoriginal. Sigourney Weaver & Jennifer Love Hewitt are the team in question. Fans of T&A will not be disappointed with Hewitt's contributions.Romantic comedies lasting over two hours can be dangerous territory. However, this flows pretty well and on only a couple of occasions are you left anxious for the inevitable ending....that said there is a tiny sting to look forward to.Vibrant and colourful it's a fairly enjoyable couple of hours but I felt Gene Hackman's chain smoking character could have been more humorously employed. If you have two hours to waste and you enjoy the romantic comedy genre you could do worse than watch this.  "},{"Title":"Lots of Frothy Fun","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  O.K.  So this may not be a deep film.  It's not.  It's the kind of film a person can watch without engaging too many brain cells after a hard week of work and which offers action set in luxurious surroundings (always an upper when you're feeling down) and some fine and amusing acting by Sigourney Weaver, Ray Liotta, and Gene Hackman.  Lot of pretty people, pretty sets, good cinematography and funny situations.  So shoot me  I had a fine time viewing this.  It was a lot of fun.  I would even watch it again!  I don't know why this didn't get wider distribution or p.r. when it first came out.  Oh well.  Just rent it.  It's good, frothy fun!  Sigourney's and Jennifer's shenanigans are a hoot! "},{"Title":"A very light hearted and funny movie, for adult.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just can't help but feel good after watching this movie. Every character is like-able. The daughter wants to break free. The mother is sincerely fear for her daughter (did I mention they are both con-artist?). There are no bad guys in this movie because even the main characters themselves aren't so good. There are just a bunch of likable interesting people interact and helplessly make a bad situation worse by just being who they are. And yet we know that no matter how bad things get (and things become very bad near the end), they still manage to wrap it up in a happy ending in a believable (almost) way. The background music is great, the view is spectacular. The humor started out being on the realistic side, then go down to sitcom, then went so crazy, it's almost like a spoof. Not that it's a bad thing. But the inconsistency may turn some people off. But don't worry, it is funny. And this isn't a teen comedy funny. This is a very sophisticated, adult, yet light hearted kind of funny (think Seinfeld and Friends). Plus, it's also very refreshing because there are tons of original stuffs in here. Very clever. "},{"Title":"a very good russian accent.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Wow. I am surprised that Weaver is so talented. Her Russian accent is so real. And it made the movie so much more fun to watch her talking in her Russian English. Of course, I think that they probably provide her with a real Russian woman. Otherwise, there is no way that she can talk so Russian like. Nevertheless, she is truly talented. I have seen some other movies where actors have to speak in English or other accents, Weaver is the best.Even though we all know that it is not real life, but screenplay writer did an excellent job so that everything is very logical. For example, I was wondering myself how the fake IRS woman gets into Weaver's account, etc. Then later on, the movie revealed its answer. Of course, there is one minor mistake. When they dropped the body all the way to the floor, how come no one else found the body, and reported it to the police.Overall, this is an excellent comedy. And if I have time, I will definitely watch it again.  "}{"Title":"Very watchable and very funny, but that's it","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers (2001) Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Gene Hackman, Ray Liotta, Jason Lee, Anne Bancroft, Jeffrey Jones, Nora Dunn, Julio Oscar Mechoso, Ricky Jay, Sarah Silverman, D David Mirkin. Lengthy but funny comedy about mother-and-daughter con artists who rob millionaires by first luring him to the altar as the other lures him into temptation, and then a divorce settlement leaves the women with the money. The cast looks to be having a good time, which can get your mind off some of the spotty humor; Hackman is at his most repulsive as the ladies' newest target, a wheezing, filthy-rich tobacco tycoon. Running Time 123 minutes and rated PG-13 for sex related content including dialogue. **    "},{"Title":"very good film considering it's a comedy","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  it seems like msot of the comments posted here deal with the immorality of the issue posed and not with the actual movie. yes, the jlove jason lee affair was somewhat cheesy, but that's what i expected going into a movie titled 'heartbreakers'. i liked it for the comic effect and hackman's performance was simply hilarious and remarkable. people have noted that the plot has holes, but i simply don't see resolving everything as necessary. it's a comedy and a pretty good one, and the concept of women snaring guys is not so far off from what happens with most relationships unwittingly. call me a cynic. "},{"Title":"very funny movie ( formula works )","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  they used a very good script to make a odd comedy workone of the funnist black comdies seen in last year great cast who i thought wouldnt pull it off !!!!!!!! love hewitt fits the roll so well ,,,,sigorney too  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Fresh, new, laugh out loud funny. The writers Robert Dunn (I), Paul Guay, and Stephen Mazur are brilliant, clever, ingenious, excellent, clever, intelligent... oh yeah, and very funny.When a movie is this great it is b/c all of the parts come together directing, acting, casting, production, editing, etc. All of the crew deserve kudos for each of the contributing parts. 10/10Sometimes there is even a single person who stands out above the excellent ensemble - Ray Liotta. He delivered his lines so perfectly that I had trouble breathing at times. 11/10- Zafoid "},{"Title":"Smasher","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Absolute cracker for entertainment.  No it won't win any Oscars or BAFTAS but it good fun.Great oneliners and boy oh boy, JLH is wonderful to look at, Siggie Weaver not bad either.Jennifer Love Hewitt wears some clothes that make your jaw drop and its worth watching just to see her, forget the storyline.Overall its good, fun and entertaining, watch it. "},{"Title":"Very Intriguing Comedy","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although 99% of the fans of this movie are guys, I found it rather amusing myself.  I can appreciate when women look good just as well as any other man, without the catty remarks-these women pulled it off!  It was interesting to see the colorful outfits they wore, and the performances weren't half bad, either.  I found it pretty entertaining, and especially enjoyed Ray Liotta's performance.  I liked in the end how he decided to join their team.  It'll make a great rental, I think. "},{"Title":"God I love this movie","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why everyone says this isn't a good movie. I think that the performances are great and it's a lot of fun. But the twists that happen (nothing big but what wasn't supposed to happen) make it work. "},{"Title":"---","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite comedys ever, and I don't like very much comedy films. The thing with this one is that it has an original plot and realistic characters, ever if they are trapped in typical funny antinatural situations. The movie gives time for every character to have his own special moment and also has laugh out loud parts, and lots of just funny parts. I love Sigorney Weaver. She is great actress after all, and I like jsut watching her on screen, and Jennifer Love----- is just too damn hot, no offense there. Yes, is kinda good and I'd watch it again. "},{"Title":"It's a dirty job, but somebody's gotta do it","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A very funny and sweet film. Is there any actor out there more versatile than Gene Hackman? One other observation. I imagine that movie acting can sometimes be rather torturous. Say you're Jason Lee. Your job requires you to report to the set and make out with Jennifer Love Hewitt in just about every scene you're in. Plus, you get paid rather handsomely in the process. Whew! Brutal...just brutal. Hmmm...for some reason I imagine him perpetually in the same condition as the male statue.  "},{"Title":"Better than Dirty Rotten Scoundals!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I saw it last night on video - I really liked it and thought it really funny!  And really some the deleted scenes should have really been left in... especially the scrabble game.  Recommend the DVD or video when you need cheering up! "}{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Opinions will differ about whether a movie is funny, but I think thisone is hilarious.  All the actors are perfectly cast and do a fine job. Gene Hackman is particularly good, I think.  The idea of makinghim a chain smoker was inspired.When a woman wants a man to marry her, she may find herselfdoing some things she would not do otherwise.  Thus we see theSigourney Weaver character, who is a confirmed vegetarian andnon-smoker, eating steak tartare with Gene Hackman and smilingwhile he blows dense clouds of tobacco smoke in her face. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers was really good, about a mother and daughter who are con artists. It was hilarious in parts and the timing was spot on. Watch it, you will like it if you like a good comedy, and Jennifer Love Hewitt is Soooooooo sexy, believe me. "},{"Title":"Shallow but funny","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good comic performances across the board and a script with some excellent lines.There is more than a touch of cheesy Hollywood nonsense here, but Sigourney Weaver is fantastic, and JLH's cleavage has a recurring cameo. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER MUST SEE MOVIE FOR ALL MEN CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt team up in this delightfully funny movie as a mother/daughter confidence game duo. Sigourney is perfect as the older and wiser mother who is well versed in just about every con ever played. Jennifer Love Hewitt gives a fine performance as her sometimes mean and nasty daughter who is still learning the tricks of the trade from mom. Together, they seek out and find wealthy older men for mom to marry and then divorce for as much money as they can get their greedy little fingers on. Gene Hackman gives a hilarious performance as the older, chain smoking wealthy widower who becomes their latest mark.  For him, Sigourney becomes Olga Yevanova; a type of phony Eastern European (Russian)  gold digging aristocrat who worms her way into his life and Jennifer gains admission to the house as his new (and very sexy) house maid (after the two of them set up the woman now holding that job by planting and then accidently discovering  his deceased wife's jewelry and his cigarettes in her room). So to all men out there thinking about marriage, SIGN AN IRONCLAD PRE-NUPTUAL AGREEMENT BEFORE GETTING MARRIED; ESPECIALLY IF YOU ARE WEALTHY. And see this movie; especially for the great singing performance by Sigourney of the song Back in the USSR by the Beatles. This one should be added to all our DVD collections as one of the funniest comedies of recent times!! See it!! "},{"Title":"A good film, with both weaver a LH stepping out of their usual characters!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is a great comedy about a mother/daughter team of scammers, who marry rich men, get them to cheat, then get money in the settlement. This film is very enjoyable, but the roles weaver and love hewitt play are not written for them. Love Hewitt reveals and edgier side to herself, which will surely shatter many teenagers herats when they see their beloved idol appear downright cruel on the screen! Weaver looks like she is having fun, but she tries to hard in this movie, giving an uneven performance. If you could watch it with no prior knowledge of the two, it would be a great film, with the predictable soppy ending, but their previous roles keep popping into your head. The dvd was also a disappointment, with no special features and it was so wide screen, they looked to compressed. If you can put your mind on hold it is a good film, otherwise, you will be plagued by doubt! "},{"Title":"Fun for those who enjoy throwing reality out the window","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers may be a tad bit unrealistic, but for films such as this the comedy value is of much more importance. Both the gorgeous Love Hewitt and Weaver play convincing roles as the sassy terrible two-some, who set out to make their millions through divorcing the vunerable wealthy. I only found one fault, which was although this was able to keep a steady pace throughout comedy-wise, you felt there was slight room for improvement. On a lighter note, the film managed to fill the two hours well with it's unpredictable, outrageous storyline. Unlike some attempts at the genre, I was never once bored.Overall, I wouldn't hesitate in recommending to those who enjoy throwing reality out the window, and for those who don't, wait until television. I'd give it a well-deserved nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Easily,an eye-candy flick..but worked hard to be a comedy.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After watching 'HEARTbreakers' several times, I concluded that it definately had the sexual content and women to get the job done of making the film an Eye-Candy.However,through watching it over and over again through the course of a few months.I discovered that it took the whole movie to clearly become a Comedy. Now,Jennifer Love Hewitt,no doubt is a talented actress and has an amazing body.Yet,she had not really done pure comedy before and for this movie I believe she was great,yet her character lacked something.For the first 30 or 45 minutes she was a stuck up,independent b*tch! Excuse my french,but how do you put it any other way.Then,as you watch,with that attitude of her character she complied comedy.As for Gene Hackman,that was an amazing role which made you laugh almost everytime he came into frame.The smoking,sexual tensioned old man CEO gig payed off.All in all, this flick barely came out as a comedy,but would be categorized as one.The eye-candy slowly wore off and more character spotlight came into view!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderfully comical film. Entire cast great, but especially Ray Liotta. The cons, the love story, photography, situations, everything was superb I loved it "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman is the man.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A very good comedy mostly because Gene Hackman is in it.  A mother and daughter try to con billionare William B. Tensy (Gene Hackman) a man who owns a tibacco company and smokes his own product.  In the whole movie you wont see Gene Hackman with out a ciggi which I think is very funny. "},{"Title":"Payback&#133;&#133;&#133;..is a real bitch!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There are always problems in relationships and marriages from time to time, but when you use them to profit and gain for yourself then really you are not much of a person. heartBREAKeRS proves that this is just the case, but with a very funny result. I have been dying to see a great comedy film like this one in well over 12 months.heartBREAKeRS is an hilarious hit comedy about a mother and daughter who team up in order to separate the men from their money! Max and Page are brilliant con artist who have their gift down to a fine science. First Max targets a wealthy, willing man who falls prey to her beauty and charm. Then once Max and the marked man have tied the knot, the seductive page appears&#133;. So does max have time to &#145;catch' her wayward husband in the act! From there it's off to divorce with the hapless hubby losing much more than just his shirt! The script of heartBREAKeRS was in my opinion very very clever and funny. Having a mother and daughter teaming up to rip the heart out of various men was a great script to write. Much of he credit for this film must go to director David Mirkin, because I feel he got the story just right. This movie is good on two levels. One is the mean bitchy level where the girls just use the men they see. Then you have the beautiful love story between Page and Jake, and how they are meant to be together. The setting that David chose for this film was an extremely good as it suited the film just right.The stars of this movie are very good. With veteran actors such as Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman, they made this cast one to remember. Then you also get to see the younger side of acting with the gorgeous Jennifer Love Hewitt. Her role was especially memorable because of the way she turned herself around, from being the mean and nasty girl on the side, to the caring loving wife. Sigourney Weaver's role of the evil woman who uses every man she gets was also great to watch. I still love her role in the &#145;Ghostbusters' as well.I must commend the male stars of the show, including Ray Liotta as one of the guys being used by the evil pair. I remember his role in that sick film, Hannibal, boy it was good to see him in a comedy role. His line of `you are both evil sluts' was just a classic. Hackman was impressive as the rich old fool.  He has had an impressive career, with his success as Lex Luthor in the Superman movies and in such hi profile films as Enemy of the state, The Mexican and The Quick and the Dead. The other actor who I thought was very good, with his character being a complete gentleman was Jason Lee. I have seen him in many ordinary comedies such as  Chasing Amy and Mallrats, yet he has done some great films in the last few years, such as Vanilla Sky and Enemy of the State. I look forward to seeing him in more movies in the next few years.This movie while it is very funny and has some great actors in it, I see a great message for people to take away from it. Relationships are important and need to be treated that way, not like some cheap experience that a person has to get a bit of money from. All in all this movie was a film that I can learn from, yet laugh at. If you want to be heartBROKeN, then have a look at this great comedy. Rating 9/10 or 4.5 Stars "}{"Title":"A cute, funny, HORNY comedy .......","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This funny comedy starts really nice in that magnificent church and the religious writing on the wall,what's a man's profit if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul!!!!!! and vows of a moribundnuptials. Sigourney and Jenny are perfect (on JENNY's part monumental physical perfection would be fitter!) and Gene Hackman dies one of the most hilarious deaths in movie history ... the dialog is funny enough to guarantee total amusement and the sets are gorgeous . Buy enough snacks 'cause THE CON IS ON  !!!!!  "},{"Title":"almost great","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt are a sexy mother-daughter con team and the movie is funny, but a bit too uneven. Some of the gags are a hit and miss, and the movie sometimes shifts from darkly comic to melodramatic. Gene Hackman is a lot of fun, but this film without a doubt belongs to Ray Liotta. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Few laughs for such a long movie.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 123minFirst laugh of the movie is Ms Weaver as the blushing bride - it's so off center and sets the tone for much of the movie. Unfortunately after the first 20 minutes or so the movie seems to lose it's way.All the actors deliver workman like performances, Hackman shines as the aging billionaire with a chronic habit. As a black comedy this might have been better - as it was it was difficult to get an emotional grip on how to view the two leading ladies.5/10, watch if your bored and want a cynical view of both sexes. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film! I was pleasantly suprised!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Now, I am not one of these guys that likes to watch romantic comedies. However, since I am married, I do have to sit through the odd one every now and again. Tonight, when my wife rented this one from the video store, I was ready to run from the room. However, since I have not spent alot of time with her all week, I thought I better sit still and bear with it. I was very suprised. Heartbreakers is definately one of the best romantic comedies that I have ever seen. The story revolves around a mother and daughter team (Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt), who make a living out of marrying men, and then conning them out of there money. After conning Ray Liotta, the women find that all the money that they have stolen over the years has been taken by the IRS. Desperate, the two of them head out to Florida for the one final big score. There, they find a wealthy old man (Gene Hackman), who is a self made billionaire through the tobacco industry. Once again, the women try to seduce him to get to his money. However, trouble arises, as Ray Liotta's character decides to go after mom.This romantic comedy is as predictable as them all. However, credit goes to Gene Hackman (who really does hack in this role!), as this is one of the funniest performances that he has done in a long time. Hackman is just brilliant as the perverted Tobacco giant, who wants nothing more than to bed Sigourney Weaver's character.And let's talk about Sigourney Weaver. This woman just looks better and better every year that she ages. She fills the screen with her sexy character. And let's not forget about Jennifer Love Hewitt. She is just a knockout in this film. God bless the mini skirt!Guys, if you are looking for a movie to watch with your wife, girlfriend, lover, etc., definately pick up Heartbreakers. The girls will love you for watching one of their chick flicks, while you get to look at two women that are definately not hard to look at. Plus, Hackman and Liotta fill this picture with just enough machismo for you. So, if it's your wife's turn to pick out a movie...pick out Heartbreakers. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Movie!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was excellent! Everyone in the stellar cast was great! I was especially pleased with Jennifer Love Hewitt. In this film, she proved that she's a LOT more than a beautiful face. I don't think it's fair that most female moviegoers don't like her because she has cleavage. Well, for all of you that may apply to, why don't you stop criticizing her just because she's talented and beautiful? Get some self-esteem for crying out loud!!!Although this movie may be a half-hour too long, it is so well-written and engagingly funny, you don't really notice.My Grade A- "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece but worth watching. 7/10","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This review will consist of three parts (own opinion/criticizing critics / analysis). Please pardon my imperfect English.*** Contains Spoilers ***Own OpinionI am not a friend of romantic comedys (at least modern ones) and the sole reason to watch this one was Sigourney Weaver starring in it (the rest of the cast was unknown to me, so I am not biased about them). Her performance is great (as to be expected) but this is at the same time an inner weakness of the movie. She emanates just too much power and overexpands the fabric(for a comedy it is deadly if the viewer thinks 'Oh no, that's for real'). The second problem is that she always looked more mature (and therefore older) than her age, she could nearly be the mother of husband #13 (Liotta) (on the other hand that makes her the right partner for Hackman). This and the permanent change of pace (and mood) result in an imbalance. The makers have considerable problems to disentangle the countless twists without exceeding the timeframe. So on the whole I would not name this a great film but it is still enjoyable. I think I will buy it, when (if?) there will be a Region 2 DVD available. I agree with those critics saying that the film has a bitter undertone, so I can understand why a lot of people felt uncomfortable with it.Criticizing criticsA lot of reviewers said that the plot is predictable. Did you ever see a movie in a fixed genre without knowing exactly what would happen ? It's called conventions. Somebody compared it with comedys from the 30ies (>oldfashioned). Considering what is sold as 'comedy' today, this is praise not dispraise (I already mentioned that I don't like the typical modern garbage). One critic said that it was like 'Mars Attacks' and that would meanStars instead of plot. The relationship between the two films is well observed but he missed the point. A star transports a certain image/type/character and that is a golden opportunity for comedy (cast with or against type) allowing weird/queer turns otherwise impossible. Both films are able to use this effect expertly(and don't take themselves too seriously). And personally I don't think that Lee's interest in Hewitt is just hormone driven; she acts unordinary enough to quicken interests (her look merely accelerating it).Some analysisIt is quite interesting to compare mother (Weaver) and daughter (Hewitt). Their mode of attack is totally different (and complementary;strategist vs. tactician), based on background and experience (the bet scene in the bar is a typical example). Hewitt uses direct one-step approach with physical contact and unmistakable double entendres but has no backup plan. In case of failing she has to retreat and becomes bitchy. Weaver avoids bodily contact(sometimes nearly morbidly), her approach is multi-step, indirect. She has either a backup plan ready or can improvise very fast. Contrary to Hewitt she has perseverance and can use unconventional methods. And while Hewitt is soft under a (fragile) steel hull, Weaver is able and willing to use a sledge-hammer to crack the nut. This is where the bitter undertone breaks the comic surface, because we learn, that she must have been like her daughter once and wants to spare her the bitter experiences that turned herself into a cruel cynic. I think the films main problem is to reach the mandatory happy ending in time without making the back conversion unbelievable (the solution is at least unsatisfactory). Lot of critics said, the ending took to long. I say, the makers had the choice between tragicomedy or another half hour - they chose neither. Please propose a better solution. "},{"Title":"I am sooo biased","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The movie was not too particularly witty.. and the penile incident made me cringe.. But Jennifer Love Hewitt made things a lot better. She definitely has improved as an actress. This movie is great for a few laughs, and that all around happy feeling you get. -) "},{"Title":"You got me!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Wow...didn't expect much and i was pleasantly surprised. Story was amusing and the cast all the way around was very good....If you want cheap laughs and some fun give this a try! This movie earns a 7/10.....There could have been a better choice for the daughter! "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe how good this movie is","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  To be totally honest I only saw this because of Jennifer Love Hewitt. Until this film I had thought she was a cheap knock-off of talent. But then I saw Heartbreakers and I take it all back. Not only is she amazingly sexy and beautiful in equal measure but she can actually act! That is so unusual at this time to have both an attractive actress who can act as well. She uses her looks and her curves to great effect but she also turns a comedy role into a hugely touching romance. There is one scene late into the film, (you might want to miss this part out if you haven't already seen it) on her wedding night when she knows what her mother is doing and she sheds a single tear. She doesn't blubber her way through it, which would have been pitiful, but she lets one teardrop roll down her cheek.But if you don't watch it for that, then you have to watch it for the comedy, the plot, the timing and Jason Lee in role that Kevin Smith didn't write. It simply is one of the greatest comedies of the last 30 years, if not ever. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  That about sums it up.  Weaver is sexy as usual (putting the much younger Hewitt to shame)but she has had better roles. Hackman's smoking affinity and Liotta's farouche moments offer the only real stabs at comedy.  Weaver and Hewitt simply are not likeable and that is a quality that is needed. "}{"Title":"The female Dirty Rotten Scoundrels!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The female Dirty Rotten Scoundrels! If you can remember the 1988 movie starring Steve Martin, you will realize how similar this is to it. Only difference is this is the female version. So you will ask is it as good as Dirty Rotten Scoundrels which was a master piece? In short Yes, this lives up to the expectations. Actually its quite good! The story, a mom and her daughter, fraud wealthy men, by seducing them! Sigourney Weaver & Jennifer Love Hewitt both excellent at their roles, appear to be the perfect choice. The true star of the show has to be Ray Liotta, just great! I was thinking what the hell is he doing in this movie? He gave me back continuos humor and endless funny lines! This movie is funny, Go Watch it! "},{"Title":"Wait for HBO","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Disappointing...The previews looked good but the humour was fairly mild Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.  I'm still confused as to how anyone finds Sigourney Weaver attractive but that's just my opinion...The acting was fine just not a very good script to work with.  This is not a film you want to shell out 4 bucks to rent at the video store.  Your parents might like it, you might too if you're over 35.  If you catch it on HBO, you're better off. "},{"Title":"Great comedy that never gets boring.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers is a great comedy to watch with your friends or your family,I like watching it better with friends.  The two, mom and daughter act out perfectly and the movie is interesting.  The beginning is the best part of the movie, the middle is good, but not as good as the beginning and the end is or does get boring.  I never finished watching it, but I watched about 90% of the movie.  Yeah, the ending was nothing compared to the beginning.  I think anyone should see this movie, especially teenagers. "},{"Title":"a sometimes funny film with unlikeable characters","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I would have given this movie less than a five, but there were a few  scenes that I did laugh at.  But with talented actors like Weaver, Hackman, Liotta and Bancroft, one would expect more.  The actors look like they're having fun, but I think that they ham it up too much, especially Hackman whom I usually love.  Another problem with the film is that none of the characters are very likeable at all. Weaver and Hewitt are both terrible people and I didn't want them to have any happy endings because they didn't deserve it.  I felt sorry for Liotta's character at first.  But in the end, he was no better than the women.  Dirty Rotten Scoundrels and Ruthless People are much better.  Rent those instead. "},{"Title":"I nearly laughed","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film got good reviews (somewhere) and JLH looked pretty good in those short dresses in the trailer, so I went to see it.How do you review a so-so movie?  I laughed briefly 2 or 3 times, and JLH made great eye candy, but .....I'm sure I used to laugh at comedy films once upon a time, long long ago.  In fact, this reminded me of the style of second rate US comedies from the sixties.  Except they were better.  Is it a remake?Go and see it if there's nothing else you want to see -- or if you have a thing for Jennifer Love Hewitt or Sigourney Weaver.  I failed on these requirements, so a VERY generous 6/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Comedy is not alien to Sigourney, but...","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I desperately wanted to enjoy this movie. I was hoping to be cheered up. It seemed to be well received by the rest of the audience (all 6 of them) but it didn't manage to revive my poor mood. This is another example of a waste of a good idea (although not original-a female version of 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels') and a waste of a good cast. Everything was predictable. Some of the stunts pulled off by the two leads were embarrassingly lame. Such a pity because Sigourney Weaver is a good comedienne, given better material. I chuckled once or twice but lost interest completely as soon as Gene Hackman's character departed. I would have to rate this movie 4/10. And it was far too long. "},{"Title":"A hilarious surprise!!!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie after it's been running in theaters in my town for weeks and after none of my friends (all movie fanatics) went to see it. But I must say that i enjoyed it a lot. maybe it is because i was in an extreme good mood that day (which is also an important factor why i like or dislike movies). I enjoyed this movie so much although i went there with an impression of already knowing what would happen all throughout the film. there where tons of jokes and funny moments, i couldn't stop laughing and giggling. the actors , especially sigourney weaver made a fantastic impression. i never saw her in such a comic role, and i especially loved her as SPOILERS  Ulga, with this sweet russian accent. this was one of the movies of which you are tempted to think that all the jokes have been spoiled with trailers, tv spots... but i was so surprised. i think there where no real highlights as i've been giggling throughout the whole movie. The actor's expressions, situations, naive characters, everything was hilarious, but still not stupid. The cameo of Carrie Fisher and Anne Bancroft added to it, as i really didn't expect them to appear in the movi e, where very refreshing. And i discovered Jason Lee, who whas so cute and such a realistic character amongst all these cons. I can only recommend this movie to everyone!!! "},{"Title":"Heartbreakers Ribticklers and sometime Sidesplitters","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When I think of films about con artists, I tend to think of David Mamet's superb House of Games, with Joe Mantegna and Lindsay Crouse. Perhaps you think of The Sting, or, as a friend of mine was expecting before he saw this movie, The Grifters. In any case, that friend in question told me to give Heartbreakers a miss as it was little more than a farce.Armed with such advanced warning, I went to see the film anyway. (That's the kind of guy I am.) So perhaps my low expectations had something to do with it, but actually I think I would have enjoyed this movie regardless of my friend's lounge bar review. How, from the marketing and the poster, he could have expected a Grifters is beyond me, but it would go some way to explaining his sense of disappointment. Me, I found no House of Games, and if I had I suspect I wouldn't have laughed as much as I did. Perhaps elements of this were a touch Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, but for my money, Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt outperform Steve Martin and Michael Caine in their venture into the world of con-artistry.The cons, like the movie itself, are light in tone, and when it attempts some degree of depth, with the mother-daughter relationship between Sigourney and Jennifer, it either skims the surface or goes a little soft. Plotwise, this will not stretch you, and you will not be taxed, unravelling the complexities of the various scams and tricks,and since the film dips into romantic comedy territory, the ultimate outcome is, of course, predictable. However, the route the movie takes in reaching that outcome is not.The key reason for that success lies in a too-often neglected aspect of the art of movie making namely, characterisation. The characters are all well-drawn and superbly realised by the performers; the two leads share a good on-screen chemistry, and they are complimented wonderfully by Ray Liotta and Gene Hackman, who all seem to understand the importance of character in this light and thoroughly unarmoured vehicle. Even the love interest, ordinarily an immigrant from the realm of the bland, takes the form of Jason Lee, and is given some terrific exchanges with JLH. Assisted by some truly sparkling dialogue, all of these characters are what drives this movie, which is (take note, film makers)the way it should be.Perhaps the plot is not especially crafty, but the characters, the dialogue and the performances are artful. The cons are light, yes. But the pros are well above average, and make this movie entirely worth a watch. One of the finer examples of its breed. "},{"Title":"Groovy and naughty entertainment.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  HEARTBREAKERS (2001) Rating 8/10This evil, seductive and intriguing story of two con women who happen to be mother and daughter works surprisingly well. I went into the theatre thinking I wanted to like this movie but when you're actually watching the film it takes no effort whatsoever to enjoy the show. The film is original, crude and witty with heaps of cool plot twists and a great script that dishes up plenty of laughs and shocks. The performances are superb, with Jennifer Love Hewitt giving the best performance of the film as the sexy, smart daughter of a con woman who follows in her mother's footsteps but inside is really just a young girl looking for the right path in love. Hewitt gives a dazzling show and shows there is more to her ability than running from a hooked hand. Sigourney Weaver's neat turn as naughty mother gives her a much-needed villain character (sure, there's Alien, but we're starting to tire of that!) and Ray Liotta's good-turned-bad character is displayed well by his skills. Liotta is having a good year; Hannibal also really impressed me. Maybe Hewitt's continuous running-away-from-love can be irritating and the film runs too long, but otherwise this is a groovy and entertaining movie with neat ideas. Heartbreakers allows its audience to have a fun time &#150; you just have to be willing. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Weaver top, Hewitt plop","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty funny movie as you may have gathered from all the other comments. As a comedy, the script is very good throughout with some sparkling scenes and one-liners. The big let-down though is the characterisation which is largely absent. There are only three characters who have any real substance to them Sigourney Weaver's Max, Jennifer Love Hewitt's Page, and Gene Hackman's outrageous spluttering billionaire, William B Tensy. Unfortunately, Hackman only has about twenty minutes in the picture, and Jennifer Love Hewitt displays a woodenness which would make Pinocchio shed a tear of compassion. Despite performing all the physical actions the director has requested of her, and speaking her lines in that clear and perky manner of several young starlets, she manages to give bring no life to her character whatsoever. Sitting in the audience, you will wonder if she is playing her natural self, trying too hard to be funny, completely misinterpreting the role, or if that's just the best she can do in a comedic role. Don't get me wrong, I'm sure she will go on to become a popular bankable star and make millions... but if she is ever hoping to achieve any kind of recognition for her acting ability, I would seriously recommend that she take her trade elsewhere. At the opposite end of the spectrum is Sigourney Weaver, who delivers just the sort of fantastic comedic performance that critics might consider nominating for an award (although I suspect the film is just a bit too silly for this to happen). Not that this is any great surprise, since she has proved her aptitude for comedy time and again in Ghostbusters, Dave and Galaxy Quest. Here, she has a whale of a time waltzing around in numerous costumes, wigs and accents, playing the flirtatious and deceptive sides of her character to maximum effect. She is without a doubt the best thing in this movie and the glue that holds it together; although the script shares out the gags fairly evenly between its characters, most of them are just too boring (Jason Lee), stereotypical (Ray Liotta) or short-lived (Hackman) to have an impact. Which is a pity, since the concept stretches a long way and a huge hit could have been on the cards. Nevertheless, the film is entertaining enough and worth seeing (in my humble opinion) for Sigourney Weaver's triumphant performance, especially as a Russian! Meanwhile the cinematography is crisp, clear and colourful throughout, and the score by John Debney and Danny Elfman is energetic and very complementary to the movie. 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"A different, interesting comedy.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sigourney Weaver, Gene Hackman and Ray Liotta, are just some of the cast in this different but interesting comedy about a mother and daughter con team. Sigourney Weaver plays Max, the mother, who meets wealthy men and then ends up getting married to them, then she divorces them and gets there money after Jennifer Love Hewitt, who plays Paige, the daughter,  seduces the men, which leaves Max thinking the 'husband' is playing around.                       *****SPOILERS*****They end up getting the victims each time, until there last planned con ends up with Paige finding someone she truly loves, Max ending up getting with the guy, she and Paige did a con on and a few other  things happen a long the way too.                      *****END OF SPOILERS*****The ending in the film is okay too, who knows, we could even see a sequel to Heartbreakers. (Doubt it though but anyway.)I give Heartbreakers a 7/10. "},{"Title":"HeartBreakers is a great movie. A very enjoyable movie.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The movie Heartbreakers is a great movie. It is a very enjoyable film. It's one of the best movies. It has comedy,action and romance. Without giving anything away. The plot of the movie is really good. The writing and directing is incredible and the cast is amazing. SW and JLH make a great mother/daughter pair. Gene Hackman is hilarious. Jason Lee gives a great performance. After seeing this movie I'm very interested in seeing Jason Lee playing the lead in a romantic comedy movie. Jason Lee and Jennifer Love Hewitt have good chemistry in this movie, which I wished would have been explored more. The relationship between their characters is one of my favorites. Overall the movie was excellent. The characters, storyline and actors were all amazing. It is definitely a movie worth seeing and it's a movie I'd watch over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Formulaic but Entertaining","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am quite a big Sigourney Weaver fan, and I enjoyed this movie.  I particularly enjoyed her catsuit (lol).  It has only just come to the cinema in the UK and it makes a refreshing change from what seems to be an endless stream of effects movies and gritty bloodbaths we've been getting lately. There are 2 points hitherto unaddressed which I think I should just fill in1 - (good) - There is a sort of acting versatility going on here from all the players.  While Weaver, Liotta, L-Hewitt all reprise familiar-ish roles, the director has definitely softened their edges.  For the first time ever I really believed there could be a softer side to Liotta, and JLH's ewing and whatevering seemed genuinely to be a facade of cool bravado not an expression of dimwittedness.2 - (bad) - I don't know if the movie presentation of cigarettes and smokers as worse than rape and murder is acceptable over there in the USA but here in Britain it's laughable (in a pitiful way, not a comic way!), and this movie is no exception. In the cinema everyone was looking at each other and shaking their heads at the treatment of smoking which seemed a little too strong to be truly tongue-in-cheek. Bizarre.Overall - I wouldn't be ashamed to say I liked this movie, though I can see why people who fancy themselves as film gurus might slate it. "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST JENNIFER LOVE MOVIE (spoiler on my part) not really though","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  OK well i am a big jennifer love hewitt fan. so i had to see this. i was surprised on how funny jennifer love hewitt was. she made even my dad laugh. There are some slow parts but the rest is a masterpiece. i think the funniest part is when jennifer and her mom are at the bar and bet each other that they can get the guy sitting next to them to but them a drink. you will have to see it to know who wins! but then there is the part when jennifer got her hair stuck in a guys pants. i not going to tell you why just see the movie! i bet you you wont be mad after you see this movie. you will be laughing your head off so go see this very funny movie  "},{"Title":"The best comedy of 2000","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Great! Frankly,  I don't like movies with Sigourney Weaver (though I do not know why, I  think she is good actress) and consequently has taken for my wife simply first got comedy with the known actors. But I saw this one with big pleasure.  Something about Mary - the waste movie for fans of Beavis and Buthead, this is - Real Good One. The actors play is great! Weaver is  matchless, Jennifer Love Hewitt - has proved the right to refer to as new star (that will not tell on her previous masterpieces) - simply look at her grimaces, instead of on her ... you know, Jason Lee, Ray Liotta - very very good, and Hackman - always Hackman. I really think what its one of the best comedy movies of last 5 years.  And ... what amazing ... in the russian restaurant really speak on russian without barbaralia, believe me - this is very rarely for Hollywood films and shows that creators don't think what all of audience is idiots.9/10 !!! "},{"Title":"Like coca cola that's been sitting on the table for days.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  In spite of the big names (Weaver & Hackman), this film is a big disappointment. Pretty painful to sit through. The jokes are not only predictable but fall flat almost every time. That in combination with the fact that the female leads were simply incapable of pulling off comic performances made for a waste of a few bucks. Didn't hear too many guffaws in the cinema either. SPOILERS For those who go in spite of the mediocre reviews because they like the concept, prepare for a disappointment. It's just badly executed! Terrible writing and unfunny characters. It's either boring, embarrassing, or both at most times.Gene Hackman's character was the only one who breathed some life into this flat tire of a film, but alas it's not enough to get past Weaver's sad attempt at badly-written comedy, and her big-boobed but boring and annoying daughter is also quite pitiful.For fans of the seduction concept, just rent a copy of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, which was a WAY WAY funnier and original film.Have I said enough? Forget renting it for that matter, it's barely worth even that except for die-hard fans of Hackman (whose character is unfortunately mercilessly and unfunnily killed off before he has a chance to turn the tables on his wannabe seductresses). "},{"Title":"Funny In A Sad Kind Of Way","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A young girl in love falls prey to the conceive and leave tactics of a boy. She raises her daughter to be cynical and bitter..to believe that there is only ONE man in the world (the one that will claim he loves you but will sleep with any and every other woman he can as soon as he can) As a mother/duaghter team, they feel no remorse in making their living conning men (and every restaurant, hotel, etc). Disguised as a comedy - albeit an amusing one - this is a sad commentary on male/female relationships and the battle of the sexes. A basically solid film that allows the main characters to break out of the mold of most of their previous onscreen work, you will probably feel better about yourself if you do NOT pay full price to see the movie. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This comment SPOILERS!Heartbreakers is a very entertaining romantic comedy. There were several set pieces that made me and my sister laugh out loud. Sometimes there were too many sappy scenes (with Love Hewitt and Lee), but thanks to the wickedly funny last scene that's not what you remember about the film.Weaver and Hackman deliver great performances. Love Hewitt... I don't know, she's in the movie to be pretty and she manages that without too much trouble.Very funny, entertaining, and well-acted (with a few exceptions) comedy. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better spoiler","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that the only reason I went to see HEARTBREAKERS was because Jason Lee is in it and I am a huge Jason Lee fan. I didn't think it was going to be great, I just thought that it would at least have a few good laughs. There were no laughs. It was a broad comedy with a plot so thin that it gets tiresome after the first ten minutes of the movie. There is one scene that I enjoyed and that was the one where Jason Lee is looking up at the stars. As for the rest of the movie, it was way too long and had too many characters and plot holes. The movie has many plot holes that are not filled up during the two hour running time. Skip this one even if you are a big Jason Lee fan like I am.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing With Some Brilliant Bits","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers could have been a brilliant comedy, namely because of the general plot idea and Gene Hackman's, maybe also Sigourney Weaver's, acting, but it seems that the producers got cold feet and decided to play it safe by throwing in the extremely corny Jennifer Love Hewitt - finding - true - romance subplot.  Also, the director seems to have been out of his depth.  Overall, and maybe because of the obvious potential, this movie has been a huge disappointment for me.  Wait for it on TV, unless you are a hormone - driven teenager with a chemical addiction to JLH. "}{"Title":"Cruel intentions","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Max and Page -  mother and daughter - (Sigourney  Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt) are marriage impostors.  The tax investigation is on their trace. Theyre  highly indebted. They decide to plan their last  coup...Ive seen Heartbreakers yesterday night in a  preview. I was unpleasantly surprised because  there were just a few people in the audience. Maybe all others were watching The return of the mummy.  Despite that fact, I enjoyed this film a lot. I  must admit that Heartbreakers is surely not the birth of a new genre - remember the Steve Martin/ Michael Caine comedy Dirty rotten scoundrels? - but  its just irresistible! Sigourney Weaver  and  Jennifer Love Hewitt are drop dead charming, but also  perfidious. Especially JLH proofs that shes not  only the cute girl from next door - though a few  curses less would have been enough... Unfortunately  Gene Hackman and Ray Liotta had much too little  appearances - especially Liotta, Id like to see him  frequently in comedies! Not to forget Anne Bancroft! She gives a small, but fine performance as a tax  investigator. Its always a pleasure to see her! You love caper movies like Entrapment or The Thomas Crown affair? Then Heartbreakers will break your  heart! Charming, fluff - a refreshing comedy! "},{"Title":"A SMALL CON JOB","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***Where did they spend the budget on this movie?  Visually it's a swampy mess the color is in unvaryingly muddy orange-golden tones, the camera seems to be misplaced in almost every shot, and the editing is a shambles, often catching the action at the wrong moments, making the performers look gawky and foolish.  Some crucial plot elements also seem to be missing (there is a corpse that is never accounted for) and promising ideas are barely carried through or not carried out at all.What's amazing about Heartbreakers is that the actors sustain their dignity among the ruins, trying their damnedest to make us ignore the debris.  That they fail to do it should not be held against them; their gallantry amidst chaos is truly admirable.Sigourney Weaver and Jeniffer Love Hewitt play Max and Page, a mother-and-daughter team of scam artists whose specialty is duping men out of their bank accounts.  Their modus operandi is simple Max seduces a wealthy mark into a swiftly arranged marriage, falls dead drunk asleep during their honeymoon night, the poor horny sucker is rigged to leap after Page's tarty little bottom (they work separately so they don't seem connected to each other), Max catches him with his pants down and, Voil!, she demands and gets a quickie divorce along with a big, fat cash settlement.  They're professionally swift greenback devourers; women as a matriarchy of flippantly greedy manipulative gorgons the self-made American male's worst nightmare.At the beginning we watch how they operate as they swindle a swaggering-macho, Italian-American car chopper (Ray Liotta) and then hastily leave town.  Page wants to break out on her own, and Max agrees to divide their earnings.  But after an unaccounted brush with the IRS, and now left penniless and owing money, they decide for a last big one together in Palm Springs, land of the plenty and the very, very rich.Sigourney Weaver is a gracefully physical female actor with seemingly endless reserves of energy and good will, and she is not wrong for the part, but she is the one most affected by the technical ineptitudes (sometimes they cut to or away from her in the middle of a word) and by what seems to be the director's indifference.  Undaunted, she forges ahead, giving her role (and the movie) everything she has.  Like Weaver, the young Jennifer Love Hewitt (a lovely, still-unexperienced, but bravely resilient performer) desperately tries to give this movie some semblance of comic life.  And so does Nora Dunn as a treacherous chambermaid, while Anne Bancroft and Carrie Fisher evaporate in their bit roles.It's the leading men who come out much better.Ray Liotta is a terrific screwball performer.  Making the most of his screwily expressive pale blue eyes, mischievous little-boy smiles, and lightning-fast delivery, he has some of the best lines of the movie, even tossing out the flattest ones as if they were million-dollar zingers. He's a whirlwind of an actor that has never been given his due.As the young romantic lead, the talented Jason Lee brings the movie a welcome presence (we can see why Page is attracted to him).  His soft, dazed delivery is an oasis of calming sanity amidst all the laboriously overheated frenzy going on around him (and around us, too; he looks as bewildered as we are).But it's the apparently indestructible Gene Hackman, as William B. Tensy, the billionaire whom Max targets for her next scam, who walks away with the movie, or, rather, strolls out of it, without a single visible scratch. In a world seemingly of his own, with a wormy complexion and a perpetually burning cigarette protruding from between foul, yellow-grey lips and teeth, Hackman gleefully satirizes the detached smug casualness of the filthy rich; he coughs and retches and spits and growls his few lines of tar-and-nicotine-infested dialogue with nary a touch of affectation.  He's an amiably revolting wreck, always on the verge of asphyxiation, and the more we see of him the more we like him for his innocent indifference to his own disgustingness; once he departs we miss him being around.Something awful happened to this movie between its inception and delivery. We watch as the plot thickens and the complications pile up and bump into one another, but we do not feel them building up pleasantly.  Why, for instance, do the female characters come out as so unsympathetic in relation to the males?  In terms of character, the women are no worse than the men. Both are just as greedy and self-centered.  Why this discrepancy in feeling? Is this negativity directed against the female performers?  Whatever the reason is behind the spite, and whoever is responsible for it, I must say that it fails; Heartbreakers crashes down as a movie, but the actors, both male and female, rise well above it and make what might be intolerable agreeably passable.  "},{"Title":"Just for fun!!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you want a diversionary fun time, watch this movie. It will soon leave the big screen but it will play VERY well on the tube,  Cinematography is so-so and the sets and location shots are run of the mill.  The appeal of this film is the great cast having fun acting in a real super comedic farce. I sometime felt I was watching Dick Tracy or some other camp comedy and Hackman, Bancroft, Weaver, Hewitt, Liotta, and a couple of SNL alums played their campy roles to the hilt.There are a lot of LOL lines in the dialog that often come in rapid fire order which you might miss in the theater but not on tape.  We saw the film today in a matinee and there were four people in the theater counting us!  Like a private screening - an advantage of being retired!Don't miss this on video to raise you spirits.  Expect no moralistic or political junk here.  Just pure for fun and as has been said, it is a lot like Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. "},{"Title":"Even better than I thought it would be","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ***Possible Spoilers Ahead*** I don't usually comment on movies, but I just had to say that I really liked this movie.  When I saw the previews, I thought it looked OK, and I'm really glad that my husband and I spent the money to see it.  It's not a movie that he ordinarily would have watched, but he's a HUGE Jason Lee fan (Michael a.k.a. River City Movie Critic...this is SO TOTALLY NOT Jason Lee's debut! Check out Mallrats, Dogma, Chasing Amy, etc.), but my husband loved it as much as I did.  I'm not too big of a Jennifer Love Hewitt fan (I thought her performances in the I Know... movies were pretty, well, lame.  I think she's much better suited for comedy.  The mother/daughter banter between Hewitt and Sigourney Weaver was great.  They had outstanding chemistry.  Gene Hackman thoroughly grossed me out in his role (the point, I suppose).  I was also highly pleased with Jason Lee's performance.  He took a totally different turn from the characters he usually portrays in Kevin Smith's films, (well, aside from his smart-mouth), and I think he did a fabulous job portraying the love-struck, smitten bar owner.  To anyone who doesn't want to see this movie because they think it's a chick flick, GO SEE IT!  You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is actually a film that could have benefited from being more formulaic. It was meant to be a Dirty Rotten Scoundrels for the female set. Here is the problem. . . unlike in that gem, the wholly unlikable characters do not get their just desserts. In fact, I was begging for the predicatable ending, but did not get it. Ray Liotta does the best with the pitiful dialogue that he is given. He is a character actor now, and he acquits himself well. I do not know if his looks have really faded or if it is tricks, but since he plays Johnny Depp's Dad in Blow, I am going to assume the former. In any event, some of you guys will be happy to note that he plays a run of the mill b*****d in this picture. You might see elsewhere that Gene Hackman is the highlight of this film. Do not believe it. Liotta makes much out of nothing. He is to be commended.Weaver should be ashamed of herself. Evidently, paychecks are hard to come by these days. Hewitt does what she does best, look hot. If that is why you want to come to the theatre, I cannot discourage you. It is painful at times to look at her, she looks so good. The plot is so predicatable, the movie cannot possibly be enjoyable. Jason Lee, as always, is a hilarious as the handsome smartass. But even he cannot save the film. I can promise that the last half hour of this film will crawl across the screen so slowly, that you will beg aloud for the contrived ending that you know is coming. I cannot recommend this film. "},{"Title":"This movie stunk","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe I paid to see this one. What a waste of Gene Hackmans talent.  Anyone who thinks this is good comedy should be on medication. The plot was corny and predicitable.  2 hours of my life I will never get back "},{"Title":"The Horror!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  ***SPOILERS AHEAD***Like it matters, but I took my girlfriend to see this movie one night to return a favor to her because she was looking forward to seeing it. Although I knew it was going to bad I went because she surprised me by taking me to see 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', a movie which she did not want any part of (and which was really, really good) but she went along anyway to do something nice for me. Well let me say that my girlfriend and I both walked out of 'Heartbreakers' with hate on our minds. I was surprised cause I thought she'd like it but even she was bored through it. Let me explain.The movie is about a mother and daughter con team that trick wealthy guys into marrying them and then trying to catch them cheating so they can divorce them and blah blah, get their money, buy dresses etc...Ok, now after that complex plot has been laid out I'm pretty sure that you can predict the rest of the movie. I did. Here's a rundown of random events that occur in this movieWeaver and Love want more money. They move to Something Coast Florida to con really rich, old guys. J-Love magically appears in a Honda S2000 (guess she had an extra 32K burning a hole in her pocket). J-Love meets a bar owner (Jason Lee), Weaver meets Gene Hackman. Things happen. Ray Liotta shows up. Weaver looks older than Hackman. Happily ever after. The end.It's just to painful to go into detail, that's why I'm rushing through this. If that wasn't enough, the movie is around 2 hours. 2 painful hours!!! Movies like this should not be more than 90 minutes tops but I guess they feel the longer the movie, the better it will be.This movie was trying to come off as sophisticated with all these stupid plot twists but these plot twists only traveled in a straight line. Very predictable, very boring and very amateurish despite its huge cast of stars. Is there anyone that could act in this movie besides Hackman who I thought added the only aspect of comedy to this film? Much like the movie Mars Attacks this movie fails. It doesn't matter if you get a lot of big name actors or actresses in a movie if it bad, its bad and this is beyond that. I don't really know what else to say except to avoid this movie. And if you guys out there just want to see it because Love is wearing skimpy dresses, save your money, It's really not worth it.  "},{"Title":"Great casting, great chemistry, great movie!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those great movies that suffered from a bad preview..Yes, this movie is silly, but it's fun! Although plot was predictable, it was entertaining.  The best part of Heartbreakers, however, was the casting. I honestly think that they couldn't have chosen the actors for the roles better.  Ray Liotta was the best part of the movie with his intensely confused (but angry at something!!) role of the conned husband.  Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman were gold together; he was as lecherous as they come, and Jason Lee is always good )Anyway, this movie deserves better than it's rating, it was hilarious when it tried to be, and sweet and sentimental where it needed to be.  It was refreshing to be laughing at the characters rather than at canned lines, so I'm giving it a solid 9/10.  Heartbreakers wasn't brilliant, but it *was* brilliantly funny. "},{"Title":"A throwback that should have been thrown back","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This isn't really a bad movie, thanks to the fine acting efforts of its principles.  It's just not a very good one.Years ago, in the distant 1930s, Hollywood used to crank out sophisticated comedies like this, directed by guys like Preston Sturgess, Ernst Lubitsch and Frank Capra, etc. Good examples were Sturgess' The Lady Eve and Wild Bill Wellman's Nothing Sacred.  But that was a different time, and con games seemed a lot more acceptable, especially if they involved clipping the rich or even putting one over on the public in general. After all, everyone was broke in the '30s and nobody felt too bad about running a con. The last time somebody tried to capture that feeling was in the 70s, when George Roy Hill re-paired Redford and Newman in The Sting.  Heartbreakers goes for that kind of duel lead, buddy movie feel, using two women who are supposed to be mother and daughter.Signourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt both do their best with what they're given and both acquit themselves very well.  Gene Hackman and Ray Liotta chew up scenery, as they're supposed to, as a couple of their marks.But not a word of the story rings even slightly true and not once the whole time do you suspect things will not work out in the end for the two conwomen.And whatever actual issues the film deals with, including the need for the daughter to break away from her mother, are so heavily handled and so tacked on at the end, that any kind of suspense that might have cropped up even by accident dissolves in smoke.This is a picture that you can rent some night when all else fails, unless you're a man and want to see Love Hewitt bending over a lot in low cut dresses on the big screen. Then, by all means, see it in a theater near you. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had low expectations when I went to see this movie, but came out presently surprised.  We can be honest, the script here is poor; the ideas are tired, but we're not dealing with an oscar contender here, we just want to have a few laughs. I have often thought that really talented actors/actresses can make an average film somewhat good, and that is definitely the case here.  Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman are over-the-top charactictures of people that we have all met at some point, and that's just fine.  Their jokes are silly, but they're good for a laugh and that's what we're expecting.  It was refreshing to see Ray Liotta actually contribute to a movie (as he also did in Blow, but little else) and I liked watching his take on the suckered New Jersey man with a short temper but a big heart.   In short, this movie doesn't promise what it doesn't deliver.  It doesn't boast itself as anything but a silly little funny movie and that's exactly what it is.  If you've enjoyed the con aspect of such films as Dirty Rotten Scoundrals then this is fun to watch.  If you want to see a bold film with riveting script and daring performances, then this saturday-matinee, lightweight won't be very satisfying. Take Heartbreakers for what it's worth funny, silly, and entertaining. "}{"Title":"Unforgivably Bad Writing","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am astonished that anyone felt anything but insulted having watched this movie. I don't mean to get melodramatic here, but I'm not kidding when I say that the positive reviews of this movie sadden me over the human condition.What a deplorable script. The one liners were vapid (serious accolades to the director and editors who so obviously gave their all in trying to make those lines work). Every scene was predictable. Every cliche was used. But most of all, the plot devices were insulting. I make allowances for comedies that the characters and their actions are heightened and would often not occur in real life -- however, we are forced to swallow some ridiculous things. I have no idea what world these people are living in when Weaver can strike Hackman on the head and attribute his sudden pain to residual affects of a MILD accident during which he did not hit his head!!!!????????There was not one original, well written moment. I pity all the actors. I refuse to pass judgement on any of them -- what on earth could they do? "},{"Title":"***","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The con is definitely on in director David Mirkin's (Romy and Michele's High School Reunion) new flick Heartbreakers, a romantic comedy that offers just about everything to every gender and age. The good part about this film is that it is hilarious, but the best is that it does it the old fashioned way, with barely any toilet humor at all.Heartbreakers earns it's humor by letting the character's make fun of themselves, especially Ray Liotta who comes off extremely well as a rough talking and goofy goodfella from Jersey. You can tell that the cast is having a lot of fun in this movie because they basically carry it. The script is very jumpy, cutting from good-natured romances, to funny and mean spirited cons, to a touching mother-daughter relationship. It is hard to exactly see where the point of this story is going sometimes because it is dealing with so much, but still the dialogue is very good and David Mirkin gets his cast to all put in lively and wild performances that make it all seem worth while.Our two cons are Max (Sigourney Weaver) and Page (Jennifer Love Hewitt), a mother- daughter team who center their sights on two timing males. Ever since Max was abandoned by Page's father, she has been swindling the male sex, both getting her revenge and getting enough money to get by.The way it works is that Max spends her time romancing a certain man, for instance the movie's opening victim (Ray Liotta), until he is ready to pop the question. Once the marriage has ended, she holds out on the sex, driving the guy crazy. Then the next day he sees Page, who in this plot just happens to be his new secretary in a short skirt. It doesn't take long before Page has him right around her little finger, and it isn't long before Max comes in and catches them. Then words like divorce and cash settlement are used. This funny opening couple of scenes is only the beginning.These women have a whole bunch of tricks, using their bodies and their brains to get exactly what they want for the least amount of money. They can get out of anything, and away from everybody, except the IRS. An agent (Anne Bancroft) finally comes forward, saying that the two have never paid their bills, and if they don't, their assets will be frozen, which means the 300 thousand dollars they just stole will be gone.Max has more problems as well. Page is ready to leave the nest and meet a man of her own, but Max is afraid to let her go because she doesn't want what happened to her to happen to Page. She is able to convince Page into doing one more job with her. The target, a rich old man (Gene Hackman) living in the upper part of Florida.While on the island, Max manages to get close to the chain smoking millionaire, using her best Russian accent. Page, meanwhile, starts working on a bar owner named Jack (Jason Lee), who if he sells could earn up to 3 million dollars. This being her first job by herself, she wants it to be perfect, but doesn't expect to actually fall in love with him.If you had to pick a strong and independent actress for your lead heroine, I don't think anyone could rise above the talents of Sigourney Weaver. She is a wonderfully funny combination of devious, sexy, smart, caring, and resourceful. She keeps an in control attitude on through the entire course of this film, and I actually cared about her, and her evil manipulation, because she gives her character good reason for everything she does. Here is a great female hero against male jerks and pigs everywhere.Hewitt isn't far behind with a free spirited, pouty, and sexy performance as her anxious to start a life of her own daughter. Hewitt and Weaver are very funny together, especially in a battle of the bodies scene with former SNL cast member Kevin Nealon. Mirkin never lets the relationship between the two get overly sentimental, but yet still makes the mother-daughter conflict interesting. The same can also be said for the slight romance between Hewitt and Jason Lee. In a year full of romantic disappointments, these two make up the first likable couple of the year, even if their time together is fairly short.And Gene Hackman is absolutely side splitting in this movie, showing a wheezing, sickly looking, rich target who is just infatuated with cigarettes. Watching him defend the tobacco company right before his parrot dies from second hand smoke is exactly the kind of in denial style humor he brings to this film. This is Hackman at his funniest, and it is a joy to see him in a role where he can just cut loose and have fun with a character for a change.Heartbreakers is a decent comedy that never comes off as either feministic or sexist. It is all handled with great care by David Mirkin and he and the cast come through with the first really funny film of the year. If your looking for a good date movie, or just a good buddy flick, this one's heart is in the right place. "},{"Title":"Look out Palm Beach the girls are here!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver is a trustable actress. That is to say she doesn't usually produce poop. With Heartbreakers she's picked a clever, witty, well written, romantic farce to stretch her comic muscles. There wasn't an alien in sight-honest!Jennifer Love Hewitt isn't popular for some reason. I heard the audience (mostly female) cat hissing how much they dislike her. Why? She did a great job. So she weighs eighty pounds and looks like every guy's quintessential do girl...Stop stuffing your face with carbs, visit the gym, and and grow some healthy self esteem.Ray Liotta plays a wisecracking mafia-esque guy duped by the minky mom and cunning daughter. There's a stretch. But, he's his usual charming purrfect self so who's complaining? He knows what works for him and waltzes through his role here.Heartbreakers story goes...Con team, mom Max and daughter Page, set up a mark de Jour. A red-blooded male mark, with lots-o-dough and an eye for the ladies. Then mommie (Sigourney Still Stunning Weaver) quickly marries him, explaining her religion doesn't permit premarital sex...(that should be a clue to these mamalukes immediately something's awry)...She acts exhausted on every (13 so far) wedding night and passes out. This leaves her prey, er, new husband, all horned up.Enter daughter (Love Hewitt), as fore mentioned manprey's current secretary/maid/girl Friday, all tiny-dressed and minwaisted. Seductively orating with him, till he pounces on her and is immediately caught in the extramarital act, by the overtly shocked new bride, right before actual penile penetration ...Cut to Lawyer's office, quick divorce and hefty monetary settlement for the brief bride.Mother and daughter rendezvous locally and move on. Neat, clean, and tax free...Enter an all-knowing IRS lady from hell (Anne still married to bercomic Mel Brooks, thank you Bancroft). She's on to them and advises the IRS wants their cut.The team had been planning to part company. Now they will have to pull one more con. They will have to head to the the Mecca of Money, The Temple of Tact, The Well of Wealth, in other words, Palm Beach Florida.They stalk and study their next mark and move in for the hitch and screw. One foot from the grave, tobacco tycoon, William Tensy (Mr. Talent Gene Hackman) has been chosen. His orifices spew fluids and ungodly sounds that would make the most hardened con gal think twice about any physical contact what- so- ever. But with a net worth at over 3 billion dollars, and that net growing by the millions daily, so what if his gingivitis is so bad you could almost smell it from your seat in theater two. He's golden. What I like to refer to as mock-mansteak Shepherd's Pie; Layers of wealth, that like brown gravy on the traditional Shepherd's Pie dish hide the putrid unidentifiable organ meats that lie below.However in a clever subplot, daughter Page has began a lone scam on local bar owner Jack (Jason I don't want to friggin' talk about Hammer Films okay! P**s off would ya? Lee). Be careful young con in waiting Page, your heart may ripped from it's comfy hardened shell, careen out into the open and shine brightly on your sleeve...Heartbreakers is a fun time at the movies. A good one for date night. It's light enough to entertain and funny enough to distract for a while. Enjoy!Snack recommendation Steak Tar Tar and a pack of Lucky StrikesStarring Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt , Ray Liotta, Jason Lee (I) ,.and Gene HackmanDirected by David Mirkin (I) "},{"Title":"I was a little disappointed","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  While The Heartbreakers was a fun movie, the con was predictable and not that good.  This movie has potential to be so much better. A few embellishments here and there would have made all the difference.  The performances of Weaver and Hackman were excellent.  Too bad the script wasn't better! "},{"Title":"Laughless mess","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  We were hoping for a sophisticated comedy. i.e., a film that  draws humor from situations. None of that here. The plot is thin and senseless and the few chuckles come from isolated  moments -- Ray Liotta shooting at fish and...well, one moment, anyway. The biggest weakness is the relationship between Jason Lee and Love Hewitt -- since she treats him so badly throughout the film, it's hard to understand why he pursues her, except, of course, for her two most obvious assets. For more info, I recommend taking a look at Entertainment Weekly's review; it's on the money. As to why Ebert and Roeper gave this a thumbs up, beats me, but lately their track record has been unreliable, in my opinion. (Roger even likes 15 Minutes. Oofah.) Okay. I just saved you seventeen bucks -- Heartbreakers and 15 Minutes.  Must not-sees. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****. Heartbreakers is great fun and excellent acting. The kind of film that reminds you why you love movies.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well, I have been waiting forever to see this film, simple because I am a die hard Sigourney Weaver fan. After seeing it, I am extremely pleased.. Sigourney looks absolutely gorgeous, and she is 51 years old. Jennifer Love Hewitt has nothing on Weaver with beauty or actin ability. This is not saying JLH was bad, in fact I enjoyed her in this film. She has a very nice body, and I do find her attractive, but Sigourney is more beautiful. Gene Hackman was hilarious, as was Ray Liotta, and Jason Lee was funny too. Anne Bancroft provides a great ending to the film, and Sigourney's Russian rendition of Back to the U.S.S.R. is a gut buster. Anyone who did not enjoy this movie is just anal, and if you ind you didn't laugh, you either have a grudge against a cast member, or you need treatment. So all you people who hated it, well, I'm sorry to say but there really is something seriously problematic buried within that psyche. Or you just have the IQ of a 13 year old. "},{"Title":"Great cast, lots of laughs, decent plot","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Despite the mediocre reviews, Heartbreakers is an extremely entertaining film.  It is very well acted by Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love-Hewitt, Ray Liotta, and Gene Hackman, each of whom portray flawed individuals that the audience somehow comes to like.  Liotta's character is especially hilarious, portraying a New Jersey chop-shop operator, and he has a bunch of great one liners.  Love-Hewitt is luscious as usual, and does an excellent job at portraying the emotionally twisted daughter of Sigourney Weaver.  In a supporting role, Jason Lee is his trademark sarcastic self, but shows some of the talent that made him terrific in Almost Famous.  As for the plot, some might find it a bit predictable, but I think it was just right for this type of film.  Like There's Something About Mary, this movie's acting and storyline provide an excellent framework for a bunch of laughs, without resorting to the idiocy that seems to pervade today's comedies.  Rating 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Fun movie!","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to the sneak preview for Heartbreakers because I was offered tickets. I had seen the previews and wasn't really looking forward to anything special but I found that this is a great movie.  I was realy impressed! JL Hewitt and Sigourney Weaver were fabulous and funny.  The movie was a blast! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting pretty much the same old tired con movie but was pleasantly surprised.Sigourney Weaver is as beautiful as ever and exceptionally funny as the mother/lead con-woman. You can believe that she could seduce any man.Jennifer Love Hewitt is hilarious and shows that even at her young age she has very good comedic skills and manages to make her character along with the moral dilemma she faces very believable. She does show her incredible body in many, delicious outfits.Ray Liotta's role is very good if not just a little unbelievable as the crook who falls so hopelessly in love with Weaver that he has to chase her down after their divorce.Gene Hackman is an absolute riot in this movie, he manages to turn almost choking to death into a laugh riot performance.Believe it or not, possibly the finest performance in the movie is delivered by Jason Lee. He delivers some great one-liners as the love struck man who is in love with Hewitt.I would recommend this movie to anybody who wants some good laughs mixed with some decent sex-teaser scenes.  "},{"Title":"Excellent character acting and one-liners","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the split personalities of most characters in this movie. Ray Liotta, Jason Lee, and Jennifer Love Hewitt did a great job during every minute on the screen. Their body language is the strongest part of the comedy and the one-liners had us laughing out loud many times.Much of the plot was predictable, but I see comedies for the laugh rather than for a deep plot. "}{"Title":"Keep in mind i'm a HUGE Love Hewitt fan","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Okay so i went to the Sneak Peek of Heartbreakers, and i have to say. This film is BY FAR the funniest movie Love Hewitt has ever done!!! I went with 4 ppl, and we ALL loved it! ( which is rare!) The characters are so dynamic and funny! In case you don't know, the plot is that Paige ( Hewitt) and her mom, Max ( Weaver) are con artists who like to get money from their men.The plot is VERY twisting and even tho it's pretty obvious what happens at the end, it's still HYSTERICAL! Gene Hackman ( Tensy) is hysterical as the chain smoking man. The whole movie is very enjoyable! it's 2 hours about and a good movie to see! Very funny! i give it 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Cute & Enjoyable","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just caught a preview of Heartbreakers (ah, the benefits of working at a theater).  Well, if you've seen the trailers, you pretty much know the plot; mother-daughter con artist team played by Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt. I liked it, but let me qualify that for the cynical internet geeks out there Jennifer Love does not take off her clothes (but rather struts her stuff around in skimpy clothing, which was fine by me), the ending is a typical Hollywood fare, and it doesn't delve quite as much as The Grifters into the underbelly of con artistry. But, still... snappy one-liners galore, good performances by all involved (including Gene Hackman's tobacco-drenched cigarette-maker, Jason Lee doing a surprisingly fresh take on his normal type, and Ray Liotta also poking fun at himself), which helps the delivery of some admittedly cheesy lines.  (Plus, keep your eyes out for the girl who got her face beat in from 'Way Of The Gun')  All-in-all, it was a pretty cute flick. "},{"Title":"A charming romantic comedy . . .","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I admit that I don't particularly like Jennifer Love Hewitt.  She has never before been able to leave behind her terrible role in the long suffering, now-defunct series Party of Five.  However, as Paige in Heartbreakers, Hewitt is delightful.  She and Sigourney Weaver play a mother-daughter con artist team who may be in trouble with the IRS if they don't make some money quickly.  So, they go after a tobacco magnate who may be on the way out thanks to his own cigarettes.  Gene Hackman is hilarious as Tensey, the tobacco king of phlegm.  The real reason anyone should see this film, though, is Jason Lee as Jack.  He's so adorble as the bartender Hewitt falls for/scams.  Ray Liotta, who I haven't seen in a while, is really fun as the latest of Weaver's jilted husbands.Heartbreakers is probably not for guys, unless they REALLY want to see Jennifer Love Hewitt in some VERY VERY short, tight dresses and high high heels.  But for all you romantics, this is a must-see! "},{"Title":"Really funny black romantic Comedy. Jason Lee rocked.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I caught a sneak peak of this and I was pleasantly surprised. Sigourney Weaver and Love Hewitt play a mother-daughter con woman team. Weaver marries some shmuck and then has her daughter seduce them and catches them in a divorce settlement. Hewitt wants to leave and they plan to divy everything up, but they find out because of the IRS they have lost all the money of their years of conning. They have 90 days to pay up even more money or go to jail so they head to Miami for one last big score to get a tobacco tycoon(hysterically played by Gene Hackman). Hewitt though gets tangled up in a romance with the fantastic Jason Lee(Dogma, Chasing Amy, Almost Famous). Troubles continue as the last man Weaver/Hewitt conned, played with hysterical mockery by Ray Liotta, comes back into their lives. All this, a dead body, and a statue that keeps losing it's penis. It's a funny and warm flick with a great ending and definitely better than most of the studio dreck thrown out there now a days. Hewitt was unbelievably bangalicious and Jason Lee played his character with lots of wit and charm. Go see make this flick a hit. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt helps mend a broken heart","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sigourney Weaver, and Jennifer Love Hewitt star in a sexy comedy about a mother and daughter who break hearts and bank accounts as they charm their way across the country. Heartbreakers isn't anything new, in fact it reminds me of an older Michael Caine/Steve Martin movie called Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. But Heartbreakers is funny and Jennifer Love Hewitt shines as Page the junior member of a mother/daughter con game. Weaver is sexy and ruthless as Max, an aging con-artist who doesn't want her daughter to go out on her own, and cons her into doing one more con, that can take care of them money wise for life. Gene Hackman is hilarious as a tobacco tycoon who could succumb any minute to his years of smoking, and Ray Liotta also stands out as a chop-shop owner who may or may not still be in love with Sigourney Weaver's money grubbing character. There are several laugh-out-loud scenes, and if you love Jennifer, she proves she is more than just a pretty face.On the scale from 1-10 stars...I'd give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"A very sexy comedy that will make you smile.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie quite entertaining.  I love to see Sigourney Weaver in comedies, I thought she was fabulous in Galaxy Quest.  Jennifer Love Hewitt is actually quite tollerable in this film, for those who find her other rolls quite clueless and misdirected.  She actually comes off very well and likeable.  She really shows her stuff in this movie so the guys who think this will be a chic flic have something to oogle over.  **** of 5 stars. A definate see. "},{"Title":"Hilarity and Romance...the quintessential date movie","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  I laughed so hard while watching it.  Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt acted amazingly.  The comedy of the mother-daughter con team matched perfectly with the romantic aspect.  This movie gives romantic-comedy a whole new name.  I loved it!  This is a must see movie.  Love Hewitt throws out any lingering ideas of her previous performances with this stunning turnabout movie.  She's all dolled up and ready to hit the world as an adult.  A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, heartfelt fun","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Manipulating the audience to have sympathy for the bad guy (or bad girls in this case) is most certainly nothing new, but rarely is it this much fun. All of the principal (and supporting) actors are in top form making Heartbreakers one of the most surprisingly enjoyable comedies of the year.The film leads us through the slimy dealings of a mother-daughter crime duo as the former dupes wealthy chaps into marrying her while the latter pushes the divorce along to collect settlement money.  Jennifer Love Hewitt, who plays Sigourney Weaver's daughter, proves that she has moved beyond the Kingdom ruled by Freddie Prinze Jr., and into one where she can hold her own with more weathered actors like Weaver and Gene Hackman.Gene successfully puts the Hack in Hackman in this movie as a billionaire tobacco tycoon who has an equal affection for Weaver as he does for clearing his lungs.  Jason Lee, who has been for limited to modest success in mostly Kevin Smith movies for the past decade or so, is refreshingly earnest without being achingly saccharine.Laughs are plentiful and well timed, and it should be mentioned that for the first time in a while Ray Liotta manages to make his annoying nature work for him rather than against him.  Overall, there is really nothing to detract from the good-naturedness of the film and should entertain anyone who has ever lied, tricked, stolen, or loved. "},{"Title":"Great Love-Hewitt Vehicle","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" C'mon now, I've seen worse movies. Much of the disappointment I feel for this film is because of how good it could have been.First off, the script - it was simply over the top. Often, more subtle humor works better - the audience does not need to be hit with a sledgehammer when a tack hammer will do the job. The plot, complete with twists (some predictable, some not) was workable - and there were some truly funny moments, but they ended up being overshadowed by the overdone bits.Much of the cast did good work - Ray Liotta turned out for a surprisingly good performance, and Jennifer Love Hewett surprised me with the quality of her performance. Ms. Weaver, however, seemed at many points to be simply reading the cue cards. In light of her usually excellent work, I can only surmise that she was as appalled by the material she was being asked to work with as I was, and couldn't get into the part and retain her self-esteem.There are some great lines, and the general plot is believable, but this is NOT a 'con' flick - the con artistry that movie viewers have loved in 'The Sting' and 'Ocean's Eleven' is pretty well blown by the general ineptness of the con artists.One remarkably onerous note may please some viewers. The mark (capably played with awful lines by Gene Hackman) is such a caricature of the offensive, rude smoker that it's likely to be offensive to anyone who knows, likes, or is a smoker themselves. The anti-smoking message was so loud that it ruined some scenes that could have been humorous otherwise.All in all, a worthwhile flick if you like the overdone comedy of 'Dumb and Dumber' better than you like, say, the obvious but not overplayed 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' or 'Bedazzled'. "},{"Title":"Smart Comedy, with Jennifer Love Hewitt !!!!!!","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I couldn't believe myself, this is a smart comedy from Hollywood, an original movie too from the 2000s, and it has a rare statement against smocking as killer. WAW! Look at the way it handles the matters, for instance scene like the one of setting up the maid; it's composite with real sense of humor. The script reminded me of the old Hollywood classics, especially (Some Like it Hot), in terms of 2 characters having false identities, conning 2 other characters in love with them, all happen on some beach, with damn good comic situations and surprises. In fact comedy doesn't stop in here. There is a palpable caring behind every line and shot. Imagine a movie reveals that even (Ray Liotta) has a talent for comedy; never forget him saying impatiently I teach college stuff !.(Jason Lee) proves again that he can do romantic comedies yet Hollywood is the last to know, since no one seems to hire him much. However (Sigourney Weaver) was the one who stole the show with loose performance and magical femininity; despite her age, and being not that sexy, I noticed that she bewitched some young male viewers (some of them are friends of mine!). I loved the most the scene of singing (Back In The U.S.S.R); that was a classic, as well as the whole movie I think.Now the faults, not many though. For one; not utilizing (Gene Hackman) well; he played an aged buffoon or a lighted cigarette which about to end, yet didn't add much except some likability, since the written material was way lower than his abilities, and could be played by anybody else. The third act steered to a less strong, less comic curve, with something like another story. On some level it doesn't have a fair climax, the done one is good but unsatisfying a bit or not as crazy as what's before it. How they forgot to reuse that maid ?! She could have returned, with some of the prison's buddies, to revenge and make the climax hotter !Some sexual jokes were ugly. And speaking of ugliness leads us to the movie's biggest problem; of course you know whom I'm talking about. Name one chick who when you see her in bikini you cry&#x85;out of pain ! (Jennifer Love Hewitt) who &#x96; thank god &#x96; has no relation with movies nowadays is so creepily skinny, with a face of a gazing crow. So how about putting her in a very tight, very short dresses all the time (to watch her bones ?!!) while acting that she's a vamp who melts down men (she melts down my tolerance for sure!). Now I partly understood from where (Sigourney Weaver)'s massive magic, as a beauty queen this time, came; it's the irony of having (Love Hewitt) as a co-star! And it doesn't take a genius to discern who was the least comic, or the none-comic, in this cast also.(Heartbreakers) is a vigorous and intelligent comedy. In the same day I watched it, I watched also (There is Something about Marry). No need to say which one won my attention and admiration, forcing me to respect it and re-watch it.P.S  at one moment there was such a blasphemous line (Hackman's remake about who's seeing him and his woman while they're alone). It was dreadful, free, and unfunny. The thing is that has become frequent in movies lately to the extent of being a Hollywood habit, a strange and nasty habit ! "}{"Title":"Shallow Entertainment to Say the Least","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Love Hewitt showing off that seductive cleavage is just one of the main attractions in Heartbreakers and for the right reason, as this movie falls into a remorseless exhibition as ploy to whet a man's lewd desires. Although it scores high points in entertainment, the movie will leave with nothing to look back on. That's where the movie falls on it's backside.I give praise to the cast for turning in wonderful performances and it shows that even big-name actors and actresses can star in clunkers and continue to provide enjoyment during its two-hour duration. The characters here are not much to be remembered by, but the acting from the cast make seem forgiving. Gene Hackman for example shows he's having a good time here and has the cantankerous William Tensy down to a science. Even though he is an ugly character in more ways than one with the flam-induced cough, liver spots and an unscrupulous demeanour. The dirty deeds are delinquent, the jokes are crafty, and the public embarrassments are fun to watch. But at times, the humour feels very forced and everything looks so by-the-script which makes the performers here are trying to know their lines instead of living the part of their characters. The characters don't register any kind of feelings except for being lustful and self-centred. When pity was at stake, the reaction was nonexistent, because there was nothing to take sorrow from. The character of Jack (Jason Lee) lost all my care for him because I couldn't understand why he was so smitten over Page Connors (Hewitt) where her actions are deceitful and conniving. Having a movie featuring emotionally challenged characters is not my main concern. But when it's juxtaposed with limited and banal material, that's what makes Heartbreakers so mediocre at best. I'm sure it's motive is to enjoy the movie, but when it offers little to enjoy, it's very hard to be satisfied. It get really drained out near the end. The plot wanders away and humour becomes absent. Tensy's corpse scenes offer no laughing value at all. I wished Dean (Ray Liotta) had the balls to kills off the two antagonists (Hewitt an Sigourney Weaver). I was upset that the maid didn't take down Max. Instead it was in reverse. Many movies have complicated things going for that may require multiple viewings. Heartbreakers was just what the title was, a very sad heart-breaker. It was fun, but very low in production to keep me satisfied. "},{"Title":"Occasionally Amusing Comedy, but not a Very Likable One","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Maxine and Page Connors (an appropriate surname) are a mother-and-daughter team of con artists. Although they have a few minor money-making schemes such as adding broken glass to food in order to claim compensation from restaurant owners, their real speciality is a trick they play on wealthy men. Maxine will persuade the man to marry her, using a false name and without telling him that she has a daughter. Page then seduces the man, ensuring that they are caught in flagrante delicto by Maxine, who immediately files for divorce and walks away with a lucrative settlement. They first pull this stunt on Dean, a dodgy car dealer, but Maxine has her eyes on an even bigger prize, William B Tensy, an elderly tobacco billionaire. A complicating factor arises when Page falls in love with Jack, a handsome young barman and the intended object of one of her cons, much to the disgust of her mother who believes that the male sex exists solely for the purpose of being cheated.This film is sometimes described as a romantic comedy, but to me it seemed like a comedy incorporating a romance, which is not quite the same thing. In a romantic comedy it is the love-story which drives the entire plot; here, the romance between Page and Jack is only one of a number of plot elements, and not really the most interesting. There are a number of very funny scenes, most of them involving either Sigourney Weaver's Maxine or Gene Hackman's Tensy, the ultimate disgusting old man, wheezing his way into his grave through reckless over-indulgence in his own products. (Tensy stubbornly refuses to believe that smoking is bad for the health). Weaver is particularly good in scenes where her character has to think quickly, such as the one where Maxine deals with Tensy's domineering housekeeper or where, when pretending to be Russian, she is challenged to prove it by singing a Russian song. (There is no real reason why Maxine should have pretended to be a foreigner; it was simply a plot device to set up this scene).There are, however, two problems with the film. First, at over two hours, it is overlong. There are a few exceptions, but the natural upper limit for light-hearted comedies seems to be around the 90/100 minute mark. Humour is best put over in a shorter, more compact form than serious drama.The other problem with the film is that the characters are too unsympathetic. In the best-known, and in my view the greatest, of all con-man films, The Sting, although the two main characters are undoubtedly a pair of rogues, Robert Redford and Paul Newman succeed in making them likable, even lovable. They are, of course, helped by the fact that their victim is himself a ruthless criminal and that they set him up in order to extract a kind of justice for a friend whom he has murdered. (Police corruption means that it is unlikely that the killer will ever have to stand trial).Page and Maxine look very glamorous and seductive- their normal uniforms are low-cut blouses and high-cut miniskirts- but come across as rather heartless. In contrast to the heroes of The Sting, they have no motive for their schemes other than financial gain, The script suggests that Page herself might be a victim of her mother's greed and that she might have been sucked into this lifestyle against her will, but one gets little sense of this from Jennifer Love Hewitt's rather cold, self-assured character. I would agree with the critic of the San Francisco Chronicle who suggested that the role might have gone to an actress such as Reese Witherspoon or Kirsten Dunst who could have made Page seem more vulnerable and sympathetic. This is an occasionally amusing comedy, but not one that I found easy to like. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Heartbreakers","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is an okay film I suppose, but the thought of a woman and her daughter conning men to love them and then it ends in despair where they get money, it's just a bit terrible. Anyway, Max Conners (an attractive Sigourney Weaver) and her daughter Page (a very fit Jennifer Love Hewitt) have got away with many cons in the past, and Page is getting tired of it. So they decide to have a final big con between them to meet two men and get to them with fake love. Max goes for the rich William B. Tensy (Gene Hackman), and Page goes for bar owner Jack Withrowe (My Name Is Earl's Jason Lee). They do succeed for a while, and they get the help of a previous con, Dean Cumanno (Ray Liotta). They don't succeed though, but don't worry, there is a happy ending. Also starring Anne Bancroft as Gloria Vogal/Barbara, Jeffrey Jones as Mr. Appel and Tomorrow Never Dies' Ricky Jay as Dawson's Auctioneer. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"You will laugh until it hurts","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Mother and daughter con artists, played by Weaver and Hewitt, have it all; money, looks and brains! But what happens when one of them falls in love and the other does not want to loose her best gal pal? Heartbreakers is a hilarious, charming and clever comedy with a talented cast and first-rate jokes. Don't let the beginning fool you, the film really gets going after the first 5 minutes. The best comedy of 2001 by far and an instant classic. Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt are the perfect comedic duo. Heartbreakers delivers the laughs, big time! This movie really proves that good comedies sometimes don't get the recognition they so deeply deserve. 9/10 A- "},{"Title":"gene hackman at his best","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" One of the best con movies of its time ,Heartbreakers is a sort a movie that doesn't come very often.The rating on IMDb doesn't do justice to this cool comedy abt the heists of a con team of mother and daughter.Weaver shows great penchant for comedy but Ray liotta disappoints as he looks like he still has a goodfellas hangover(or maybe thats how he is in every movie) Weaver and Hewitt work their stuff but Hackman takes it all away.In his short role as the chain smoking millionaire ,Hackman is absolutely hilarious and outshines the entire cast.Watch this movie for its script and interesting story but watch out for Hackman...terrific! "},{"Title":"Not very good at all","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is not a good film. I watched the first 48 minutes, skipped 1 hour out of the middle and then watched the last 10 minutes. Guess what? I didn't miss anything! The concept is like Dirty Rotten Scoundrels except the execution is dire, the plot tenuous, the acting wooden. The only good thing in the movie is the incidental music.......You think I'm jokng?Watch the film yourself and then decide! I bet you will agree. How people can give this film 7 out of 10 is beyond my comprehension. If this is worth 7 out of 10 then all the police academy films must be worth at least a 9.  "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A very original comedy about a mother/daughter team of seductresses who take men for all their money. How it works The mother (Sigourney Weaver) marries the man. Then, the day after their marriage, her daughter (Jennifer Love Hewitt) seduces the man and they file for divorce. Hence all the money goes to the mother who then splits it with her daughter.But their lucrative swindle hits a hard path when millionaire tycoon Gene Hackman is taken for a ride by the duo, only for the two women to find themselves truly falling in love.This film got some good reviews and word-of-mouth when it came out and so I thought I'd check it out. I wasn't disappointed. It's not as consistently funny as I had expected, but it's very amusing and interesting. It's original, too, which is something rare for most comedies these days. "},{"Title":"truly underrated comedy","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming and hilarious movie.  I didn't expect too much, and was pleasantly surprised by how funny some of the scenes played out.  There is nothing preposterous about the comedy here.  It's not Shakespeare either but it doesn't stoop to gross-out humor levels just for the laughs.  The chemistry between all of the actors really works.  The leads do a great job, but it's Sigourney Weaver at her finest.  If you need proof, rent this movie and try to get through her musical number or her Russian charicature without giggling at least once.  It's just a fun movie with a great formula for laughs.   "},{"Title":"All around enjoyable... over, and over again.","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't even consider this to be one of my favorite movies, but I can't help but watch it every time it comes on TV. I think I've watched this movie at least 30 times and I love it every time I watch it. Sure, it's not Oscar material, but it's just a good movie to sit back and enjoy. Maybe the acting isn't wonderful, or the plot perfect... and I'm sure that everyone can find something wrong with it, but this movie is one I can watch over and over and laugh out loud each time. I would recommend this to anyone, and if you don't like it... go watch something else. This isn't a movie to criticize, it's one to have fun with and not take too seriously. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaker, dream maker, love taker don't you mess around with me... *SPOILERS*","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm dumbfounded at the generally positive comments here for HEARTBREAKERS. This movie starts out shaky and completely derails before it's over; a couple of funny bits don't make up for 2+ hours of idiocy one must endure to find them.First of my complaints is the movie's lack of characters to care about. Take Jack, played by Jason Lee, for example. Can he be any more stupid? I don't understand why he would fall in love with a girl who treats him so horribly; Jane's schizoid feelings and obvious lying would make any man of reasonable intelligence kick her to the curb. Why is he so blind? Yes, she's got a nice body, but men don't fall in love with a girl's physical attributes, no matter how well they're displayed.What's going on with Jason Lee, anyway? KISSING A FOOL? STEALING HARVARD? A GUY THING??? Kevin Smith frequently chides Ben Affleck about his more questionable Hollywood movies (ARMAGEDDON, PHANTOMS); I wonder if he's given Lee any pithy comments regarding his failed non-View Askew attempts at romantic-lead status.But back to J. Love. It's nice to see her continuing to pursue an acting career by way of the Wonderbra. I'm amused that she believes she's got a real future in the movie business, as much as I snickered when her latest CD dropped (off the charts). She should do the Playboy layout while her girls can still hold themselves up.Enough about Ms. Love - let's talk about Paige, her character in HEARTBREAKERS. How, I wonder, does a mother purposefully raise a child to be an amoral criminal? Did she ever question her mother's way of life? Rebel as a teenager? Turn her mother in for spite? A movie as long as this should have provided some backstory, so we could understand where these people have come from.Both she and Weaver employ in HEARTBREAKERS screenplay device I abhor talking to themselves (i.e. the audience). The makers of this movie have such a low opinion of their audience's intelligence that they give dialogue to their actresses that can be left unsaid. Hello! HEARTBREAKERS is easy enough to follow - we don't need people muttering what's obvious to anyone with half a brain.I suppose, if there's anyone in this movie to like, it's the tobacco tycoon played by Gene Hackman. But the movie doesn't help us here, either; this character is just as clueless as Lee's. Surely a successful millionaire would be able to spot such a ruse like Weaver's noticeably spurious Russian act. Gimme a break.But that's not all. What happened to him after he died? Was his death ruled a natural one? Did the cops wise up to these scam artists? Who discovered the body, and when? Who inherited his fortune? His former maid? Why did th e movie completely forget to resolve this plotline? Why is the movie so absentminded it can't remember its own plot?Hackman is, by process of elimination, the only character we can possibly like in HEARTBREAKERS, even though he's in only about half the movie. Since the other males are either moronic (Lee) or crooked (Ray Liotta, whose character runs a chop shop), it's a grave error to dispose of Hackman so carelessly.HEARTBREAKERS contains unlikable characters who inhabit the most contrived plot that's filled with improbable points (like the car accident and the manner of Hackman's final return to his home), all of which is wrapped up in, of course, a happy ending in which all sins are forgiving. These people deserve each other.3/10  "}{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt's evident transition...","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found Heartbreakers to be a jovial and entertaining piece of comedy which provided many laughs- and not in a dry, dull sense, however, in a witty and humorous manner. Jennifer Love Hewitt's transition from a teenage movie princess to versatile actress has evidently come through in this movie, as she has successfully portrayed her role as sultry and seductive Paige outstandingly- and NO, other IMDB users, this girl can act! It's nice to see that Jen is shying away from the usual, cheesy, tormented youth roles she normally portrays. One final word she is extremely HOT in this movie! "},{"Title":"JennyJenny your the girl for me","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Anyone that finds JloveH the least bit cute, NEEDS to see this movie.  Anyone that doesn't go OHHHH during that 'my ankle is injured' scene or when she does a running straddling jump onto Ray Liota.. must not be alive.  Better yet the DVD has some deleted scenes of her jogging on a treadmill in a skimpy bikini top ... well 'nuff said. I LOVE this movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers is one of the funniest movies I have seen.  Sigourney Weaver and Jenniver Love Hewitt did a great job playing con-artists.  They were hilarious at all times.  I especially liked Gene Hackman as the old millionaire that wouldn't stop smoking, just looking at him made me laugh. He was hilarious.  You should rent or buy this movie, it's great!!! "},{"Title":"Sigourney, please don't attempt another lame accent","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found Sigourney's bad Russian accent to be quite annoying. But, otherwise, I enjoyed this movie and found it entertaining.  It is not laugh out loud funny, but the characters are put in some comedic-type situations.  Gene Hackman was good as the chain smoking old tycoon.  And Jennifer Love Hewitt wears a lot of hot outfits in one of her better roles. This certainly beats I Know What you did Last Summer.FINAL VERDICT Pretty good story with hot leading ladies.  It should have done better at the box office. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Whacking Movie of All Time!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  99% of all men who watched this comedy had trouble viewing the entire movie with both hands free. While one hand was busy holding onto the bag of popcorn of the remote control, the other hand was very busy with other matters. For a comedy, or should I say physical comedy, this movie was packed with the unstoppable and delicious Eye Candy of Jennifer Love Hewitt. I mean, I haven't seen exotic adult movies that caused more stroking than this comedy. Dozens of short skirts and dresses, a handful of bikini tops and short shorts, minutes and minutes of hoping around, falling over, jumping on people, and acting cute and/ or sexy made the movie what it is. A non-stop fun ride for every single guy in the cinema or on the sofa. Jennifer's last great tease flick is just that, great. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! I recommend it HIGHLY! It has comedy, romance, drama everything you need to make a movie awesome! But be careful who you date . They just might be working for Max!  10/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest film of 2001","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers, without a doubt, would have to be the funniest film of 2001.It was great to see Sigourney Weaver and Ray Liotta back to form. But, this film belongs to Jennifer Love Hewitt. Finally, this film showcases her acting talent and hopefully she'll get the praise she deserves as her comedic timing is so perfect and the chemistry between her and Jason Lee was electrifying.This movie is non stop laughs from start to finish and definitely one to watch if you're feeling down and it's definitely one to add to your collection. "},{"Title":"Predictable and overlong","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Disappointing movie which was overlong and predictable. It was lifted occasionally by a scene stealing Gene Hackman. It moves from near-farce (can't say why due to spoiler) to schmalzy teen romance. Can't see why it's classed as comedy as there are no funny comments or moments except for Hackman's brown-toothed leer (he's a chain-smoker). Weaver is clearly uncomfortable and Hewitt's contribution consists mainly of wearing high cut skirts and low cut tops and teetering on over-high heels to make her look less ridiculous beside Weaver.Basically it just doesn't work as a who's conning who? movie. Despite what many reviewers said, Hewitt doesn't cut it outside teen movies. Weaver should have known better. Seriously, don't rent on video, wait until it's on TV and only then watch it if it's raining. "},{"Title":"not good","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I did now enjoy this movie.  The ladies in it weren't funny, and the only person who made me laugh was gene hackman's character.  jut about everything he did made me laugh.  but if he wasn't in the scene, then i was bored. there are better movies out there to watch.  but you can watch it if youre bored.  i think i'm dumber after watching this movie. 2/10  "},{"Title":"How on Earth could this be rated PG-13?","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This started out funny, very funny. And yes, I will admit that I wanted to see it in part because of Jennifer Love Hewitt's, um, talents. But you can only have her two major talents thrown at the screen for so long before it starts to get ridiculous. Her perpetual scowl didn't help much either. Overall the humorous points were drowned by a convoluted story that lasted about a half hour too long. And Jason Lee? Is this really the sarcastic sidekick from Kevin Smith's movies? Not that I object to an actor trying something different, but his character was so spineless and undeveloped. I can't see how any attraction developed between he and Hewitt, accept of course, for her talents. And somebody please explain the PG-13 rating. This was R all the way. Some of it was funny, some of it was grotesquely stupid, all of it was adult. And Hackman's character? I hate tobacco companies as much as the next guy, but this charicature was so unamusingly over the top. Kudos to Weaver though for Back in the USSR. Overall, so much potential wasted. "}{"Title":"An extremely weak comedy.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The trailers for this movie looked really good so i went to go and see it but i discovered like a lot of weak comedy's the only funny parts are in the trailer.The script is very weak and so is the acting. I think that Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman should have thought twice before signing onto this movie. All three of them let their acting down by taking on this pathetic excuse for a comedy.The worst part about this film is the predictability of the whole movie and especially the ending. If anyone wants to spend an hour and a half being bored i suggest you see this movie but if you want to see a quality movie i suggest something worthwhile. "},{"Title":"This film makes The Avengers look good.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film makes The Avengers look good. Like Fiennes, Connery and Thurman, it seems that Hackman and Weaver have found themselves in ...let's just say a BAD film. Even miss Hewitt's skimpy dresses can't make up for the ongoing cliche's and improbable plot solutions. "},{"Title":"Blown Opportunity","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  HEARTBREAKERS * * Lazy script and slack directionpretty much sink what could have been a really good comedy about a mother-daughter con team (Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt). Instead, it's justtolerable thanks to a very watchable cast and appealing Palm Beach settings. Gene Hackman and Jason Lee provide thefew genuine laughs. Also stars Ray Liotta and Anne Bancroft.  "},{"Title":"Blown Opportunity","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  HEARTBREAKERS * * Lazy script and slack directionpretty much sink what could have been a really good comedy about a mother-daughter con team (Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt). Instead, it's justtolerable thanks to a very watchable cast and appealing Palm Beach settings. Gene Hackman and Jason Lee provide thefew genuine laughs. Also stars Ray Liotta and Anne Bancroft.  "},{"Title":"Much cry and little woo","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This story of a couple of crooks, mother and daughter, who catch a lot of money from rich men by marrying them to the mother and then letting them to be seduced by the daughter in order to obtain a very profitable divorce is really a good story. Nevertheless it is told in a succession of  gags most of them very unconvincing and not even funny except two or three which are really well succeeded. The whole story is saved after all by the great talent of Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman who play their parts with an excellent acting quality. Their talent is even somehow wasted in a comedy that is only tolerable and very far from good. "},{"Title":"Above average date movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Off-beat comedy about two female con-artists who marry for the money - repeatedly. Sig Weaver plays the dame fatale well, though doesn't quite realize her comic potential as well as in Galaxy Quest. A good laugh, even if it's mostly at the expense of the dumb men that get taken. "},{"Title":"If only all anti-smoking tracts were this funny!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The only people who may not find this film a hoot are cigarette addicts, and tobacco industry tycoons, for whom Gene Hackman's portrayal of a terminal chain-smoker may seem too graphic for comfort. He coughs, he chokes, he is plumed in smoke, but he keeps lighting them up, even as he's trying to bed Sigourney Weaver. Weaver is the senior partner in a mother and daughter team of con-artists, the younger half being Jennifer Love Hewitt. (It's pointless giving them their characters' names - they keep changing them!) Their speciality is for mom to wed a rich guy, only for daughter, in a skintight mini-dress, to lead him into temptation immediately after the ceremony; they then pocket the divorce settlement. One of the best features of the movie is the banter between Weaver and Hewitt. Like any mother and daughter, they don't agree on much, except for their jaundiced view of men. The film opens with Weaver's marriage to Ray Liotta, in his element as a sleazy Jersey used-car salesman, who doesn't take too long to get Hewitt's hair caught in his zipper. Then it's off to Palm Beach for the next mark, Hackman, where the main problems are to keep him spluttering as far as the altar, and for Weaver to maintain the Russian accent she's decided to adopt. All the principals are spot-on; the Palm Beach locations are easy on the eye; and there's a nice cameo by Anne Bancroft. The film maintains its cynical tone throughout, except for the love interest between Hewitt and Jason Lee, playing a boringly sincere bar owner, but even that has its funny moments.  "},{"Title":"Sigourney and Jennifer lead the way to sexy comedy heaven","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" WARNING-POSSIBLE SPOILERS!I must confess I am a huge Sigourney Weaver fan(atic), and thus I went into this movie completely biased. But there is much more to it than just Sigourney being marvellous (which she was). I also noticed the considerable talents of Jennifer Love Hewitt. The two women worked very well together. Which they should, as they are a mother-daughter team of con-women out to steal rich men's hearts and wallets. Gene Hackman also makes an appearance as a disgusting tobacco magnate. He doesn't get such a large part though, although he gets star billing. The other secondary characters are entertaining and fitting to the mood of the film, except for Jennifer's love interest, who drags down the pace a little. Oh, and the catchy heartBreakers tune is a really nice piece of work.Characters5/5 Plot4/5 Direction4/5 Music5/5Overall5/5 "},{"Title":"Great subject, lack of script.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, I was expecting to see something more when I read about the topic of the movie.Anyway I liked the movie ,the way it is.It's already better than most of it's kind movies. But I believe ,it's possible to make alot better movie with this subject.About the subject, it reflects some truths of life about girls.  "},{"Title":"How you know it's all over","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  All non-commercial values in the world--particularly in the world of film--have collapsed. There is no sprig of art rising through the concrete; there is only concrete. For a tangible sampling--a soil sample, to rip off the movie's invented vernacular for the female loins --try this long-in-the-works MGM comedy, in which Sigourney Weaver, Gene Hackman, Ray Liotta, Anne Bancroft, Jason Lee, Ricky Jay and Nora Dunn are only able to ply their trade thanks to the presence of a rodentlike, flat-voiced, talentless creature whose only asset seems to be a pair of big, lifelike, squishy, non-silicon-seeming breasts.We have always had Sandra Dees and Molly Ringwalds. But in the past, they didn't run the show, with the world-class actors lining up underneath them like the help. This clunky, stagy, very old-school comedy about a mother-and-daughter pair of grifters would still have been pretty excruciating, but probably less so, if there were a Reese Witherspoon or a Kate Hudson in the lead. With the Love, it's pure torture--and, on occasion, as when Love and Hackman are in the same frame, reality-defying and brain-boggling.What will happen when some of the tots being fed a steady pablum diet of Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar start spitting it back? And when will people realize that it is the squeaky-clean teen culture they represent, and not gun laws, and not violent videos and films, that makes persecuted geeks shoot up high schools? "}{"Title":"Great movie! Filled with romance and many laughters, and you just love the sexy performances of Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt. This movie proves a point that being if your a man beware beauty can","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Most all of us men go through life with at least one relationship that breaks your heart and most of the time you know that the beauty put a con on you. Don't panic what if you were like the Ray Liotta and Gene Hackman characters and any other man who crossed the path of the double con team of Weaver and Hewitt only to find out later the pair are mother and daughter now then you could say you have had the major heartbreak. Heartbreakers is a great movie mainly because the way that it combined seduction and humor. Heartbreakers has some of the funniest lines and words that I have heard in a long time just listen at the mouths of Hewitt and Weaver. Most of all you enjoy not the words from Weaver and Hewitt but the view they provide. Now Jennifer Love Hewitt once again proves her young sexy self but you see how cunning her character is here she learned well from mother(Sigourney Weaver) and Hewitt is stunning as ever check out the short skirts and colored bras she wears. Now on to the pro and experienced con veteran and scam queen yes that is the Sigourney Weaver character and a comment on Sigourney I must say she is getting more beautiful with age wonder what her secrets are? She's looked good in the past but she attracted me most in this film I guess I'm like Ray and Gene that beauty and body attracted me so much that I would fall victim to her con. Boy us guys never learn it just goes to show how we think with our libido many times and not our mind. I suggest that you watch Heartbreakers it also has a story to it besides the con and seduction you will enjoy the beginning when Weaver and Hewitt scam Liotta and his New Jersey business that made the 13Th husband the two tricked now talk about women being in the money! Then it is down to Palm Beach, Florida requested by Hewitt where she finds unexpected love in the process while she helps mother(Weaver) do her best to con wealthy tobacco tycoon(Gene Hackman). Only to have plans go for a change. You will see Liotta go down to Palm Beach to break up the plans but never fear the pro the attractive Sigourney Weaver has a good plan B you will see in the end how she profits just pay close attention in this movie and Hewitt is happy to be to that point that is nothing is better that this sweet but cunning daughter Love Hewitt getting to leave the con nest and get that life of her own she wanted. Heartbreakers is a great film it has many things humor, con, and an intelligent story that was made great by two sexy and talented women Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt they were both ravishing and stunning. I hope us men can learn a message from this movie but still enjoy the beauty that we see all at the same time. "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Heartbreakers was a HUGE disappointment.  I was very surprised  how it turned out.  The acting was good but the script could not  save it.  What a shame that Jason Lee, coming off of the critically acclaimed film Almost Famous, would star in this low caliber film.  Jennifer Love Hewitt's character was too fickle with Lee, and after a while it got annoying.  Another let down of the film was how the director robbed a scene from Clerks, a scene to remain nameless, that Gene Hackman attempted to copy.  The only reasons why this film got a 3 rating and not a one is because of the acting and out of mercy. "},{"Title":"Ray Liotta Gets A Good Role For Once","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I've been waiting a long time to see Ray Liotta get something decent besides his bad guy image he's been cast as in so many movies.  This movie was a great entertainment vehicle and for once the politically correct message on smoking is finally getting some exposure in the movies.  This was a funny movie and a pleasure, even though the treadmill trailer scene seems to have been mysteriously cut from the final product. "},{"Title":"Walked out of the sneak preview","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'm an avid movie fan and moviegoer.  I've seen (conservatively) 400 movies in theatres in my adult life.  I have walked out of fiveThe Lady Vanishes (1979);  Highlander 2 The Quickening (1991);  Bringing Out the Dead (1999);  Mission Impossible 2 (MI2 walkout was based on our uncontrollable snickering and not wanting to disturb other moviegoers, content was entertaining but silly)And now add to that list  Heartbreakers (2001).  Man, was I excited about this movie.  Sigourney Weaver, Gene Hackman, that guy from Mumford (Jason Lee), Ray Liotta, Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Didn't know anything about it (except the cast and that it was a comedy) and saw the sneak preview being advertised in Houston.  Headed to the preview expecting to like the movie, or at least be entertained and surprised by a movie who's plot I knew nothing about.Only, after about 5 minutes I realized I knew the plot.  Could see it coming a mile away.  Flat, two-dimensional, stereotypical characters (caricatures, actually).  Boring.  Not funny.  Not heartwarming.  Not witty.  Not exciting.  Not surprising.  Not even (gasp) well-acted.  EVERYONE is sleepwalking through this movie.  I kept waiting for it to get better, and would not leave until the appearance of the Hackman character, because you have to give the great Gene Hackman the benefit of the doubt, and he's one of my personal, all-time favorites.  On comes his character, and...nothing.I am no snobbish cineaste.  I like comedies as crass as Private Parts and Beavis and Butthead Do America, as silly as A Fish Called Wanda, as corny as Bye, Bye Love, as stupid as Dumb and Dumber, as black as Cable Guy, and as universally reviled as Howard the Duck.  These aren't my favorites, but I can watch them and be entertained.  During Heartbreakers, I was literally squirming uncomfortably in my seat at the tremendous awfulness on the screen, until I couldn't stand it any longer.  My companion was ready to leave loooong before I was (I wanted to wait for Hackman).Do yourself a favor and skip this one.  And absolutely don't take the kids...it's extraordinarily racy for a PG-13 rating.  "},{"Title":"Slick trash","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" How did well-established professionals like Sigourney Weaver, Gene Hackman, and Ray Liotta become involved in this trash? Sure, it's watchable. Sure, Jennifer Love Hewitt is sexy. Sex comedies can be a lot of fun--but this? Weaver plays a woman who uses her body to lure male suckers into marriage and is teaching her daughter to do the same.Nothing wrong with being a whore, I guess, if you are supplying a useful product at a reasonable price. But in this case the two women are felons, deceiving men in order to get all of their money, and doing it over and over, marriage after marriage.Okay, lots of funny movies have been made about rascals, both male and female, who marry foolish or stupid people in order to get their money. But these woman are much worse than mere rascals. They are congenital liars, lying even to each other and to people (such as love interest Jack) whom they love. They're such liars and cheats that they cannot even order lunch in a restaurant without making it a con job.They are also sluts. Hewitt spends virtually the entire movie in micro short dresses that make her body look like a statue of a fertility goddess, all in order to tease. Weaver similarly flaunts her body to tease and cajole men, over and over.We are supposed to overlook this behavior because--for example--Hewitt's character really loves Jack, though she has an astounding way of showing it. As for Jack, he is monumentally stupid not to see her for what she is.Nevertheless, the last 20 minutes of the movie goes to great lengths to make us believe that these two women are, after all, lovable. There is that tender moment (with the inevitable tinkling musical accompaniment), when Hewitt pledges her love to Jack. And then--oh, wonderful!--that moment when mother and daughter embrace. Weaver really is a good mom after all! Oh, thank goodness! She's just like everyone else's mom! Apparently I am one of the few reviewers of this film to find it offensive. "},{"Title":"Couldda, Shouldda, but Didn't","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've been pulling for Love Hewitt for a long, -long- time. We know this young woman can get the job done (I Know What you Did..., The Truth About Love), and she was certainly running with a pack of Big Dogs here. But, but, and, well, -but-.Given it's high concept, Heartbreakers could have been Matchstick Men or The Grifters in the hands of someone like Ridley Scott or Steven Frears. Handed to a solid, if pedestrian, TV director like Dave Mirkin, however, it's little more than predictable pap.That's too bad, because the Dunn-Guay-Mazur script had a few interesting ideas about mothers and daughters, as well as con men being conned. I've met Weaver's character in real life at least a dozen times she has a determined but corrupted and paranoid vision of the world, and she teaches it to her kid. I'd give plenty to see more made of -that-.I've met Liotta's antisocial sex addict a few times, as well. Smug sociopathic fool for dangerous curves. (I've known them -considerably- further up the wise guy ladder than this, but the dynamics -- and the results -- were pretty much the same.) Manipulative beauty is one of the best plot foundations imaginable. Our society does not educate men to stand up to the force of face, figure and hormonal stimulation but simply acknowledges they're hopelessly outgunned by the relentless forces of natural selection. The femme fatale can do things to us we simply cannot do to them. Few think long enough to realize, Hey! No one's holding a gun to my head. Vivien Leigh's Scarlet O'Hara, Lana Turner's Cora Smith, Hedy Lamar's Delilah, Bella Darvi's Nefer in The Egyptian, and Sharron Stone's Catherine Trammel come to mind right away. I don't see that here in Sigorney Weaver -at- all, though Hewitt (at this age well on her way to being one the most formidable brunettes of all time before her unfortunate, and hopefully temporary, detour) has the physical -and- behavioral horsepower to pull it off.Can you see Angelica Huston and Annette Benning here? (Well; that's why The Grifters has a seven rating, even though I think a seven is a good half-point below what it deserves.) Frears' film is really dark, of course. And Matchstick is freaky deaky, but the queasy-making uncertain-father / sex-bomb-daughter relationship between the characters played by Cage and Lohman is why you guys laid a 7.4 on it.Save your breath I know this is supposed to be a light comedy. But it's -so- light it needs weights tied to its ankles. It's not funny. It's not dramatic. It's not intriguing. It's not interesting.Given the premise, and with people like Liotta, Hackman and Hewitt involved, better things could, and -should-, have happened here. "},{"Title":"Heartbruisers?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Okay - all in all, I've seen worse movies. Much of the disappointment I feel for this film is because of how good it could have been.First off, the script - it was simply over the top. Often, more subtle humor works better - the audience does not need to be hit with a sledgehammer when a tack hammer will do the job. The plot, complete with twists (some predictable, some not) was workable - and there were some truly funny moments, but they ended up being overshadowed by the overdone bits.Much of the cast did good work - Ray Liotta turned out for a surprisingly good performance, and Jennifer Love Hewett surprised me with the quality of her performance. Ms. Weaver, however, seemed at many points to be simply reading the cue cards. In light of her usually excellent work, I can only surmise that she was as appalled by the material she was being asked to work with as I was, and couldn't get into the part and retain her self-esteem.There are some great lines, and the general plot is believable, but this is NOT a 'con' flick - the con artistry that movie viewers have loved in 'The Sting' and 'Ocean's Eleven' is pretty well blown by the general ineptness of the con artists.One remarkably onerous note may please some viewers. The mark (capably played with awful lines by Gene Hackman) is such a caricature of the offensive, rude smoker that it's likely to be offensive to anyone who knows, likes, or is a smoker themselves. The anti-smoking message was so loud that it ruined some scenes that could have been humorous otherwise.All in all, a worthwhile flick if you like the overdone comedy of 'Dumb and Dumber' better than you like, say, the obvious but not overplayed 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' or 'Bedazzled'. "},{"Title":"Watchable but neither that funny or clever due to fairly average material","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Mother and daughter combo Max and Page are con artists. Max seduces wealthy men and marries them before walking in a few days later to 'catch' her new husband cheating on her with Page. One big divorce settlement later and the pair head off to the next mark. After another successful job, competition has grown between the pair and they are on the verge of going separate ways when the IRS catches up with them and demands back taxes over several years from both of them. With a sudden need to make a great deal of money they pick billionaire William Tensy and set up their sting. However everything is put at risk due to Page breaking the top rule of the game by falling in love.With the cast involved and some good looking trailers, I decided to watch this film when it came onto television, hoping for it to be smart, funny and entertaining. However the actual film turned out to be slightly dull, not particularly funny and lumbered with a poor script that comes close to insulting the audience and is certainly not the sparky, con comedy that I had hoped for. The plot is weak in many areas &#150; the love story is unconvincing, the drifting in and out of major characters as required is lazy and the actual main thrust of the film contains too much that is neither clever nor funny and instead is just silly. It plods where it should fizz and it lacks a real sense of fun. This is not to suggest that it is terrible because it isn't &#150; it is actually watchable because it has just enough going for it to hold the attention but even the series of twists at the end are only competent.What helps the appeal of this film is the cast, but sadly they don't help the deliver that much. Weaver does well in the lead, managing to give a light touch while also convincing as an aging con artist. Hewitt looks great but her performance is undermined by her constantly screaming 'here are my breasts' by way of her costume &#150; I know her character is meant to be like but she brings nothing else to the role for the vast majority of the film, leaving her final quarter changes to be uninvolving and flat. Hackman tries to bring humour to his role but he can't manage it and, as much as I wanted to like his performance, I just didn't. Lee, so hilarious in Mallrats, is flat and bland here. He has the worst part of the film to deliver it and he seems to know himself that his is a bad lot with nothing he can do about it. Liotta gave me a few laughs towards the end but basically is just a plot device that is used, forgotten and then used again.Bancroft and Jones are nothing more than cameos and add very little to the film. It doesn't help that several of them have no characters to speak of; plus those that do, have characters that are quite hard to like and are only given very flat redemptions &#150; leaving me cold to them and their story.Overall this is watchable once but it is nothing more than that. It is not very funny and it is not very clever due to the material. The story plods at times, the plot doesn't convince or engage while the characters are either unconvincing and unlikeable, meaning even the stars involved cannot do anything to make it better than the uninspiring product that it turns out to be.  "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I have ever seen!!!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the best comedies that I have ever seen. It has great story, great cast and I can't believe there are actually bad comments about it.Sigourney Weaver is great as a gold digging mother. As usually she does a superb job and fits her character perfectly. Jennifer Love Hewitt, who I do not usually like that much, does a great job with her character Paige and is probably the best role that she has ever played. Gene Hackman is hilarious as the chain smoking billionaire (you have to see this guy, hilarious) and Ray Liotta, as usual, is hilarious in his role (classic lines from this guy) in one of his funniest in his whole career. You can't go past this movie because this is not a romantic comedy, it's just a plain out comedy. Not a chick flick, not a teen flick. Believe me, I laughed throughout the whole movies (especially every part with Ray Liotta)This movie is looking to win any Oscars, it's just trying to entertain and does a great job. I have seen it three times and still aren't sick of it!!10/10!  "},{"Title":"I've heard of high concept, but...","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film exists for one reason - to show off Jennifer Love Hewitt's legs. Not there's anything wrong with her legs. By any criterion, they're fantastic. But when the movie has ended, that's about all you can remember, the short dresses and high heels. Oh, there are a couple of slightly amusing in-jokes referencing other movies (Rebecca, Chasing Amy), but the plot is thin with a laughable conclusion, the characters aren't interesting or believable, and the script is putrid. Veterans such as Weaver and Hackman deserve better than this.But as a showcase for Hewitt's quite amazing legs, it works just fine... "}{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt the only reason to watch this movie )","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  the only reason i have this movie on DVD is because of Miss Hewitt i think she is amazing perfection in the female form and a very talented actress ).saying that the movie is not bad it is actually pretty good it has a lot of humour in it which comes from Ray Liotta a little comes from Jennifer but most comes from Mr Liotta. i would not mind one little bit if i were a victim of Miss Hewitt`s conning the reason i say that is some of the suit`s dresses she wear`s do not leave much to the imagination her top half nearly pop`s out of half of the outfits she wears ). which any guy will like but any woman who say`s huh look at that she`s a tart (my friend angela said that) well they are just jealous cos they dont look that good there is plenty of eye candy in the movie thanx to the lovely Miss Jennifer Love Hewitt ). s if your looking for a comedy just to pass the time then look no further and if your looking for another movie to add to your Jennifer Love Hewitt collection (like me) then you need look no further because if you dont have this in your J.L.H.C you shoould have).rating for the movie 8/10.rating for Miss Jennifer Love Hewitt 12/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny, worth a look.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you enjoy seeing Jennifer Love Hewitt in skimpy outfits, then this movie is for you.  Seeing that incredible body is worth watching the movie alone.  But, in it's own right, the movie is actually very funny and has pretty interesting story.  Surprisingly enough, there are a few twists in the film that I didn't see coming and made it a great movie.  The cast is excellent for this film, you can't go wrong with Gene Hackman, Sigourney Weaver, Ray Liotta, Jason Lee and Jennifer Love Hewitt.  This is one of the few movies that I can say that the trailer didn't do the movie justice.  From the trailers, I thought it would be an so-so movie, but I thought the film was much funnier than the trailers made it out to be.  Some of the humor is very subtle though, so you have to think about it a bit, but most of the time that is not the case.  Anyhow, I hope you enjoy the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking waste of talent","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  2/10 for the best efforts of Sigorney Weaver and Gene Hackman in this waste of time comedy wanna-be. Ms. Weaver does her best to bolster a stupid story and a poor script.  Hackman manages to walk through most of the film and still give it some credibility. Typical sight gags can not save this poorly written and directed film about a mother and daughter whore team.  Out to whoo rich men and then grab huge divorce settlements or death benefits is so 1960's.  It would have been somewhat more comic if it were a father-son team (although less politically correct, I suppose - we have too many buddy films already).Jenifier Love Hewitt is a pleasure to watch. Her skin tight outfits are almost worth the admission or rental fee.  That's it.  She has minimal acting or comic ability. Walk-ons by Anne Bancroft and Ray Liotta were another waste of talent.  "},{"Title":"A Charmless Comedy","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a comedy that somehow managed to contain no wit and hardly any laughs....  The characters are unsympathetic, cheap and tacky. Love Hewitt seems to be used as a clothes horse for ever more tacky outfits as the film progresses without ever managing to convey that she is supposed to be a tart with a heart. Weaver does pretty well in a comedy role but is overshadowed by Gene Hackman who is definitely the best thing in the entire film. The film drags interminably for the last 30 minutes where the plot has pretty much got nowhere particularly to go. If you are braindead you might find this charmless farce appealing but if you like your comedies sharp, witty and dare I say funny then give this a wide berth. "},{"Title":"WASTE OF MONEY!AWFUL,BLAH!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I took my friend to see this movie as a birthday present and I actually paid. Half way through the film im thinking Why did I waste my money?!WHY??!! I HATED this movie. Infact I HATED every painful second of it. Was it funny?NO.Was it even entertaining?NO!Was it predictable and a waste of my money and 2 hours of my life?!YES! This movie was just hideous from the unfunny opening wedding scene to the end where they strangle each other(although i'd love to strangle the hell out of who ever wrote this pure trash!)over the fact the mom didn't sleep with her daughters man.God,I could go on but the memories are just too painful. DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE!If you actually WANT to waste you're money,I recommend burning it before handing it over to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Below average, poorly done film","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The previews look better than the film.  The story basically insults your intelligence is difficult to sit through.  This is the type of movie you may want to walk out of rather then watch it.It is a little too ridiculous.  Characters are not believable.  Some parts are just plain stupid.  Some lines in the dialog make it obvious nobody put much thought into writing this piece of crap.  I'd give this a rating of 4 stars out of 10. Don't waste you money on it. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review Power woman comedy, hilarious!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Heartbreakers is a genuinely original and hilarious comedy in the same spirit as Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, or A Fish Called Wanda, or possibly 9 to 5 or Working Girl (but much funnier).Like the best comedies, everyone is a little wacky without being too wacky -- that way we can identify with the characters (unlike Pee Wee Herman or Mr. Bean) but still get plenty of goofy antics as they meet each other and their wacky factors add together. And (unlike Rat Race) they don't toss away having good characterization, an interesting plot with a few neat twists, and a story arc. It's quite intelligent and keeps you guessing, but not at all arty (which is a plus in my opinion).The acting is pretty good, and I noticed Jennifer Love Hewitt as a serious actress for the first time. Ray Liotta was perfect, with just the right touch of wacky so that the violence (there isn't much) becomes cartoony and fun rather than painful to watch. Sigourney Weaver was good as well, although she apparently chose to play her role straight rather than a little wacky, which would have fit the movie's theme better I feel.I can recommend this film without reservation.Who should see this film-- Comedy lovers, a must-see, especially for the modern womanwho liked Charlie's Angels. A good teen flick, too.-- Drama types who like to go slumming, put on your dark glassesand trenchcoat and go see this film. You won't find manydeep thoughts about life but it will cheer you up and I won't tellI'll give Heartbreakers a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eye-openers","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Before I saw her in this film I'd never paid much attention to Jennifer Love Hewitt, since I'd never been much of a fan of horror/dead teenager movies. In 'Heartbreakers', she showed a lot of cleavage, a LOT of leg, and a real talent for both light and physical comedy. I thought that she played very well opposite Sigourney Weaver and still hope that they might team up again some day.There aren't a lot of movies that I'll watch over again, but this is one of them. Ray Liotta is good, if not on screen for most of the film, Gene Hackman is entertaining as a tobacco magnate with a persistent hacking cough, and I always like seeing Anne Bancroft. This is a caper/con game movie driven by the interactions of some very interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Super funny movie","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite comedies. I Highly recommend it! I have laughed so much with Ulga Yevanova. It is a perfect Russian accent. And the dinner with Hackman was also hilarious! She is still in a very good shape for 51 (now she's 61). Gene Hackman was so funny as billionaire tobacco magnate William Tensy. Hewitt was brilliant! The ending is exciting! It is so difficult to find a good movie on TV now a days. But this one was a really good surprise. Funny. Romantic. Sexy. I just love it! Great performances! Ray Liotta also shines. I hope I can watch more movies like this on TV.This is one of my favorite comedies. I Highly recommend it! I have laughed so much with Ulga Yevanova. It is a perfect Russian accent. And the dinner with Hackman was also hilarious! She is still in a very good shape for 51 (now she's 61). Gene Hackman was so funny as billionaire tobacco magnate William Tensy. Hewitt was brilliant! The ending is exciting! It is so difficult to find a good movie on TV now a days. But this one was a really good surprise. Funny. Romantic. Sexy. I just love it! Great performances! Ray Liotta also shines. I hope I can watch more movies like this on TV. "},{"Title":"One even the girlfriend will let you get away with","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Let's face it, this is a SEXY movie. What with Sigourney Weaver proving that it *definitely* doesn't end at 40, or even 50, and Jennifer Love Hewitt putting a raft of young lads through puberty in a collection of tight skirts, each seemingly shorter and lower-cut than the previous one, there is plenty to gawp at for young and old. Just don't let the tongue hang out too much.At the same time it also manages to spin a good (and funny) yarn with two strong female leads, while reminding us all of the old adage that anything that looks too good to be true probably is.Add to that an in-form Gene Hackman, a wonderfully bitchy cameo by Anne Bancroft, and Ray Liotta proving once again that he may have a second career in screwball comedy, and it all adds up to a very enjoyable way to spend an evening.The script is tight, with no obvious flaws, and the action moves along at a decent pace. The writers also had the good sense to play it mainly for laughs and allow the actors to manage the pathos. The only obvious weakness is Jason Lee, whose California surfer-dude delivery just doesn't gel with a guy who would do astronomy, let alone pull a material hottie like Page.But hey, any movie that can let a bloke look at JLH in that pink dress for 10 minutes without getting a right hook from his beloved deserves a 9. "}{"Title":"Unexpectedly good","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" You come to Heartbreakers expecting a routine comedy, and you end up with something which is considerably better than routine.The basic scenario is a good one, beefed up into a plot with enough complications, uncertainties and double crosses to keep you guessing. This, in turn, is well scripted, and the script is delivered by a cast of pros who relish the opportunity to have fun with it.Jennifer Love Hewitt is solid as the sexy young thing who unexpectedly develops feelings for bar owner Jason Lee, but they are both required to play relatively straight (although both have their funny moments). Sigourney Weaver and Gene Hackman, however, are given broader material to play with, and play with it they do! And Ray Liotta in a smaller, but crucial, role, has what to me was the funniest line in the movie.A very funny movie, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt Like You Never Saw Her Before or Since","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Spoiler AlertThis movie is basically a lousy movie about a mother-daughter con team that pulls fast ones on men. It has a forgettable plot which I hardly remember. The plot has Sigourney as Max Connors and Jennifer as Page Connors pull one on Dean Commano (Ray Leotta's character). But Dean catches up to them and when Jennifer's character meets a guy she really likes (Jack Withrowe played by Jason Lee), Dean forces them to pull one on Jack. When they pull one on Jack, Jack gives Page everything, despite having been duped and accused wrongly. Wow - Jack's a regular saint and quite unreal.This was a forgettable film except for Jennifer Love Hewitt who simply never plays the bad girl, except in this one. When Jennifer is bad, she is very very bad and hot. "},{"Title":"So close... But then... it dies.......off","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Initially entertaining, but after Hackman's exit, it all peters out it's as if everyone got bored with the initial novelty of the film and needed to get it finished so they can go and work on other projects. A shame - it started off well. Hackman is just plain fun, but the rest of the cast seem lost when his character dies. It ends on schmuck factor 10, leading to an increasingly predictable conclusion as it goes on (not to say an implausible and unexplained ending).Character chemistry is also pretty weak; but who can formulate that? Nice try, shame about the rush. "},{"Title":"Loved every second","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Okay let's be honest - everyone who watched this film has probably wanted to do this, or something similar at least once in their life, whether it be getting free meals, or the other extreme of getting married. And this film shows it in a hilarious and sometimes heartfelt way that makes you love it from start to finish. The good thing about this film is it makes you want the bad guys (i.e. Paige and Max) to win.I don't like many of Love Hewitt's films, but this is a major exception. She was excellent in the role, and made me cry. Weaver is hilarious in this film, and definitely one of the many reasons why you should watch it.The plot just gets more funny as it goes on, and the drama is a brilliant moments to touch your heart. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Female Variation of Dirty Rotten Squandrels","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Following the original idea of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Heartbreakers is about two con artists who seduce people and consequently rip them off. However, instead of having two handsome gentlemen doing the trick, as was the case with Dean Martin and Michael Caine in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, we now have a team of two attractive women, who also happen to be mother and daughter Sigourney Weaver is Max, the middle-aged but still very sexy mother who baits men to marry her, and then Page (Hewitt) seduces them to their first (and last) post-wedding infidelity. The shocked wife immediately proceeds to a divorce, and the two ladies then share the alimony. Things go smoothly, until the two team-mates start to take divergent paths...Comparing the Heartbrakers with Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is uneven of course, as the former is a hilarious classic with performances, such as Martin's Ruprecht which cannot be matched. Still, Heartbreakers is quite entertaining, and despite its weak moments (such as the fact that a film of this type should not be peppered with so much romance), it easily clears the pass grade.Sigourney Weaver is good in her role; on the other hand, Paricia Love Hewitt's acting is satisfactory, but in my opinion she could do better than that. Gene Hackman is once again showing his great and diverse talent in his funny role as the grumpy, old, cigarette-industry tycoon.Verdict 6/10. "},{"Title":"Jennifer love super adorable!! but the comedy sucks!!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It was good watching beautiful Jennifer Love Hewitt, in this movie she looks soooooo pretty, maybe prettier than ever except maybe in i know what you did last summer, i'm a Jennifer's beauty lover and only for that reason it was good to see the film.But rest of it....The film was sooo boring, silly plot, predictable, an unfunny comedy, let's be honest that comedy sucks.So in a few works without Jennifer's parts this movie would be a waste, i love Jennifer she's drop dead gorgeous but the movie sucks.I'll give it 6/10 and only because of Jennifer, if it wasn't Jennifer there i would give it less than that. "},{"Title":"Hoota thought it?","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Well, there may have been other actors in this movie, but after a hard day's work and few beers I had trouble seeing anyone or anything past Jennifer Love Hewitt's spectacular hooters. Oh, and I recall a few belly laughs too, mostly in the scenes which included Gene Hackman.(I guess I'm a sucker for Hackman. I don't remember a role of his that I didn't like.)The plot left me underwhelmed.I'll keep an eye out for Heartbreakers II, as long as the cast comprises only Jennifer Love Hewitt and her twin sister. "},{"Title":"A bit draggy at the end, but overall pretty good","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a very funny movie about conning; I loved all of the cons, the simple, subtle ways they tricked people in order to gain money or progress, one way or another. I also thought that the actors had a pretty good chemistry, and pretty much all of them pulled off their parts well. I especially like Jason Lee's character, a sarcastic, but otherwise pretty typical, nice guy. Ray Liotta also did an excellent job portraying a small time gangster type. Even Jennifer Love Hewitt, who is in no way known for her big on-screen talent, performs believably. The plot is interesting, and most of the time it develops at the right pace, but the last 1/4 of the movie does drag a bit. The characters all seem pretty believable, and nearly all of them are well-played. The crude, sarcastic humor is also excellent. Some might think it's too much, but I personally found it very funny. At times there is also a bit of dark humor, which I also found to be very funny, but I would imagine it would offend some people. I recommend this movie to pretty much any fan of any of the main actors, anyone who wants to see a comedy with crude humor and a bit of morality, or just anyone who wants to see Jennifer strut around, wearing tight skirts and skimpy-looking outfits. 7/10 "},{"Title":"As lame as Sigourney's accent.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  **Warning! Plot Spoilers Ahead!!**At one point in this movie, Jennifer Love Hewitt utters the line, That was wrong on so many levels.  I couldn't have summed Heartbreakers up any better myself.  Two different comedy genres are mixed here, romantic and criminal.  But Bonnie and Clyde this isn't.  Not even remotely close.  Much of the romance is supposed to be comedic, and is mildly funny at best.  But the rare serious moments have no believability.  The lack of normal romance in Hollywood must prevent its filmmakers and writers from crafting a decent love story.  When will they figure out that no one actually falls in love in a day and a half?  Unfortunately the caper parts don't click either.  There are so many different con jobs that one tires of them after thirty minutes.  And speaking of time, Heartbreakers would have been merely bad instead of unbearable had the length been shortened by thirty minutes. Outside of Jennifer Love Hewitt's physical appearance, the only highlight of this movie was Ray Liotta.  Sending up his gangster persona, Liotta provides the movie's best humor with lines like (when asked if he can dispose of a dead body) I'm from Jersey, aren't I?  He and Gene Hackman are the only actors who seem to realize the inanity of the movie and provide fittingly ridiculous work.  Everyone else plays a one-note role all too seriously.  Sigourney Weaver is the over-the-top would-be mastermind; Jason Lee and his lame lines provide the blank-faced love interest; Hewitt is the petulant hottie for whom things never work out.  The camera work is also poor.  The outfits of Weaver and Hewitt draw enough attention to their assets without the gratuitous lingering of the lens on their various emphasized body parts.  If we want to look at that, we will.  Having it shoved in our face is annoying.  Not much works here.  I laughed only a few times, mostly at unintentional comedy.Bottom Line  Most comedies at least have visible potential.  This one didn't.  3 of 10.   "},{"Title":"Appealing black comedy - but uneven and limited.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A mother and daughter team (Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love-Hewitt) con men in to marriage and then earn money from quickie divorces. However their immoral little world starts to come unstuck when one of their  would-be victims becomes hard to pin down and the daughter starts to fall in love for real. There is room in my heart for black comedy, and it is a shame that America (home to so much of the film industry nowadays) seems a little frightened of them. The producers clearly had a mission to recruit a cast of appealing names and then get the script to crack along at enough pace to cover for the dubious central theme. They  have done a fair-to-middling job.Naturally having shown their unpleasant nature (they even con a stranger in to playing for their gas!), you are naturally going to have to pay a price as regards the audience worrying about their troubles later down the track.We are living in the film convenience world Everyone is a bit stupid and falls for all their well worn stunts Catching the spouse with another woman, alien objects in food, getting recruited to the right job, trip-and-fall, etc. This is a film that isn't even afraid of slapstick, ALA early Woody Allen or the Pink Panther movies.Credit Weaver and her dress maker always seeming at the point of taking off or falling out of her clothes and never quite getting there. Even on her honeymoon the lingerie doesn't quite come off - in fact see got to see her more undressed in Alien! This is a film about sex traps, but there is no sex to speak of despite the suggestions of the poster and the trailer!The movie breezes along, with jokes right through (even Gene Hackman's smoking and clothes are funny - what a sport he is!), but when you have exposed people as being crooked, cruel, thieves (even in a comedy) you don't have much room for sympathy, empathy or happy-ever-after.The writers build in some suspense, but it was always going to be a film that was easy to set up, but harder to move along and even harder to bring to a satisfactory conclusion. File under pleasant time filler. "}{"Title":"The real con is the one pulled off at the box office.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had to write this review after seeing how this movie managed to get 6.4 stars on IMBD.  In case you're as clueless as David Mirkin, I didn't care for this movie.While the story line is actually pretty good, and many of the jokes, both verbal and visual, were clever, the movie itself was barely watchable. Aside from the always good Gene Hackman and a passable performance by Jason Lee, the comic timing of Hewitt, Weaver and Liota was horrible.  In addition, the director seemed obsessed with penis jokes, which is fine if they are funny, but they weren't.The mystery as to why JLH left acting for singing has been solved.  She can't act.  You can't blame this bad of a perfomance on just the director. After listening to Sigourney Weaver's lame Russian accent for two hours, I was nearly ready to slit my wrist.  Weaver is probably about ten years too old for this role to begin with.  While the actress has to be believable as Jennifer Love Hewitt's mother, there are plenty of actresses in their early forties who are still drop dead gorgeous.With different casting and a different director, this could have been a classic. "},{"Title":"Shame, great idea - bad result","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Knowing what happened with this movie in American box office I was expecting very bad 2 hours. But to my big surprise it wasn't so bad. The first hour is really funny and witty. I really enjoyed watching mother and daughter in action. Then the movie slowed down and dialogs became dull and finally stupid (what Ray Liotta says to Sigourney Weaver at the end is absolutely dreadful and should be cut off). In my opinion the creators had very good idea but didn't know how to develop it into 2 hours of pure entertainment. So overall this is quite ordinary movie with some good moments and very bad ending.  "},{"Title":"Lame-O","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What a bunch of wasted talent.  Far-fetched plot, characters that are smart one second and dumb as ever the next, love-you/love-you-not characters, and some lame duck bar owner who wants to marry a person who did nothing but lie and scam him.  All to make a dumb happy ending.  "},{"Title":"Hackman and Huge-Tits!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" There's two, nay, four reasons to see this film. Hackman is HILARIOUS as the old geezer with one foot in the grave. It's hard not to crack up whenever he's on screen. He makes the scenes with Signourney Weaver and her bad accent almost tolerable. And then of course, there's Jennifer Love Huge-Tits, showing tons of cleavage. Let's face it, she can't act and The Tuxedo is proof of that. She'll never be taken seriously as an actress in Hollywood aside from the casting couch but I seriously don't mind watching bad acting as long as there's lots of cleavage and bouncy, bouncy and in heartbreakers, there is lots of both! Seriously, I don't think Huge-Tits has ever shown this much cleavage before and spent so much time in short dresses that show off those shapely cornfed Texas thighs. Hoooooooooooooooooo doggie! "},{"Title":"Sigourney Weaver is simply not sexy.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The premise of Heartbreakers is great - sultry mother/daughter team con wealthy men out of large sums - but the casting is a mystery. Jennifer Love Hewitt is an obvious choice, being corporeally exciting, but Weaver just doesn't convince. She looks rank.The whole movie hinges on the final role reversal and the idea that Jason Lee will commit adultary with Weaver. It is preposterous that anyone of Lee's age will find Weaver attractive, let alone one who has just bagged JLH.Jason Lee is excellent, as always, and even in this role which requires little comic skill, he delivers his lines brilliantly. Gene Hackman is suitably vile, but doesn't really get going, Ray Liotta is so over-the-top you have to accept the possibility that he is hamming.But you always get back to Weaver, who is just not sexy enough to pull this off. Casting? What the heck were you thinking?? "},{"Title":"Bad, should be rated R","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  excessive sexually explicit viewing, In the first ten minutes of this film there is sexual scene after scene.  For PG-13 that is not acceptable.  I watched it with my daughter and she couldn't watch any of it. "},{"Title":"A Fun Comedy!!!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"            Heartbreakers is a fun comedy that keeps you laughing and is just flat out funny. Sigourney Weaver, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Gene Hackman, and Ray Liotta were great at their performances. The movie is completely funny in just about every scene and has something to laugh about. If you are looking for a good comedy, Heartbreakers should be on your list. I give Heartbreakers a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"quick hits on heartbreakers","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Just some notes to add to comments others have written1) The humor can get pretty racy (lots of erection jokes), but it's not on the level of Something About Mary (which I liked), and Jennifer Love Hewitt doesn't get naked, so I guess it gets a PG-13. I would call it PG-15.2) Ray Liotta has the best role in the whole movie, he does a nice spoof of his usual role as the crazed villain - spoof b/c in this movie he's not the craziest or the most dastardly person. The entire movie picks up again when he reenters the scene.3) You can't help but notice that Weaver and Hewitt are physically unbelievable as mother and daughter - Weaver is built like a battleship, and dressed that way in the opening scene, Hewitt looks like a little elf girl. They do show good chemistry together though.4) The movie starts off with great energy as it shows how the con artists Weaver and Hewitt get away with their scams (don't they have any more colorful term for it than con? they use that word repeatedly), but it slows down GREATLY as the inevitable love storyline develops between Hewitt and Jason Lee (who, sadly, plays a very uncynical character). The last half hour was one of the slowest and most painfully excruciating I've ever experienced aside from lectures.5) IMDB needs to better monitor how reviews are getting put on the site. There are three lengthy identical glowing reviews below (which happen to be factually inaccurate with regard to Jason Lee, who's been in movies since 1993). What's up with that? "},{"Title":"quick hits on heartbreakers","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Just some notes to add to comments others have written1) The humor can get pretty racy (lots of erection jokes), but it's not on the level of Something About Mary (which I liked), and Jennifer Love Hewitt doesn't get naked, so I guess it gets a PG-13. I would call it PG-15.2) Ray Liotta has the best role in the whole movie, he does a nice spoof of his usual role as the crazed villain - spoof b/c in this movie he's not the craziest or the most dastardly person. The entire movie picks up again when he reenters the scene.3) You can't help but notice that Weaver and Hewitt are physically unbelievable as mother and daughter - Weaver is built like a battleship, and dressed that way in the opening scene, Hewitt looks like a little elf girl. They do show good chemistry together though.4) The movie starts off with great energy as it shows how the con artists Weaver and Hewitt get away with their scams (don't they have any more colorful term for it than con? they use that word repeatedly), but it slows down GREATLY as the inevitable love storyline develops between Hewitt and Jason Lee (who, sadly, plays a very uncynical character). The last half hour was one of the slowest and most painfully excruciating I've ever experienced aside from lectures.5) IMDB needs to better monitor how reviews are getting put on the site. There are three lengthy identical glowing reviews below (which happen to be factually inaccurate with regard to Jason Lee, who's been in movies since 1993). What's up with that? "},{"Title":"Deserves two reviews in one.","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Heartbreakers earlier this evening, and I feel that it deserves to be reviewed in two ways.***WARNING WARNING!!! THE FIRST REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!! WARNING WARNING!!! IF YOU WANT TO AVOID SPOILERS, SKIP AHEAD TO THE SECOND REVIEW!!!***Here is the FIRST review. This one is written for ALL women, and enlightened men who DON'T automatically see women as sex objects. Heartbreakers begins with a promising enough story... Sigourney Weaver and Jennifer Love Hewitt play a mother-daughter con team. Weaver romances and marries rich men, then Hewitt seduces them, just in time for Weaver to mistakenly walk in on them. She files for divorce, and she splits the settlement with her daughter. After some strange circumstances find them low on funds, Hewitt agrees to help her mother one last time. The target? A repulsive, phlegm hacking Gene Hackman (His name ironic and appropriate considering the nature of this role) as a cigarette company big wig. Along the way, Hewitt tries to branch out on her own, and ends up crossing paths with Jason Lee, as the owner of a seaside bar. After some initial conflicts (all from Hewitt), the two slowly find themselves falling in love with each other. Meanwhile, Ray Liotta is attempting to track Weaver down to convince her to take him back, (he was the jilted husband at the beginning of the film) and of course, he ends up finding out about the whole scam. As the con team, Weaver and Hewitt play off each other very well. The jibes and barbs seem genuine, and they are interesting, if untrustworthy characters. However, Weaver's Russian accent got on my nerves, as I kept expecting her to say WE HAVE TO KILL MOOSE AND SQUIRREL, BORIS! Hewitt shows promise in breaking her cliched scream queen persona, and Hackman gives the most convincing argument for quitting smoking I've ever seen. Liotta's role is largely forgotten until the last third of the film, when his true slimyness emerges unchecked. Lee's character, although likeable, is a flake. A nice guy, but not bright enough to give Hewitt the boot after her first few rude comments. I guess he doesn't believe in bad first impressions.Overall, My wife and I sat confused in the theatre as the end credits rolled. Too many twists, too many cons. By the final half hour, NOBODY in their right mind in that cast should have been talking to one another, LET ALONE trusting each other! When Liotta decided to trust the ladies to get his money back, RIGHT AFTER HE THREATENED TO KILL THEM BOTH, that just sunk our opinion of the script writers right there. We also noticed something funky with the lighting. On occasion, in scenes where Hewitt was the focal point of the camera, the image appeared slightly dark and grainy, but when it would switch back to Weaver or whomever she was talking with, the image appeared fine. This happened in at least two different scenes, in two different locals. Very strange cinematrography there. Also, the scene in the trailer and commercial that shows Weaver and Hewitt in a sports car driving across a bridge tossing money out left and right, DID NOT appear in the film at all. Crazy. I would recommend waiting until this comes out on video. Then, you can rewatch the truly funny scenes (and there are several, just not a non-stop amount) over and over, you'll pay less than at the theatre, and you can pause it if you need to get up. Trust me, it's a better bargain that way.*** end of FIRST review ****** beginning of SECOND review***Now, the second review is for all those men who are just going to see Heartbreakers to see Hewitt wear tight cleavage bearing outfits.ME LIKE JENNIFER!!!!! JENNIFER HOT!!!! SHE REAL PRETTY!!!! ME LIKE ME LIKE!!!! She wear tight clothes!!!! Bends down a bunch!!!! Pretends to do ORAL SEX!!!! ME LIKE ME LIKE!!!!! SHE REALLY HOT!!!! SHE have NICE RACK!!!! ME want to LOVE HER HEWITTS!!!!! ME.... HEYYYYYYYY WHO SWIPED MY BEER????*** end of SECOND review ***So there you have it. A good attempt with fine performances, but a confusing trail of cons and twists, and a ridiculously improbable ending. But if Jennifer Love is your girl, you'll be VERY satisfied. ^) "}{"Title":"Only for fans of Jennifer Love Hewitt's Breast!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a HORRIBLE comedy! The concept was pretty clever but the movie for some reason or another didn't work! The ONLY good thing about this movie was Jennifer Love Hugh-tit! Too bad she didn't appear nude in the picture(1(*)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"decent comedy with a good cast","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A mother-daughter con artist team have made a living for years by marrying wealthy men then setting them up so they can make the big score. Frustrated and wanting to go out on her own, the daughter (Hewitt) agrees to one last job setting up an ill but rich tobacco millionaire in Florida. Complications ensue when one of their former marks (an amusing Liotta) returns to settle the score, and their current mark (Hackman) turns out to be much more than they bargained for. Occasionally funny but uneven comedy has a likable and enthusiastic cast, but it loses energy and becomes predictable as it nears the finale. Not a bad way to pass the time though. ** "},{"Title":"Some movies just shouldn't be made","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The studio wants to say this is a story of a mom and daughter who swindle rich men out of their money by marrying them and then setting them up to cheat.  What this story REALLY is about is two-fold  1)Jennifer Love Hewitt's HEAVING chest being tucked into blouses four sizes to small, ready to pop out, and 2)Hewitt's mini-skirts constantly riding up to her belly button.  Don't let the studios fool you!  D- "},{"Title":"Pitifully sad","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Supposedly this film is a comedy but with such contrived situations and jokes it's as funny as a hole in the head. Heartbreakers desperately wants to be some quirky, hybrid American Pie slash Something About Mary flick but it tries way too hard, or it doesn't try hard enough, maybe that's the problem. My fellow viewer and I just rolled our eyes and commented more than once on how utterly moronic it all was.Perhaps this comes down to the actors too, who seem unconvincing and demonstrate next to no chemistry whatsoever. Especially between Hewitt and Weaver, and when there is no chemistry between the leads who are supposed to be mother and daughter, a film like this is destined to failure. 2 our of 10. Not truly awful but very close to it. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  How can Sigourney Weaver, Gene Hackman and Ray Liotta make such a badmovie? The script stinks, the acting stinks, the phony happy ending stinks. We  are supposed to laugh at a corpse with a hard-on. Even the soundtrack isannoying. Do NOT rent this so-called comedy. "},{"Title":"I've never looked at my watch so many times in 2 hours.","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  How can people say that this movie is fresh and funny? I don't think that there was one joke in this pathetic movie that was new.  Even the jokes that were remotely funny, ceased to be funny because they were so predictable. Another strike against it?  All of the characters were unlikable.  Sure, Jason Lee was ok, but how could he like Jennifer Love Hewitt when she was such a bimbo bitch.  Sigourney Weaver is now trying to play sexy roles with this movie and Galaxy Quest.  WHY?  She wasn't good looking in Alien and Gorrillas in the Mist, and she isn't good looking now.  But at least in those movies she could act. How many times must we rehash the same old boring and tacky jokes? 1/10 "}]