[{"Title":"Excellent, Mr. Waters...","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In true John Waters form, Pecker offers a pure glimpse of human nature. Being human entitles us to our own unique quirks and eccentricities that make us individuals. When we 'seemingly' normal people are influenced by our ever-changing society, that is when the humor begins.I think the true beauty of this movie is in the acting. Waters guides his cast into committed characterizations, adding layer upon layer of sub-text until they blossom before your eyes. Waters approaches his characters the way a painter approaches his easel and taking a mental snapshot, paints his perspective. Add all these factors in and you see why I say Pecker is a great movie!Bravo, John. I always enjoy your work, thank you for sharing your art and perspective with the world. "},{"Title":"Typical Waters flick","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters does what he does best, creating comedies that hang onthat line between normal and strange. In this time around, Waters directs PECKER, about how the seemingly normal photographs taken by an average small-town kid named Pecker (Eddie Furlong) become over- night successes by different art moguls. Of course, many misadventures abound as Pecker encounters many people with different opinions about his works of art.The performances are basically the main highlight of the film. Furlong does a good portrayal of the snapshot-taking teen, while ChristinaRicci also shines as Pecker's alienated girlfriend. Low-key teen actor Brendan Sexton III steals the film as Pecker's best friend Matt, a go-go-dancing klepto, just the right kind of character found in a John Waters' flick! "},{"Title":"Fun Film with a Point","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The best thing about this movie is that it is fun. It is full of humorous characters and interesting situations, starting with the blithe, innocent Pecker (played appealingly by Edward Furlong) who likes to photograph almost everything he sees in every day life. Other great characters include Pecker's friend Matt (he's a thief, but he's really a nice guy), Pecker's sister Chrissy (who is addicted to sugar), and Pecker's Catholic grandmother who discovers life in a statuette of the Virgin Mary in her room.The movie gently makes a point about how every day life has many riches to offer, and it succeeds in making this point without being too heavy-handed about it. There is always a risk, when making messages about the value and dignity of common people, of sliding into a kind of reverse holier than thou - but Pecker avoids these traps, allowing the audience to get the point while allowing enough breathing room for viewers to compare this message to their own thoughts on the subject.I recommend the movie mostly because it is a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Slight, quiet, humble Waters flick","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As I am no fan of almost any post-Desperate Living John Waters films, I warmed to Pecker. After he emerged from the underground, Waters produced trash-lite versions of his earlier works (Cry Baby, Polyester, Hairspray) that to die-hard fans looked and tasted like watered down liqueur. Pecker, which doesn't attempt to regurgitate early successes, is a slight, quiet, humble commentary on the vagaries of celebrity and the pretentiousness of the art world. Waters clearly knows this subject well because he has also exhibited and sold (at ridiculous prices) some of the most amateurish pop art ever created that you couldn't imagine anyone being able to give away if it wasn't emblazoned with the Waters name. Edward Furlong is fine as Pecker and Waters' non-histrionic style is at ease with the subject. "},{"Title":"A witty view on the American way of life","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker is a young, unknown photographer from Baltimore who becomes a big star in the public, the media and the local art scene with his pictures showing the dirty reality of all-day life just as dirty underwear or human excrements. It's a typical topic of John Waters Baltimore-based independent comedies to show the weird sides of the American way of life between political correctness fashion and conservative backlashes by exploring the backgrounds of the middle class society of his hometown.Edward Furlong of Terminator 2 fame plays Pecker, supported by Christina Ricchi, photographer Cindy Sherman, legendary Patricia Hearst and Water's long-time actress Mink Stole. Although the pacing of the plot becomes a big flaw sometimes and can't compete with the fast  and furious joke attacks of Water's brilliant Serial Mom, it's still has some good laughs in it and some unforgettable scenes like a former junkie-girl who became a vegetarian by sniffing peas from a vegetable dish... Pecker is a great comedy about the arrogance of the art scene, media hypes, middle-class sex angst and the strange ways of how to become a pop star without realizing it. Recommended!  "},{"Title":"quirky fun","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this in New York, it will never come to St. Croix! I liked it a lot, made me laugh. This is the most accessible  of any of John Waters' movies I've seen and I like that,  doesn't hit you over the head with weirdness. Waters is so good at taking a normal situation and making it appear just slightly off kilter. There are some great characters here...Ed Furlong is wonderfully wholesome and believable as Pecker, Christina Ricci is terrific in a very intense way as a too normal no frills small city girl. This movie is just plain good fun, it's easy to laugh at everybody and not feel mean spirited. Oh yeah and good  to see Patty Hearst having some fun.  "},{"Title":"wonderful evening","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I´m from Germany and I love the mvovies. I go 200 times a year. Tonight I saw Pecker, it was a wonderful evening. Thank you, Mr. Waters. Everybody who has a chance to see the movie, go!!! "},{"Title":"John Waters for the whole family!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, with the right amount of censors, I'm sure anyone would like this. While diehard John Waters fans will be disappointed (There's no obese transvestites that eat dog feces or hilariously hideous trailer park characters) it was still an uplifting film with good performances and several laugh-out-loud scenes. An uplifting John Waters film? Yes. He's also known for dark humor;  but this film relied on harmless shock value.Edward Furlong plays the title character, a kid who takes pictures of everything he encounters in his sleazy Baltimore neighborhood. A NY art agent (Lili Taylor) observes his work and he finds he has the choice between either rising to fame (which he loses his friends and family) or keeping his original lifestyle as a poor suburban dweller.Give this one a try Expect nothing, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Funny but it's like John Waters-lite","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker lives in Baltimore and works as a chef in a fast-food restaurant.  He constantly takes pictures of those around him.  When he puts on a small show in his workplace a New York agent buys the lot and offers him a show at her NY gallery.  The show turns him famous for his honest photos of his `culturally challenged' family and friends.  But fame has a price and soon he must turn the tables on the art crowd who look down on his family.I approached this with a certain amount of good feeling.  From the very start we have wonderfully camp music and small town trashy characters &#150; we're in Waters-ville. The actually story is quite simple and doesn't quite hang together as a narrative.  However it's all done with a nice charm that makes it fly by, only occasionally does the film drag and the plot weaknesses are revealed.Waters used to have a niche market in camp and bad taste, however with so many people doing bad taste comedies nowadays he seems to have toned it all down a bit.  However he still can do this in his sleep, although the story could have been stronger and he needed to direct with more focus and direction.Furlong is really good in the lead &#150; you have to admire his role choices (Little Odessa, American History X, this and others) as he could have just tried to be a heart throb after T2.  Similarly Ricci is pretty good in a role that isn't quite trashy but isn't mainstream either.  The support cast are also good as they have more of the characters that we expect from Walters as well as some famous faces (Lilli Taylor, Martha Plimpton, Patty Hearst) &#150; Brendan Sexton III as Matt is really good but the award for funniest role goes to Hulsey for angry sugar junkie Little Chrissy.Overall I found this enjoyable despite the story not really moving anywhere fast.  Fans may find this to be Waters-lite but even then he can put out a good film. "},{"Title":"To Photograph Life and Find Art In It","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pecker is another John Waters tribute to the less fashionable side of his native city of Baltimore. Unlike previous films Pecker is set in modern Baltimore of 1998.And it's centered around a young man named Pecker. Lest you think it describes him anatomically or behaviorally, what it really does describe is his way of eating as a child, sort of pecking at his food. Of course it wouldn't be John Waters without the double entendre.Pecker as played by Edward Furlong was given a camera as a kid and it's become an obsession with him, to photograph life and find art in it. Art's everywhere, in his girlfriend's laundromat, in the sandwich shop where he works, in his grandmother's obsession with her talking Virgin Mary icon, even in the garbage where two rats are mating.Soon his pictures attract attention from the art world. But when that happens Pecker's own world starts to crumble around him. How and will he get it back is the story of Pecker.John Waters surrounds Furlong with a nice cast of supporting players with the usual Dickensian names for their characters. Best are Christina Ricci as Pecker's girl friend, Baltimore's laundromat Queen, and Brendan Sexton as his best friend and professional kleptomaniac.Pecker is another of John Waters's lighthearted look at life and some of the strange things we find in it. I think only the most hidebound of rightwing people will not find something amusing in Pecker. "}{"Title":"The Endearing Mr. Waters","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters most accessible film to date is  one of his better ones, considering it cut down  on all of the campiness and outright vulgarity  which seem to litter most of his previous work.  Sure, the nudity and the sexual references  are still there, at least it is presented in a fashionthat cannot be deemed too foul or disgusting.  Due to some great casting choices, this film  really brought out the silliness associated with  modern art and the subjective nature of your  modern artist. Funny and somewhat  lighthearted (if that is possible for Waters),  this is one of those films I would watch on a rainy day.  "},{"Title":"Cute and quirky","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great light hearted characters that each bring their own special style to the story. Pecker see's the world through his camera and one day unexpectably shares that with the world but not to everyone's liking. It's not like anything I've seen before but brings a certain familiar teenage coming of age feel to it. I most likely wouldn't go out of my way to purposely putting this one again but i would sit down and watch it if I flicked passed it on late night TV. The whole concept is good but does feel a little jumbled at times. If your looking for a light hearted comedy than i recommend giving pecker a go.One of furlongs better films in that later of his career 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you've never seen a John Waters film, then you don't know every penis joke in the book. For nearly four decades, the Hairspray creator has made a career out of letting people know he's gay, through odd ball characters, weird story lines, and every innuendo in the book. Pecker is the story of obsession, weather it's about the main character's obsession with photography, his girlfriends obsession with her laundromat, or his managers obsession with him, everyone has a strange obsession. Pecker (Edward Furlong) is a teenager from the small town of Baltimore, Maryland, who has been taking pictures for years. Finally, he's having a show at the fast food restaurant he works at and to everyone's surprise, a New York City gallery owner shows up to make Pecker he new protégé. The whole family goes to the big city, where Pecker becomes a star, putting his town and his whole family under a microscope. As is common in Water's films, the characters are as strange as can be, and for the life of me, I can't figure out why he decided to portray Baltimore as a small town. Edward Furlong stars as Pecker, and even though he has long been one of my favorite actors, even he couldn't save this film. I like weird and admire something different, but Pecker was so far out there, that it became a farce of itself. The characters are uninteresting, the penis jokes are old, and the obsessions are just so above and beyond believable that it turns the whole film into one bad joke. As I said everyone is obsessed with something and that really foreshadows the main story. From his grandmother who talks to the virgin Mary to his sister who is the biggest gay pimp in Baltimore, all the obsessions blend into one big gay, confusing, ridiculous ending. I've seen several John Waters films and for the most part have found them to be pretty funny, but Pecker is just so far out there, that it's almost unwatchable. "},{"Title":"John Waters finally comes into his own","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a delightful picture.  John Waters, often known as the king (or queen) of shock has finally come enough mainstream to be able to weave a story that really hits home on so many points.  It's a poignant satire of celebrity worship, the art scene, and the mindless wealthy.  John may have come more mainstream, but he certainly didn't come all the way.  Nicely woven throughout the film is John's weird and iconoclastic humor.  This picture is funnier than What about Mary and certainly has more meaning. "},{"Title":"Worth the Time","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An outstanding set of performances. Funny, real, and surreal, are all terms which describe the movie. It is well worth the price of the ticket. One small objection -- the people didn't say Baltimore the way those characters should say it. It should be Baltimere "},{"Title":"Blurring gender lines and tweaking class sensibilities with an absurdist  view...","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The uninhibited photographs of a young shutterbug in Baltimore are discovered by an art dealer from New York City, who turns the kid into a reluctant celebrity. By now, we know what to expect with a John Waters comedy colorfully outré characters with quirky jobs whose lives are underscored with rude, snorting satire and odd, funny selections on the soundtrack. Edward Furlong is confidently goofy in the leading role of Pecker (so-called because of his boyhood tendency to pick at his food), but many of the other performances are stiff or awkward. Waters is an idea-man; he sets up potentially raucous running jokes and populates his scenario with wild caricatures (like lesbian strippers), yet he's still having trouble getting those ideas onto the screen. His timing is so wobbly that many scenes border on being funny but ultimately miss the mark, while certain characters (like Pecker's bartender sister and his religious ventriloquist Memama) keep promising to be funnier than they are. Of course, writer-director Waters is an acquired taste--some will find his prankish sense of humor naughty and winking, while others will balk early--yet he's in danger of repeating himself. The Baltimore milieu might be played out for him (however when Waters ventures into New York high society, he doesn't seem comfortable there at all). Like many of his recent films, the final act is just a hammy mess of over-playing, while the satirical points Waters hopes to make get lost in a deluge of happy-hearted sleaze. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"a gem of a film for artists!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Waters movies are like John Travolta movies. There is a wide range of good and bad within both of their bodies of work. That said, this is my all-time favorite John Waters movie because he tackles the story of an artist making his art on his own terms in a sweet and funny way. If you liked Hairspray, Cry Baby and Lust in The Dust, you will definitely like this film. The dysfunctional characters are wonderful and I think this flick says a lot about where we must draw our inspiration as artists. Pecker fits in really nicely with other dysfunctional family classics like Orange County and Little Miss Sunshine. The soundtrack is perfect, and the movie has a great pace from start to finish. If you are an artist or dream of being an artist, you absolutely must see this film! "},{"Title":"John Waters outdid himself!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like John Waters. Not for the King of bad taste-side, but for his ability to show outsiders and make us understand that they are nothing but Anybody, they could be us. Pecker is brilliant. Each character is A character. You gotta love Little Chrissy and her sugar addiction, Memama and her full of grace, Tina and her Mary... But Waters is clever. He hands us a good critic of American society and its way of dealing with fame. How superficial and rotten it is (fame, not American society!). He takes shots at so many things and people (Ritalin, New York art critics, silly law suits...). It's the kind of movie you can watch on different levels. You can just stick to the film itself or read the message behind. Here's a special round of applause for that Little Chrissy actress (sorry, didn't catch the name) and that face of hers, at the end of the movie, when she's sniffing peas. Did you see her wicked smile ? BRILLIANT.  "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker, with it's bizarre setting and even weirder characters, appears to be the most original film since Benny & Joon (1993). John Waters is acclaimed for his strangness. I've never seen any of his other work, but I suddenly must rent all his work.The cast is enviable. Several comedies along the same lines would have done well to have such a cast. Christina Ricci, one of my all time favorites, does a wonderful job as an obsessive owner of a Baltimore laundry. And I'm used to seeing Edward Furlong in dramatic films like American History X and Animal Factory. Even in Detroit Rock City, he played a very straight character. His acting abilities have never been impressive, but he did excellent here.The story itself is adorable. It's almost unspeakably strange and beyond weird straight into deformed and abnormal. But you can't help laughing hysterically all the way through it. I give this film 8 out of 10. It should have been a bit longer, and I didn't really enjoy the strippers, but other than that, it's a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a really cool movie and very funny, pecker was a great character. Its a movie unlike any other and the acting was INTERESTING lol. My favorite part was the voting booth part it was hilarious!! I hope to see a 2nd one but i doubt it.  "}{"Title":"little chrissie rules","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being a Baltimore native, I naturally love John Waters, particularly Pecker. If you've ever lived in Baltimore, you'll get a lot more out of this movie. However, even if you haven't, its still very funny, especially little Chrissie. Little Chrissie wants a jolt! or when she snorts the pea...priceless "},{"Title":"A Coming Of Age Movie","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never watched many of John Water's films with the exception of Cry-Baby one of my all time favorites. With  a name like Pecker I didn't know what to expect out of this movie. I was laughing through out the film. This story works on two levels, one as a comedy and two, a coming of age type of story. The main character just wants to get out of his boring daily routine and live life the way he wants to. When fate lends a hand there are some totally unexpected results. One thing that bothered me was the gay stereotyping that popped up throughout the film. But on a grand scale this film really works. I would recommend this movie to anyone that wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Waters at his warmest","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On the surface, this is a rather mainstream small-town boy makes good in the big city film, but it still has all those sleazy little John Waters touches.The cast is bigger than in any other John Waters film, but he still casts Dreamlanders Mink Stole and Mary Vivian Pearce.  That's just cool!As ever, (except maybe Serial Mom) John Waters respects his characters and his audiences' intelligence, and it makes a film that, for all its bizarre subplots, is really warm and witty.I was most impressed with how well the movie flowed,  For example, with simple lines like You know I don't like you going there! Waters builds our expectations, making us ask Where?  Why doesn't his Dad like Pecker going there? Then he delivers, there is just one of the twists that make this movie different.  But it's not just a string of gags.  It's a wonderfully coherent story that's actually rather sweet, despite the sleazy veneer. "},{"Title":"It Tickled My Pecker-Bone","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the first John Waters movie i ever saw so i look at itfondly. It still holds up well today. Pecker is a young photographer in Baltimore who takes pictures ofjust about anything he can see which include his lovinglaundromat girlfriend, his grandmother who believes her VirginMary statue can talk, his suger-obsessed little sister and hisanti-pubic hair and alcohol father. One day, when he shows hisartwork at the place he works, a New York art dealer shows up andasks him if she can show his work at a top-class art gallery in NewYork. The rest of the film deals with Pecker's new found fame asNew York's biggest photographer. The best part of this film is the continous satire of the New York artworld, almost definitely inspired by John Water's early career in themovies and his later career being a photographer. For example,back in the sixties, he would play his short films at small cafes inBaltimore just like Pecker showed his artwork in the sub shop.Also, the opening credits which are somewhat shaky are inspiredby the fact that when John showed his early films, the projectorwould always shake and make the picture move.  Of course, no John Waters film is complete without eitherover-the-top or excellent acting and this film has a bit of both.Christina Ricci manages to blend both of them together in the bestrole of her career as a neurotic laundromat owner. Ed Furlong isperfect as the sympathetic Pecker. Brendan Sexton steals theshow(And some stuff in a supermarket) as Pecker's best friendMatt, a chronic thief. Another highlight performance is that ofMartha Plimton as Tina, Pecker's older sister, who works at adowntown Gay bar in Baltimore. The list goes on and on... In my opinion, this is one of John's best of his later career and is adefinite must to catch one time. See ya' later, Mary! "},{"Title":"MY FILM OF THE MONTH!!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I adore this film so much, I saw it on TV and bought it a few weeks later, it is truly one of my favorite John Waters films.It's one of those films in which every character is perfectly written. Pecker is a very lovable character and he and all those around him have some ingenious eccentricities that makes this film hilarious - my personal favorites are Pecker's sisters, Tina and Little Chrissy.It basically satirizes the whole patronizing way that the New York art scene looks upon the rest of small town America. Pecker's 'mundane life' photography is discovered and he has to learn to deal with the sudden dizzying heights of fame. The film, as it states itself, puts an end to all irony after it turns the condescention of the art world back to reflect itself and realizes that some people are happier in that small town America that artists are so fond of studying.It's not that complicated though. This film can be just a perfect excuse for 87 minutes of pure hilarity. I don't think I could pinpoint the funniest moment Memama's talking statue of Mary, Little Chrissy's sugar addiction or the infamous t-bagging scenes! Just see it all for yourself! "},{"Title":"impressed a level film student!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  wow!i taped this film recently when it was shown on Channel two, and I gotta say i am mega impressed! Christina Ricci and Edward Furlonggreat casting  made the film very unique and highly enjoyable.the plot was not the most complex and could of been developed, but the narration was told in such a way that its impossible not to find something in this film that you would love.i wanted to see this film when it was showing at the local cinemas, but i understand it didnt do very well at the box offices and so never got down to my area -(if you are in doubt about this film, i would definitely recommend it, whether you have an interest in photography or nota feel good film that you cant possibly not enjoy!8/10 ! "},{"Title":"Simple fun film or a very deep issue reflection of art & cool?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a John Waters masterpiece! A must see for any art or photography student and  I recommend it to anyone for the pure joy of viewing. The comments made by John Waters on the DVD are excellent. It  perfectly juxtaposes  two different worlds and begs the question of what is cool and what is art - and more. Great and very profound if you wish it to be but very light if you are just out for the ride. Actually, it is both. I feel it is among the top five films ever made.  "},{"Title":"What they call Art up in New York, young man, looks like just plain misery to me.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The lines in the title were said by a police officer to Pecker after his home was broken into upon becoming famous. It defines the movie for me. I thought the movie was hysterical and a deadly barb against the art world that takes itself far too seriously ( an expensively ).It's become chic to criticize John Waters movies for some reason, I guess metro-plex blockbuster overdoses do have their side-effects, but he still has his fans and people who get him. The strongest message I got from the movie was how autobiographical it seems to be(though I am sure John would deny anything as self-revealing as that admission). A boy from Baltimore goes about his way doing what he enjoys and he is suddenly thrust into cult status, losing his privacy and the way things were in the process. What was just the way Baltimore is, is elevated in the mind of the NY culture-vultures into camp and a look into authenticity that they can somehow distance themselves from. When the art types become the subject of an exhibition, it is suddenly not funny anymore and Pecker is abandoned. John Waters seems to have also travelled this road, as long as he was making films about transvestites and hippies, America could distance themselves and snicker and sneer. Now that his targets are suburbia, the art world and Hollywood (Cecil B. Demented), a little closer to middle America, suddenly the joke is off and we complain about how Waters has gone commercial and should return to Pink Flamingos type movies. Of course, we forget that Pink Flamingos has been, in terms of money making, Waters most commercial movie. Either you will get this movie or you won't. You will enjoy it immensely or think it trash. If you can laugh at yourself and appreciate a healthy dose of irony, give Pecker a try. "},{"Title":"John Waters' Pecker is tremendous!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Overall, the work of Mr. Waters and the acting of Edward Furlong is good. Certainly good enough to rate the movie an 8 out of 10.What makes the movie truly something special is the performance of Christina Ricci.  Her portrayal of Pecker's girlfriend is amazing.  The transformation of their relationship as Pecker gains popularity can be seen completely in the face of Ricci.  Never has disgust, fear, and pain been so clearly and simply demonstrated.  Movies such as The Ice Storm and The Opposite of Sex demonstrated Ricci's immense talents, but this movies clearly demonstrates that her abilities are second to no actress alive. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable litte-seen feature","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this film better than Serial Mom. both deviously written by John Waters and both are campy and satirical.  This film is no Our Town, but weaves the tale of a budding photographer (Edward Furlong) whose unusual images earns him fame as an artist to the New York art elite(including Lily Taylor), but comes at a price for his life in Baltimore.  Although crude and shocking, I find Pecker unusually enlightening.  The cast is great, particularly Christina Ricci.  8 out of ten!! "}{"Title":"shockingly good","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've always admired John Waters, yet I haven't always  enjoyed his movies. When Pecker came out I didn't think much of it, wasn't particularly interested in seeing it. Still, I rented it recently, and was purely shocked at how much I loved this movie. Truly the best John Waters movie I've seen. I wasn't expecting much, but after watching it, I found it difficult to enjoy the other movies I'd rented (Happiness and Breakfast at Tiffany's), finding none to be nearly as enjoyable as this had been. Mind you, this isn't a perfect work of art, I don't think it was meant to be. But it is a fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"really fun movie...","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was just a lot of fun.  All the characters in the movie seem to avoid taking themselves too seriously which is great to see.  From the grandmother with the Pit Beef stand and the talking statue to male strippers like Seafood Sam the Sailor Man teabagging their customers to Patty Hearst showing off her breasts in front of a mirror, everyone seems able to laugh at themselves.  You'll feel a lot lighter and happier after watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Simple pictures can take you a long way..","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any movie by John Waters is definitely worth watching! Any movie with Edward Furlong is worth watching! Pecker was a funny movie, if you're at all into photography this movie is worth seeing.  If you see this movie and you like it you should try some of the following John Waters films Serial Mom, Pink Flamingos, Mondo Trasho, and any other John Water film you can find (there are many others).  If you're going to see any of these movies please keep an open mind. "},{"Title":"A collection of priceless one-liners, gags and lovable characters.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mostly by chance, I wound up watching Pecker three times last year, and I loved it a little more with each viewing. (I rarely watch a movie more than once.) There is just something so endearing and enduring about this little film.  First off, John Waters (writer and director) is brilliant. Can you think of a better name for a strip club than The Pelt Room? And I'll let you find out for yourself what teabagging is. The characters are all so likeable, even the ones who are at odds with one another. The dialogue, set ups and situations are so creative, irreverent and borderline (OK, cross the border) tasteless, that you have to love them. There's little I can say that won't ruin something.  Edward Furlong, Christina Ricci, and Lili Taylor (Joe lies!) are the headliners, but the smaller parts pull this gem together. Pecker is wonderful in the same way Raisin' Arizona is. And, hey, it's got Patty Hearst (Yes, that Patty Hearst) and an actress named Mink Stole in it. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of 1998","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not only excellent but served as a landmark of gay cinema. One of the things that really makes this movie is the superb acting.  John Waters has gone up and beyond and has shown us the great director behind the filth, much like when someone like David Lynch stops out Lynching himself and makes a cinematic, beautiful and aesthetic piece of film. ***** "},{"Title":"True to Life","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie about 6 months ago when my roommate managed to buy the video. He had seen it at a friend's house and thought it was one of the best comedies ever made. I was sceptical but after seeing it (about 5 times, including this past weekend), I would have to agree. Reading the outside reviews of this film as well as use comments, I find it very strange that others don't think this film is as funny as I do. One reviewer complained of stiff, forced dialog and a lot of people complained that this movie was too tame for a John Waters film. Now I like John Waters, but why do people insist that directors have to keep making the same kind of movies over and over?To me, Pecker is a film that captures a real slice of life. The characters in this film were caricatures, but so are some people. And the situations were silly, but, you know, I've seen sillier things in life. Overall, the film was very much about the kind of life me and my friends live, not just when were in college, but even now that we've graduated. The buses, the houses, the fun and games in the supermarket, are all the sorts of things you find in real life and the screwy thing Pecker and his friends and family do are the kind of things you do when, like the central character in Pecker, you ENJOY life and don't care what other people think and aren't out to impress anyone. "},{"Title":"Did we see the same movie?","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading all the negative reviews about this film, I went out and bought the DVD so I could make my own appraisal. The film is definitely one of John Waters' best and the acting was excellent. I wonder if the people who didn't like the film even saw the same film I did - perhaps not, or perhaps it was over their heads. I hope John Waters continues to grow as a film maker - he is finally realizing his true potential. "},{"Title":"Virgins, Laundry, Strippers, Pubic Hair-----where can you go wrong?","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious and Sexy movie 1-The virgin mary bit was so original!!! 2-The Laundry mat and Riccis's character was an award winning performance 3-Pubic Hair everyone's secret fetish 4-Gay Male strippers should be shown in every movie. Boy!! Those guys were hot!!! and wearing practically nothing!  "},{"Title":"My favorite Waters film yet!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker is a great movie, and it hits home for someone with an artist's heart. Simple art, done for the love of it, ruined by the fame and fortune you probably are not seeking anyway. Pecker gets recognition, but the ultimate sacrifice is made in the process. And the way he sees art in everything from grass stains to graffiti to his quirky neighborhood is exactly how a true artist's mind works. He adores his family even though they are clearly bizarre (maybe he loves them because of it?) He finds fun in everything, is not depressed by his surroundings but embraces it and makes it his own. He is innocent and full of wonder, and when the NYC art world threatens to corrupt him, he does not let it. Great movie, with the usual Waters weirdness. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Happy Pecker Fulla Grace","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters' PECKER is by far his happiest film to date.  Even shots of dyke stripper pubic hair (shown in close-up) are gleeful!  Gay male strippers tea-bagging customers are a giddy sight!  Waters revels in his tale of simple a simple guy named Pecker with a talent for the unpretentious snapshot.As in BILLY'S HOLLYWOOD SCREEN KISS, our photographer hero is vaulted to fame and fortune by his unique snaps and even finds love along the way. Unlike that film, however, Pecker returns to his roots at film's fade out and realizes that there's no place like home - even if home is Baltimore.Of course, home-style happiness is summed-up by Waters in a grand dance party featuring cross-dressing lesbians, talking statues of the Virgin Mary, gay male strippers in jockey shorts, New York art world gapers, homeless people wearing thrift store fashions, and (drum roll) Patty Hearst dancing on a table in her underwear!Mary Kay Place is super as Pecker's mom and Christina Ricci good enough as Pecker's love interest.  Martha Plimpton is a stand-out as Pecker's fag hag sister.  Waters regulars, Mink Stole, Mary Vivian Pearce and the aforementioned Hearst are in attendance yet again.If it's shock treatment you crave, look elsewhere (unless you are a member of clergy or live in a cave somewhere).  For a sweet and funny treatment on Warhol's 15 minutes of fame theory - grab your PECKER! "}{"Title":"Underrated, delightful","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In his commentary track on the Pecker DVD, Waters talks about being able to appreciate something unusual on two levels -- for its own wonderful weirdness, and with ironic detachment.  That ability to straddle the fence is at the heart of this little gem of a film  Waters knows what's funny about laundromats, butch dykes, Mary worshippers, rough trade and Baltimore hair-do's, but he doesn't separate himself so far from them that the humor is ever condescending.A terrific cast (I'm always left wanting more Bess Armstrong, but what can you do), sharp dialogue and an insider's perspective on both White Trash and the New York art scene makes Pecker one of Water's most pointed films while at the same time one of his gentlest.You probably missed this one in theatres, but it's worth renting at least once (particularly the DVD, for the afore-mentioned commentary track). "},{"Title":"i like sugar too","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just rented this movie tonight and I was pretty pleased with the actors performances and Waters' directing. Though the movie was lame at some points, certain parts were hilarious like the little sisters sugar addiction and small stuff like that.  All together a good movie. I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Did you see what I shot?","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters at his best.  He is on top of his game.  This movie was soooooo funny.  The best things about this movie had to the supporting cast. Pecker's sisters, best friend, and grandmother steal the show.  This movie resonates with past Waters humor and keeps you entertained the whole time. It's just a whole lot of fun.  His pictures aren't all that bad either. Also check out the DVD for an extra short on the photographer who shot Pecker's pictures. "},{"Title":"Wacky fun","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bush shots notwithstanding, I recommend this one to those of you who know and love the Waters body of work.  Maybe you can introduce John Waters to the uninitiated among your friends or whatever.  I know he doesn't like to make movies over 90 minutes long, but I felt that this one could have been a little more fleshed-out, if you will.  Add some extra scenes, maybe more of Christina Ricci, who is underused, imho.   "},{"Title":"Funny flick.","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters has been called the master of trash cinema. Pecker, his latest, is trash cinema well done. Waters characters seem oblivious to the outside world and they are proud of it. This film is full of interesting characters, characters that are just being themselves. I especially enjoyed Pecker's father and his girlfriend played by Christina Ricci. Pecker's mother is also very interesting, because even though she seems off center, she is always lending a hand to the homeless. John Waters isn't afraid to offend anybody and that makes him a cinematic artist. Pecker is one of his better films. "},{"Title":"The laugh's on us","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie can't have been very  popular with the cineaste wannbes who've been chuckling knowingly  over Waters' work for 25 years  only to find out in this movie  that they never knew anything and  the chuckle's been on them all  along.  But a chuckle is a chuckle,  and I'm not about to spoil it by  questioning Waters' sincerity,  which is the only defense the art  house crowd can have.  Highly  recommended. "},{"Title":"Must See!!!","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters is a genius!  Not only has he been successful at the box office but has managed to squeak out a few films that fall into the 'Art Film' category and are still funny.  Pecker is one of his art films and is a real hoot. In the film the title character is one of those movie stereotypes, a guy who is known and loved by everybody in his neighborhood.  But then you realize that everybody else is a kind of stereotype, happy people.  The characters are all pretty two dimensional but that's OK when its intentional and it really does make them funny. So Pecker goes around taking pictures of all of these happy people who are thrilled to see their pictures at his first art show which just happens to be on the walls of the sandwich shop where he works.  Of course, a New York gallery owner walks in and 'discovers' Pecker which means fame, fortune, and ridicule of his neighbors by the outside world.  Of course this now makes all of Pecker's neighbors unhappy! The ending is pretty 'John Waters' but carries a nice message....Screw you! I don't need your permission or approval to be happy!!! "},{"Title":"A good, small film","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny, anti-art, absurdist spoof.  The independent, small feel of the film, gives it a modest, refreshing appeal and a welcome break the Hollywood formula.  The characters, caricatures really, are all odd-balls in an everyday sort of way.  I found the little Chrissy gag a bit tiresome. Overall, however, I enjoyed the film and recommend it to those you enjoy off-beat cinema.   "},{"Title":"One of the funniest and best movies","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters is a genius creating this masterpiece. Edward Furlong is a very talented actor, and Christina Ricci makes a great performance. The grandmother was extremely funny, especially with her Mary interpretation. 4 stars "},{"Title":"Funny Movie.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though I expected it to be a lot better it was still good. It was a very funny movie. Especially Little Chrissy, who made the movie with her addiction to sugar, then Ritalin, then vegetables. She ends up snorting peas up her nose like it is cocaine. A very odd and at times has lame acting. But overall I give it an 8. For being very funny. I recommend this movie highly. Not John Water's greatest film but then again I have only seen 4 of his films. I liked Serial Mom better. "}{"Title":"Lighthearted fare from amazing John Waters","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In charting the odd career trajectory of auteur John Waters, I am always amused by how his later works have been lighter and somehow... friendlier than his trash classics.  Pecker is a thoroughly enjoyable trip through some of Waters' typical types of obsessions teabagging, pit beef, the irony that alcohol cannot be served at strip bars featuring complete nudity, Virgin Mary shrines, and much more.  Waters hangs his observations on the familiar story that once one is discovered and made famous, the compromises are sometimes too much for friends and family.  I enjoyed Edward Furlong as the title character, a budding photographer whose lowbrow shots are seen by a New York art dealer who thinks he is the next big thing.  Christina Ricci, as Pecker's laundry-mad girlfriend, is also delightful.  I have yet to be disappointed by the truly unique Waters -- I only wish he would direct more frequently.     "},{"Title":"Pecker is a hilarious laugh riot!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Come on. Stop being soooooo serious and enjoy this funny look at absurdist art world celebrity.  A Cinderellaesque rags to riches story of a local boy making good, via the eye of his thrift shop camera.  But do we really want to see ourselves reflecting back at us with all our faults and frailities?  Another Waters' feel good movie about celebrating our differences and making the world a better place, at least for as long as the party lasts! And if you don't like it, he'll teabag ya! Peace.  "},{"Title":"John Waters keeps getting better and better","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Few filmmakers stay as consistently entertaining from film to film than John Waters. In fact, Mr. Waters seems to be getting even better- his previous film Serial Mom was fantastic. Pecker is also good - I think it's his only film besides Hairspray that could appeal to a real audience as much as the John Waters audience. Some scenes go on too long, but the characters are so agreeable that you really won't mind. Plus, it's got two rats having sex! What else could you ask for?Full of grace! Full of grace! "},{"Title":"Pecker left me laughing","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Been `teabagged' lately? This and other crazy terms have been coined in John Waters latest wacky story called `Pecker' .It is not the sugar addicted little sister or the Grandmother who is a few books short of a bible, it's not the slapstick comedy or good performances all round that make this a good movie.  For that matter it isn't even the way they slam the art world. It's the way they say screw off to posers. Because  in film today... ...that is rare.$6 and toss an extra dime for the promotional teabag I got on the way out. (out of $8)  "},{"Title":"Wow - as usual","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although I am probably biased, seeing that I love John Waters in all his fury, I thought Pecker was excellent.  Waters seems to have entered a new era, past the Divine, Edith and Mink Stole era, past the Cry Baby/ Hairspray era, into a new time - Pecker still has Waters hilarity and charm but without the shock value of the earlier films.  Although Edi and Divine were missed, I was pleasantly surprised to find Waters still in his 'zone'. Great.  "},{"Title":"One of John Waters' best works ever!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker is a hilariously funny yet twisted film about a small town in Baltimore whose daily, humdrum routine is broken by Pecker, a young photographer who takes pictures of real things. No pretty models, no gorgeous men, just hard living. This wonderful film pokes fun at the plasticness of the urban art chain. There is one particular scene when a homeless woman who shops at Pecker's mom's thrift shop buys the same exact coat as one of the Whitney art junkies for only 25 cents instead of five hundred dollars. This just goes to show you that no matter what kind of money you have, you might not always have taste.      Yet again John Waters sends you into a never-ending spiral of laughter and raw reality. You can have your mainstream Hollywood movies with special affects and mountains of celebrities, but give me a Pecker or a Hairspray (another excellent John Waters film) over a Titanic or a Godzilla anyday!! "},{"Title":"Very Original and Funny Like a Nut","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Water's (Pink Flamingos...) Pecker is the best movie I've seen in a while. It gives the viewer a surreal image of life in Baltimore (I live in nearby Washington, DC), with a Warhol-like use of color, exaggerated motions and emotions. Pecker becomes larger than his town can handle, and he is separated from his loved-ones (including a sexy Ricci) by his man-loving art manager. The picture left a refreshing taste in my mouth--kind of like a fresh strawberry ice cream on a hot summer day--and though this taste was rather flat and simplistic, it only made the whole thing more profound and critical. It is a celebration of life, liberty, and the right to bear arms...and everything else this country stands for. -Juan Pieczanski (jpieczanski@sidwell.edu) "},{"Title":"John Water's Best","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie kept me constantly entertained.  In comparing this to Serial Mom, Mr. Waters has gone back to his grittier side.  This is not nearly as polished.There is a dark side here.  A message about how success and fame changes a person -- but more importantly how it changes the people around you.There is not a false moment in this film.The characters are somewhat cartoonish... but I want to believe that is what Mr. Waters is trying to achieve.It is fascinating to watch how Mr. Waters has evolved... This is truly his finest work. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining.  Fantastic at times but good overall.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a very short time, the movie showed a boy's odd life of taking pictures, showed his life and everyone else's get turned upside down as a result of his photographs, then brought everything back to normal in the end.  One to see if you're looking for something interesting. "},{"Title":"Hilarious from the git-go.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this film to funny from the start.  John Waters use of characters reminded of some of the down to earth characters from Fellini films. Christina Ricci has once again expanded her abilities in this film.  If you are looking for a fun movie without preaching, I recommend this film. "}{"Title":"Pecker  A really fun comedy!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters has given us a genuinely enjoyable film.  This certainly isn't without its shocking Waters-esque moments, but it is tamer than his older culty stuff, such as Pink Flamingoes.  Pecker harkens back to John's early mainstream stage in that it reminds the viewer of the same kind of humor that was evident in Polyester.  Overall, a really fun comedy with some great moments! "},{"Title":"Interestingly Funny Film","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once you can get past the film's title, Pecker is a great film, perhaps one of John Waters' best.  A wonderful cast, headed by strong performances by Edward Furlong and Christina Ricci, make the story very funny, and very real.  There are some shocking scenes that are definitely not suitable for young children, but they are there for a purpose.  Unfortunately this movie was not mass produced, and most of the public will be denied the opportunity to view it.  If the opportunity knocks, then go see this film. "},{"Title":"It's like being turned loose in a museum of kitsch!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely hilarious. John Waters' tribute to the people he loves most (Baltimoreans) is a twisted little ditty with plenty to look at and laugh at.  It's like being turned loose in a museum of kitsch!  I haven't laughed so much in a theater since Serial Mom.  I loved seeing old friends from the Dreamland  days, Sharon Nisep and Susan Lowe, back in front of Waters' camera.  The cast is simply wonderful (especially Edward Furlong and Martha Plimpton).  Uses the best elements of past Waters atrocities (especially the underrated Polyester) and plenty of new surprises.  Made me sick, in a wonderful way. Thanks, John! "},{"Title":"A great movie for any dude who thinks art critics are full of it.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Went to see this movie with my brother and his girlfriend.  The place was pretty packed and we all laughed so hard it was easy to miss lines.  I knew it looked like it would be good but it was much funnier than I thought it would be. I liked both Edward Furlong and Christina Ricci,  they seemed really weird just like normal people, if that makes sense.  I get sick of movies that show teenagers as being like cookie cutter people,  like jock or geek or cheerleader...etc.  Both characters were unique but still very human and normal enough to relate to.  I will be recommending this movie to all my friends and waiting very eagerly for it to be out on DVD,  Go see this movie with your friends who can laugh at the funniest parts of life!  I plan to see it again in the theater and I don't go see things more than once very often. "},{"Title":"John Waters does it again","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nobody does it like John Waters - he's the best thing American movies have going. Not quite as funny as Serial Mom (that would be something!), but it still had me laughing out loud through most of it. Once upon a time, I guess his humor was shocking - probably when Kenneth Starr and Bill Clinton were still in law school. Now it's just funny. How many movies can get away with suggesting drug abuse and fellatio with an 8 year old character? Hats off to John. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but I love Pecker.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was an utterly charming film.  The story seems to be a thinly veiled autobiography of John Waters  Pecker's greatest gift is his ability to find beauty in unexpected places.  Edward Furlong does well in the lead, but the best performances are by his grandmother, Mink Stole (a hilarious cameo) and, of all people, Patty Hearst.  I think the reviewers are way off base on this one.  They seem to be taking Pecker's worst valuation of his work as gospel, when I think the film pretty clearly states that he is indeed a promising artist. "},{"Title":"A monotonous excursion through recycled screenplay odds and ends","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After making grotesque pictures with heavy commentary subtly thrown in, writer/director John Waters ventures out of his comfort zone and jumps into the mainstream world. Pecker is a landmark for Waters since this is his first effort that was very mainstream in 1998, but for audiences and fans of his older work, it will most likely be a mediocre excursion. At least it's over pretty quickly.Nothing in Pecker is very funny. It lacks the satire and wit of Waters' previous pictures that weren't in his comfort zone. In his more modern films like, Cry-Baby and Serial Mom, I was able to retract a moral, a message, or even a clever parody element currently absent from Hollywood films. I wasn't able to pick up too much from Pecker, although it might be trying to play off of the rags to riches formula. If it is, it's too subtle to even notice.The story revolves around a teen nicknamed Pecker (Furlong). Apparently, he pecks at his food a lot and, viola, a strangely placed, perhaps innuendo-driven name was born. Nevermind. Pecker is an amateur photographer, which is already annoying. He is constantly snapping pictures. Click, click, click. Snap, snap, snap. And he never stops. It's almost maddening to see how many times he does it. Granted, real photographers don't care if you're in the middle of a conversation, if something appears to be interesting they'll interrupt you with a snap of a camera. It is realistic, but it's incredibly overdone.Pecker takes pictures of all kinds of things. From random facial expressions to private parts and sex acts. He captures them all. His long suffering girlfriend (Ricci) is oblivious to art, and she pretty much captures the personality of the rest of us as we wait for Pecker to break new ground or for Waters to win us over with some great comedic relief. But it's like waiting for Christmas in the dead of July. It's not going to come anytime soon, and it's foolish to expect such an occurrence.Pecker's work becomes recognized by a famous art dealer. His dysfunctional family is the ones that are the true victim to his acts. They are the ones exploited, and Pecker just sits back, wondering if he did anything to start this. One character that I found cute, but very underwritten (much like Christina Ricci's character) was the borderline kleptomaniac best friend of Pecker played by Brendan Sexton III, a terrific and underrated talent in the world of film. The problem is he never gets his time to shine either. Instead he's replaced by such desperate antics like Pecker's grandmother's talking Mary statue that is nothing but a frozen plot device that is practically useless. Not to mention, the film's love affair with constant flat jokes.Waters' regulars like Mary Vivian Pearce and Mink Stole are here, but not in mass amounts. Perhaps including Mink Stole as the grandmother would've provided a great deal of laughs. Laugh at you must but it would (1) make Pecker more tolerable than it already is, and (2) be the perfect, out of place role for her since she did such a wonderful job in Female Trouble as a fourteen year old girl who didn't look any younger than thirty.I've always said that anyone can throw on a cheesy costume and make a parody, many can make an homage to their favorite film, but only few could pull of a very good satire. John Waters can pull of a great satire and possibly do all of those other things very well. So why did he choose to focus on a film with no wit, direction, fun, laughs, or purpose? Pecker isn't long at eighty-six minutes, but becomes a monotonous excursion through recycled screenplay odds and ends before eventually arriving at a questionably worthy conclusion. What the *click* was that all about? Starring Edward Furlong, Christina Ricci, and Brendan Sexton III. Directed by John Waters. "},{"Title":"Alternative option.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Edward Furlong and Christina Ricci are an excellent couple and demonstrate it with their unique charisma featured in this movie.This is the typical alternative or indie movie with a plot that features a rare situation that suddenly becomes really important.Pecker is an average boy who has an old camera and his main hobby is to take photographs of the exotic habitants of the small town where he lives in. Suddenly an alternative artist pays attention to his work and hires him in order to expose his work in some important festivals and more.But Pecker life changes drastically as now fortune and fame seem to infuriate the town's people who are Pecker's main inspiration. Even his sexy girlfriend gets mad because now he does not pays the adequate attention to her.Well this is an Indie movie with an edge but not for everyone. It may seem boring or pretentious for some people but still I think it worths a watch only because it offers something different than Hollywood's typical standards.To describe in a few words This is the typical Christina Ricci and John Waters movie. That's it.Oh and I almost forgot to mention that the Full of Grace lines are really annoying. Geez. "},{"Title":"Pecfect Name for this Film","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very light headed comedy about a wonderful family that has a son called Pecker because he use to Peck at his Food. Pecker loves to take all kinds of pictures of the people in a small suburb of Baltimore, Md., and manages to get the attention of a group of photo art lovers from New York City. Pecker has a cute sister who goes simply nuts over SUGAR and is actually an ADDICT, taking spoonfuls of sugar from a bag. There are scenes of men showing off the lumps in their jockey's with grinding movements and gals doing pretty much the same. It is rather hard to keep your mind out of the gutter with this film, but who cares, it is only a film to give you a few laughs at a simple picture made in 1998. "},{"Title":"Worth its weight in nitrate!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this again recently on Comedy Central. I'd love to see Jean Schertler(Memama) and Emmy Collins(Hippie in supermarket) cast as mother and son in a film, it would probably be the weirdest flicker ever made! Hats off to Waters for making a consistently funny film. "}{"Title":"Just how far can a boy and his 35mm camera go?","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is John Waters best film to date. The characters are obvious and symbolic, just as in his other films. So there are no surprises or character changes. I enjoyed the film because of the wittiness and pace of the story. It was good story-telling with honest people. "},{"Title":"Indeed, it's very odd","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Pecker' is one of those films that you watch when you've got nothing better to do. However, unlike many of those films, Pecker is one that almost makes you glad that you had nothing better to do as if you had, you wouldn't have seen it. Don't get me wrong, I'd rather have been at lottery HQ collecting my winnings, on the phone to a representative from my local pub telling me that I've won free beer for life or even simply enjoying a night in with several top supermodels; but on the whole, I rate the eighty five minutes I spent watching this as time well spent. The film is called 'Pecker' because that's the name of it's central character, but something tells me that Mr John Waters named the film so for other, more innuendo related, reasons. Anyway, Pecker is a rather odd young man who lives in a rather odd small town somewhere in America. Pecker's hobby is to take photos of anything and everything, and claim that it's art. This hobby, one day, attracts the attention of a New York art dealer and Pecker is transported into super-stardom, much to the dismay of his Laundromat obsessed girlfriend and the rest of his small town.Director John Waters directs the film in a very surreal style, which gives it a very unique edge, and instantly grabs your attention. Waters evidently doesn't care about the integrity of film-making, and so sees fit to meld together something that can easily be seen as a mess. The leads carry Waters' mess with vigour and gusto, but never really impress or deliver great performances. Edward Furlong gives his character a naive edge, which bodes well with his small town roots. He does look more than a little bit embarrassed at times, but sort of adds to the kitsch appeal of the movie. Christina Ricci does her usual 'bitch' thing, but it doesn't work in this film as her character is supposed to be a more down to earth and snob hating, so to have her as a snob herself ensures that the film loses yet more credibility and makes it even more of a mess. The film will offend some viewers for it's rather graphic lesbian strip club scene; not to mention it's central, gay club, location, and that adds weight to the idea that this is very much a 'love it or hate it' sort of film, and I'm sure that's how Waters wants it. I, however, do not add weight to that claim as I merely thought it was 'pretty good'. Take that John! "},{"Title":"Boring, transparent, novice, and trite.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the first five minutes on, I kept shielding my eyes, throwing things, and swearing out of embarrassment for the actors, but especially for the writer/director John Waters. This was like a poorly-written, drawn-out, poorly-directed 90-minute Saturday night Live skit. Boring, transparent, novice, and trite. "},{"Title":"Lame!!!","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this is one bad movie. I do not even know who it was shot for and who would like it. But that is my problem with John Waters'movies in general.. What is this guy thinking? Is he completely off reality? Doesn't he even evolve? I mean Cry-Baby was a bad movie, but 8 years later he directs a similar crappy one?? How can he employ such bad actors?? (the kid, the sister, the grandma..) And Edward Furlong is not too good either - he even presses the button on the camera like an idiot... OK, the movie has a moral, but it is given in such a stupid way.. incredible.This movie would be good as a high school project, an I feel sorry for losing 1,5 hours of my life because of it... "},{"Title":"Life through the lens is so mysteriously attractive!","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a young man from a village who suddenly shoots himself to fame with his camera.Pecker has a charming story. It is an ordinary story about a young man who cannot handle the fame, but all the characters are extraordinary. The character development is excellent, every character has distinctive personality and a well defined role in the film. The resultant chemistry is warm, vibrant and uplifting. I am particularly impressed by the sugar-obsessed little girl's performance, who would have thought that she can play normal and a spoiled kid so convincingly? I am surprised that she has not been in more films.Pecker is fun, warm and vibrant. Life through the lens is so mysteriously attractive! "},{"Title":"Quite funny and irrelevant look at the modern art scene","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of those which I saw by pure chance. We have all seen one of these before, whether flicking through the channels through insomnia, or through plain boredom and seem to catch the first five minutes of the film. So I could not get any sleep, since my circadian rhythms is gone to pot, and the TV was my only source of entertainment of that day, due to the lack of motivation of going out and money I have. What can i say, I am a university student? Watch out for Spoilers.The main character Pecker, is a amateur shutterbug, who would take any pictures of his humdrum but quirky life. He takes pictures of his bizarre family, which would consist of a ADHD little sister, a female sibling who is an MC for a gay strip club, a grandma who is seems to hear the Virgin Mary speak to her, even though it is her who provides the voice for her, a philantrophic mother and a father who wants to boycott the lesbian strip club next door to his bar. The little world that he lives in gets the camera treatment and the local people get involved as well. Pecker decides to hold his photographs on show in his work place, whereby a high profile art collector sees his work and absolutely loves it. This is where the roller-coaster of Pecker's life begins. The art collector begins to show Pecker's work in the big art galleries, and he is a darling in the modern art scene, to the dismay and disgust of his townsfolk.The story is pretty basic with some gaping plot holes and a pretty easy ending to tie it up. However it is not the plot which gives it the enjoyment, but the characters and the predicaments that occur with them. I think Edward Furlong is perfect as the main character, however this is not a career defining movie for him, but somehow he did enjoy it. The indie darling Christina Ricci did not have enough to play on this role of Pecker's annoyed girlfriend, but she did what she could. The other characters were a little bit bizarre but seemed to fit into the movie quite well. Though there is one character I liked a lot, which was little Chrissy. She may have had probably one of the funniest scenes in the movie, where she is off the sugar and chocolate and onto the vegetables. She just snorts a piece of vegetable. That got me in stitches that no one can imagine.In conclusion, I think this movie does have to get some recommendation for at least trying hard to be funny, and the characters are quite amicable. However I wish they did not have a really fluffy ending. That was a let down. "},{"Title":"Typically wonderful worldview by director John Waters","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" PECKER Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalThe life of an aspiring Baltimore photographer (Edward Furlong) is turned upside down when his neighborhood snap-shots are embraced by the New York Art-set.John Waters takes a satirical swipe at the bubble-headed Art world in this low-profile entry, which adheres closely to the template established in his earlier 'mainstream' works (HAIRSPRAY, CRY-BABY, etc.). Waters' own screenplay includes a wide assortment of eccentric characters, engaged in an uneasy truce with conservative doomsayers who cluck loudly from the sidelines, and he paints the mix in vivid colors, providing a unique visual backdrop for cartoon-like performances which teeter precariously on the brink of caricature. Furlong and co-star Christina Ricci are blank but charming, an 'ordinary' couple who retreat into anonymity as their lives are consumed by the demands of those around them Furlong's naive parents (Mary Kay Place and Mark Joy), fag-hag sister (Martha Plimpton), sugar-addicted brat sibling (Lauren Hulsey), and the Art crowd who live in their own little world, far removed from everyday reality (their reaction when forced to travel from New York to Baltimore is priceless!). Amusing rather than laugh out loud funny, the movie will divide viewers from the outset; die-hard fans of this director's worldview, however, will be bowled over by his daring. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Mainstream, unentertaining John Waters","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To Put it simply this is a good old fashioned cheesy movie that is fun to watch and has a nice, neat story. Unfortuneatly this is Atipical Waters. Depending on how you look at it this movie is either OK or terrible. As just a movie to be watched and enjoyed, Pecker falls well within the retches of good. Mainstream Directors of today could learn a lot for this particular piece. Most noteably that a good comedy doesn't have to be spectacular, high budget, or have lots of sight gags to be good. Pecker has a very clean formulaic story, delema, and ending that fits nicely into a boring saturday night. However, for waters fan this is a total letdown. While I'm sure that this tale is more of an auto-biography than anything else, it lacks that Water's edge. The movie is not really gross, sadistic, depraved, or really disgusting in any real way. Making it fall far short of what we, as an audiance, are used to see from this vulgar director. Pick any scene from Pink Flamingos and that surpasses anything this entire movie has to offer as far as tasteless. **Spoilers Ahead** The story of Pecker as a photographer who is fascinated by the macabre photographing his girlfireind, greasy food, rats screwing, and people getting tea-bagged showes viewers Water's own vision of life. The way that these images are sold to rich New Yorkers is also a parrellel to Water's work. The casting of Eddy Furlong is further a joke about Water's ideas. **End** In the end this movie comes across as a Water's film packedged for the public, mocking them in the process. It is a fun film to watch but nonetheless will disappoint John Water's fans. It's a self portailal and self-farce all in one. To conclude just watch it, laugh, and learn about the man. This is a good introductory piece for people interested in John Water's. However if all you want in depravity rent Meet the Feebles.  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After seeing ads for this movie on Comedy Central all the time, I was not very keen on seeing this film.  The commercials made the movie look contrived and formulaic.  But after watching Cecil B. Demented, and telling everybody about how much I loved it, everyone said Well, if you like that, you should see Pecker.Pecker was not as contrived as I expected.  The idea behind it was very original.  The ending WAS a bit contrived and things came back together all too perfectly, but it was very funny and very well done.  Some of the dialogue is not as good as it could be.  The dialogue in the voting booth scene is downright painful, but the scene then turns into the funniest one in the entire film.It's a decent film that seems a little watered down.  John Waters tried to throw in a few off-color jokes here and there in a somewhat forced attempt to make this movie as controversial and offensive as his others, but it still comes out as a nice, cute story.  Still, Pecker is very funny and worth the money to rent it. "},{"Title":"Good comedy but a little gross at times","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is full of comical events that lead from one to another, but can sometimes be a little gross to watch, case in point, Little Chrissy's sugar dependency. It also shows how fame is sometimes less desired than privacy, as is the case when Pecker's family life is turned upside down by intrusions, first by robbers, then the media and all other sorts of companies and people. And I was hoping that Sexton would have  more screen time than he had in this movie as Pecker's buddy, as I feel he is an underrated young actor. Furlong's performance was top-notch, as expected, with brilliant comic timing, and Ricci is perfect as his girlfriend, who can really deadpan it. "}{"Title":"Entertaining comedy","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker is a very entertaining film, better than I had expected, actually. Edward Furlong proves that he is a good comic actor with nice timing, and Christina Ricci was as good as she always is. One other good thing my favourite American actress Lili Taylor is in it as well and she never disappoints me. Recommended. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Pretty good, not spectacular; enjoyable","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard of this movie, loosely good comments, and thoroughly enjoyed it. Furlong and Ricci were very good.  The story was off-kilter, fun to be a part of, but never really zoomed into the atmosphere.  Maybe it didn't NEED to, though.  Worth the rental, probably not worth admission.  3.5/5.0 stars. "},{"Title":"Pure Waters","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being a John Waters fan, I thought this movie was awesome.  That's not to say I expected to feel that way considering up until recently I've never been able to stand Edward Norton as an actor, but he was great in this. Martha Plimpton is hilarious as his eccentric sister who lives to emcee at this rough trade bar, and Brendan Sexton III is funny as his shoplifting friend.  The only problem I had with the movie is that Lily Taylor was horribly underused.  She's one of the coolest actresses and in this she was sort of boring as this art dealer.  Oh well, this was still a good flick, check it out. "},{"Title":"Eddie's da man!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, Edward Furlong was the vital character in this equation. Had he not been able to play his character so perfectly, without a even a hint of irony, the movie would have flopped. But his performance, in addition to the solid, crazy performances from the rest of the cast made it a great movie. Also, Waters was able to deliver his message successfully and (omigod) TASTEFULLY! (at least comparatively speaking). Great flick.  "},{"Title":"Get the picture?","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Born and bred in Baltimore- a denizen of Fells Point and a fan of John Waters for years, I really enjoy seeing his metamorphoses - I also like how he uses actors like Patty Hearst to spice things up--. Pecker is a film that moves along nicely and develops the characters well. My husband usually doesn't like him- (My best friend went to school with JW) but even he enjoyed this. Pecker and his family and friends are a strange but loveable lot.  It was nice to see Mary Kay Place again too. don't go to this expecting guffaws- just a pleasant film with oddities... of human nature.    "},{"Title":"No Water(s) as it used to be","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny movie, really, but not really gay. And not the kind of movie you would await from John Waters, so a bit disappointing also. "},{"Title":"Spectacular uncredited performance by book mogul, Scott Huffines.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Pecker to be better than the movie about the Titanic. Don't miss the uncredited performance by Baltimore's Scott Huffines, fearless leader of Atomic Books (Literary Finds For Mutated Minds).  "},{"Title":"A small-town boy's hobby of photography changes the lives of everyone around him.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Really funny.  Saw it at the Toronto Film Festival.  Some kind of weird stuff, but not too weird.  A really good cast and some really strong characters like the bible-crazy grandmother and especially the sugar-freak little sister.  You can bet we'll see a lot more movies starring Edward Furlong after this movie...his performance was really real. "},{"Title":"Waters is so far behind the curve he even makes Baltimore strip clubs look boring","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Waters after Hairspray is like Woody Allen after Stardust Memories - you have to admire his ideas, but as far as execution the magic is gone. Pecker sets-up like a stock plot holding together a Marx Brother's comedy. Stuffed shirts, in the form of New York art snobs, are punctured by hometown just folks. Unfortunately this isn't the Marx Brothers. Pecker's family and friends are neither fun nor interesting. And Water's undistinguished cast functions on a level well below the most routine Ma and Pa Kettle vehicle. The character acting is flat; Mary Kay Place, Mark Joy, Jean Schertler, Brendan Sexton, Carolyn Stayer, Jack Webster barely register on the screen. The supporting bit players are instantly forgettable. This is the fault of Pat Moran's casting judgement and Vince Peranio's flavorless set designs, neither of whom are helped by Water's lackluster jokes and apathetic timing. Any humdrum episode of Cheers is executed with more flair. Furlong, Lili Taylor, Martha Plimpton and Lauren Hulsey all appear ready and alert for a good show and are able to plow through soggy dialog while still showing signs of life. Unfortunately, none are given enough space to stage a filibuster and save the picture. Pecker is exactly the type of production that should have been vetted by a committee of Hollywood execs. They might have pitched better ideas about how to farm this turkey. The industry and audiences have caught up with the Waters program. They devour films and TV shows that make Mondo Trasho look respectable. That Waters would like to trade some of his cult status for box office success is understandable, but he is seriously misjudging the general audience who want something deeper and even more unique - not the same thing as on TV except more generic! Almost gave the Pecker an extra two stars for a fantastic Mink Stole cameo, but had to rescind them on account of a wasted Cindy Sherman appearance. John Waters is lucky the Baltimore Chamber of Commerce doesn't strip him of his citizenship after this pooped-out portrayal of his beloved hometown. "},{"Title":"I love you Shelley! I love you more than Kodak!","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It has only been a week since I saw my first John Waters film (Female Trouble), and I wasn't sure what to expect the second time around.While the previous film was outrageously over the top, Pecker is actually a funny film that satirizes the art critics in New York to a T. Anyone who cannot imagine what these Experts find so appealing about modern art, will enjoy seeing these pretentious snobs get so full of themselves over Pecker, a boy who just found a broken camera and starts shooting his friends and neighbors.Edward Furlong (Pet Sematary II, Terminator 2 Judgment Day) was surprisingly good as Pecker. There wasn't a lot of meat on any of the roles in this film, but he really shines.Christina Ricci (Prozac Nation) comes in with another great performance as Pecker's girlfriend. In fact, it was a banner year for Ricci (Buffalo '66, The Opposite of Sex, and Pecker.Lili Taylor, who had the only good role in The Haunting, was also a significant part of the film and really made it enjoyable.There are many funny scenes, but I have to say the best was when a crown gathers screaming, We want bush! We want bush! We want bush! I thought it was a Republican convention until I saw the police hauling off the dancer.I am going to have to look for more of Waters' work, especially Hairspray, now that that is in the news. "}{"Title":"even John Waters can do something serious","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Going for something far away from the deliberately gross stuff that he usually makes, John Waters (happy birthday, John!) made this parody of the celebrity/art world. Edward Furlong plays the title character, a working-class teenager in Baltimore who loves to photograph things. When a New York agent (Lili Taylor) discovers his work, she offers him his big break, which he accepts. But once he hits it big, he has to reconsider everything.Basically, Pecker looks at how he loses his friends and his normal life once he becomes a celebrity. The sort of thing that we might expect, sure, but with Waters directing, there's always a few things to shock us (you'll know them when you see them). I certainly recommend it. Also starring Christina Ricci, Mink Stole and Patty Hearst. "},{"Title":"I expected a lot worse from John Waters","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After A Dirty Shame, I never thought that I was going to see another John Waters movie. That movie was really so bad, that I was convinced that all his movies would be like that. But when the DVD of this movie was reviewed in a popular magazine and they said that this was an excellent movie, I decided to give it a try anyway. Only a couple of days later it was shown on television. I taped it out of curiosity and now that I've seen it, I can tell you that this Pecker sure is a lot better than A Dirty Shame.In this movie we see how a young 'nobody' from Baltimore becomes an overnight sensation in the art world of New York. He's a sandwich shop employee who photographs his weird family or things that he sees on the street as a hobby. When he keeps his very first 'exhibition' in the shop where he works, his pictures are noticed by a gallery owner who loves the pictures full of misery and weirdness. His photographs are sold for enormous prices, but when he sees how his family, friends and strangers react to his success he decides that he will no longer go to New York, they will have to come to him if they want to see more of him. And they do, but what they get to see there, is a bigger shock than they could ever imagine...It's not difficult to see why I loved this movie a lot more than A Dirty Shame. The first reason is that this movie has an actual story. This movie really has something to say and isn't just intended to shock as many people as possible. The fact that they make fun of the art world who considers everything out of the ordinary as art because they don't know what the reality is like, isn't just funny, it's not that far from the truth either. I guess there are many people who feel about modern art that way. Nobody understands why they are making such a fuss about it, but apparently we are all supposed to like it. The second reason why I liked this movie is because this one had much better acting performances to offer. I'm not saying that everything that you will see is great, but at least the characters have some meaning thanks to the performances of the different actors like Edward Furlong, Christina Ricci,...Overall this isn't a great movie, but thanks to its criticism and some good jokes - which never really go too far - this is an enjoyable movie. It certainly isn't the best comedy ever, but I liked it a lot more than A Dirty Shame. I give this movie a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"genuine, heartfelt,  SICK","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Waters has made the most effusively buoyant, heartfelt, dark, personal little film I think I've ever seen (well maybe Fast Food Fast Women comes in close second) The directors vision is untainted...the narrative is whimsical, the characters are personal and odd reflections of family and his own inner life ...the tone never forced or stylistically over-arch.There is no pretentious shot design, ennui, or magazine grading....Martha Plimpton is amazing as the sister..Eddie furlong is inspired casting. A grandmother with a talking Mary, tea-bagging, recycled clothing, yesterday's garbage becomes today's art -- and the lesson of the film is that the most important thing we can value is family ... and a humble life. "},{"Title":"It's a mystery...","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...why people liked this movie. This movie falls short of a decent plot and doesn't make much sense. I like Eddie Furlong, but this movie I just couldn't grasp. It must take someone with an IQ of either 50 or 500 to like this movie It didn't make any sense to me, I don't know, maybe I just have to understand photography and art today. Oh well. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Am a large John Water fans and have been waiting to see Pecker since it came to video, but just never got around to it. Finally it was on Showcase, uncut and I must say, was not impressed. I think Edward Furlong should really find himself a job in a sub shop...who ever said this guy could act? He stinks. The only two characters worth a look are Martha Plimpton, who almost goes over the top and into the toilet... I would imagine they cut a few scenes with her to prevent just this. The one to watch in this baby is the talented, Brenden Sexton. He was awesome in Welcome to the Dollhouse and he is equally beguiling in this one. This movie is extremely overrated, true John Waters fans (not the wannabees) will acknowledge this too. "},{"Title":"this one just dont deliver.  what up with that?","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  because of my undying love for john waters, and for christina ricci, i cannot hate this movie, i cannot even dislike it.  the only thing i feel for this movie is disappointment.  its not all that clever, its not interesting, it just is, and coming from john waters thats the last thing i expected. the shopping brothers sequence doesnt make any sense and its not funny. lil chrissie's character is horrifying.  and martha plimpton acts like a retard and has no fashion sense what so ever.  the cheesiness isnt overdone enough to have any sort of comical value,  and the strippers dont turn me on.  the teabagging thing was a little funny, but it didnt compensate for the overwhelming hole that the rest of the movie was.john waters never disappointed me before, and he hasnt disappointed me since.  cecil b. demented was fantastic, which proves that he hasnt lost his gift as it seemed he had with pecker.  i guess then, the only thing to do is forget about this movie's existence, as it certainly has nothing important to offer. "},{"Title":"Too sexual to be wholesome, too wholesome to be sexual...","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't decide whether or not I liked this film. It seemed a bit too happy for me, and a bit too twisted. Twisted not in the sick sort of way that I get a kick out of, but twisted in the way that makes you feel funny in the stomach, like you just got punched. This film, while about a family perhaps a bit too innocent, was filled with way too much sexual commentary to be a family film, but yet it is one. In contrast to the previous comment left by someone, I didn't care for the quality of acting in the least. Pecker certainly wasn't as convincing as I hoped he would be, and the rest of the cast left me wondering who picked these guys and why.Overall, a cute idea for a film. There was sufficient dialogue and a good script, but what a failure in implementation. I think that it could have been slightly more spunky, slightly more something. In comparison to a far worse film, Pecker suffers from the same lack of classification that Mystery Men did. Just what age group were these two films aiming for?If, but for anything else, rent it to learn what teabagging is. Then you can go out and impress all your friends... "},{"Title":"From anti-racism to anti-modern photography the sad decline into pointlessness of John Waters.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Here's to the end of irony' whoops an art-phoney at the end of Pecker, and maybe John Waters has exhausted the rich mine of irony/parody/pastiche that has served him so well.  His last film, the stupidly underrated Serial Mom, was a masterpiece, revealing a film-maker fully in control of his form, like late-period Hawks, hitting every satirical target, 'important' and trivial, with gleeful gusto.The problem with Pecker, which seems to be a parody on portentous filmmakers Altman and Antonioni, is that it is aimless.  Like Godard, Waters needs the blueprint of a conventional narrative model on which to hang his ideas, style, anger and wit, even if it is only to subvert it.  The great thing about films like Cry-Baby and Hairspray is how he reverses the cliches of 1950s teen flicks and melodramas, breathes life into stereotypes, and moves the freaks and outsiders from the margins  into main roles.But Pecker has a dearth of arresting characters or even types - either the actors are uncharismatic, or the script is weak.  There is no plot to speak of, so the Hollywood conventions Waters is so brilliant at mocking are absent.  Edward Furlong leaves a big black hole in the movie with his irritating non-performance in a non-existent role.  The most unforgivable disappointment, though, is the failure to properly use Christina Ricci, the best actress in movies today, and, surely, the ideal Waters heroine.The glaring problem with the film is its irony.  Previously, Waters' strength was his ambivalent attitude towards the repressive conformity he loathed, and the desire for (parodic) conformity of his affectionate freaks. This reaches its zenith in Serial Mom, where Kathleen Turner is obviously a product of the strain of middle-class propriety, yet also the delirious driving force of the film.Here, though, the enemy is the New York intellectual elite, the most dated, pointless sitting target there is.  Who cares about the fraud that is modern photography? - it's hardly a stifling social force like the suburban mindset, or American apartheid.Whether Pecker is a stand-in for the director is unclear.  His photographs attempt to capture life, but are mostly whimsical or  contrived.  Is the film a plea for the provincial,  or a satire on it?  That's the problem the irony is so diffused that it ceases to be effective.  Everyone is so nice that melodrama is negated.  Perhaps Waters is trying to justify his decision to make 'local' films in Baltimore, but that's silly - making great movies like Serial Mom is justification enough.Sheer good will forces a few guffaws, but even the jaded Simpsons take off on modern art was funnier than this.  Waters' trademark stylisation is threadbare.  There isn't enough material here for an amusing short. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest film, but most likely worth watching on a rainy day...","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Interesting in its own way.  It's almost as if it's a really bad sitcom, which should be negative, but somehow turns this predicament into an ally. Not the greatest film, but most likely worth watching on a rainy day... "},{"Title":"ahhhhh!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this film is getting as much credit as it is getting. It is slow and slightly interesting at the beginning but slowly turns plain awful. Christina Ricci is good, but her performance is wasted on a cliched, uninteresting plot and boring and unbelievable characters. It is dubious in that it is ridiculously absurd and inane while not at all funny. I can't remember a 90-minute movie ever seeming so long. Do not watch it, do not rent it, you'll only encourage studios to make more films like it. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had unusually high expectations for this film, and it didn't even come close.  This film is certainly weird at times, but as is so often the case, the weirdness wasn't funny, it was just stupid.  Occasionally, something would happen that was amusing, but more often than not, the jokes would land with a thud.  Edward Furlong displays little charisma in this film, and Waters would have been wise to make Christina Ricci the star.  Looking back, I'm really not sure why I was expecting so much from this picture.  One thing's for sure, it is a bad sign when the funniest thing about a movie is the title. "},{"Title":"There's Something About John Waters' Pecker.","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gee, I don't know about this one.  Edward Furlong seemed kind of shallow in this role.  I love Christina Ricci yet her amazing talent was sort of wasted here.  She's on her way to become this year's indie queen, last year it was Parker Posey.  In a way, the entire cast is misplaced.  I'm not familiar with John Waters' style but I will say this it features the most tasteless and unappetizing frontal nude shot in history.  It had some funny moments, but it lacks a real viewpoint. "},{"Title":"Water's Pecker just doesn't measure up","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a good thing that I could not get tickets for the screening of Pecker at the Toronto Film Festival. I was embarrassed enough without John Waters even being present when I saw the film at my local theatre. There was nothing original about this film and all of the characters were one-dimensional and uninteresting. His earlier films were not well written either but at least they dared to show us something new and had an certain honesty even in their campy style. Edward Furlong wins the award for the most wooden and dull title character of the year. Christina Ricci who was brilliant in Buffalo 66 walks through this picture wondering, as we are, why she ever agreed to do this film (something she should have asked herself before doing Billy Zane's horrible I Woke Up Early the Day I Died also). Mink Stole, the only real hope for some good camp, was given nothing to do - yawn. Martha Plimpton's role as Pecker's sister was simply not funny. And the Virgin Mary gag was funny the first time but was repeated over and over like a Saturday Night Live skit that has gone on way too long. I only hope that Mr. Waters will return to the less mainstream and more honest world of life on the far fringe in his next film. "},{"Title":"Good actors + rudderless story = who cares?","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not quite as 'different' as typical John Waters fare.  No really offensive characters (this time).  This movie shows a brief time in the life of a young man nicknamed Pecker.  His slight brush with fame due to his photography is a good story, but it winds up going nowhere, really.  A little more development of the story and better direction, and they might have had something here. "},{"Title":"A failure in many areas.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think you either love John Waters, or hate him. He's an odd bird really, at least in my eyes. He typically directs movies which seem inviting enough for me to rent, but are never good enough for me to like.The story, as you probably already know,follows a boy nicknamed Pecker, played by Edward Furlong of Terminator 2 and American History X fame. I don't believe Pecker was written well at all, so nobody could have done much with the horrible character. Furlong tries to make the best out of a bad character, but with his stock on the rise now, I doubt he would have taken this part if he had it to do over.  Christina Ricci's portryal of Shelly is decent, but flat at many times. The rest of the cast gives decent, but no outstanding performances. Waters tries so hard to make this movie funny, he poorly wrote it, and poorly directs it. The film has no vision, and frequently goes in directions that makes me wonder how it even got released. It's not funny, it's not touching, it's not dramatic, it's just not entertaining, not on any level.I can't give it more than 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"John Waters' craziest joke","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Call me a conspiracy theorest, but I believe that John Waters made this bad film as a sort of in joke just to see which critics would give it good reviews. Pecker is a disgrace of a film, with bad acting, a terrible script and parts that try so hard to be funny that they actually turn the viewer against the film.The film is its smartest at the start when we are first introduced to Pecker and his neurotic family and friends. Once we really start to know them, they all seem either fake (little Chrissy), uninteresting (the two homeless people; Why?), or just plain annoying in a bad way (Pecker's mom and sister). Furlong never seems to understand his character and is never convincing (he doesn't even seem to know how to hold a camera). Ricci is also less than convincing unlike many other critics would like to believe. Compare her work here to The Opposite of Sex and you'll see what I mean.There is no continuous story to this film and the story used isn't interesting. A lot of sub-themes are introduced and never explained why. For instance, Pecker's dad's bar that makes no money. What is the purpose of this? None. I must applaud John Waters on his in-joke and choose to give him an average rating for doing so, otherwise the film itself gets a 2/10.5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wish John Waters would stay away from message movies, especially since the message is always the same  Trailer trash good, everyone else bad.  This theme runs through Pecker, Cry-Baby, and to a lesser extent, Hair Spray. Serial Mom is his best recent feature--know why?  NO MESSAGE!John has said in the past that he doesn't go for shock value anymore because today's audiences are so jaded.  This is flawed thinking, as any newcomer to Pink Flamingos would still be shocked at that film today (my co-workers can attest to that!).Pecker is a predictable story  Boy takes pictures, boy gets discovered, boy discovers previous low-class existence was okay after all (There's no place like home).  Spare us.Extra credit for the Virgin Mary bit, and the lesbian strip club. "},{"Title":"Oh, Lordy! (Possible Spoiler)","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kid from the slums with a broken down old camera works at a sub shop and takes pictures for a living. Then one day, during a display of his photos at the shop, he is discovered by a big name art dealer in New York who wants to give him his own showing. But the party ends as quickly as it began as Pecker finds that fame and fortune bares a hefty price. His home is robbed, his friends desert him, and worst of all, his girlfriend Shelly won't have anything to do with him. With his inspiration gone, he sees how far his newfound fortune will take him. But can it get him back everything he lost?Modestly entertaining little movie makes no profound statement on film in general but manages to hold the viewer's attention through a few sexually visceral images and wildly outrageous lines of dialogue. A few ideas seem undeveloped. Great music by Stewart Copeland. "},{"Title":"Off the scale.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has the rare distinction of being one of the only films that has provided a temporary cure for my chronic late night insomnia. It's hard to tell who exactly this film was aimed at--the plot is like a simple-minded fairytale that 6-year-olds might appreciate, but it also features full-frontal nudity and old men in bars lusting after gay strippers.Maybe I was having a nightmare... a really boring one. "},{"Title":"After watching this movie, I felt like a real pecker...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...head. This movie is touted as a comedy?? Where was the comedy? (Methinks I got took.) For what was supposed to be a comedy (I mean, it WAS after all screened on the Comedy Channel the other night), I personally didn't find the movie all that funny. Quirky and oddly amusing in a few parts, yes. Funny? Hell no. Watching it, I was reminded of another movie I saw recently - Feeling Minnesota &#150; and I'm starting to wonder, what's up lately with all this focus on frighteningly dysfunctional families in films (haven't *even* mustered the courage to go watch the Royal Tenenbaums... Rushmore was bad enough). Pecker seems to whip you over the head with one absurd, offbeat character after another, most of whom (if not all) are scarcely likable and hardly believable Pecker (played by Edward Furlong (who, by the way, I really liked in American Heart)), here in this movie, well he just makes you want to open up a can of whoop-ass on the annoying little punk every time he points that stupid camera at someone or something. I just didn't like him, or his sister, or his shoplifting friend, or his foulmouthed girlfriend, or his mother, or his grandmother (his dad was okay... well, on second thought, no he wasn't). I DID like Patty Hearst, though (who might in fact be the only reason to watch this film. I LOVE Patty Hearst.)(Also, by the way... I know from personal experience that you DON'T just go around pointing a camera at people and surprising them with a candid photograph. People can be very, very hostile about said shutterbug activity &#150; that's why I feel this film loses out quite quickly in the believability department).Anyway, it's a great film if you want to wallow around in mild depravity for about 90 minutes. As for me, when I was done watching I just wanted to go soak in a good hot bath and scrub myself real good. Plus, after seeing that little (brat) girl consume several times her body weight in sugar, I wanted to go brush my teeth with ultra fluoride toothpaste. I am really down on sugar, by the way. I met some Russians once, who told me their nickname for sugar in Russia (beliy sakhar = belaya smert') White sugar = white death. I like that. Oh those crazy Russians. One final thought why wasn't Crispin Glover in this film?? "}{"Title":"FUNNY,UNNECESSARY AND DISGUSTING","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Pecker came out of the Laundry Mat,and that funny music came on and the little girl said Pecker,looked I killed the worm! I watched that several times and laughed. I thought the character Pecker to be an average uncontrol camera shooting kid without a guide,everything is interesting including private parts,nothing unusual. On no a not a good Movie(Christian family)! Some mother is cussing out her kid for bringing it home to watch. SIX STARS for the FUNNY MUSIC and the WORM. ONE STAR for the Movie!  "},{"Title":"Not John Waters' best film","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen almost every film John Waters has made, and Pecker ranks among the bottom third.  There is little here that is interesting, shocking, or funny. The characters are typical Waters' white trash, but they, as well as Waters, seem to be merely going through the motions.Maybe I'm just jaded since my introduction to John Waters was a double bill of Pink Flamingos and Desperate Living 15 years ago... "},{"Title":"Pretty silly, uneven film satirizes the art industry.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why did I watch this film? I was bored on New year's day, and this one has Edward Furlong, Christina Ricci, Lili Taylor, Martha Plimpton and seemed pretty interesting. In one sense it is - a Baltimore kid (Furlong)named Pecker finds a cheap camera at his mom's thrift shop, and proceeds to photograph everything around him. Girls on the bus, rats in the alley, hamburgers grilling at work, his girlfriend (Ricci) at the laundromat, mom at her shop. All black and white, he prints them at home, for the most part very ordinary pictures. However, when he has a showing at the joint he works at, a NYC agent (Taylor) shows up, says his photos are great, arranges a NYC show, his share of the night is $73,000.All this sets up the satire of the art world, the fact that as soon as you become known, everything changes. Freinds no longer want to be bothered as subjects of Pecker's photographs. Strippers get arrested, Sis loses her job at the gay bar. He opens Pecker's Place, a combination sandwich shop, gay bar, photo studio, invites NYC art types to come, they see unflattering photos of themselves that Pecker had taken at the first showing in NYC.I stuck with it to the end, hoping it would have some kind of redeeming message, but it didn't.  Just a silly film, that is too unbalanced to be very entertaining. I rate it 4 of 10. "},{"Title":"LOL's and yawns","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pecker (Furlong) is a young urban Baltimore man who photographs his family and friends, consisting entirely of kookie stereotypes, only to become a photoart icon. The film manages to conjure up some funny moments though most of the comedy is trite and crass one-liners from the cast overlaying a shallow story. Nothing new here but there may be some LOL's for the diehard couch potato. "},{"Title":"Why this film is so overrated","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Waters feeds --and feeds on-- peoples' need to feel in on a great in-joke that considers 99 percent of experience of life and art campand kitsch. This attitude is so endemic and predictable (with everyone from Valley Girls to hillbillies to the nerdiest academic types straining to exude it) it is no longer classifiable as high brow or low brow --more like no brow or un-brow. Bottom line, Waters gratifies our naked desire to belong and be hip. A photographer friend (okay, ex-friend) said I had to see Pecker. I obliged him with two hours of my time. An utter and irredeemable waste. (By the way, bashing the catholic church is on WHICH cycle of cliché by now? --Is bashing the church so hip it's un-hip, or so un-hip it's hip? --And roadside barbecue meat stands. What a sophisticated sense of humor Waters possesses.) Total BOMB rating. Fit only for TV-sitting cretins and those pathetic denizens of mall and multiplex, struggling against fate and destiny with I-hope-I'm-cool attitude as their only weapon. "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much like Pecker shooting randomly and quite arrogantly as a photographer (c'mon, who really shoots like that...) this film seems completely thrown together. The actors seemed like they were off-script for about 5 minutes before the cameras rolled.Normally, for a vintage John Waters film, this kind of spontaneity is what made them so irresistible. The scattershot whimsy of Divine and the other remarkably twisted characters was endearing (despite the objectionable and grotesque situations they found themselves in).The best moment came at the very end when the snubbed Whitney curator toasts to the end of irony. Pity it wasn't at the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie isn't very hip, or trendy or witty. It was just so to-the-point and didn't even attempt anything resembling sophistication. But what else can we expect from the King of Bad Taste John Waters.Apart from a clip of Pink Flamingos, I've never seen any of his other films. He seems like a cool guy though. The dialogue in Pecker is flat and cringeworthy. But, mercifully, some of the characters are hilarious and it contains one of my favorite ever lines 'Pubic hair is against the Law'.Well, it bloody should be. Who doesn't like a shaven haven? "},{"Title":"Mariolatry is Not a Joke","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love self-referential stuff, but this is just too sophomoric.The self-reference is photography about a photographer; a falsely non-ironic irony about the same; a nosethumbing at the art establishment about the same. But just too straight to be fun. "},{"Title":"Unfocused, uninteresting, unwatchable","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The reason I saw this film is because I'm a fan of Christina Ricci, but she is given absolutely nothing to do in this movie but gripe about laundry. Her and the rest of the cast basically wander through the movie aimlessley. The acting was terrible, mostly because of John Water's jumpy editing style. Conversations don't really match, hesitations are too long. The actors appear uncomfortable, as if they're being fed their lines through beltones. The movie's attempt to establish a plot turns out uninteresting and unrealistic, and Edward Furlong being cast in the lead role was a big mistake. He looks out of place in his role, and he's annoying (especially his voice). I personally didn't care about any of the characters or what happened to them in the end. The only bright spots for me were Brendan Sexton III as Matt, the shoplifting friend, and Jean Shertler as Me-mama, the catholic granny obsessed with her Mother Mary Doll. Neither were particularly interesting characters, but they added some comic relief to an overall boring and seemingly endless movie. It's the longest 82 minutes I've ever sat through. And by the way, if you like Christina Ricci, check out Buffalo 66'.   "},{"Title":"Waters doesn't always work","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a big fan of Cry-Baby. It was a great movie where the characters were ridiculous, they all had some quirky idiosyncrasy and it all fit because it was set in the 50s and while telling a good story and being just plain weird' it was a musical, which generally are a little weird, and it managed to indirectly make fun of the cheesy movies about teens that were played in theaters in the 50s... I thought John Waters had done all this intentionally for that film. I was wrong, it turns out he does that for every film of his, and Cry-Baby is simply the one time when it made sense. Pecker is a terrible mess of a film where these kooky character types just walk around spouting lines that make sense for their weird characters and then every once and awhile a straight character is introduced so that the story can just barely follow a very tired and clichéd plot line. This movie was equivocal to watching a grade 8 acting class play an improv game where they are all zany people for different reasons and must interact. It was terrible, and full of wasted talent. The modernity of the setting and the lack of the musical element should have evoked a change in his style, sadly it did not. This film was just stupid. And when you get passed the quirks of the characters, you realize how vapid and bland the story attempted to be, I say attempted because it seems as though the players are acting independent of the plot through the entire movie, there is no cause and effect for events, they simply happen, so that the movie can seem like it's actually going somewhere. If you've heard any good things about Waters and you are curious rent Cry-Baby, stay far away from this mess. "}{"Title":"I guess I'm just too uncool","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Waters gets it.  Maybe you get it.  I don't.  I know that Waters is smart enough to realize that his films are crap.  He revels in it and probably wouldn't be happy until he had induced all of the available crappiness out of each frame and utterance.I'm still p***ed-off that I wasted my time here though.  Waters is one of those guys who creates things that 95% of the world will hate.  Not so that he'll sell tickets to the 5% who don't hate it, but so that he can wink and nod to the 1% who love it.  It's all about separating themselves from the flock and standing firm against mediocrity and boring suburban white people and rolling your eyes at anyone who doesn't get it.Yes, it's all very precious saying well if you don't understand it I'm certainly not explaining it to you, but that's just to give Waters and his little clique a tiny thrill at one-upping people in the cultural coolness department.Hey, if you want to set yourself apart from the normals how about creating something brilliant?  I know.  It's hard.  But try integrity and precision over irreverence and cheese sometime.  You might like what you get.Why aren't I talking about the film? its characters? the plot? the directorial decisions? the acting?  Because it does not matter.  This is a weird movie.  It's intended to be weird first, weird second and weird third. Nowhere on anyone's list was the notion of storytelling or communication with the audience written or scribbled hastily as it were a memo to oneself. They only wanted to be bizarre and you know what?  They succeeded.  Way to go.So my recommendation... If you're into watching movies that are off-beat for the sake of being off-beat, then have to.  If you care a whit about story, keep your distance.  Also, if you meet John Waters, set his hair on fire. Tell him it was from me. "},{"Title":"Great ideas, terrible movie.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so disappointed with this movie by the end that I was glad it was under 90 minutes long. Early on I kept saying, It'll get better, this is just the set-up, there's no way the whole movie can be this bad... but it was. The only good parts are the scenes designed to shock the homophobes in the audience, but those can't stand alone without a good movie around them. Bad performances abound, and whether Christina Ricci is overacting on purpose or not, it's still annoying. Ed Furlong is the only actor that made me forget he was acting, and even he's handed some cheesy lines that made me wince. There are countless times that you'd get the point or the joke of a scene already, and then some character has to add the extra line to explain it to you. And annoy me. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"plays like a bad student film","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Once again John Waters attempts to Shock us with his Bad taste and outrageous casting, but does nothing but bore the audience to death with another pointless dumb movie. The story is about some kid who is nicknamed Pecker and he takes pictures of just about anything like an old lady putting clothes into a washing machine or a chef holding a bottle of ketchup...you get the idea. This kid sees art in everything. The movie is so pointless and bad, it plays like a bad student film. A bad student film where the young director is trying to emulate David Lynch or something. There is an old lady in the movie that walks around carrying a talking statue of the virgin Mary. She makes it talk and she just walks around with it. You can hear John Waters saying The audience is gonna think this is so weird. I'm just soooo strange No, John your just boring. Patty hearst makes an appearance as an art admirer or something and you just can tell John Waters thought it was just sooooo outrageous to cast her. No, John it is just boring. Maybe if she could act it wouldn't be quite so bad. There is also a Little sister character who constantly eats and she just likes candy. I suppose that's supposed to be hysterical. OOOh, candy! Lilly Taylor is in it, just so we know it's a small quirky movie. Pass on this one.zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz "},{"Title":"Bring back the John Waters of Pink Flamingos and Polyester","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Waters became a cult-cinema hero in the 70's instantly after delivering the bad-taste milestone Pink Flamingos and he continued pleasing his trash-horny fans (including me) with extraordinary and incomparable movies like Female Trouble, Desperate Living and Polyester. True, Waters' movies were offensive, shocking and often repulsive but they simultaneously were unique outsiders in an overall politically correct American film industry. Nearly twenty years later, there's very few ingeniousness left inside Water's mind and it also looks like he has developed morality and grew a consciousness. He still pretends to be controversial by portraying his beloved Baltimore as an antipathetic wasteland where the people are shameless and eccentric, but he sure ain't provoking anybody. The plot of Pecker is very ordinary and basically just a reworking of two of the oldest 'lessons' in storytelling. 1) success and wealth do not equal happiness and 2) home sweet home... even if it is Baltimore! Pecker works in a snack bar but he merely is obsessed by photography and spends his days stalking friends, family and neighbors with a camera as the extension of his eyes. During a local presentation, he's discovered by a fancy New York art dealer and, all of a sudden, every eminent art critic is interested in Pecker's portrayal of the 'culturally challenged' (like described beautifully in the film) models. The dialogs are dull, the script is unoriginal and most gags are so tasteless that they seem to come straight out of a Farrelly-brothers movie (sex in a cubicle?). The acting isn't very good neither and especially Christina Ricci was a bad choice to play the neurotic laundry-shrew. Thank God there also are some positive things to mention! The little Chrissy character, for example, Pecker's hyperactive and sugar-addicted kid sister. Or the shopping for others game, which really looks like fun. "},{"Title":"Bad taste art.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What the very overrated American Beauty tried to be,Waters ' work were Polyester (in odorama!),serial mom and this Pecker are bad taste elevated to art status.Memama playing ventriloquy with her statue of Virgin Mary is sheer genius.The girlie stuffing herself with candies and chocolate is far away  from your nice average little kid.Male and female strip -tease scenes are less funny,because we see too much of this kind of stuff.Form and content meetit's a bad taste movie about bad taste.Snoberry runs rampant in the New-York art circles.Pecker's lousy photographs are praised to the sky,hailed as the holy writ.What a maturity! a hip girl notices.In fact these rich and posh people want to mix with the riffraff,to relish with the wrong side of Baltimore city.What about photographs in the slums,Pecker?It backfiresphotographs are a weapon which turns back on Pecker and his mates.Too bad it lacks a convincing -and crazy - ending and only the miracle  redeems the last scene a bit.A great movie,probably not.But enough funny situations to sustain interest. "},{"Title":"you will cry because you just wasted valuable living time","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whoever gave this movie rave reviews needs to see more movies.A loser takes his camera and photographs his mental family.  The movie is filled with idiots and includes live teabagging.  That should sum it all up for you.Do not waste your time.  You may want to watch the entire movie in the hopes that it gets better as it goes on - it doesn't! "},{"Title":"this pecker needs viagra","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only saving grace of this movie is that it serves as the 0 end of the movie rating scale. Now if I see a movie that really stinks I say this movie was a real Pecker. I believe this movie is a perfect example of Christina Ricci's one dimensional acting. Horrible  "},{"Title":"Been there, seen it all before...","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film can not even be said to be bad for it is sadly, just painfully mediocre. Lacking any real wit or imagination, a thin plot is stretched to the absolute limit and the `jokes' (which are predictable and threadbare) are spun out to such inordinate length that boredom and yawns quickly overtake the viewer. Another notch to mark the sad decline of John Waters and a reminder that what `shocked' or amused us 30 years ago doesn't work quite the same way now. We've seen it all before, and it no longer breaks any taboos because they have long since evaporated. A major miss. "},{"Title":"They say you can never go back...and this film seems to indicate this is true.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's a little background information about the film's director, John Waters. In the late 1960s and 1970s, he was cult film director with a small but devoted following. The earliest of these films were exceptionally perverse but oddly charming (such as the almost impossible to watch PINK FLAMINGOS--which features the eating of feces, among other revolting things). A bit later, his films were a bit less offensive, though they still had a bizarre home-made quality to them. These are the films I love the most, such as FEMALE TROUBLE and POLYESTER, which are still offensive but manage to be a bit more palatable to the average viewer AND still feature the John Waters touches, such as horrible over-acting and a cast of lovable weirdos (such as Divine and Edith Massey--the only woman uglier than the cross-dressing Divine). Then, in the mid-80s onward, Waters actually made quite a few relatively normal films that were quite mainstream--culminating in his most mainstream film, HAIRSPRAY.Now, with PECKER, it seems that Waters is trying to combine his earliest style of films with the newer commercially attractive films. The film features material that is at times much more offensive than what you'd recently seen in CRY BABY, SERIAL MOM and HAIRSPRAY--and it would have resulting in this film receiving an X rating had it been made in the 70s or 80s--a close up beaver shot like you see repeatedly in PECKER was highly reminiscent of the early style. However, at the same time, the production values are very high and the story amazingly conventional despite the language and crotch shots. As a result, the film left me pretty cold. Plus, this is NOT a film I could let my kids watch--though I did have no problem with my oldest watching POLYESTER.As for the plot, it's obviously intended as a form of autobiography by Waters. While he had become more mainstream by 1998, the film's message is be true to your tacky and garish roots and the evils of being discovered by the right people. Perhaps the extremes in the film was his attempt to regain this original flavor, though without Divine, Edith Massey AND high production values, the effort comes up very short. I guess Waters never can truly go back!By the way, this film once again featured a small role for Patty Hearst and for her age, she was quite hot. Way to go Ms. Hearst! "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made!!!","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Boy that was an awful movie. Actually it was worse than awful, it hasn't really deserved the 1 star I gave it. It was so bad it should have gotten 0 stars. Okay maybe I overreact Christina Ricci deserve ½ a star, for the role of a really cranky bitch. "}{"Title":"Painful doesn't begin to describe what I'm feeling.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do you ever find yourself saying,That's the worst film I have ever seen, and then you think the chances of watching a film worse than that one are near impossible?  Well, this is without a doubt the biggest waste of time in the history of movie watching.  It was real fun to watch someone click his camera for 90 minutes.  Yup, that's it.  That's the film right there. Boring story, boring characters....just plain boring.  It was the first time I felt like taking the tape out of the VCR and burning it.  I'm serious. I'm going to have to stop now because I could go way over 1,000 words describing what a nasty experience it was watching this !@#^.  Is there any way that the IMDB could change its voting structure and go below 1.  If at all possible, please give this a -100 for me.  Thank you for your time. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just when I think I saw the worst movie of the year (being Apt. Pupil) something as ridiculously stupid as this movie pops its way out of the little toilet bowl. The acting was like watching a high school play full of burnt out no-talent drama students. And the story was like a happily ever after children's fairy tale with the f word nicely placed in at the appropriate times. If you like to stare at your screen in amazement at the utter nonsense that is trotting along from this movie, then please by all means, see Pecker.  "},{"Title":"They spent 6 million dollars on WHAT? (Oh Lord did it sucketh)","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so bored with this movie. Didn't laugh once. There are a few running jokes (the sugar-obsessed sister, the grandma and the Mary puppet, etc.) that were repeated throughout the film although they weren't funny the first time. John Waters should dig a hole in the ground and place his head within. "},{"Title":"This is as good as it gets - from Waters.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A mediocrity from the master of garbage, John Waters. So in a sense Waters has surpassed himself with this movie a mediocrity is still better than garbage. The film profits only from a very good female cast, mostly Ricci and Kay Place. The movie has all the signatures of a Waters film very bad amateur actors in small roles, lousy and childish dialogues, and social satire which is far too obvious and unintelligent to have any kind of impact, comic or otherwise. Waters is always out to mock the silent majority, which is an easy target, and he does it, I believe, because of a frustration of knowing that the silent majority could never accept an untalented freak such as himself. He does make fun of the bogus NY art world, though, which is a good thing &#150; but I'd rather have someone talented do that. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time if you're over 12","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We tried to watch this terrible waste of a film.  We gave it 20 minutes but when the little girl is seen eating sugar right from the bag drooling - I had to turn it off.  Good movie if words like beaver and lesbian make you laugh.  Ricci wasted her time don't you waste yours.   "},{"Title":"A totally unbelievable romp through idiocy.....","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching the half-witted movie Pecker, I am reminded why I am not a Waters fan.This movie from beginning to end is chock-full of horrible attempts at humorous situations.  The dialogue seems to have been written by an agoraphobic deprived of outside contact with every day life, and therefore has no idea how real people interact.  The acting in this horrible monstrosity also leaves much (miles) to be desired.  If I had ANYTHING to do with the production of this movie, I would hang my head in shame for the duration of my life.  Pecker's Grandmother (Full of grace!)  is particularly aggravating, and left me wondering when some heavy object (such as a piano, or maybe a large safe) would come loose from its overhead hoist apparatus and put an end to this pathetic attempt at a funny secondary character.This movie should be locked away in an underground vault somewhere,  where it would never see the light of day again for eternity.  "},{"Title":"Absolute garbage","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This may very well be the worst movie I'll see if I live to be 100. I think a group of first-graders could have come up with better plot lines as a class project than this. I'm dumber for having watched it, and God have mercy on the souls who were paid to produce this film.And after I finally turned it off, I actually had the urge to vomit.No one had a clue about photography when made this. No one had a clue about acting. No one had a clue about just about anything.I can't believe F/X shows this crap on occasion. The only time I had seen it was on one of the Starz! channels - not even the main one. And it was on at about 3 a.m. at that. "},{"Title":"a horrible movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies i have ever seen.   The plot is awful, and the acting is worse.  The jokes that are attempted absolutley suck. Don't bother to waste your time on a dumb movie such as this. And if for some reason that you do want to see this movie, don't watch it with your parents. "}]