[{"Title":"came to a screeching halt","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this film to be immensely enjoyable and entertaining until the last 20 minutes or so.  At that point, it ran out of gas.  The ending reminded me of awards show speeches in which the recipient is urged to wrap it up as the music swells behind him/her.  The sudden pairing off of all the characters feels forced and lacks credibility.  I felt quite let down. "},{"Title":"Often hilarious look at an atypical gay love life","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I don't kid myself that this is the typical gay love life but since when are straight romances in real life as they are on the screen?  This movie is well-balanced with comedy and drama and I thoroughly enjoyed myself.  It was a riot to see Hugo Weaving play a sex-obsessed gay real estate salesman who uses his clients' houses for his trysts with the flaming Darren (Tom Hollander).  And having seen him in Priscilla, Queen of the Desert only the day before, he is probably one of the most secure-in-their-masculinity actors around. )  Anyway, the plot flowed smoothly and the male-bonding scenes were a hoot.  Thumbs up! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Ealing Comedy for the Nineties","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a gentle romantic comedy about the diversity of human sexuality and in some ways not unlike an Ealing comedy with its friendly pokes at New Agers and estate agents.It was very well worth it alone though for the Jane Austen send up scene - handsome James Purefoy striding about in breeches saying 'I've been out all day whipping stable boys - would you like a whipping, boy' to footman Kevin McKidd who nearly orgasms on the spot. This is a bit of a cinematic in joke anyway as several of the cast (Purefoy, Ehle and Walter) have all starred in recent Austen adapataions.There are several belly laughs too - this is one for curling up with someone of the same or opposite sex, and having a cuddle and glass of wine whilst you enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a fun movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though I saw this movie dubbed in French, so I'm sure it lost something in the translation, lack of accents, etc., it was an excellent, fun movie for a lonely night in a hotel room--a real pick-me-up that portrayed accurately and positively the complexities of individual sexuality, gender role, and finding a place within the communities to which one is supposed to belong--male, gay, urban, 30-ish, etc.  I was very proud of French television for showing such an honest and positive portrayal of the gay community.  While the fact that the gay lead character ends up somewhat straight in the end is mildly disappointing, that's life, and that happens sometimes.  This is a great movie, whether alone or with a date! A really enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"This Life goes fishing in Notting Hill","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Leo (Kevin McKidd), handsome, gay, and a bit vacuous, turns 30, still without a special someone in his life. His West London flatmates, the ragingly camp Darren (Tom Hollander) and liberated flight attendant Angie(Julie Graham) throw a surprise birthday party for him. Leo is mortified and retires to his room to watch TV -  the place is full of people I don't want to see. We see why this is by way of flashback through the past few months of Leo's life. Highlights include some very funny scenes in a new age mens' encounter group facilitated with voyeuristic aplomb by Keith (Simon Callow), an affair with Brendan, a hunky Irish cafe owner (an unrecognisable James Purefoy), and reunion with an old female flame Sally (Jennifer Ehle). Tucked into this plotline are the sexual adventures of Darren and real estate agent Jeremy (a straight acting Hugo Weaving). Their scene is making love in the houses Jeremy has for sale while the owners are out, until one day an owner unexpectedly returns with Darren still handcuffed to the bedposts. Darren explains himself as an S & M a-gram sent to the wrong address.The theme of the film is gender bending. Sexual identity is not set in concrete and given the right circumstances and person many of us can swing between gay and straight. This is hardly an original insight but this film tackles the issue with zest and a great sense of fun. A highlight was the men's group back to the wilderness camp, where the men, having failed to find anything to eat in the forest, call up for Chinese takeaway on a mobile phone. A few things grate. Keith's wife (Harriet Walter), author of a book called The Obsolete Penis seems to have strayed in from another movie and Brendan looked a bit too disheveled to be the front man in a trendy cafe operation.Rose Troche, responsible for the rather didactic lesbian comedy Go Fish, directs with a much lighter touch here and takes full advantage of Robert Farrer's light hearted but occasionally poignant script. The tone is comedy rather than comic and we do care a bit at the end how it's going to work out for Leo, colourless as he is. Compared with a conventional romantic comedy like Notting Hill this film derives its tension from the unexpected rather than the inevitable, and gives the audience a lot more stimulation on the way. As for me, I'll never entrust the keys of my house to a real estate agent again.  "},{"Title":"Insulting","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, so this film is well acted. It has good direction but the simple fact is that it undermines what all gay and lesbian people have been fighting for all these years. The straight man deciding to be gay and the gay man Deciding to be straight I did enjoy it up until the last 20 minutes, after that i got really offended. As what usually happens in these films the straight actors play the main parts and the out gay actors play the secondary straight roles. The leads are played by handsome men but don't let that distract you from the fact that this is a a film that leaves you feeling unfulfilled. All the romance and relationships you hope would happen do not. Unless you are a priest that is in which case god bless straight woman who cure our homos. "},{"Title":"Sex Police????","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rose Troche introduced herself to us in 1994 with the small budget, pleasant lesbian love story called Go Fish which was set in the United States.Her very assured Bedrooms And Hallways moves its locale to urban England and follows the will I, won't I musings of Leo (Kevin McKidd).He's fallen for five o'clock shadowed Irishman Brendan (James Purefoy) but Leo fears he might have got himself into trouble. He's terrified of falling in love with a straight man.But is Brendan straight or gay or both? He's just come out of a long standing relationship with a woman.The two men meet at a men's s group run by a serious eyed and voiced Keith (Four Weddings and a Funeral's Simon Callow).It would seem that Rose Troche and her team find a lot that goes on at these groups to be pretty funny. There's much clasping of the honesty rock and a particularly apt solution to catering.Meanwhile the sexually unambiguous characters get their fair shake. The flag is flown strongly for all sexual inclinations.Very camp Darren (Tom Hollander) knows what he wants. He's having a great time with Jeremy a real estate agent played with terrific intensity by Australian actor Hugo Weaving. They sneak into people's houses which are on the market to have sex.Leo is wavering, he's showing some interest in women as well as in Brendan and Darren is incensed, expecting calls from the sex police. Meanwhile Angie and Sybil have no qualms about being happily heterosexual. But all remains fluid.Bedrooms and Hallways is a cheerful comedy romance with a homosexual bent. It gathers pace in its final third when, as in nearly all comedy romances, everyone finds a mate and/or a lover. There are plenty of laughs in what is a smart, impressive new movie from Rose Troche.Things have changed over the years in films. The boys and girls used to be nearly ten years younger in these sorts of comedies and we were used to them finding a life long, heterosexual partner in the final reel, to then live happily ever after.These days a three night trial liaison is probably more than can be expected, a situation which more suitably fits the thirty somethings these films are about.  "},{"Title":"Extremely well-acted and funny film","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a thoroughly enjoyable, well-acted film.  It is funny and sometimes hilarious.  The finale is a bit disappointing, since it tries to wrap everything up into too neat a package.  The film is better remembered for its priceless vignettes  the Jane Austen staging, the camping trip as examples.  B & H does not attempt to mirror the predominant attitudes toward homosexuality and bisexuality. Most of the characters are quite accepting of sexual diversity.  In that sense it is a joyous vacation from homophobic society.  And it is a celebration of a flexibility, a loosening of rigid sexual categories--perhaps a happy harbinger of things to come. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *Spoilers* I enjoyed this film, but for a reason many seem to be deriding. I found the idea of Leo's attraction to Sally very interesting, from the point that everyone has someone or something in their past that makes them think What if? Brendan, I felt was using Sally as a way of anchoring himself in 'normality', a safeguard in case the whole gay thing didn't work out. (Which is pointed out to him in the film, by a character I presume he later sleeps with.) I think Leo could be straight, at least for a while, but only with Sally, and eventually, she's going to get hurt. All in all, an enjoyable contrast to the usual generic RomCom fare  "},{"Title":"Delightfully funny, romantic romp","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The biggest tragedy surrounding this thoroughly delightful movie is its lack of U.S. distribution.  I was fortunate enough to see this film at the Boston International Festival of Women's Cinema, and highly recommend it to anyone who gets a chance to see it.  Terrific performances, and thoughtful script and great direction from the talented and funny Rose Troche all combine to make this film a winner! "}{"Title":"One of the funniest films of a long time.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bedrooms and Hallways was one of the funniest films of the 1999 Melbourne Film Festival. From the UK, it is about a young crowd of flatmates and their various relationship dilemmas. Much of the humour is centred around a new-agey men's self-help group where they pass around various implements like the 'rock of truth'.  They also go on a 'hunter gatherer' weekend with hilarious results. Trust me, you'll laugh your teeth out. "},{"Title":"Cringe","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found it hard to care about these characters, who were either annoying or insipid, all living their fabulously hilariously urban lives.The dialogue was excruiciating at times, and at other times the narrative seemed hard to follow - was it me or were entire scenes deleted?It felt like a poor sitcom somehow turned into a film. The stereotypes and jokes about men's groups would perhaps have been funny in the early 90s. As it is, this is where much of the humour of the film comes from - and boy, does it get old fast.Apart from the attractive Irish man - this film was a dud. And not even in a so bad it's good way. The last 20 minutes were particularly painful. Perhaps if you've never met any gay people or never thought about homosexuality before, then this film might have something meaningful to say. Otherwise - darlings, you'd still be better off renting The Boys in The Band or Beautiful Thing. "},{"Title":"Be who you are, Love who you love; Life is pretty good!","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! It was adorably touching and funny. Finally, here's a story about a group of people who meet some challenges, flounder a bit, and then decide to just be themselves and end up happy for; when was the last time you saw that in a film? Dealing with the fluidity of life, love, and sexuality, the characters are faced with real problems (albeit in often ridiculous situations like the men's group camping trip, and the explicit realatory liaisons) and manage to learn and grow without the movie getting preachy, darkly desperate, or too unrealistic. You'll love and care about the characters who, far from being hollow stereotypes, portray real people with just a touch of the truth behind their would-be labels.A good romcom for a Saturday afternoon, and the only movie I've ever seen where sexual fluidity ends happily, and no one is forced to be anything they don't want to be. Far better than Kissing Jessica Stein, a good choice if your tired of watching gay movies that have some painful lesson and bitter lesson. Or, maybe you just like a good British romp? James Purefoy looks dashing as always, and Tom Hollander is deliciously funny. So go forth, watch, enjoy; you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Why can't all dykes be like Rose Troche?","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An inspired choice of director for this latest Brit-Flick, Rose Troche, who burst on the scene with the budget-free tale of NY Dykes, _Go Fish_ brings a gently Jaundiced view to this tale of a Londoner choosing the slightly inappropriate milieu of a male bonding society to declare his lust for a fellow seeker of masculine truths. The highlight for me is a scene where the society try to revert to being primitive hunter-gatherers but end up ordering a take-away. The film as a whole is wonderfully acted and Troche, who'd never be accepted by some of the lesbians she portrayed in her previous film, relishes the bigger budget by indulging in some wonderfully lingering pan shots that contrast with _Go Fish_'s grainy hyperkinesis. A really enjoyable film  "},{"Title":"Great fun and honest to diversity!","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I seriously enjoyed watching this movie for the first time some years ago and whenever it gets aired again somewhere (which luckily happens from time to time in European cable television) I experience the same thing, I'm moved, entertained and end up wishing there were more movies like this one.It all deals with Leo (Kevin McKidd) and his group of friends living in urban London, Leo as a gay guy who follows a friend to a hilarious New Age Men's Group and falls for straight guy Brendon, played by dashing James Purefoy, who turns out not so straight after all. Thrown in as side characters are the equally great Tom Hollander and Hugo Weaving whose side story alone is worth watching the movie, Simon Callow as the leader of the Men's group, turning in a great as ever performance. But it's really hard to pick some folks out here, because every character, the female ones like Jennifer Ehle's, Julie Graham's and Harriet Walter's as well, are exquisitely acted. Maybe even Kevin McKidd looks a little pale compared to his co-actors but it benefits his somewhat subdued character.The idea behind this movie is a simple one There is never only black and white, classifications are difficult and may not always stand the test of time.Leo identifies as gay but ends up falling for a woman as well who turns out to be his teenage sweetheart and Brendon's long time girlfriend. Brendon starts out straight but gets to learn that gay may be more than just an option for him and being bisexual might not be that bad after all. Darren and Jeremy (Hollander and Weaving) are gay and loving it and even the straight folks in the movie, like Angie, Leo's female roommate, get their fair share of love and funny moments up until the end of the movie. The comedy bits(especially Tom Hollander who's just hilarious) are funny and on point and the emotions are believable, as confusing as they may appear at times reading this summary.What I like about this movie is its genuinely positive notion. Whether you're gay, straight, bisexual or simply not sure, this movie leaves you feeling that it's just okay NOT to be sure and that not being sure might be something worth living out as well! Sexuality is portrayed fluid in this movie and none of the main characters seem to have a real problem with it, apart from all the gay/straight camp fights that you sometimes get fed with in other gay themed movies. I can only wholeheartedly agree with the subtext of the movie, that what you feel certain of one day, when you think you identify as gay, straight, whatever, can look very different on another. I have never seen (what to call it?) bisexuality or maybe just the absence of the segregating need for sexual classification being portrayed in such a heartwarming and true to life manner. This movie dares going where few movies go, gay or straight movies, by not playing on labels and stereotypical assumption of sex and relying on that. It goes further and assumes that there may be a life to sex after well-known classifications and I think the times are more than ready for that and other movies exploring postmodern themes like this one! And for all others who don't care about that, heck, it's just a funny comedy worth watching on a rainy Saturday evening with some popcorn on your hands. Give it a try!Loved it! "},{"Title":"Hilarious and then suddenly......","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Amusing story, very well acted, likable characters, fast paced, great dialogue and some hilarious lines. Things clipped along really merrily until, well, until they simply and abruptly stopped. Dead in the water. No champagne was ever so flat nor any empty balloon so limp as the ending to this film.And finishing the storyline with Leo getting Sally was so implausible as to be surreal. This resolution will only lead to some serious unhappiness for these two. At least we won't have to watch that.It was interesting to see Hugo Weaving in a role wildly different from his Matrix appearances. Kevin McKidd and James Purefoy apparently teamed up at least once before appearing in the recent HBO series, Rome. Here they are, shall we say, on better terms. "},{"Title":"Bi-comical","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Light romantic comedy romp among a gay/bi/straight group of late 20/early 30-somethings in mid-90s London.  The director certainly contradicts the stereotype of humourless Lesbians here!  Gentle, charming script affectionately pokes fun at trends in the air at the time; the new-age Men's Group scenes are quite amusing (I've been there).  Treats its characters with humour and compassion.  Politically-correct gays will predictably bridle at the bi-sexual themes, and suggestions of fluidity of sexual attraction.Actor James Purefoy is a revelation; he is very attractive, worked-out, and sexy, particularly when his clothes come off.  He is definitely a fantasy wish-fulfillment for a lot of gay guys, with an irresistable straight-guy appeal.  He is probably at the height of his looks here in this film (aided by designer stubble), and is vaguely similar to Hugh Jackman, but without that level of screen-presence unfortunately.The only real problem that I have with films like this (and I'm also thinking of both versions of Queer as Folk for example) is all the straight actors portraying gay/bi guys.  For me they bring a completely different feel and tone than exists in the real gay world - one that I WISH existed there - and in the end I find it slightly depressing.An American indie film in a similar vein is the amusing I Think I Do (1997). "},{"Title":"Everyone's looking for Mr. Right","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film as part of a focus group in Riverside, CA, before any other American release.  I loved it.  Witty, amusing and fun.  It was wonderful. A study of relationships and the troubles we all seem to have, plus a hilarious look at all the Touchy Feely New Age Mumbo Jumbo nonsense that was so prevalent in the 90's.Sadly, the focus group was poorly chosen and almost 1/3 of the people in the audience left after the first guy with guy scene.  If you are not disturbed by sexuality, you should be very well entertained.  This mass exodus should be interpreted as saying anything about the film, but about the number of narrow minds in Riverside.I only hope that it will be released on video in the USA... "},{"Title":"Why I Loved This Film","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved that the mood was light and airy. I loved that the lead character wanted guarantees about his future, and that his roommate sets him straight of all people. I loved that they tackled the dynamics of how the members in the men's group dealt with each other, considering this was directed by a lesbian,the whole theme of masculinity was put out there, ridiculed, dissected and questioned. What makes a man? What makes one straight, gay, or bisexual? You aren't really sure if our lead character has decided on who he really wants; he's living in the moment and thrown caution to the wind. These, and other reasons, make me love this film. "},{"Title":"A GAY Four Weddings & A Funeral","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely fantastic! Whatever I say wouldn't do this underrated movie the justice it deserves. Watch it now! FANTASTIC! "}{"Title":"Pleasant but empty","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts at A and never quite reaches B.  Its title promises far more than the film delivers.  It's superficial and filled with the usual cliches of a story in which a guy questions his sexuality.  The people are agreeable, even the obligatory flamboyant type.  The lead (Kevin McKidd) overacts insofar as there's a reason for him to act at all.  Simon Callow, playing a horny straight, is always worth watching, and he's by far the only reason to stay with the movie.  However, the rubbish about his men's group meditations or whatever they are grows extremely tiresome in short order.  They seem to have been thrown into the movie's mild mix in a misguided effort to vary the setting and non-stop inaction.  The same comment applies to a really odd and unconvincing camping trip.  Don't worry about pausing the tape so you can get a snack.  Let the thing run; you won't miss anything.  Hugo Weaving's character is superfluous.  He appears in a sequence with one of the lesser leads and doesn't even meet the rest at all.  The outcome of that sequence isn't explained, and Hugo's real estate dealings have nothing to do with the story.  The movie is a total disappointment at the end, because there is no resolution.  The thing simply fades out and we're sent to the closing credits.  This is an interlude with no structure.     "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Go Fish garnered Rose Troche rightly or wrongly the reputation of a film maker with much promise.Its then hard to understand how she could turn out a movie made up of stereotypes that one associates with inferior sitcoms. The entire film rings hollow. I cringed the whole way through.Its supposed to be a look into nineties human sexuality. Well not much more here to be learned than from In and Out. By now most of us actually do know, that there are men who are sexually attracted to women and there men who are sexually  attracted to men and there are even men sexually attracted to both sexes. Seldom has this revelation been  portrayed on the screen with so little wit and style.Pathetic.  "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was a pleasant surprise because I didn't expect much. I didn't know that some of the actors have since become bigger stars in major pix. While moving on to the Matrix is not a plus in my book (hated it), I'm sure it's a career plus for Hugo. James Purefoy is great in this and Jennifer Ehle sweet and wonderful. It seemed sometimes like a Carnaby street romp 30 years later but I enjoyed the thrift shop Janis Joplin clothes mixed up with the modern mindsets of sexual and gender blur. The real estate agent who has an erotic relationship with his listings is loads of fun. The Iron John mens' group meetings are a bit dated but I still loved them. It's a social satire sex comedy in the best way and reminds me a bit of the old Carry On movies. The British know how to do sex comedy and it's an old tradition, unlike the United States which is too prudish to really understand that sex is funny. "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing, but entertaining","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, what do I think of this movie? Frankly, I'm not quite sure. Some parts are really insightful and hit their respective targets with ease and precision. At other times, the script turns clumsy and obvious, no matter how hard the actors tries to convince us otherwise. Unfortunately, Kevin McKidd is a rather pale lead, who manages to arouse most of the men and women around him. Not very convincing since the people he attracts are more good-looking and also more interesting.  But fortunately most of the others characters kept me watching and stay entertained. Tom Hollander and Simon Callow are stand-outs among the cast, throwing themselves into their respective parts with gusto. They also get the best lines in the picture and they know how to deliver them. Jennifer Ehle is charming, but her part is relatively under-developed, but she does what she can with a meager part. James Purefoy is the not-so-straight love interest here and manages create a flesh and blood character. Unlike the case with McKidd, you can really understand why others are attracted to him. The pace is swift all the way and there are some very funny scenes and lines. It is a rather lightweight, but pleasant romp. And I do like that the script really seems to care about the characters and their lives. So why complain?  "},{"Title":"An unexpected twist on a common dilemma.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bedrooms and Hallways gives its audience a look into the mind of a man who thinks he's found himself, only to find out that he's not so sure he found the right guy.  If you think that all gay comedies are the same, check this one out.  Although the movie ends without much resolution, the hilarious one-liners, peculiar situations, and quirky characters are sure to satisfy. "},{"Title":"An unexpected twist on a common dilemma.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bedrooms and Hallways gives its audience a look into the mind of a man who thinks he's found himself, only to find out that he's not so sure he found the right guy.  If you think that all gay comedies are the same, check this one out.  Although the movie ends without much resolution, the hilarious one-liners, peculiar situations, and quirky characters are sure to satisfy. "},{"Title":"Honest and unbridled acting","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  By the acting in this movie, it is sometimes hard NOT to imagine that the cast are who they portray themselves to be. Unbridled passion and acting at times make this a very enjoyable and engaging movie. Wouldn't even have known about it except for HBO late night. And the biggest reason I like UK films much better than American ones are that the actors aren't afraid to act out what is needed. "},{"Title":"Finally get to see this film","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a long wait, Bedrooms and Hallways made it to Perth cinemas - not a commercial one mind you - and I thought it was fun, honest and took a swipe at those 'tribal scream' groups running around trying to find meaning in rocks and 'what's behind my eyes'.  It is playing to full houses over here because it tells a story, has terrific acting and says something about the human condition. "},{"Title":"See it with some friends, will do very well on TV","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was a fun film to look at. Though the chance this happened in your street is small, there are still a lot off recognizable situations that will ring a bell. The simplicity of the film and the humour DO work. I must admit that you don't have to see it in a theater; it will do very well on a small TV-set. Tip see it with some close friends. "},{"Title":"Life's a soap!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bedrooms and Hallways is the kind of film that makes you realize that the drama of life is hidden in the details.  And that drama can be great fun too!  Even though your own love life and your own friends may not be as unique as the characters in this movie, every one is bound to recognize themselves and others in the colorful protagonists of this film.  And that's the great strength of Bedrooms and Hallways, that the irony of life is that the most confusing things that happen to you can be the most interesting/hilarious/funny/sexy/...things too!  Hope you'll enjoy the film as much as I have!  "}{"Title":"Well scripted and directed. A lot of fun.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Quite a ways away from Go Fish. Both were good films but Troche had a bigger budget and cast to work with here. This film was very entertaining and easy to like. The acting was good lots of slow burn sexual tension. "},{"Title":"A must see! A warm, funny, sweet bit of social satire","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rose Troche's first film since Go Fish deserves to be a winner but is evidently having difficulty finding a US distributor.  The halt and lame who call the shots in the entertainment industry may find it difficult to understand just how extraordinarily good this wry little film about Londoners behaving as if they're living and loving in Southern California really is.  A boffo ensemble cast includes brilliant work by Tom Hollander, Kevin McKidd, Julie Graham, and James Purefoy, with fun and frolicsome supportive roles by Hugo Weaving (as a predatory estate agent), Simon Callow and Harriet Walter (who enjoys a cult following thanks to her brilliant work ten years ago in the BBC Lord Peter Wimsey series).  Jennifer Ehle gets to show a different side of her abilities in a beautifully done part as a hip, sensitive Nineties gal, complete with bleached blonde hair and eyebrows. Somehow she escaped appearing in the film's hilarious five minute send-up of Pride and Prejudice (worth seeing for this alone).  This has to be one of the funniest films of the year.  Run, don't walk if you hear of a screening near you.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've seen!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at the Boston Internation Festival of Women's Cinema last night, and was saddened to hear Ms. Troche tell us (in her Q&A after the screening) that she doesn't expect to see too much US distribution, due to her insistence on including all of the so-called gay content.  It was a FANTASTICALLY entertaining comedy, and it just seems to me that American audiences might enjoy it in much the same way they enjoyed The Full Monty, so it's really unfortunate and kind of ridiculous that a few shots of two boys kissing is keeping it away from mainstream theaters.  Wonderful cast, FABULOUS script, and of course, Rose Troche's direction make this one of the funniest films I've seen.  "},{"Title":"A little something for everyone.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Viewed at the U.S. Premiere, January 10th, 1999 The Nortel Palm Springs International Film Festival.How terribly(wonderfully)British to unravel all of the complexities of sexual identity with a wicked wit!Chaotic, Hilarious, And yes, a romantic gay comedy.  "},{"Title":"a smashingly funny movie","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Never have I seen a movie like this; didn't plan on seeing it but it was worth the turn of the TV channel. I am mostly a scifi movie watcher,but I would be more than happy to add this one to my collection. It starts out as a one sided film with a simple love triangle, then became something a little different(can't tell more then that. but it does involve two guys and one girl. juts not the way you would expect). Also, this movie starred Hugo Weaving from the MATRIX and THE LORD OF THE RINGS in a role I would not have expected...very funny guy. This movie is playing on HERE TV, but if you do not have satellite, it is worth a rent. So give it a try; you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Funny, Sweet, & Worth Viewing at least once","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bedrooms & Hallways starts off with a funny idea, and has some fun characters.  The witty banter between the friends is well written, and the acting is well done.  I enjoyed all the performances. The movie was lucky to have some wonderful actors.  The movie is unpredictable, and fun to watch, but...the ending is not what I would have liked...and it did not ring true to me, considering the characters involved.  Nonetheless, the movie reflects good writing, good direction, and top notch production values.  The actors really are good, & the movie is worth watching for the comedic situations alone.  Kevin McKidd plays the main character, and he is fantastic -- he is sweet & funny & genuine, and he does a great job playing a regular guy who happens to be gay.  This is not a plot spoiler, as this is what the movie is all about...and the quest for him & his friends to find romance.  Kevin has played macho men in Dog Soldiers and Trainspotting, and in this film you can watch him become someone completely different, yet he is still totally natural and believable.  I was very impressed.  The film can boast perfect casting--all parts, leading & supporting, were brought to life by a talented cast.  Other than the ending, which you will need to see for yourself, I was very entertained.  Good show. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie - it was light, very funny, and had an interesting statement about the flexibility of sexuality. I really enjoyed the interaction between characters - especially Leo's roommates, Darren (hysterical!) and Sybil (really funny.) The biggest surprise was Hugo Weaving, whose scenes had to have been my favorite. It's been a while since I've seen Pricilla Queen of the Desert, so it was really great seeing him in a role that poked fun at his most famous character's (Agent Smith) button-down, tight-lipped normalcy. He plays a great perv!Admittedly, this movie got a little dull towards the end, with the whole bizarre love triangle, but the supporting cast made me stick it out to the end.    "},{"Title":"Some very funny moments!","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great film - I went to the gala performance at the London Film Festival.  From the audience's reaction it seemed everyone enjoyed the film.  I do hope it gets the recognition it deserves, and thereby giving the rest of the British public the chance to go and see it. "},{"Title":"Fun, but rather pointless.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This may have been intended as some sort of celebration of the human animal's sexual diversity, but as such it fails to do anything more than skim the surface. We are ponderously asked to accept that the gay boy gets the girl in the end, and that the straight blokes end up in bed with each other. Does kissing her make me a het? Kevin McKidd asks of his housemate - a flaming archetype exquisitely performed by Tom Hollander - after a bout of heavy petting with his new boyfriend's ex-fianceé. Not unless you get an erection, he is told. The questions get asked, but obviously the film is at a loss for answers. And that's exactly the point. Or rather, the lack of it. Come on, *who cares* if this particular chap gets it on with a pretty girl? He already looks and acts straight anyway, and he's a carpenter to boot.Men's Lib has never been taken seriously, and clearly this movie was not going to be the first one to do so. In this case it's a particularly revolting New Age kind of men's group, so that's alright.Oh well. At least James Purefoy looked the part. "},{"Title":"Humm, I must have missed the boat on this film!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie, but found myself rather bored with it.  I kept waiting for something to happen.  Starting with a birthday surprise party for our hero, Leo played on rather a one note level who didn't want to participate.  He goes and locks himself in his room to watch the telly.  Then we go to flashbacks and his past episodes of friends and soul mates.   Still I'm waiting for something to happen. Eventually it does, in the person of Brendon, played by burly and gorgeous James Purefoy, who seems to be toying with our hero between being straight and being gay.  Who cares.  Let's get going with this. But we're weighed down with indecisions and that's why I feel this film goes nowhere.  No one makes a decision or a commitment.  Oh, yes, our hero makes a stab at straight sex and this falls on it's face.  Believe me, I fast forwarded this scene. So, please, Jane Austin, give us some real stuff here.   As to the performances, our hero, Leo, was played by Kevin McKidd that's about all I can say about that.  Some very nice work done with a second couple Darren and Jeremy, played by Tom Hollander and Hugo Weaving.  They did give us some funny moments.  The scene with Darren caught handcuffed in bed in his underwear in a home he broke into for sex with Jeremy, the real estate agent, by the owner who knew him, was a highlight.  I liked Jennifer Ehle's work but didn't like her purpose in the film.  As a sort of whipping post for the two lovers, Leo and Brendon.  I'm not sure what Brendon wants.  Nor does he, I assume.  Even in the final moments of the film, we're left with nothing.  It was fun to see Simon Callow on screen as the head of the straight men's talk group.  Haven't seen him since that incredible film Maurice.  All in all a disappointing film. "}{"Title":"Avoid this film as if it were your grandmother's clunge.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The daytime TV of films.  Seldom have I felt so little attachment to characters.  Seldom have I been made to cringe by such dire dialogue. Nauseous London thirty-somethings mincing round lurid BBC sets spouting platitudinous mulch.  Avoid this film as if it were your grandmother's clunge. "},{"Title":"Hey let's all have sex with each other and solve our problems","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of those uber-phony gay romps like Jeffrey and Maybe, Maybe not. A musical without the songs, but with every ounce of the phoniness. Everybody gay is overdramatic and wants the straight guy who's a tease... And though everyone is doing just about everyone else, no one get an STD, cause this movie is so much fun, see? Gay people go straight and straight people go gay and by the end you can make a pretty diagram of who's hooked up with who, but it makes for a film of no consequence, with no focus. With an understanding of sexuality like this, this writer should get a job converting EUs into dollars and back again. "},{"Title":"Seriously Deranged","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Totally apart from the straight guys playing gay, there is one serious fault with this film that makes it SERIOUSLY bad  *Spoiler* Sexual identity can be, often is, a fluid and somewhat iffy business -- lots of chance attractions go on all the time  The film takes it to a perfectly ludicrous and totally unbelievable height.  And I LIKE all the actors in it.  But this is one script that seriously s***ks.  Many years ago, when Merchant-Ivory approached the great novelist Ruth Prawar Jhabvala (who won the Oscar for her screenplay of ROOM WITH A VIEW -- and didn't do so bad on HOWARDS END, either!  LOL), to do the screenplay for MAURICE, she wouldn't do it, because of the tremendous psychological flaw that sticks out a gazillion miles in the novel.  The screenwriters tried, sort of, to correct it with that Oscar Wilde nonsense and that it was that that scared Durham back into his closet, but the fact remains it was just a plain old stupid mistake that (and I'm a Forster nutcase) really couldn't be solved.  And now, along comes this THING! in which people are plunging about all over the place sexually and making NO SENSE WHATEVER.  Dismal.  10 for acting.  By all means. Minus 10 for screenplay! "},{"Title":"Is the joke about the actors' otherwise highly respectable personae?","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I bought this video on a throw-out table at the video store expecting a good cast in what was touted as an award-winning Brit sex comedy. I guess I should have read the finer print. I rarely write a panning review, but here goes.These actors in gay roles really play games with your memories of a lot of far more worthy films. This comedy was a very cruel joke at the expense of the actors, the theatre-going public and of all the nice films that have contributed to their reputations.I repeat is the joke about trashing the actors' other highly respectable on-screen personae with this scurrilously trashy flick? Can the reference to the Austen classics 'Pride and Prejudice' and 'Sense and Sensibility' be anything else? How much of a political statement was it to produce this melodrama using these stars? Are we meant to simply take it as a lay-down misere that all actors are gay and thus letting their on-screen roleplay affect our lifestyles is accepting their private homosexual dealings in our faces, too? I'm sorry, but I don't think so. I say NO to this one. "}]