[{"Title":"Won't change the world, but I loved it","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It took awhile to get going, but I ended up loving Desert Blue quite a bit.  It was nice to see Sexton play a character without  the need for anger-management, and I also liked Kate Hudson also.  It wasn't the greatest, funniest or most touching movie I ever saw, but it was certainly better than most. I liked practically every character on some level, and I can't say that about a lot of movies. It made me think of What's Eating Gilbert Grape & Bagdad Cafe with a touch of Firestarter. "},{"Title":"An unexpectedly enjoyable movie.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie thoroughly.  This movie, led by an ensemble cast of young and rising actors (Brendan Sexton, Kate Hudson, Casey Affleck, Christina Ricci), starts slowly but gathers momentum nicely.  Skye (Hudson), an up-and-coming actress with her own cable comedy, gets trapped in a small California town well off the highway when a chemical spill shuts down the only road in and out of town.  Stuck far from her world -- in a town without cable or cell phones -- Skye is befriended by Blue (Sexton) and meets the local gang -- five kids without much to do. Over two days punctuated by explosions -- the results of Ely's (Ricci) love for illicit bomb making -- the group bonds together in unexpected ways.   "},{"Title":"Feeling Blue","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue With Hurricane Streets. director Morgan J. Freeman burst onto the film scene with a sharp portrayal of bored inner city kids.  Motivated by stealing, disarmed by love, the film was highly entertaining if a bit flawed.  Desert Blue is Freeman's second film and represents his attempt to reach the opposite end of the spectrum. This time, instead of a population of millions, we now get a population of 97. The film is set in fictional Baxter, California, the home of the world's largest ice cream cone and the factory of burgeoning cola company Empire Cola.  When a truck carrying Empire's secret ingredient has a massive accident and subsequent spill, the town in quarantined and put on alert for possible toxic contaminants.  The town locals, who never thought about leaving their boring town before, now become antsy and think about life outside of Baxter.  Kate Hudson (200 Cigarettes) and John Heard play two travelers who were passing through Baxter during the spill.  They become part of the quarantine and befriend the locals. Brendan Sexton III (Hurricane Streets), Casey Affleck (Good Will Hunting), Christina Ricci (Everything independent), and Ethan Suplee (Mallrats) play the local kids.  The ride around all day in ATVs and spend their nights drinking by the long aquaduct.  Each kid harbors a long standing resentment to Baxter, and each kid expresses that uniquely.  Ricci by anarchy, Affleck by ATV racing, Suplee has a long dream of becoming a deputy, and Sexton tries to keep the family business alive, thought it died a long time ago. Desert Blue is somewhat a comedy, somewhat a drama, and somewhat a commercial for poor actors.  While it's nice to see old faces like Sara Gilbert (Roseanne) and Michael Ironside (Total Recall) in small supporting roles, the rest of the cast is laughably bad.  I do understand that they might be trying to conveying boredom, but they do it just a touch too realistically.  That leaves the film with a very awkward static atmosphere. The best moments of the film come when Freeman lets his actors and the plot get a bit silly.  The film comes alive in scenes of Orange baseball, potato guns, and an ad-lib by Casey Affleck that made me laugh the rest of the picture.  Desert Blue could have worked better if Freeman would have lit a fire under the plot.  Too many scenes include drunken ramblings, proof that a film isn't trying.  While I came out of the film with a good feeling about it, I wished the movie could've taken more advantage of it's possibilities.  ------- 6 "},{"Title":"Simple entertainment at it's best.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished seeing Desert Blue for the first time and my first  impressions for this movie are good. I liked this movie for it's simplicity and well written monologues which entangle you in it's story line enough to take you through the entire movie. It's young cast is good enough to portray somewhat lost teenagers in what would be best described as small town U.S.A. All except for the sometimes over played, but not this time, kid star/rich girl portrayed by Kate Hudson. I did though have a problem with the way the movie develops as it seems to leave as hanging awaiting for a ad they lived happily ever after tag Line but then again I guess that was implied in the movie itself. I'd definitely recommend it. I just finished watching it and I can't wait to see it again.  "},{"Title":"I give Desert Blue two thumbs up along with the perfect ten.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What I truly love about Desert Blue, not only is it an all star cast, but it was definitely well thought up. It has mystery. It has dramatic moments. There is not much action, but I feel that it has the perfect amount. Desert Blue also has several amounts of comedy mixed in to bring it all together. If a sequel was to be made of Desert Blue, I would like to see a lot of the same actors and actresses in it. As well as the same director and producer. Since there was just a slight bit of romantic involvement with some of the characters, perhaps the sequel could go in a little deeper into that yet still have all the other elements that a great movie like Desert Blue has. I hope that if there is a sequel, that it will live up to its predecessor. If there wasn't going to be a sequel, perhaps now there will be. "},{"Title":"A great original!!!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow. What a great film. The acting is awesome. The story is original but familiar enough for you to become invested in. The characters are original and quirky in a very real way. The best thing is that, as a teen, I never felt insulted by what I was seeing. Of course, I am not like these people, but I definitely can relate to them and can say I know a few like them. A believable, intriguing film that is both very funny and very dramatic. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Very funny, sweet, well cast and acted","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was much better than I was expecting and much better than most Quirky films with a youthful cast.  Sexton, Ricci and Hudson are all really great.  John Heard is adorable as the shaggy pop culture prof.  Really a nifty little film!  "},{"Title":"i liked it!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i really did like this movie.  it's totally cheesy and teeny-bobberish, but it's cute.  casey affleck is great and so is kate hudson.  i rented this movie and watched it like 5 times over the course of my 5-day rental. gotta get my money's worth and i feel like i did.     "},{"Title":"It's the holy-crap-i-know-that-actor effect","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'd like to preface any comments with the fact that i liked this movie. It was a good watch, and i really enjoyed it. I was never much of a kate hudson fan, but after watching this one it's impossible not to love that girl o)I can't stand the people on imdb that write these over-analytical, hollywood bullsh*t analyses; so i'll keep this one simple and to the point Solid romantic plot, fun dialogue, and interesting characters.I also had fun recognizing some of the people in this film who play lesser roles, who are more notable from other movies/tv shows (i.e. darlene from roseanne, peter mcallister--the dad from home alone, and the head fbi agent--from starship troopers just to name a few). I don't want to brand any of these actors with these roles; it's just that i'd find myself watching and go I know that person!Well, that's all i got here...give it a watch o)  "},{"Title":"Evoking Masterpiece","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue has virtually everything a film can offer; a skillfully evoked setting, characters who imbed themselves in your consciousness, passion and scope. Freeman did a brilliant job directing.This will be in my Top 10 - to watch again and again "}{"Title":"Interesting independent film","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another indie film set in the California desert, kind of the same as others --- except different, just like the real lives of people in those isolated towns.  This one has numerous cute and appealing perspectives, and makes you laugh often.  One minor but distracting error  the pay phone for a callback number has a 702 area code, which was formerly all of Nevada, yet the film is supposedly set in fictional Baxter, California.  (Reason is that it was shot in historic Goldfield, NV, which at the time actually WAS in area code 702, although it has since been changed and only Vegas is 702 now).  Watch Desert Blue -- it's well done, and you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Okay...  I guess.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wholly unoriginal film, can be compared to a hundred different indie flicks. Did have a few bright moments, however...  Well-cast and well-acted (for the most part)...  The ending is quite terrible, though.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, great lines!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Desert Blue at the premiere at SXSW here in Austin.  It was great! Brendan Sexton did a great job with his character, and he was backed by some wonderful acting from the rest of the cast.  The best line of the movie I was trained as a navy SEAL. -Casey Affleck.  Watch for the makeout scene. A hilarious movie about a quirky small town with great characters ranging from the girl who's an explosives expert (Christina Ricci) to a guy who's the defending ATV racing champ (Casey Affleck...Kelly, this is Pete.  I'm number one!...and when my brother learns to drive, you'll be number three!!)  Definitely see this movie when it comes out in June!  I plan on seeing it at least three more times. "},{"Title":"Quirky and Character-Driven","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went to see Desert Blue without having read much about it. I really liked it. It reminded me of the little Austrailian movies that are so quirky and character-driven.It has a very fine cast. Sara Gilbert of Roseanne, ironically, is not playing the TV star who lands in a bit town in the desert, who is played by the more conventionally pretty Kate Hudson; Casey Affleck has brown hair; the ever charming Brendan Sexton III; the always interesting Christina Ricci in mascara mode; John Heard who is becoming like Harvey Keitel in his willingness to be in offbeat projects in addition to mainstream ones.The leisurely pace takes advantage of a terrific set in Nevada and reveals characters onion-like.The soundtrack doesn't use Dave Alvin's Dry River, but the soundtrack was unusual - in addition to groups like the Candyskins, several of the very lyrically-appropriate songs were written by the scorer Vytas Nagisetty and the auteur Morgan J. Freeman - NOT the actor, but who has made several movies with Sexton.I felt cheated without a final kiss; yeah yeah it's a stereotype but come on, give the audience some dessert. Instead there's a different satisfying ending.(originally written 6/13/1999) "},{"Title":"mildly entertaining","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue is both mildly entertaining and boring.  Brendan Sexton III and Kate Hudson cute romance is the only reason I like this movie. Both actors have bright futures in Hollywood. The movie should have focused more on them instead of all these boring supporting characters. The first movie by this director Hurricane Streets is a much better movie.  "},{"Title":"GREAT CHARACTERS, VERY ENTERTAINING!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw the U.S. premiere of desert blue in Austin, Texas and I was very impressed. All the characters are interesting and have great dialogue, the film wasn't as good as Morgan J. Freeman's first movie-hurricane streets, but it was good.Great performances by Brendan Sexton III, Christina Ricci, Ethan Suplee, Michael Ironside and Kate Hudson. Very original story. I liked it  "},{"Title":"Another Review From Me","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue is a pretty good/funny/ sometimes sad movie. Christina was the best, she was my favorite character. The soundtrack was good and so was most of the acting. Some of the whole coca cola stuff was pretty stupid yet funny 8/10 "},{"Title":"Christina Rules","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the only reason i rented this movie was because i saw christina ricci on the cover, she is one of the most beautiful and talented girls ever. this movie wasn't too bad, but sometimes stupid. this whole movie focuses on this coca cola crap and the mysterious death of a truck driver in a small town. they have a pretty funny cast, a dad and his stuck up actress wannabe from l.a, played by ( kate hudson) and some other people that i am too lazy to describe. christina was the best, she was this obsessed with fire gothic chick. she is so beautiful. not bad movie, pretty funny, great music  "},{"Title":"Impressed..","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I tuned into this film missing the opening 10-20 minutes but quickly picked up the plot and instantly became intrigued with the story-line. The movie has a somewhat new and unique feeling to it, exploring a new element I feel of movie-making where we aren't rushed between extravagant scenes of mayhem but based in one location where we get to explore the characters as we should.As I settled down and began watching the film my first impressions were negative in the fact everything was set in bleak locations and not quite the hugely expensive Hollywood blockbusters we are all used to. My interest in wanting to discover what was actually going on and the introduction of a wide range of interesting characters and their personalities made me quickly change my mind about the film and I soon enough didn't want the movie to end.The performances of Kate Hudson (Skye) were very powerful in her come down from TV lifestyle and glamour to her discovery of a whole new way of life and living in the form of her newly found teen friends. Christina Ricci's (Ely Jackson) unstable but humorous appearance was much welcomed and gave the film a cutting edge in drawing attention away from parts of the film that were beginning to drag on a little.I thought the film was very impressive due to the actors hard work and appreciation for the film which will undoubtedly lift their careers. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci blasts all!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've recently seen this movie on TV and I remembered to comment it for IMDb. The movie has a good story and is very well conducted by this Morgan Freeman, the cast is also great Christina Ricci and some brothers of great stars (Richmond Arquette is one of the Arquette Brother, Casey Affleck, younger brother of Ben Affleck) that also act great, although not as well as they expert brothers and sisters. Kate Hudson's character, Skye, is very interesting and she had a great start and she liked her teammates so much that she (she meet Casey Affleck and Christina Ricci again in 200 cigarettes). The funniest scenes of the movies are the blasts, and the most touching is the water running in the end. This movie may be forgotten in a couple of years, but I know that everyone that as an almost impossible dream like the sea in the desert will remember this story after achieving that dream. "}{"Title":"cute, but forgettable","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a nice, sweet film.  It will, however, be quickly forgotten since there is nothing terribly new here.  The acting is very strong.  All in all, it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"great,great,great","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i just got to the milestone 100th viewing of Desert Blue. this movie was way better than most quirky movies with youthful casts. i need visine. oh so quirky. oh so youthful. visine,visine,visine. great,great,great. i love casey affleck, morgan freeman and johnny depp "},{"Title":"Cliches disguised","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue is a very simple story of a spoiled Hollywood actress who, along with her dad (the impressive John Heard) gets stuck in a tiny town whose only pride comes from having the 'World's Largest Ice Cream Cone'. Once in the town, they are forced to stay because of the spilling of a mysterious Cola ingredient, and soon enough the spoiled actress falls for Blue.The films is full of cliches, and the eccentric characters are not original. The plot is standard and the performances just par. Christina Ricci, as in most of her most recent films, plays a bitchy cynic, while all the other characters do little they have a goal and chase after it.Very disappointing stuff, unoriginal and a script which was not very sharp, treading over similar ground. John Heard is the best thing in the movie, and he's not in it very often as Morgan J. Freeman instead focuses on the youth. "},{"Title":"Nowhere town...nowhere teens...movie that goes nowhere...","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Any town that needs a giant ice cream cone to put it on the map, has to be a pathetically boring place to live, so why make a movie about boredom? The end result is a well acted, but totally pointless film. You need more than a bunch of quirky characters trapped by a hazardous materials spill doing essentially nothing that creates interest. Even the truck crash, occasional pyrotechnic explosions, and a shooting, are done off screen, further contributing to this pointless and extremely shallow movie. John Heard has made some terrific films (see Cutter's Way), unfortunately Desert Blue would not be among them. You have been warned. - MERK "},{"Title":"stupid ending, if you can call it an ending","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An OK movie. It's watchable, especially young people seem to like it. But see Tex, with Matt Dillon, instead. That was a movie that actually captured bored youth at their best and worst. The ending of Desert Bluegives me the impression that they didn't know how to end the film! Too bad... And Christina Ricci's character was overplayed. Sorry, not believeable to me, but teens like her antics, and why not. But when you get older, you'll know what bad acting (or scripting) really is when you see it.Also, am I crazy, or are the first 2 anonymous reviews from march 1999 too good to be true? In other words, nice try, whoever-you-are-that-is-connected-with-the-making-of-this-film-and-want-to-p romote-it!... "},{"Title":"Brain fart","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Desert Blue, the nickname of a central character, tells of a handful of young adults in a ramshackle desert town who have too much time and too little to do with it. The film is long on talent but so short on story one can only wonder how it ever got into production much less distribution. Slow, monotonous, boring, and dumb,  Desert Blue is one of those B-flicks which one watches with detachment always cognizant of the fact the characters are actors going through the motions required for their paycheck. For fans only. (C) "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be okay.  The story line was pretty good.  The acting was fairly good.  It may prove to be a training film for some promising young actors.  Being from the east coast, it gave an interesting depiction of what it's like to live in a small, desert town. "},{"Title":"Just Drive On Through...","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you ever happen upon Baxter, California (Pop. 87, and home tothe world's largest ice cream cone) you might wanna just keep ontruckin' clear on through to the next town; there's NOTHINGhappening here.Populated with a very small cast of marginally eccentriccharacters, mostly listless teens, Desert Blue tells the story of agroup of bored (and boring) townsfolk inhabiting what remains ofan old miners settlement.  One day a Cultural Studies professor(John Heard) and his snotty young actress daughter (KateHudson) stop by to get a look at the world's largest ice cream conemonument!  Suddenly, a tanker truck carrying the secret ingredientused to make local soda-magnate Empire Cola's special brewoverturns and spews out toxic chemicals, which of course meansthe FBI is called in to quarantine the town!  Now all the teens haveleft to do is sit around drinking and making out!  Which means ofcourse that Hudson's character, Skye, will fall for the sensitive (ie.,dumb) local boy, Blue, who is so desperately trying to fulfill hisdead father's dream of opening a water-park in the middle of thedesert (?), and in turn she become a much more sensitive womanin the process!  Awwww.  Oh, and Christina Ricci likes to blow stuffup...........real good!The film reeks of having little to say, or show, but nonetheless s-t- r-e-t-c-h-i-n-g  out what it does provide as long as it can.  None ofthe characters is expanded on enough to be truly engaging oranything beyond mere caricature.  Not that the acting is bad (withthe exception of Ricci, who is just horrible), but Hudson comes offas the closest to being realistic, with the others merely beingample.  The film itself doesn't look too bad visually, although itbecomes very noticeable that most action takes place outside ofthe town, or inside locations, so that no people outside of the castappear anywhere.  The best part of the film is the eclecticsoundtrack, featuring some nice old Country & Western tracksspliced in amongst the newer lo-fi stuff.  Over-all, I've written farmore than this film deserves words wasted on it.5/10.  Yawn.  Sunday afternoon fodder at best or a cure forinsomnia at least. "}]