[{"Title":"Too Funny","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see this movie and was enjoying it, and then it came to the bit where they were rescuing the hostage from the house. Imagine my surprise when I realised that the house in question was in fact my own one!! My girlfriend and I had just bought it a month before and knew nothing about the fact that it was used as a location in the movie....the surrounding woodland on the property was also used for other scenes. Needless to say our attention was rivetted to the screen from then on, but that said, it was a very entertaining movie anyhow. I do however think you need to have a certain understanding of the Irish psyche and way of life to get full value from the hilarious script. Brendan Gleeson and Peter MacDonald both excellent, even if they did have a shoot-out at my kitchen door!! "},{"Title":"Many meanings for the term 'I went down' .....","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise! One of the earlier set of well-made Irish films with not a shamrock or a leprechaun in sight. The banter between Gleeson and McDonald is well-timed, realistic and naturally, hilarious. A film that somewhat reflects a 'real' Ireland that we can relate to(er, possibly without all the guns and violence). A film that shows what a talent we have here. "},{"Title":"An unusual Irish road movie with lots of comic touches.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WARNING - POSSIBLE SPOILER DETAILS INCLUDEDThis is a cool Irish road movie with brilliant performances from the two lead actors. Brendan Gleeson is a master of these Irish rogue type roles, and his comic timing is impeccable. With his pork-chop sideburns and leather jacket, he would be somebody you couldn't trust as far as you could throw him if you met him in person. It is no wonder that Gleeson is now commanding roles in big budget blockbusters like Mission Impossible 2, AI, and the latest Harry Potter flick. His charisma jumps off the screen and I'm sure he will go from strength to strength.Peter McDonald gives an understated performance as Git, and acts as a perfect foil to the exuberant Gleeson. McDonald's hang-dog expression is perfect for scenes such as the Balaclava fiasco, where he ends up wearing a child's woolly hat! The supporting cast of villains and ne'er do wells is also very convincing, particularly Peter Caffrey as Frank Grogan, whose brand of Irish Blarney and dirty tricks is wonderful to watch.All in all this is a very enjoyable film both for the splendid acting, non-fussy directing, and a storyline that is tight while still allowing plenty of time for the comic antics to run their course.Please see this film if you get the chance.  "},{"Title":"So he done a Sonny Mulligan?","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film, which was shot in various locations within Dublin (posing as Cork) is in my opinion one of the best movies to come out of Ireland, Its a great tale of two guys thrown together to complete a task which neither of them want to do.  The dialogue and wit between both main players is funny (warning explenatives abound) and sometimes touching.  Git (McDonald), the novice to the world of shady dealings and gangsters and Bunny Kelly (Gleeson), a man who has been there, done that and shot the gun, according to him anyway.The movie moves at a fairly quick pace, we are given glimses at Bunny and Gits life and why they are both in the predicament they are in.  The situation humor is spot on with some funny set pieces, with great dialogue between the two.  The late Tony Doyle gives a great performance as Tom French, the gangster with a great line in put downs and a man with who you just dont mess with.  The story has twists and turns much like the travelled roads the guys are on, the twists and turns are nicely explained by the films end.  The film is one of the few films which holds up to repeat viewings.  Overall, the film is worth watching and remember,The benefit of the Doubt, can even save your life - Mr Bunny Kelly BA  "},{"Title":"Subtly clever and cockeyed small time comedy about small time crooks.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I Went Down is a droll, sometime monotonous, sometimes clever comedy about a couple of guys who run an errand for a small time gangster and end up embroiled an underworld scheme of very limited proportions. The film spends most of its time studying the characters involved as its mildly humorous story unfolds leading to an eventful conclusion which may or may not be worth the wait depending on individual taste. I Went Down, the title, is a double entendre representative of the very subtle humor the film embodies. A worthwhile watch for those who enjoy puns and dry humor. "},{"Title":"I owe Conor, Paddy, Peter and Brendan a wee dram for this beaut!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A well shot, well written, well acted gangster comedy that for me blows lock stock and two smoking barrels right out of the water. Brendan and Peter play the two out-of-their-depth ex-cons brilliantly, in fact they play them so well that I find it hard to watch them in other roles, to me they are Bunny and Git. Conor Mcpherson transfers his stage writing skills well to the big screen and doesn't lose any of his humour.Paddy Breathnach directs the action well but it is slower paced than some may expect, or want, in their gangster comedies but I think it makes perfect Sunday afternoon hangover viewing, so sit down with the hair of the dog and a big fat fry up and prepare to love this film! "},{"Title":"Bunny, Git and A Friendly Face.","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I Went Down is directed by Paddy Breathnach and written by Conor McPherson. It stars Peter McDonald, Brendan Gleeson, Tony Doyle and Peter Caffrey. Music is by Dario Marianelli and cinematography by Cian de Buitlear.Fresh out of prison, Git Hynes (McDonald) runs into trouble with local mob boss Tom French (Doyle) and finds himself having to work off a debt to him. He's to accompany Bunny Kelly (Gleeson) to Cork and locate Frank Grogan (Caffrey) and bring him back to Dublin. There's some murky history at the core of this request, but for now Bunny and Git must survive each other and a host of life challenges before they begin to worry about Tom French's motives.Hugely popular in Ireland for a number of years, this independent comedy/drama is finally starting to get noticed by a wider home viewing audience. Film takes a couple of likable rogues and sets them off on a topsy-turvy journey of peril and self discovery. So far so formulaic then. No question about it, plot is unadventurous and outcome is hardly in the realms of the twisty surprise. But dialogue and character interactions are sharp and vital, often cutting and witty. The actors are ever watchable (especially Gleeson and Caffrey), while the fact that the story focuses on a different Ireland to the one that's often tainted by The Troubles, gives the film a freshness that off sets the standard buddy buddy road movie formula of the plot.Director Breathnach goes for the slow burn approach, choosing to let McPherson's script dominate the picture. Yes there's some action, and good sequences flit in and out of the narrative, but the director is mostly about letting his characters breath, fully forming them with each passage of play during the guy's journey/mission. Even a sex scene is deftly slotted in and comes out as tasteful and a further expansion on the character of Git Hynes. It's thoughtful film making as regards being a character driven piece. There's a most interesting side issue involving the women in Git's and Bunny's lives, two men just about traversing the path on the wrong side of the law, both with gal trouble that gnaws away at their masculinity.It's not the Irish Midnight Run, as I was personally led to believe it was, and any expectation of a violent fun fest will only lead to disappointment. But it has many virtues to make it a safe recommendation to those that enjoy crisp and intelligent dialogue and fully formed characterisations. Nice photography, too. 7/10 "},{"Title":"I Really Loved This Film","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A rare thing in Irish cinema ...an Irish movie that's not afraid to be authentically Irish. Where other movies attempt to tailor their image and dialogue to suit an American or British market this independent gem from Paddy Breathnach and Conor McPherson depicts believable characters acting and talking in a way that real Irish people would ...a great example being how seriously the lead duo consider the handling of a gun (guns are still not very easy to come across in Irish society and having one is a big deal. The screenplay has echoes of Tarantino and the Coen brothers while not being a slavish rip-off of either and essentially plays as a buddy, road movie; it even manages to include a scene in an Irish bog without seeming twee! Brendan Gleeson's star turn as bunny provides the perfect foil to McDonald's shy, pent-up lead and the movie manages to evoke laughter, sympathy and ultimately happiness as it winds it's way to a satisfactory, yet not overly sugar-coated, ending.Be warned ...I watched this film with my old Canadian flatmate and had to explain a lot of the 'Irish-ism's' in the dialogue as it went along so some of the humour may go over the heads of non Irish-viewers. "},{"Title":"Excellent film with a mix of action, comedy, and even a little passion.","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was one of the best films I have seen in a while. Peter McDonald and Brendan Gleeson's chemistry together reminded me of much better known and consequently higher cost Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta in Pulp Fiction.The movie showed me that having the well known actors shouldn't make the movie. If they are good actors, the script will make the movie, and effectively promote the careers of the actors.The script did an excellent job of portraying the relationships between the characters involved.Again this was one of the best movies I have seen in a while.  "},{"Title":"A gem of a movie; action, humour and fast-pace","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I Went Down is a gem of a movie. Although it has been fairly overlooked, it in my opinion is one of the best Irish movies to date. Before films like 'Lock, Stock...' and 'Intermission' made these colloquial crime-capers the fashion, this fast-paced, funny and thoroughly enjoyable action movie hit the big screens. Brendan Gleeson, as ever, is outstanding in his role as Bunny Kelly, but he's not on his own by any means. There are no other big names, but there is some very big performances. Much like the aforementioned 'Lock, stock...' the dialogue is what steals the show, but it's also well shot, and plot is great. I Went Down shouldn't be missed.  "}{"Title":"Genre hybridity and a delicate mix of both light and dark gangster material goes down nicely in this rare find.","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a find 1997 Irish film I Went Down turned out to be; a film that greatly reminded me of Stephen Frears' 1984 film entitled The Hit and one that packs in just about everything from crime to comedy; from the gangster genre to the road movie arc and from the buddy sub-genre to the sorting out of romances with loved ones. I Went Down doesn't ever exploit nor does it trivialise its subject matter and nor does it ever loose focus by lurching down one route by way of centring too much on one of the many ingredients it takes on. The film is a balanced buddy comedy, veering off into scenes of great disturbance and wrong-doing in a timely and tasteful manner but retaining a certain 'feel' to it; a certain heart.Some of the central themes to I Went Down revolve around relationships between human beings. The placement of I Went Down in the 'road movie' narrative arc enables the two central protagonists and a third character, who's being transported, to bond for long periods in a lone location as they physically travel together. The leads are Git Hynes (McDonald), a young man just out of prison, and Bunny Kelly (Gleeson), a rough and ready if somewhat clumsy criminal that has his own way in which to see that the job's done. They are charged by a certain criminal boss named Tom French (Doyle) to travel to Cork and recover Frank Grogan (Caffrey) before taking him to a remote, rural location (always a dangerous place in these noir-infused tales) for supposed judgement.The film recalls 1984's The Hit as a film about two men, of rather unbalanced 'types' transport a third, seemingly more helpless man, to his supposed death. Whereas John Hurt's silent and experienced gangster was in direct comparison to Tim Roth's younger and more scociopathic up-coming criminal; Gleeson and McDonald's two leads are explored more physically; as one exhibits short, wiry and somewhat soft-bodied characteristics as opposed to a much larger, clumsy and more 'involving' individual that likes the attention and action. In both The Hit and I Went Down, the supposedly hapless victim wears a face of acceptance; he sits in the rear of the car and seems cool with his dangerous predicament; and while Terrance Stamp will forever be better known, Peter Caffrey's performance as the upbeat and talkative soon-to-be-in-mortal-danger individual goes down rather well.Some of the things I noticed early on included an amusing dig at BSkyB, probably on behalf of the BBC who co-funded this, when it appears some gangsters have it in mind that taking a man out back, sitting him down in front of the TV and tuning into a Sky Sports channel is a dreadful punishment. I also got the sense that Git, the lead, wasn't imposing enough or rugged enough to carry the sort of character he was playing, although this was sort of the point in the sense his partner, Bunny, took on the necessary conventions. By the end, we've met some pretty rough and ready characters; those that are involved in murder and criminal activity whereas Git, as this alienated young man more-so a gangster, just seems to share this space with these people in an out-of-his-depth predicament. The tactic here being able to get across a sense of vulnerability in one of the leads, someone who is involved with people but doesn't share the criminally efficient mindset, best demonstrated with Git's surprise when it transpires Bunny has unexpectedly robbed a petrol station.So if Git is the glue around which the story unravels, then it is Bunny who undergoes the most interesting of transformations. Both men reveal some pretty deep feelings as well as tales as they sit at a dark, glum-looking and smoky hotel bar &#x96; is there any better cinematic space for two men to talk of women and loves-past? &#x96; and we realise why Bunny berated Frank earlier on in the car when he began conversations of a sexual nature. Bunny's issues and patchy relationship with his wife are best explored during a phone call to her; the half painted/half to be painted stair banister located just behind the figure on the phone stands as an excellent symbolist representation of a relationship that should be leading up (like a banister as it leads you up the stairs), but just feels rocky and half baked. The symbolism here works better than it should, because we've built up a connection of some sort with these people who are, essentially, criminals but bumbling and down-to-earth people caught up in something far meaner.One of the film's other ideas that it sort of touches on here and there is the connection the men make as they undergo their journey. In a fleeting moment that Frank manages to evade his captors, he escapes to another hotel and bathes; but Bunny is equally quick witted and arrives in his room only to physically get into the bath with Frank while fully clothed in what is a scene that takes both Frank and the rest of the audience by total surprise. The earlier gag about Bunny being caught in the past for indecent exposure, which had previously been in the back of our minds, jumps right to the front again as Bunny forces his way into the same 'space' as his goal. I Went Down is a darkly comic, somewhat disturbing at times, but very engrossing film that comes complete with a broad atmosphere and a respectable attitude to some rather intimate ideas. It's a winner. "},{"Title":"Second time's the charm!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'I Went Down' is a great movie.Ok, I'm Irish, I would say that.However, most English-speaking people would actually have no problem in understanding and appreciating most of the wit, humour and language in the movie, despite all the 'scare-mongering' on the web. In fact the movie proved to be very popular in non-English-speaking countries as well. The film contains a good measure of violence mixed with humour that isn't forced. The situations presented in the movie, while being out of the ordinary, are presented in a way people can relate to, more-so than many American movies of a similar vein.(I'm talking about the usual mob based story involving million dollar drugs deals, corrupt FBI agents, rogue-turned-hero and the like. That just doesn't happen too regularly outside the confines of script-writer's minds and movie theatres.) 'I Went Down', by not being over-ambitious with either its villains or heroes, creates more believable characters and a situation that could happen anywhere.(It probably won't, but then again it could...groovy, huh?)I must admit, I didn't enjoy this movie very much when I saw it in the cinema. But then I watched it again when it was on television.and it blew me away. The humour got to me and its one of the few movies I laugh out loud to.I urge anyone who didn't enjoy it first time 'round, give it a second chance. Those who haven't seen it - Rent it NOW! Here's the teaser that'll bug you until you do see it (and that'll make those of you have seen it smile smugly to yourselves ;^) - Think about the balaclava scene, think about the gun that Bunny gives Git and you're thinking about cinematic comedy classics.  "},{"Title":"The genuine article.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I saw this movie, and after I had stopped laughing, I realised that it wasn't a film which was going to travel well.  As an Irishman, I've been somewhat disappointed with the recent spate of melodramatic and formulaic films that have been leaving our shores in recent years (i.e. Michael Collins). I Went Down is a refreshing release from this trend.Having read the 'net reviews it seems my fears have been realised.  This movie doesn't hold back when it comes to Irish accents, figures of speech and wit.  I know I was falling off my seat at the behaviour of the characters, the Black and Amber pub and the meeting in the bog.  I hope people see it for it was intended to be, an Irish movie, and not criticise it because it doesn't fit under the Hollywood model.dave. "},{"Title":"The best Irish film ever, bar none","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I Went Down is simply a masterpiece of Irish cinema, and by all accounts it stands up superbly anywhere in the world as a hilarious, dark, suspenseful film with more twists than either side of Princess Leia's head. The two main leads, Brendan Gleeson and Peter McDonald, are both new to starring roles (McDonald is in his first role in films) but it never shows in either performance. The whole cast works with extreme confidence and style and with the material, why not? There are more memorable scenes in I Went Down than in the average cinematic year. This is possibly one of the top films of all time. Unmissable.  "},{"Title":"that pull off this great script","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Take one ex-con who owes a mobster a favour. Add one tough thug. Give them a mission... well give them half a mission and let them figure out the rest. That's the basic premise of I Went Down, Ireland's latest offering about crime, life and learning how to survive. Peter McDonald plays Git Hynes, who is recently out of prison when he falls into trouble with mobster, Mr. French (played by Tony Doyle). To make things right, Git is teamed up with Bunny Kelly (played by Brendan Gleeson of Braveheart, Michael Collins, The Snapper and others) to go and retrieve French's old friend, Frank Grogan. When this pair finally gets to Grogan, the film really takes off. Git discovers he is expected to kidnap Grogan. He didn't know from the start? No, and that's part of I Went Down's charm. Deeds that Git would never have done are thrust upon him at the last moment. Grogan is a talkative hostage who works his way into the hearts of his kidnappers, making this more than just a simple job for them.I Went Down has much the same feel as other UK films in recent years (The Commitments, The Full Monty and Trainspotting come to mind). As the hoods lurch from one misadventure to another, the film takes unpredictable turns, keeping us abreast of the plot as it happens in a fresh and entertaining way. The film starts in a very different place from where it ends, and you really can't tell where it's going to go, until you're pretty much right there. Credit should go to Conor McPherson for a screenplay that instils us with empathy and concern, without taking the rough edges off of the movie's characters. Equally important are the strong performances that pull off this great script.   "},{"Title":"Well worth watching.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't love this as much as some people, (see above) but I did like this one a lot.  Lots of great lines like ...you sneaky f***in'... in-the-bath- fella! Plenty of deadpan humor. Reminds me of Midnight Run crossed with Pulp Fiction and just a little Miller's Crossing.  I rented it twice, check it out.  "},{"Title":"No guts, no black puddin'.","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When one watches Irish films, one expects that the dialog is going to be so much more important than any action sequences. It's the reason we are here.Brendan Gleeson is also the reason we are here, as he is one of the finest and funniest actors in England. Bunny (Gleeson) gets to accompany Git (Peter McDonald) on a job. Along the way, we come across interesting characters like Frank Grogan (Peter Caffrey), and interesting locales with their own special stories.But, like we saw in In Bruges, it it McDonald and Gleeson that carry the film. "},{"Title":"Pls tell me the last dialogs","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hi guys, Can someone please tell me the last exchanges of Git and Gleeson in the car on their way to the airport? What does Git say after Yes(she did suck...), I would too????? please please reply. also any other great IRISh recommends please do tell meits like not getting the last bit of the movie and feeling incomplete...so if someone understands this nagging feeling...and i don't want to talk so much but i have got to fill my ten lines for this comment to be up...so if u can find the time...just read the first three lines, they constitute the entire essence...now i am just filling space ...an "},{"Title":"Forget Pulp Fiction, this is real.....","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Having lived my entire life in Dublin, I may appear to be bias. However, I don't believe I am, but I do believe I 'get' this movie a lot more than a person from another land might. The dialogue, which is the movies strongest point, is not only hilarious, it's totally real.This film is like a trip to a rough Dublin pub. Complete with idiotic 'North-siders' and Irish slang. Pulp Fiction is said to have some of the best dialogue ever, but even it's biggest fan can't deny that the dialogue has a very staged feel. 'I Went Down' however, really does sound like two regular Dublin lads having a 90 minute argument.By the way, the title refers to the two characters driving down to Cork, not what you may think. "},{"Title":"Gets better and better in repeat viewings","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When watching this movie for the first time on the Trio network, I felt a little iffy about it.  I've never seen an Irish film prior to this--unless you count the Leprechaun movies...lol.  The accents were hard to understand, and they still are.  But as I watched the film more and more, I better understood the dialogue.  Of course, I could use the luxury of putting on the closed-captions, but every time I do it feels weird.  Besides, it takes all the fun out of it.  I've seen Brendan Gleeson in other movies, though.  I remember him from Lake Placid and Mission Impossible 2.  He's a very talented actor, and for the first time I got to hear him talk in his native tongue.  He's very funny in this film, and says some very funny lines.  I get more adjusted to the Irish brand of humor in repeat viewings.  When I first saw it, I just chuckled here and there.  But earlier today I watched it and I was laughing out loud.  It's good to watch a movie that actually gets BETTER the more times you watch it.  The other actor is good as well, in a more low-key role.  There are some very beautiful women in this movie, including Git's ex-girlfriend and the blondie he sleeps with later in the story.  Now both of those girls were breathtakingly gorgeous!  Makes me wanna take a trip to Ireland.  If 90 percent of the women are that beautiful, then I'd love to cruise around those streets.  I Went Down is funny, original, fast-paced and very entertaining.  I'm glad I bought a copy of the movie--it was only $4.99, can you believe that?  I love this movie, and the next I watch it I'll love it even more!  Be sure to check out this imported gem.  My score  7 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"Most excellent Irish movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to comment without giving too much away. Let's just say that this is a delightful, funny, but not shallow, film about the relationships we form in our lives out of necessity. Wonderful acting, sincere script, unique Irish humor. "},{"Title":"An Irish Lock Stock...","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant film. I watched this film in two sittings. One incomplete late night session and an early next morning, can't wait to see how it turned out follow up. It might have scored higher if I'd made it through in one sitting.The characters were very solid, varied and believable. The depressing Irish architecture, rolling greenery and bleak bogs were perfect.The hapless thuggery and sweet innocence made a fetching combination. "},{"Title":"VERY,VERY AMUSING","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just couldn't stop laughing at this film.It was so funny.I don't agree with the guy who says that it is the best Irish film ever made.Watch The General with Brendan Gleeson.You'll love it as well.Or Sweety Barrett.Or The Craic. "},{"Title":"what a surprise","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found this movie playing in a cool little theater in Bar Harbor ME. Had never heard a thing about it but it sounded fun. What a great time.  I can`t believe it hasn't gotten more attention.  Definitley worth checking out.   "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny & quirky","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you can get past your fear of hearing the English language with a totally undiluted Irish accent (which you should get used to, if this movie is an indication of things to come), you'll find an odd little gem.  Hilarious scenes like the weapon/ski mask scene.  Quirky characters leading the charge into unknown situations.If for no other reason than the scene descriptions, you should see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Question","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A generally enjoyable film, but why would a good-looking woman in a bar pick up and sleep w/a guy who fell in a bog, has been wearing the same clothes since, and who has a broken nose?I guess so the film can have a sex scene (not that I don't like to see naked women as much as the next guy)... "},{"Title":"Not As Good As It Could Have Been ....","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  .... But not as bad as it could have been either I had a problem with the title of this movie . What does  I Went Down  conjure up to you ? I thought thought we'd be seeing a bio-pic on Monica Lewinsky I seriously did but instead found myself watching a black comedy road movie This is a co-production between the BBC and the Irish film council made at the same time when British film production was picking up thanks to TRAINSPOTTING and THE FULL MONTY . There's aspects that give a vague nod British production premise of having a couple of losers in the shape of Git Hynes and Bunny Kelly make an unlikely journey but the Irish influence adds a lot of charm to the story that was missing in say THE FULL MONTYThere are a few problems though . One is that the director seems to bottle out of wanting to use on screen violence . For example Git is shown getting into a fight early in the movie which ends with a bottle being smashed on a table then it cuts to a character telling Git how angry he is that a character has been maimed . It's like the director went out of his way not to show any serious violence . There's also a few unlikely occurrences throughout the movie usually involving Bunny . You'll know them when you see them I'm sure Having said that I WENT DOWN is a lot better than many other movies that were funded by public bodies in the British Isles round about the same time . It's by no means a great movie but is far more entertaining than say THE LIFE OF STUFF and THE SLAB BOYS  "},{"Title":"Very much a boys will be boys movie","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although occasionally diverting and sometimes innovative, it is still a small-time-crooks-run-rings-around-their-problems. I was bored to tears. "},{"Title":"Fallacies and Topics apart.............","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As a young lad at school in Southern London in the 1950s I found myself inculcated with the idea of the supremacy of being English, and that the Irish were so silly they only knew how to plant potatoes............Years later, from my friendly enclave retreat, hidden in the depths of peaceful Spain, I have noted how over the last twenty years the Emerald Isle has been doing some wonderful things in all spheres of life, especially with its valuable contribution as a member of the European Union.So I would prefer to do without trivial stupidities which are supposed to be some kind of comedy but which are no more than comical in bad taste, such as this pointless film `I Went Down', which, for some reason beyond me, seems bent on reaffirming those indoctrinations with which I was fed half a century ago.   "}]