[{"Title":"Holly Springs, MS - What a Great Place to Live","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman has an affinity for the South, and Cookie's Fortune, reveals that it is gentle, pleasant and relaxed. Set in small town Mississippi there are none of the typical Hollywood stereotypes of flaming racial hatred, sexual oppression, and class bigotry. Well, not much at least. The characters in Holly Springs all know and like one another regardless of their race and social standing. Well acted by a great ensemble cast that portray an 'Altmanesque' kaleidoscope of small-town characters, most of whom are eccentrics.  The plot revolves around the suicide of Cookie, a matriarch of one of the town's leading families. Since suicide is considered disgraceful, two of her nieces, upon discovering her body, cover it up to make it look like a murder. And then an innocent man becomes the prime suspect and...off we go.  Ok, so it's not as 'deep' as many of Altman's films, nor as dark either. But that's not bad, and Cookie's Fortune is a very enjoyable movie. I recommend it highly for a Saturday night rental. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's best","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to believe a film this sunny came from Robert Altman, and is also this good, but there you go.  While I love some of his films, like M*A*S*H, MCCABE AND MRS. MILLER, NASHVILLE, THE PLAYER, and SHORT CUTS, there are times when I feel he has a fundamental contempt for his subject matter, like in THE LONG GOODBYE and POPEYE, and for his characters.  But while this movie, well-written by Anne Rapp, is essentially a Tennessee Williams drama turned inside out (Glenn Close's character is the only one who seems like a refugee from Williams territory), we instead feel a great deal for each of the characters.  Even Close's Camille, whose machinations end up in the temporary jailing of an innocent man for a crime that never was, is somewhat likable.When Altman is on, we really get a sense of community and place, as opposed to movies which are just a triumph of production design, and this is no exception.  The best example of this is how Lester(Ned Beatty), a deputy sheriff, sums up his reasons for why Willis(Charles S. Dutton), that innocent man referred to earlier, is innocent of killing Cookie(Patricia Neal); I fished with him.  In another movie, that line of reasoning would be ridiculous, but since you feel all of these people have known each other for years, it seems just right.  And the rhythms of the town feel right as well, so you don't feel like you're just watching a filmed set.Casting has always been a hallmark of Altman films, and this one is no different.  Charles S. Dutton is as good as they say, being more restrained than usual, Close shows great comic timing in her role, and Julianne Moore is very good as her put-upon younger sister, who has a lot more to her than meets the eye.  And Altman regulars like Beatty and Lyle Lovett are quite good as well.  The most surprising turns came from Liv Tyler and Chris O'Donnell.  I've liked Tyler before(in HEAVY, EMPIRE RECORDS, and THAT THING YOU DO!), but to imagine her with shorn hair playing a rebel who skins fish for a living was a bit much, to say the least, but she's utterly convincing. O'Donnell has always seemed too callow, but here he's quite funny as a deputy sheriff who's seen way too many cop shows.  And he and Tyler have nice chemistry together. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise, to say the least! Cookie is a wonderful, rich work from Altman with great characters, performances, story, music and writing!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie shoots herself. Glenn Close discovers the body and the suicide note. Being a theatrical director, she decides this will not do... She invents a scenario for how a burglar might have murdered her. What she didn't expect was for the police to find a suspect...Everything just goes completely right in Cookie. The atmosphere really gels, the cast are cohesive, the plot situation is interesting and its subtextual implications on suicide is also fascinating. Its actually an Altman film you feel like delving into. The amateur production of Salome the community are putting on is one of his most interesting devices. It gets you thinking of rhythms that run through the film, of suicide and human existence.Also, Glenn Close's being a theatrical director, and carrying those skills into everyday life, to fairly extreme measures in the film, is an interesting subtext - commenting on the director/author as God.Altman's regular themes of the small town and the weather are here - the weather once again reminding us of a higher force we have no control over.I thought it was a fascinating, enjoyable film. I laughed out loud many times - mainly at just fun little aspects of the characters. Which is why it was such a pleasant surprise that Cookie's Fortune was not only an enjoyable movie, its actually a really great one.10/10. One of Altman's best, and my favourites so far. "},{"Title":"A comedy that deserves to be seen","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ever since I've seen Gosford Park I'm convinced that Robert Altman has some real talent. The only Altman movie that I had seen before that one was Prêt-à-Porter, at least a part of it, but enough to know that I didn't like it. So when I got the chance to see this movie with the interesting title Cookie's Fortune, I gave it a try. I thought that this would be a comedy about a Chinese restaurant or something (The only thing that I knew before taping it, was that it was a comedy from Robert Altman, that's where my confusion comes from). It had nothing to do with what I thought, but I liked it nevertheless...Jewel Mae Cookie Orcutt is an older lady who lives in a small town, called Holly Springs. All the residents are peaceful, kind folk, except for her niece Camille Dixon. Cookie is a widow for several years now, but she isn't alone. Willis Richland does all her shopping and helps her wherever he can. But she is tired of living without her husband and she wants to die. She commits suicide, but when the irritating and pushy Camille discovers what her aunt has done, she decides to cover up the real story, convinced that this will have a bad influence on the good family name. Together with her shy younger sister Cora, whose estranged daughter Emma as just returned to town, she tries to make it all look like a robbery and murder. To do so, she eats the suicide note, hides the gun in the bushes and shatters some windows. The police is convinced that the murder story is true and they start looking for a suspect, Willis. Although the rest of the town is convinced Willis didn't commit the crime, an outside investigator isn't so sure. But as the truth comes out, more secrets are revealed than everybody thought existed in this quiet town...I guess it's the combination of the rather naive looking people in the town, the nice story and the fine acting that makes this movie work. Of course you expect to see some nice performances from people like Glenn Close, Julianne Moore, Liv Tyler,... but in my opinion it was Charles S. Dutton who was the most surprising of them all. He has already played some minor roles in well known movies like Alien³ and Se7en, but it was the first time that I saw him in major role and I must say that I liked it.Overall, this may not be the most original movie, but it is a nice comedy and I had some good laughs with it. Sure, it is a bit stereotypical, but that's not bad. It's a comedy and well-used stereotypes are always funny to watch. Add to this some fine acting and a nice story and what you get is a comedy that certainly deserves to be seen. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"rather sweet; left me with a smile when I first saw it","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One might call Cookie's Fortune a 'minor' effort from Robert Altman, a filmmaker who once commented that each film is all part of the same picture, or rather one long movie with bits and pieces making up a career whole. But it has enough going for it through its very competent cast and interesting script to keep it afloat from being the kind of small film little old ladies might watch on TV during the day. In that sense it isn't as 'heavy' as some of Altman's other work. It is also cool enough to treat the subject of a mystery around a suicide with enough humanity to make some scenes smile-worthy. Considering some of the darker elements in the script, Altman depicts this to the point where- get this- Cookie's Fortune is sometimes shown on the HBO family channel! Is it really a kid's film? I'm not sure, but it isn't work for only one age group- its appeal from its cast of a collective of small towners is appealing to most in the audience. That the cast- Glenn Close, Liv Tyler, (especially) Charles S. Dutton, even Chris O'Donnell- gels and plays some of the dialog sincerely even when its meant to not be taken seriously at all, is a credit to the filmmaker. That it also might not be quite as memorable as some of the director's major films is and is not a fault. It is a fault because the subject matter is sort of stuck in a certain genre realm. It is not because the subject mater is also very much more intelligent than would be expected at times. I was also fond of certain scenes and interactions with the actors, the rhythm of it all, like early on with Dutton and the actress Patricia Neal who plays the old lady. I also really like the climax. So it's a good work about the rumblings and eccentricities of a small town, the good in people as well as the lesser parts, and parts of greed and death seen through a light that is not aiming for anything 'cheap', so to speak. "},{"Title":"A nice place to visit...","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What would it have been like had Tennessee Williams -- for some unfathomable reason -- been hired to write a script for The Andy Griffith Show? This is hardly a pressing question for either amusement or intellectual debate, but the answer would surely be something very much like Robert Altman's COOKIE'S FORTUNE. This is undoubtedly Altman's most accessible and likable effort. It is set in Holly Springs, Mississippi, but it could just as easily be Mayberry, North Carolina. Both are in a fantasy world just north of Sitcomville and across the ridge from Capratown. In Altman fashion, Holly Springs is populated with variety of oddball folk, but in contradiction to Altman tradition, they mostly tend to be free of cynicism and malice. Andy, Opie, Barney and Aunt Bee would feel right at home. Indeed, there is even a town jail where the cell doors are left unlocked, all the better to allow visitors to come and go as they please. The hypothetical contribution by Tennessee Williams is nonetheless apparent as well. There is a murder mystery, a suicide, a bit of gore, a dash of sex, some racial consciousness and Glenn Close, whose character might be a second cousin to Blanche DuBois. But these elements of dark and twisted madness aren't all that removed from the cheerful eccentricity that is a trademark of fictional smalltown America. As such, COOKIE'S FORTUNE falls somewhere between SHADOW OF DOUBT and THE GHOST AND MR. CHICKEN in its representation of bucolic life; there is a cheerful silliness to the characters, but tragedy darkens the edges just a tad. No one would ever accuse Altman of being the sentimental type. His screen career has consisted largely of taking pot shots at the American landscape, aiming to reveal hypocrisy behind everything from patriotism to idealism, with his preferred vehicle of deconstruction being the conventions of various movie genres. He has taken a wrecking ball to everything from the backstage musical to film noir to westerns to sci-fi. Yet he approaches the Capraesque vision of smalltown American with a gentle good humor, refraining from indulging in either parody or satire. COOKIES FORTUNE is probably the only Altman film where the characters are characters, i.e., loopy individuals, not archetypes to be debunked or mocked. I'm an admirer of Altman's films, but I have to admit that I am hard pressed to think of any other instance where I felt actual affection for any of his characters.Alas, Altman's visit to Holly Springs is no doubt a side trip in the director's journey from one important film to the next. A chance to stretch his legs a bit before getting back to the serious business of showing how corrupt the world is. That's a shame, because Holly Springs is a right nice little place to visit.  "},{"Title":"An excellent film; thoroughly enjoyable, sentimental, but wise.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll fess up, Altman ranks high with me and has for a long time. This is far from his best work -- but also far, far above your average bear, er, rather... average film. It has much to recommend; many fine performances, a complex storyline; it will request a little patience from you -- be so kind as to grant it. Patience lies at the heart of this film; not the high-jinks and rapid-fire action of most movies. Kindness gets lost, and many deeper human qualities, too -- when people or a culture push patience out of the way. Altman seems to know this, to celebrate patient people, sensible people. But there are plenty of good jokes, visual, verbal, plot-involved. Relax and laugh, let things develop. You might even laugh pretty hard -- and happily. I suppose this film could be called Capra-esque, and thus old-fashioned, even nostalgic -- not a good fit with the tumult of violence and dishonesty which characterized the media's portrayal of the nineties. Too bad. Rent the video; or buy the video and watch it with your kids and later with the grandkids. People complain about too much violence in the cinema and then ignore a film like this -- and many of these people are critics! Here's the full panoply of human life, young, middle-aged, and elderly, all interesting, all central to the story. What a fine thing! "},{"Title":"You mean, I'm part black?","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" American cinema is a bit like telling bedtime stories to children. - Peter GreenawayRobert Altman typically begins his films by quickly sketching some self-contained environment (military barracks, hospital, dance studio, radio show, rodeo, stately mansion etc). His environment created, Altman then inserts an ensemble cast and lets his actors improvise or create their own roles. His actors in motion, Altman then uses a free floating camera to track various characters and tease out various subplots. Of course all directors do this, but Altman's plots seem particularly ill-defined. There is a sense of an entire world in motion, a world which continues along regardless of where Altman pokes his camera. We, meanwhile, are invited to choose where we look and what we see. And so we float from one seemingly arbitrary nodule to the next, sculpting the film ourselves and stumbling upon bits and pieces of a story which we are asked to piece together and make coherent. Altman also typically inserts some symbolic performance-within-the-film. His character's often gather to put on a play, production or show, a kind of self-reflexive model of the film they're in. The play within Cookie's Fortune is a performance of Oscar Wilde's Salome, a tale of seduction, necrophilia, unlawful marriages and dangerous female seductiveness. Why Salome was chosen will become apparent to us later on.Jazz music often find its way into Altman's films. His aesthetic style is itself jazz-like, his films structureless, improvisational and constructed around riffs and ripostes. Cookie's Fortune itself takes place in a Mississippi town with a strong jazz and blues tradition. Altman populates this town with lovable Southern eccentrics, amongst whom are Cookie (an elderly woman who commits suicide), a local sheriff and his deputies (who do nothing but drive about and talk about fishing), and Camille Dixon, a bossy matriarch who tends to her slow witted sister, Cora Duvall. Other characters include Manny (a lonely fisherman), Emma (a rebellious young woman) and Willis (a kind black man and local drunk). Altman has always been a fairly relaxed film-maker, but Cookie's Fortune takes things to new highs (or leisurely lows). The film begins with a easygoing walk, and the film as a whole feelings like one gentle cinematic stroll, Altman casually introducing us to his cast and the film's key locations. Elsewhere the film engages in Altman's love for subversion. Watch how scenes or images traditionally associated with danger are subverted or rendered benign. A black man breaks into a house, for example, but it is then revealed that he knows the owner. A man opens a gun cabinet, but he simply wants to clean the guns. A creepy peeping tom spies on a girl, but he means no harm. And so on and so on. Indeed, the film itself is a satire on the Southern Gothic genre and various Tennesee Williams plays, but Altman's tone is less caustic than usual. He seems to love this community of eccentrics.But there are sinister things lurking about. Watch how Camille Dixon, the director of the play within the film, becomes the God who controls the film's plot and who manipulates the on-screen murder investigation. Surrounded by a sea of inept actors and second rate actresses, she is in control of Cookie's Fortune the film, Salome the play, and Cookie's fortune, the literal will and testament of Cookie, a now-deceased elderly woman within the film. As her community bands together outside the Oscar Wilde play, however, Camille begins to lose control whilst they, ironically, begin to gain control of both Altman's film and Wilde's play. This power struggle is epitomised by a character played by actress Julianne Moore, who develops from an incompetent actress to the new star of Salome. She then usurps Camille.Typical of Altman, there's some dark inter-racial, psycho-sexual stuff hidden in the film's margins. In the Salome myth, Salome is the stepdaughter of Herod and dances seductively before Herod and her mother Herodias. Her mother had her with another man, an affair which causes John the Baptist to denounce the mother's marriage to Herod as being unlawful. For spreading what she perceives to be these lies, Salome executes John. In the film, it is implied that Emma's mother isn't her mother and it is her real mother's sister's husband who is her father. With Camille Dixon obsessed with pride and preserving the pride of the family and community, it seems that perhaps she was covering up some affair (or even a murder) with a black guy who went back to Africa to serve as a missionary (or jail or on the run). Altman inserts various breadcrumbs for those inclined to search.Elsewhere the film advocates a kind of humble, mixed-race community spirit. A kind of sexual liberation where black and white, upper and lower classes, put things aside and get along. The aristocratic and stuck up Camille Dixon (a haemophiliac &#x96; on a symbolic level, her blood refuses to mix with outsiders) belongs to an era which the rebellious Cookie and Emma turned their backs on, one skipping town and getting into trouble, the other literally wearing her humble Mississippi State university sweater to her grave. This kind of warmth was typical of Altman's later films, particularly Prairie Home Companion.8.5/10 &#x96; See Mamet's State and Main. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably light film with only a few moments of misjudged seriousness and humour","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the small town of Holly Springs, Mississippi, the highly strung Camille is leading rehearsals for a performance of Salome.  When she drops in on her Aunt Cookie (whom she has a frosty relationship with) she finds that Cookie has taken her own life in order to be with her late husband again.  Unwilling to have her family name tarnished by this shameful act, Camille takes a necklace and moves things around to suggest a murder.  Things get more complicated when Cookie's caretaker and loyal friend is arrested for the murder and the investigation begins in earnest.I wasn't sure what this film was about when I took up to watch it but was wary as often I have found Altman films to be too sprawling for my tastes and have struggled to get into them.  This film started well and light and pretty much managed to retain that feeling for the duration, making it enjoyable to watch.  In terms of plot, the central action is strong enough to hold the focus, although really the film is more about the characters than anything else.  This is good as I felt the film's strength was the cast and the characters.  All the characters are watchable and interesting &#150; whether they be amusing, likeable or strange.The film's humour is good as it matches the light tone it sets itself.  At times though the humour is misjudged, for the most part it is natural and charming but there are times when the film forces jokes (for example semi-pratfalls etc) and they don't fit the mood.  Likewise the drama occasionally goes a little too heavy (the ending for example) but these are minor compared to the effect of the whole.  Generally it free wheels along quite nicely &#150; funny without ever becoming absurd or unenjoyable.  Having said that, it may annoy those who expect more of a firm plot.The rich ensemble cast makes it worth watching alone.  Dutton stands out in the lead role, he is as relaxed and as affable as they come which was needed to carry that role.  On the total other side is a well pitched Close, her character needed to be realistic (i.e. not another Cruella De Ville) but still be unpleasant enough not to have the audience with her &#150; Close manages it well.  Tyler does ok but I found it a little hard to accept her casting at first, O'Donnell appears to have little to do but does well to play a fool without thinking of his career too much.  Moore is good in support and Neal's pitching of Cookie's past and personality in only a few scenes enables us to feel for her and thus prevent her dark act from taking away from the light touch too much.  Beatty has some great lines  and Vance steals many of his scenes with a comic touch.Overall this film is very slight and may not appeal to all for that reason.  I felt like I'd had a rest on a hot day after watching it &#150; it was enjoyable and undemanding.  Not perfect by any means but it's fun to spend to hours with the characters herein. "},{"Title":"I can't really put my finger on it...","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it is the very believable dialogue traded by the sweet southern regard the characters have toward each other. I can't narrow it down, all I can tell you is that I have seen this film numerous times, and each time it is a sucker punch to my ice-encrusted northern heart. Just charming and delightful, Julianne Moore has the best role in the film, the romance between Liv Tyler and Chris O'Donnell is an aw-shucks triumph. Anyone critical of this film needs to sit down and watch it again-and pay attention to the endless little Easter Eggs Altman has hidden throughout Holly Springs. "}{"Title":"Overlooked Gem From Robert Altman","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Throughout the long trajectory of his career, Robert Altman was known for interweaving multiple plots and characters within the context of a given theme. Think the brotherhood of the country music community in Nashville or the detachment of contemporary California life in Short Cuts. But in 1999, Altman tried something a bit unique &#x96; he directed a motion picture with a plot. One plot. One story. A comparatively small cast of characters. It was called, Cookie's Fortune, and it's this month's Buried Treasure.With a clever screenplay by Anne Rapp, Cookie's Fortune tells the story of Willis (Charles S. Dutton), a handyman wrongly accused of murder in a small Mississippi town. His widowed employer (Patricia Neal) commits suicide at the outset, and her daughters decide to disguise the shooting as a murder in a vain attempt to preserve the family's reputation. Since Willis had just cleaned the widow's guns the night before, his fingerprints are all over them. And there you have the most plot structure you'll ever find in an Altman film.What follows this sullen and morose setup is Altman's funniest picture since M*A*S*H in 1970. You see, everyone in the town knows Willis couldn't possibly commit murder. The jailer (a young Chris O'Donnell) consistently leaves the cell door open, and the sheriff (a fantastic Ned Beatty) plays cards with him &#x96; in the cell! You see, Beatty's character knows Willis is innocent because, I've fished with him &#x96; which seems to be his quintessence test for everyone he knows.But, as in every Altman film, there's one character who doesn't quite fit. One who takes things more seriously than the others. Remember how pathetically dangerous Robert Duvall's Major Frank Burns seemed in M*A*S*H (as opposed to the maniacal buffoon Larry Linville played on the long-running television series)? It was as though the Major Burns character walked on the set from another movie &#x96; just to give the audience a jolt; to let us know this is war, and war is real.In Cookie's Fortune, Glenn Close plays Camille, the theatrical and mildly deranged daughter of the deceased &#x96; a slightly more comical version of her wicked turn in Fatal Attraction. Camille is the smartest character in the picture, but she's also the one who doesn't belong; the one who, in a panic attack, might just turn this lovable comedy into a dreary exercise in unhinged madness. Fortunately, Altman is a skilled enough director to not allow this to happen, but my does he dangle it closely (pun intended). Had Glenn Close played her role ever so slightly more unsettled, the entire film would have been ruined. Altman walks a fine line allowing Camille to exaggerate her pomposity, but then her function seems to be to remind us that this is murder, and murder is real.Still, Altman never loses sight of the fact that Cookie's Fortune is a comedy, dark though it may be. The script is peppered with well-drawn characters, and the acting is first-rate &#x96; particularly Ned Beatty as the sheriff, and also Liv Tyler as Camille's desperado niece, whose boyfriend just so happens to be Chris O'Donnell's maladroit jailer. Altman is a master handling these intertwining characters, as he doles out information in small enough doses for us to completely process their connections, and for us to understand the soul of the town in which they regale.Unfortunately, Cookie's Fortune was released during the spring doldrums &#x96; that period between the Oscars and the summer blockbusters, when the studios trot out the fare they don't think anyone will pay to see. By the time the Oscars rolled around that year, the talk was all about Magnolia, American Beauty, The Cider House Rules, and The Green Mile. Cookie's Fortune was simply a forgotten footnote to American cinema in 1999. And that's a shame. You need to seek out this one. It's funny, touching, and intelligent &#x96; and easily one of Robert Altman's ten best films. "},{"Title":"Delightful wry comedy with excellent cast","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this wry comedy that takes place in a small Mississippi town where everybody is, at least outwardly, friendly with everybody. It was directed by the late Robert Altman (1925-2006), who also gave us M*A*S*H and Nashville, and much more. Terrible title, however. It has nothing to do with fortune cookies, or cookies of any kind. The fortune refers to the assets that the heirs of a family matriarch, whose nickname is Cookie (Patricia Neal), will inherit when she dies.One of the little comedic touches I appreciated were the historical markers in the town, one of which I think read nothing historical occurred at this spot. I enjoyed the treat of four generations (each about 20 years younger than the next) of noted actresses in one film. In addition to movie legend Patricia Neal (1926-2010) who won an Oscar for Hud, Glen Close (who has had 6 Oscar nominations so far) played Camille Dixon, Cookie's over-bearing theatrical-obsessed niece. Four time Oscar nominee Julianne Moore played Camille's subservient and perhaps dim-witted younger sister Cora Duvall. Cute Liv Tyler (who was Arwen in the Lord of the Rings trilogy) is Emma Duvall, Cora's estranged daughter.Charles S. Dutton is great as African-American Willis Richland, who is kind of a genial gentle care-taker for Cookie. At the end of the film we learn he is more than a friend.Famed singer Lyle Lovett plays a spooky peeping Tom character who is interested in Emma. His role didn't seem to be fully developed and didn't contribute much to the film. Chris O'Donnell plays a Barney Fife type sheriff's deputy, except he is very good looking and is romantically involved with Emma.Cookie, who's mind is beginning to go, misses her late husband and kills herself to be with him. Camille Dixon discovers the suicide and initially is shocked and horrified that people will learn that her aunt killed herself (nice people don't commit suicide) and affect Camille's social standing. So she makes it look like a thief murdered Cookie. But once she does that her horror turns to appreciation. She now can move into Cookie's grand house. But she hadn't counted on anyone in the town becoming a murder suspect. "},{"Title":"A dry visual and cinematic comedy.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a solid effort from Altman but it is anything except a mystery. This is where I think the film may run into problems as it is an exercise in cross-genre film making, one I found damn funny and would classify as a dry comedy but not everyone in the audience I viewed it with felt the same way. We had quite a few walkouts which I can only put down to misplaced expectations. This is not a serious drama, it is not a crime mystery, it is not even a straight comedy...I think this threw a lot of the audience off balance. But if you like that kind of thing or can let go of your expectations it is a fun ride watching Altman play with you. "},{"Title":"Mostly inoffensive with an awful last act.","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cookie's Fortune is another ensemble character piece from Robert Altman, although it's of a lot less magnitude than some of his previous works. The story centers around a group of citizens in the quaint town of Holly Springs, who are thrown into disarray by the sudden death of Cookie Orcutt (Patricia Neal). Altman's scope is much more intimate than some of his other ensemble pieces, and it fits the characters nicely. The whole thing, accompanied by a nice blues score, has this quaint and relaxed atmosphere to it. This makes the film move by at a slower pace, but I never really felt like it dragged or anything, it just sort of coasted along.There are several characters that we focus on, from Cookie's nieces Camille and Cora (Glenn Close and Julianne Moore) to her best friend Willis (Charles S. Dutton) to the police (Chris O'Donnell, Ned Beatty and a few others) to Cora's estranged daughter Emma (Liv Tyler), who has coincidentally just strolled back into town after being gone for a while. Cookie's death sends waves through the small community and turns everyone's situations upside down, resulting in comedic strides and a police investigation. When focusing on the individual characters, I definitely enjoyed myself most of the time, especially when it came to the erratic and revoltingly vain Camille (played with utter theatrical delight by Close) and the eternally laid-back Willis, but I don't think the script managed to bring the characters together in an entirely fluid manner.This especially became a problem when the film was focused on Camille and Cora, who felt as though they were in an entirely different film. The majority of it had that bluesy, Southern atmosphere to it but then you get to the scenes with the two of them and it's like they're in a Tennesse Williams play. The characters are supposed to be a contrast to the rest of the ensemble, but the tones of their sections don't mesh at all with the rest of the film and it's quite distracting. The cast for the most part does a fine job, Close being the only one who impressed me on any major level, but Tyler and O'Donnell stick out like sore thumbs, the flattest pieces of wood in an otherwise quite alive ensemble.I think my main problem with it though came from the final act, which is just a bizarre disaster. Out of nowhere the investigation starts turning up revelations of different familial bonds and lies from the past, but they truly come out of nowhere and ultimately add nothing to the film. It gets so confusing and incoherent in the final act, I don't have a clue what possessed writer Anne Rapp. It drags the film down considerably, but the rest of it was alright, if relatively insignificant. "},{"Title":"Simple and kind people always make you smile","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cookie's Fortune is set in a small town where everyone knows everyone (or, as it turns out, maybe everyone's related?) and nothing ever happens. (And when it does, it is not as scandalous as it first seems.)The story is almost irrelevant, of course. It's the simple, kind, warm-hearted people, living a small-town life, that the movie focuses on. And that's perfectly fine. Unfortunately, Altman felt he needed some underlying story, some kind of a punchline, after all. So, in the last quarter of an hour, he hurriedly threw in a twist of family relationships, but the 'revelation' is no surprise at all. What a waste.Despite the botched ending, if you like the warm humour of common people and a simple story with good performances (Liv Tyler, Chris O' Donnell and Julianne Moore really shine here), and if you're sufficiently patient, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Altman Ensemble Piece","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman can be many things. He can be warped, sarcastic, biting &#x97; but he can also be affectionate and understanding. His best films often combine these characteristics with slippery perfection, especially when putting the satirical The Player or the balmy Thieves Live Us into consideration. I, however, prefer him when he's gazing upon his characters with head-shaking fondness. Certainly, Cookie's Fortune isn't comprised of saintly characters &#x97; but unlike Short Cuts or Nashville, only a few of the players are wholeheartedly f-cked up, giving us less time to analyze potentially devilish psyches and more to relish the tight, almost familial bonds between the ever compelling characters. It's one of his most impeccably entertaining films.Set in a minuscule Southern town defined by colorful people, sweaty heat, and catfish, in that order, Cookie's Fortune details the sudden death of Jewel Mae Cookie Orcutt (Patricia Neal), an elderly widow tired of living alone and tired of her mundane life. So without much thought, she grabs a gun out of her impressive arms closet, flops onto her bed, places a pillow over her face, and shoots herself in the head. Her niece, Camille (Glenn Close), won't have it. A wannabe playwright with a fondness for cranking up her every emotion by a few thousand notches, she is disgusted by her aunt's carelessness it will bring shame upon the family, and, most notably, it may even upstage her upcoming play. Consumed with dramatic audacity, she arrives at the scene and decides it would be best to make the suicide actually look like a murder why not? She runs around the house pretending she's a giallo fiend, breaking windows, stealing valuables, eventually running out the back and throwing the gun into some bushes like Joan Crawford might have during her 1950s-set film noir years. She persuades her dimwitted sister, Cora (Julianne Moore), to go along with the charade, not realizing that covering up a suicide isn't just some cutesy thing mercurial nieces do for fun. It could lead to, you know, trouble.Immediately, Cookie's best friend and confidant, Willis (Charles S. Dutton), is locked up at the local sheriff's office under suspicion, Cora's estranged daughter, Emma (Liv Tyler), keeping him company while also utilizing the opportunity to have closet sex with her cop boyfriend (Chris O'Donnell) to pass the time. No one, including the men who arrested Willis in the first place, believe he's the murderer &#x97; which casts further suspicion onto Cookie's weirdo nieces.But Cookie's Fortune isn't a conventional crime movie, preferring to use its titular figure's sudden offing as a way of throwing the Mississippi set town off course and seeing how its residents handle the travesty. Anne Rapp's screenplay always retains a certain sort of comic lushness that makes the intersecting situations ceaselessly delightful while also maintaining a sort of broad realism. These people certainly could exist &#x97; not all realism based films have to be dirt-on-the-ground miserable &#x97; and Cookie's Fortune is all the more fun for it. Close is a bundle of laughs, delivering off-color lines like an unintentional comedy pro, Neal ensuring why Cookie was such a vital part of her town's life. Dutton is one of Altman's sweetest scene-stealers, and Tyler, in a terrific performance, is a consistent pleasure as a free-spirit that seasons the oft conservative setting of the film.Most consider Cookie's Fortune to be minor Altman, but I think it's underrated Altman. He regularly goes deep with his films, finding ways to mirror the lives of his flawed characters with our own. But Cookie's Fortune is such a delicacy because it's breezy, amusing without any existential kinks. He sets scenes with a sort of nostalgic reverie, figuring that small town America isn't all Twin Peaks and can still preserve the same sort of complicated magic of a '70s era sitcom. We watch the characters converse wanting to be a part of their community, either because the friendships seem everlasting or because the disdainfulness is comical rather than harmful. Most would want to get out of the town Cookie's Fortune sets itself in right away &#x97; not me. I'd like to hole up there for a while, collect my thoughts and have conversation about the good things in life instead of the high drama that shapes the metropolises of America. Lightweight Altman may not be everyone's favorite, but I tend to prefer a grizzled filmmaker when he's enjoying himself. So maybe Cookie's Fortune is an accidental masterpiece &#x97; it's an underrated moment in his lustrous career. "},{"Title":"My guilty pleasure from a revered filmmaker, and is entitled to appeal to a wider-ranging movie devotees","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" COOKIE'S FORTUNE is maestro Robert Altman's lesser known work, an outlandish comedy about an intrigue deriving from Cookie (Neal)'s suicide in a small town in Mississippi. It is a sterling ensemble piece and Anne Rapp's satirical script excels in mockery of the Presbyterian church and the provincial racism while Altman is mostly at ease with the straightforward storyline. Cookie is an elderly widow, apparently quite wealthy, has built a close friendship with the handyman Willis (Dutton), but every family has some loose screws, her two nieces Camille (Close) and Cora (Moore), are church fanatics, barely take care of her, the only person she cares in the family is Emma (Tyler), Cora's rebellious daughter. Everything turns havoc when Camille is the first one discovers the scene, since suicide is disgrace for her, she destroys Cookie's suicide note and makes it look like a break-in and murder scene, with Cora as the witness. The interesting part is the sibling relationship, Camille principally dominates Cora's life, she is currently preparing a revamped play of Oscar Wilde's SALOME for the church and let her half-witted sister as the lead. So Camille has to brainwash Cora on the spot to dragoon her into believing what a sin Cookie has done and they should conform to the same testimony. So the death is investigated as a murder case, and needless to say Willis becomes the soft target for suspicion as a rich widow's black handyman who doesn't have a manifest alibi and whose fingerprints are all over the murder weapon. But Willis has the unconditional aid from Emma and most of townsfolk who know the relationship Cookie and Willis. Clearly, Camille is in no mood for clarifying Wilis' suspicion, as she has already hogged the house of a crime scene as her own property, until Cookie's will (which is fortunately oblivious to her) comes into light, an unknown family secret is revealed and a blood-type analysis diverts the suspicion towards Camille. Then arrives the most satisfying part when Camille's fate is totally at the hands of Cora's testimony, Julianne Moore again proves her superlative dexterity by enforcing a genuine ambiguousness of Cora's revenge highlighted by her inscrutable delivery, it consummates such a rewarding viewing experience between Moore's passive submission and Close's OTT aggression.This film is also Patricia Neal's major big screen appearance in her later years, nostalgia strikes, Cookie is a woman who has blissfully fulfilled her mission in life and has no regret in joining her late husband in the paradise, Neal nabs a doddering front of senility, and furthermore, camouflages her unexpected decision with a cordial rapport between her and Willis. Dutton outstandingly offers Willis a spontaneously carefree nature while Liv Tyler's Emma is a too-good-to-be-true exemplar of a younger generation. The only incongruity rises from O'Donnell's rookie officer Jason, who is a total non-starter apart from being Emma's love interest and smooching on each other every time their eyes click. To all appearances, COOKIE'S FORTUNE is Altman in his most laid-back fashion, planted in the southern soil, lyrically jazzy and beguilingly hilarious, it is also a showcase for his main players (Moore and Neal are my pick, with Dutton and Close closely behind), however beneath the surface, it sharply encapsulates the vexing status quo presided by narrow- minded prejudice and vacuous brainwashing under the name of religion. Align with my personal taste, the film is my guilty pleasure from a revered filmmaker, and is entitled to appeal to a wider-ranging movie devotees. "},{"Title":"One huge flaw","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched Cookie's Fortune because of the cast and director. I've always had mixed feelings about Robert Altman but have mostly enjoyed his movies. Aside from Hitchcock, or maybe Scorsese, I tend to view each of a director's movies individually rather than judging it against his/her oeuvre. I truly enjoyed this movie and was especially happy to see (or rather hear, because she was pretty much unrecognizable)Patricia Neal, who played her role with sensitivity and believability. So did the rest of the actors with the exception of Glen Close who veered towards caricature in every scene. The minute she appeared I winced, and continued to do so throughout the movie. Aside from that and despite the confusing revelation of secrets at the end (which seemed rushed and forced,)I loved this movie because of the atmosphere of the town, the acting, and the writing which was often laugh-aloud funny. I would recommend this movie to anyone who needs their spirits lifted by some light entertainment with a rueful and forgiving view of community. "},{"Title":"Altman and a fine ensemble cast make a memorable movie. Charles S. Dutton excels","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Says lawyer Jack Palmer to Emma Duval, explaining the fate of her long gone father, a man she was told years ago had died while doing missionary work in Africa after he'd left his family. He died alright, about four years later, somewhere down in Alabama in a button factory accident. Seems the hole poker machine broke loose and fell on him. They say he had 273 holes in him before they could get it off. After all that Emma and her friend Willis Richland have experienced in Robert Altman's Cookie's Fortune, it seems perfectly natural when Emma cries out in exasperation, Willis, what is wrong with all these people? The important point is that they all are part of a movie of great ease and geniality. Cookie's Fortune may be a little sentimental, perhaps, but it is so sweet-natured and natural, and so skillfully presented, that I think the film ranks among Altman's most accomplished works...even if what powers it is an old lady blowing her brains out. Jewel Mae Orcutt -- Cookie (Patricia Neal) - is aging and increasingly infirm, and she longs for her deceased husband, Buck. When she decides to use one of Buck's pistols to join him, she sets off the avarice of her niece, Camille Dixon (Glenn Close), who pulls along her slow- witted sister, Cora Duval (Julianne Moore). Camille is determined that no hint of a suicide will scandalize the family name, so she makes things look like a burglary gone bad. And, unintentionally, makes it look as if Willis Richland (Charles S. Dutton), a close friend of Cookie's who had worked around the house for her, must have done the deed. Well, there's no way Emma Duval (Liv Tyler) an unconventional young woman who is seriously estranged from her mother, Cora, and her aunt, is going to buy that. In fact, no one, even the local cops, believes that Willis would have burglarized and shot Cookie. For the next hour and a half we're going to take part in Altman's gentle examination of the people in this little cotton-growing town of Holly Springs, Mississippi. We're going to learn how to clean catfish, listen to the blues and, a little off camera, how to make love standing up. We'll encounter Camille's obsession with propriety and look aghast at her firm direction (and rewriting) of Wilde's Salome as a church play for Easter. We're going to see how skilled Lyle Lovett is at gutting a catfish and peeping into Liv Tyler's window at night. We're going to learn a lot about family relationships, even the more informally blessed kind. Most of all, perhaps, we're to learn just how much friendship and family can mean, especially when it's served up with such skill and off-beat humor by Altman and screenwriter Ann Rapp. And as good as all the actors in this ensemble cast are, Charles S. Dutton stands out. He gives a fine performance brimming with likability and honesty, and without a trace of Hollywood nobility. Willis Richland is a guy who has responsibilities, and that's just fine with him. "},{"Title":"Parts better than the whole...","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yesterday on This American Life, the NPR series, Ira Glass spoke of the I'm Wishing-type song that introduces many Disney animated features, and indeed, many musicals.  Simply put, the first song of the movie establishes the dreams and wishes of the hero/heroine of the film, and then the rest of the film is about fulfilling that dream or wish.  Robert Altman doesn't work that way.  As his movies begin, the I'm Wishing song has not only already been played, it was played several days ago and is probably more than likely forgotten.  The characters of his films are already long established in their own worlds, and Altman leaves it up to us to work out the details of his film-residents.  This movie is no exception we are not introduced to the residents of Holly Springs (the setting of this story), we are simply shown the seemingly everyday goings-on of various folks and the blanks left open at the beginning of the movie are filled in gradually throughout the rest of the film.I guess I'm not an Altman fan, although I certainly admire the way he can bring several loose parts together to unify the whole of a movie.  This movie is very typical of his filmography-multi-character, story seemingly dropped in on instead of began, humorous in places, touching in others, great performances.  I watched this movie several hours ago and now am thinking back on the elements I liked...Glenn Close gives one of her best performances, Julianna Moore grows into hers, Charles Dutton is masterful, Ned Beatty is reliably good as always.  It's a thrill to watch Patricia Neal working, as always.  Liv Tyler is good.  Chris O'Donnell is merely okay, as is Lyle Lovett.  Oh, the plot? Cookie (Neal) commits suicide early in the film, and we see how various people react to her death, and how they react to other's reactions to her death.Yes, I do recommend this film.  For Altman enthusiasts it may be perfect, so give this one a chance.  6/10 "}{"Title":"yet another Altman ensemble pearl","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No spoilers here. The movie is about love, deception, rapscallionality and other cool things in a small town, with the kind of cinematography we associate with Altman. Pearl is the right term to use for some of Altman's ensemble pieces they are layers on layers on layers, and they are built up very slowly, just as a pearl grows.I don't admire everything that Altman has done; there are a number of his movies that didn't rock my socks, but when he hits it, he hits it (as with Short Cuts, McCabe and Mrs Miller, and recently with Prairie Home Companion), with scary precision. You sit there in the theater seat feeling as if not just the director, but the whole cast and crew have you in their sights. Part of this has to be due to Altman's working so much with so many of the same actors. But also, he is simply a great ensemble director.Cookie's Fortune starts out in a quite leisurely fashion, and I had to warn some of my friends not to go to a late night show, but it gets quick fast. While I think the whole cast was great, for me the on-going show-stopper was the performances of Glenn Close and Charles Dutton. It was so clear to me that these two actors, both with considerable stage experience, were having a lot of fun chewing up each other's scenery, and their voice control is what one would expect from them.In Altman's best films there are a multitude of small gem parts, and this is no exception. "},{"Title":"As laid-back and warm as the part of the South it's located","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Robert Altman took up this film,and one might question why an auteur who's rep is for more intense and cutting work(M*A*S*H,The Player and Short Cuts among them)would want to helm a film story that is as relaxed and pleasantly humored as Cookie's Fortune.This ensemble piece(Altman seems lost WITHOUT a large cast to work with),centers around the Duvall family of Holly Springs,Mississippi, mostly with sisters Camille(hyperventilating Glenn Close) and Cora(Julianne Moore,fantastic as uncharacteristically dull and child-like here) and their Aunt,the Cookie in the title(played with nutty joy by veteran actor Patricia Neal). When Cookie kills herself in the belief she'll reunite with her husband,Camille decides that rather than to shame the family name--she believes only crazy people commit suicide--she'll make the suicide look like a homicide. When Cookie's longtime friend,a good-natured local sort(Charles Dutton,great actor with a great story himself) is implicated somehow,the only person in the small,sleepy town that seems to be okay with this situation,or even vaguely kid herself to Believe it is Camille.The sub-story of the love-relationship budding between an actor-wannabe who is a sheriff's deputy(Chris O'Donnell) and the black sheep of the Duvall family(Liv Tyler) seems to be almost vestigial and lacking much purpose here. Supporting turns by Ned Beatty(as a skeptical sheriff who is friends with Dutton's character),MAtt Malloy,Lyle Lovett and Courteny B.Vacne are used to prop up the story to adequacy. Anne Rapp's story is given a slow,sweet, eccentric pace,which seems perfect for the part of America it's set in. I saw this no fewer than three times on video,after having missed it in theatrical release(which was very short) and found myself charmed by it every time. If you like your movies character-centered and just a wee bit strange,I think you'll dig this one. "},{"Title":"Altman Takes on Small Town Eccentrics with Lovely Soundtrack","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cookie's Fortune has Robert Altman's patented esprit de corps with ensembles, here representing the intimacy of small town eccentrics, with somewhat amusing intricacies of lies and misunderstandings. The young folks' parts are underwritten so Chris O'Donnell simply doesn't have a lot to do, though Liv Tyler breathes life into her role.Rufus Thomas has an entertaining bit part. Lyle Lovett's role is a charming bit, less lines but more character substance than O'Donnell's.There is wonderful original blues music throughout, with guitar work by The Edge of U2.(originally written 5/9/1999) "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very strange, and all of the people in it are a little messed up, but the movie pulls it off and makes every crazy detail absolutely believable... even Camille is likable in a strange way... everything she does just adds to the strangeness of the movie, but also makes you like the movie more and more. Glenn Close is thoroughly convincing in this role, and she does a superb job! "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd never seen another Altman film, so I watched this one not knowing quite what to expect. What I found was nice black humour, set against a cosy portrayal of small-town life. A weird flavour, but a good one, just the same. I enjoyed it and it's made me want to go look out some of the director's other stuff. That can't be bad, can it? "},{"Title":"really good movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i've seen this movie a dozen of times and i never get bored of it. it's really nice and sweet. it makes you hate and love some of the bad guys at the same time for the silly things they do. the acting was brilliant. really enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Hillarious comedy southern-style smoked with a killer script!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most clever, truly witty comedies to come along in years. The characters in this movie are gems, as is the top-notch ensemble cast. Everything is hung on a ticklishly funny script. Although the dialogue is realistic, nearly every line is quotable! You would have to look to cult favorites like the Princess Bride, or back into the holywood archives of the golden era (where witty repartee reigned) to find a film which posesses this degree of consistent quality and verbal cleverness. Truly feel-good, top-notch entertainment. And also one of the few films to portray egalitarian black-white relationships without coming across as self-consciously politically correct or contrived. Bravo! Also, no cop-out into stylish violence to try to hook the bloodthirsty. Bravo! A  view of rural southern life that is charming without being condescending. Bravo! Two thumbs and a full cup of coffee and wild turkey up! "},{"Title":"The Best FIlm of All Time","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best all-around film that has ever been created.  Now it may not be the best in any one area, but is has such a perfect variety that's what makes it so great!  It is a character driven comedy - drama that has romance, mystery, adventure, sports, and even catfish enchiladas!!!  * * * * * * * * * * (10 Stars!!of ten) "},{"Title":"Dark Southern Fun *spoilers, sorry*","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie's Fortune is a very dark comedy mistakenly billed as a drama bordering on a whodunit.  It's got Julianne Moore, who as always is outstanding (she's the reason I picked the film, although I had heard of it before because it's the one that made Liv Tyler cut off all her hair a while back), Glenn Close, who has a memorable part as a kind of a Cruella DeVille meets Scarlett O'Hara, Liv Tyler, who is in an out-there cute bad girl role which is delightful, Ned Beatty, Chris O'Donnell (another great performance, and I'm not what you'd call the biggest Chris O'Donnell fan in the world), Charles S. Dutton, Lyle Lovett as a sleazy fisherman, the guy who played the pedophiliac beauty pageant judge in Drop Dead Gorgeous, the guy who plays the senile ex-lawyer on The Practice...  Excellent ensemble cast, and they really make the movie.  See, the whole story revolves around the characters in a small Mississippi town, and it wouldn't work if you didn't feel like you know what it's like to live in the town, but the familiar cast really helps with that.  Plot-wise, it's about a woman named Cookie who commits suicide, but as her sister Glenn Close says, Only crazy people kill themselves.  In an effort to salvage her family's reputation, Glenn Close gets her mentally challenged but adorable sister Julianne Moore to help her fake a robbery/murder, and the movie revolves around the investigation of this crime and how all the characters react.  But what really makes it work are all the small touches, the little things people do, like having a candle-lit dinner in a jail cell or hogging the bedside electric fan (you'd have to see it to really understand).  This may not mean much to most people, but in one scene, Julianne Moore looks out a window and points out a Magnolia tree, and I absolutely freaked out (I became a rabid Julianne Moore fan because of her performance in Magnolia).  It was a very cool moment.  Anyway, I give the movie an 8.  Not exactly ground-breaking and unforgettable, and it's got some really unnecessary but harmless plot twists towards the end, but it's lots of fun throughout.  "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Otherwise a standard Robert Altman movie, with an okay story and decent acting. Starts out at a deliberate pace, but then takes off. It was extremely predictable, but the sequence on the end where they determine who was related to who was rather interesting.  "}{"Title":"About as funny as anything I've ever seen once it gets going.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film starts off at a slow pace.You aren't sure where Altman is going with it, but gradually it takes hold.And once it does, the comedy comes at you so fast you aren't able to here all the jokes over the audiences laughter.This is the way all films should be made, with more control given to the actor so they can give their own performance their way "},{"Title":"An effective, affecting little movie.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is perhaps too much information available on the nuts and bolts of this movie and I am glad that I managed to shield myself from it by steering clear of the multitude's reviews and comments. However, the movie does not draw strength from plot development, though it is used expertly to tug at you emotionally. Its real power is in subtle characterisation (with the exception  of Glenn Close's journey over the top) and simple fine cinematography.This movie has so many superb nuances and such respect for its audience that you cannot fail to enjoy it, knowing that it is a warm and comfortable film. Being English, I wouldn't like to comment on what seems like stereotyping, or even a lack of respect for, those living in the South, but this seems to be the only failing. Its comedy is light, acting exceptional and it doesn't, where so many movies might, try to ensnare you into cheap emotional responses to simplified political ideas. A great film for just making you feel good, without being too tediously feelgood. "},{"Title":"Robert Altman's Best","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  COOKIE'S FORTUNE. America's most purely enjoyable film director, Robert Altman, is at his epitome in this year's Cookie's Fortune, a sunny comedy about the goings-on of a small town when an old lady commits suicide to be with her husband. The excellent ensemble cast includes Glenn Close, Charles Dutton, Julianne Moore, Chris O'Donnell, Liv Tyler, Ned Beatty, and Patricia Neal as the title character, Cookie Orcutt. Cookie's Fortune is one of the year's ten best films. Rated PG-13. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"AWE-INSPIRING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow!  Cookie's Fortune took my breath away!  Anyone who is planning on seeing this masterpiece-what are you waiting for? The script is fantastic, the director in good form and the cast flawless. 'Cookie's' is suitable for anyone with a sense of humour and a big heart. The performances by the cast especially Glenn Close and Liv Tyler are the best in ages.  This film deserves the most Oscars, and will win the most Oscars in 2000.  I'm betting on it. "},{"Title":"Altman's best in years","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive, is the theme of Robert Altman's deliciously funny -- and telling -- Cookie's Fortune.  Nobody does a better job of investing unlikable characters with humanity and unconscious humor than Glenn Close. The film is a study of the problems that Camille's deception create, both for others and herself.  This is a warm and appealing film that is filled with fine performances; it is the best from Altman I have seen in years.   "},{"Title":"A Great Film, and a great surprise.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Cookie's Fortune only because it was the only film I could get into at the local multiplex (everything else was rated R), but I'm very glad that it was.  It's probably my favorite of all the Altman films I've seen.  By the end of the movie, you feel like you've known the characters all your life and you've lived in Holly Springs since you were born.  All the performances are great.  Liv Tyler, who irritated me in her other roles, proves to be very likable and talented.  And unlike a lot of cynical and dark pictures I've seen recently, this one has its heart in the right place (another commenter called it sunny, which is really the perfect adjective to describe the film).  Seeing this movie was a warm, delightful experience, and I suggest you go out and experience it too. "},{"Title":"Low Key Charmer","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman creates a wonderful low key charmer.  He gets you to feel you live in this small southern town.Some terrific performances.  Charles S. Dutton gives the second Oscar Nom worthy turn of the the year (Sarah Polley in Go was the first).  Liv Tyler is obviously a directors actress because Altman gets a subtle turn out of her.  Compare this to her awful OTT turn in Armaggeddon.  Glenn Close is very funny.  Julianne Moore again makes her character her own.A high B+  "},{"Title":"A real joy","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's been a long time since I've lost myself in a movie. While I was watching Cookies Fortune I completely lost myself in another world that was peopled by extraordinary characters. The performance of Patricia Neal was beautiful and Ned Beatty was a joy to watch.  I totally fell in love with Willis, superbly played by Charles S. Dutton. It's possible that this movie meant so much to me because I am a native Southerner and have known people like the characters in the movie. "},{"Title":"A delicious slice of the South","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Settle back for a rambling little whodunit that tells its tale with style and (usually) loving humor. Revel in the characters who people the town of Holly Springs.  Savor the details in the set decorations. Cherish this little gem. Lyle Lovett stands out in a (mostly silent) role that's almost a cameo. But everyone is terrific, although Glenn Close plays the character of Camille almost -- but not quite -- over the top and too broadly. "},{"Title":"A delicious slice of the South","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Settle back for a rambling little whodunit that tells its tale with style and (usually) loving humor. Revel in the characters who people the town of Holly Springs.  Savor the details in the set decorations. Cherish this little gem. Lyle Lovett stands out in a (mostly silent) role that's almost a cameo. But everyone is terrific, although Glenn Close plays the character of Camille almost -- but not quite -- over the top and too broadly. "}{"Title":"Sides still hurt from laughing","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Undoubtedly, the funniest film to come out of Hollywood in a long time. Glenn Close, not my favorite actress, gave a stellar performance.  Chris O'Donnell, as the youthful and somewhat more intelligent modern day Barney Fife, could not have been more believable. (My favorite line of his is when he announces that a blood type is ABC negative!) The rest of the cast compliments each other so perfectly that one would believe they were born into their parts. Robert Altman has done it again! "},{"Title":"Thank you Mr. Altman","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Went to see Cookies Fortune only because I'm an Altman fan, and I'm even more so now. Wonderful cast (we needed Lyle and the caboose, folks). Remember the tracking shot that opened The Player? I loved the way Willis himself tracked the opening of Cookies Fortune. Altogether a totally satisfying, totally put-together, funny, wonderful film. Thank you, Mr. Altman.  "},{"Title":"Altman does quirky best","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Local Sheriff Ned Beatty plays scrabble with suspect Charles Dutton while out-of-town Chief Investigator Courtney Vance is perplexed to say the least. But what you want to know is the theater audience is laughing so hard, you'll miss some dialogue, and Close and Moore are perfection. This is an absolute must-see and wonderful entertainment from start to finish....oh, I want more!  "},{"Title":"another really solid Altman movie","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big fan, although I don't like everything he does. (I didn't care for parts of Shortcuts, for example.) Anyway I think that he just keeps getting better, and while this is a small movie, it is completely surefooted. I can't think of a single false note in it -- even the kid is good.It's a very low-key ensemble piece that manages to evoke the feel of a small Southern town (idealized, of course). The performances are all excellent, with the star being just wonderful.  "},{"Title":"a gem of a movie","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Masterfully directed. Altman is more polished and assured than ever, and gets uniformly strong performances, possibly excepting Lyle Lovett. Dutton's performance is just wonderful, which I admit surprised me since I only recalled him from some TV show. (I don't get while Lyle is always in these movies. Either Altman likes him a lot or he always needs someone that looks like Eraserhead; I can't figure out which. Anyway, he's okay here since he's supposed to be a geek.)This is a small, gentle movie that manages to evoke the nicer side of living in a small southern town. It's also very funny.Finally, I look forward to getting the DVD and hearing Altman explain that he doesn't know what the bruise on Liv Tyler's cheek was supposed to be from... (I really can't think of another director with the kind of confidence that lets actors make up their own inner world which they keep to themselves. His commentary track on The Gingerbread Man DVD has some interesting comments about this, as does the one for The Player.) "},{"Title":"Another All-Star Cast and Quality Film From Robert Altman","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once again, Robert Altman has succeeded in providing an all-star cast the opportunity to freely explore their characters, thus creating a believable Southern small-town setting in his most recent film, Cookie's Fortune. His truly respected directing techniques proved to be extremely successful in this new serio-comic mystery.  Undoubtedly his strongest performance ever, Charles Dutton(Willis) perfectly portrays the gentle, Wild Turkey swiggin' companion to the magnificent Patricia Neal(Cookie), a matronly, pipe-smoking widow.  As these two convincingly illustrate their memorable friendship, the viewer could quite possibly yearn for what they share on screen. Furthermore, the various other characters within the story are also well established, because  the individual actors clearly illustrate their intentions. Glenn Close(Camille) truly taunts the audience with a combination of cold-hearted lunacy and desperate behavior, while Julianne Moore(Cora) becomes strangely appealing as her mentally challenged sister. Without the significant performances featuring talents Liv Tyler, Chris O'Donnell, Ned Beatty, Lyle Lovett,and many more, Cookie's Fortune would remain boring and undeveloped.  Instead, these actors shine under the direction of Altman.  While the audience perspectives change, they are easily influenced by the camera as it glides, twists, and changes levels. In particular, these drawn-out Peeping Tom shots successfully isolate the characters at their most vulnerable moments, building suspense from beginning to end.  Probably one of Robert Altman's smartest accomplishments up to date, the film Cookie's Fortune is fresh and original, yet maintains the craftsmanship of a classic. "},{"Title":"Moore and Neal surprise and delight","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Charles Dutton, who appeared in one of Fox TV's more underappreciated shows (Roc) is always a performer to watch (see his uncredited performance in Last Dance) But Patricia Neal and Julianne Moore's performances are the ones to watch for here. Neal, in particular, surprised me, as she was never a particular favorite of mine, but was a perfectly cast Cookie.  "},{"Title":"A very entertaining film","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with limited expectations which were greatly exceeded. While the film started quite slowly, almost getting in the way of its own character development, in the end the pace of its early sequences mirror the pace of its small town Mississippi setting.  Once the characters were set, the movie took off as Altman seamlessly weaved the plotlines together until all was resolved.  Glenn Close plays a woman we all love to hate.  Liv Tyler is wonderful as the seeming bad girl, who turns out to have a heart of gold. Charles Dutton is outstanding in the most well rounded roles of his varied career. An excellent film! "},{"Title":"Delightful characters","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a delight and the work of true professionals in the best sense of the word.  Audiences will love this.  The characters are so well written, directed and acted that I feel like I know them.  Maybe I am kin to them!  I know I enjoyed spending time with them.  Bravo, Altman!  "},{"Title":"Delightfully goofy tale of murder(?) in a small southern town","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman gets wonderful performances out of a wonderful cast in this delightful, goofy, entertaining tale of murder (?) in a small southern town. Patricia Neal and Glen Close are aging belles and Liv Tyler is the free spirit who is the daughter of we are not sure quite whom.  Charles Dutton is an old family retainer and Ned Beatty a local cop.  All are splendid, as is Anne Rapp's witty script.  A languorous and altogether pleasant experience. "}{"Title":"The little things","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Cookie's Fortune, Robert Altman and co-workers have created a wonderful, neat little story that treats kindly and humorously the frailty of the human spirit.  With the appreciation of the little things and peculiar details that make a person's character unique, not mention the small-town soul, Altman has managed to make this film one of the most memorable character descriptions that I have enjoyed in a film.  For some reason aunt Camille, the character that Glenn Close plays gets a little bit out of control but lends the film a considerable humor.  This is by far the best film by Altman that I have seen.  A good job! - 9. "},{"Title":"From a Mississippian's Point of View","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. The acting was brilliant, and even though the plot primarily revolved around one central character, it was truly an ensemble movie. True, the characters may seem a bit widely drawn to some, but anyone who has spent any time at all in the deep South will have no trouble accepting the eccentricities and logic of the characters. Because I fished with him is as good as a surety bond in Mississippi. After you fish with a man you pretty well know what he's made of. I lived for many years outside the town of Holly Springs, and these folks could have been my neighbors. In the South we don't get in a hurry too often; so it's easy to see why a slower moving story might not be to everyone's taste. But anyone who wants to see a little piece of what could be real life in any small Mississippi town would be well served to see Cookie's Fortune at least twice. Once for the story, and once for the atmosphere. It's a real treat on every level. "},{"Title":"THE Robert Altman? No, wait, how can THAT be?","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was disappointed, but more, saddened, that the brilliant director of Short Cuts, MASH, McCabe & Mrs. Miller, Nashville, et al made this meandering, unsatisfying mess. Early on, you know that it is going nowhere, and that the trip there isn't going to be much fun. I was happy to see Patricia Neal in anything. But this is no Hud, no In Harm's Way, even. A not insignificant gripe, as far as I am concerned, is that the very poorly done Southern accents here are entirely too intrusive, and do little more than make you aware you are watching a made-up, i.e. theatrical, experience. I can't help but think the old Altman would not have considered that a good thing. I wound up embarrassed I had invited a friend to see this on the strength of a few positive reviews. --It is one of those movies about which you can find literally nothing to say to any companion you see it with, once it is over. (I think she was too polite, perhaps too well-bred, to say That sucked out loud, man.) Save your rental money for almost any other flick with Altman's name on it. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie's Fortune is a prime example of poor writing made worse by poor direction.  The script is yet another in a series that attempts to replace regional wackiness for skilled characterization.  Many of the jokes are luke warm, the situations contrived, and none of the characters are sympathetic. All of this is in no way helped by Robert Altman's laziness.  The whole movies is studded with jokes that have the feel and the timing of a sitcom. All in all a two out of ten. "},{"Title":"A cloying, politically-correct stinker","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've enjoyed several of Altman's films, including Short Cuts and the Player.  Nashville was a triumph.  Cookie's Fortune, however, is a very poor movie.  It's an attempt to make a silk purse of a sow's ear. The sow's ear is the script--a cloying attempt to induce people to think this is a moving story of substance, when it's nothing more than a badly contrived and totally ridiculous mess.  It carries political correctness to new heights and relies on quirky characters to cover up the lack of substance and coherence in the storyline. Rating  3 out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Land sakes, Robert Altman, this is an awful mess, you hear?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie's Fortune is bad luck for anyone attempting to watch it.  This is a cloying and boring seemingly endless movie with overdone Southern accents, hideous overacting, stale jokes, trite twangy slide-guitar music that is more annoying even than a hungry Southern mosquito, and a silly contrived script which at best could have been played out in 30 minutes but goes on and on and on and on for almost two plodding hours.  With so much stale air pumped into it to extend its viewing time, it's the kind of movie you want to fast-forward through to the end, but then find the end, if there IS one, is confusing. Glenn Close in particular turns in an annoyingly overwrought performance as a Southern crazie -- she appears to have recreated the worst aspects of her earlier role as Norma Desmond and transposed it to the South. It is good to see Patricia Neal again, but her role as an eccentric old woman is just too cute and unrealistic.  If you are a masochist with time on your hands who needs to suffer, rent this bit of tired Southern hogwash. "},{"Title":"Low-Key Southern Comedy from Robert Altman","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the late 1990s, Robert Altman directed a series of films set in the South, all of them with Southern Gothic elements. Kansas City and The Gingerbread Man were throwbacks to the crime thriller film noir, while Cookie's Fortune was a mostly comic yarn about the suicide of a beloved widow in a small Mississippi town and the efforts of the local police department to solve the crime when it's re-staged to look like a murder. The tone of Cookie's Fortune is like that of William Faulkner when he was writing books like The Reivers. If the film seems to have nowhere to go and takes its time getting there, that's not necessarily a criticism. That's part of the Southern tall-tale culture, and if you've ever spent time in that part of the country, you know what it's like to sit on a porch, drinking overly sweetened iced tea, and listen to colorful characters take 20 minutes to tell a story that could be told in 5.The cast includes Patricia Neal (Cookie) and Charles S. Dutton, as the widow and the chief suspect accused in her apparent murder; Glenn Close, in an overwrought performance as a relative of Cookie who wants to cover up Cookie's suicide so as not to tarnish the family name and get her hands on Cookie's fortune in the process; and Julianne Moore as Close's mentally slow sister who ends up not being quite as slow as we thought by the time the movie's over. There are also parts for Liv Tyler, Chris O'Donnell, Ned Beatty and a completely unnecessary Lyle Lovett. The fortune of the film's title is a red herring that would have made Alfred Hitchcock proud, and the investigation itself fades into the background as the characters become the point of interest. As he would show in his all-out murder mystery from two years later, Gosford Park, Altman isn't nearly as interested in the destination as he is the journey to it.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but entertaining still the same","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  COOKIE'S FORTUNE is far from the best Robert Altman has conceived, but like all of his movies this one does boast a wonderful cast.It starts off great with Glenn Close frantically trying to cover up the title characters suicide (played by veteran actress Patricia Neal in a rare performance). Close certainly turns in a funny performance, and Charles Dutton, Ned Beatty and Donald Moffat gives the movie a nice touch of class and grace.But, maybe it's just me, the ending was predictable and in the end gave a lasting impression that COOKIE'S FORTUNE was just an easy-going, nice little flick - not great Altman, just OK Altman. "},{"Title":"Hillarious comedy southern-style smoked with a killer script!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most clever, truly witty comedies to come along in years. The characters in this movie are gems, as is the top-notch ensemble cast. Everything is hung on a ticklishly funny script. Although the dialogue is realistic, nearly every line is quotable! You would have to look to cult favorites like the Princess Bride, or back into the holywood archives of the golden era (where witty repartee reigned) to find a film which posesses this degree of consistent quality and verbal cleverness. Truly feel-good, top-notch entertainment. And also one of the few films to portray egalitarian black-white relationships without coming across as self-consciously politically correct or contrived. Bravo! Also, no cop-out into stylish violence to try to hook the bloodthirsty. Bravo! A  view of rural southern life that is charming without being condescending. Bravo! Two thumbs and a full cup of coffee and wild turkey up! "},{"Title":"good","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't bad. But it's far away from all the praises i heard about him and also about Robert Altman. It's far away from the glamour and specialty of some other of his movies, actually it's not more than a normal simple story from a normal simple town. A town in which life passes by slowly, peacefully and apparently with nothing out of the ordinary. Apparently. Good characters though, and it's always a pleasure to watch Liv Tyler. Vote 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great filmmaking","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure about spoilers, so bewareVery few films can compare to this one.  You get honest laughs.  The humor is not manipulated or stupid.  The character Camille (Glenn Close)could definitely be classified as a villain (not to mention a nut-case).  Cora (Julianne Moore) plays a puppet for camille to boss.  Emma (Liv Tyler) is the rebellious, fish skinner, a totally differant motif from her normal feminine roles she has had the last 5 years.  Throughout the movie I got slightly confused with how whom is related to whom. But the charming cast and great acting out weighs that.  The best part is the end with Coras' revenge.   "},{"Title":"This is what I call funny","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    This movie is exactly what I call funny.   I like the plot, the music and the protagonists.  I guess everyone is the best in this movie.   I also like the ending, which is very funny and ironic.   Now I feel like recommending this movie to my friends.         "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say?  This movie is one of the best I've ever seen.  A very humorous storyline about quirky members of a small town.  The characters were hilarious, and story had a lot of interesting twists to it.  Terrific performances by all of the cast members.  Needless to say, I would definitely recommend this to anyone! "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay - so I'm not going to act like I'm an amateur movie critic by picking every bit of this movie apart. What I will say is that I thought CF was delightful. The humor was mature, the pace appropriate to the setting, and the characters were complex. It's not for everyone, but I enjoyed it entirely. If you enjoy thoughtful comedy and subtle humor, you'll enjoy this one.  "},{"Title":"The actors seem as though they're putting on performances tailor-made for a far better movie","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman, who seemed to mysteriously lose his knack for filmmaking after directing 1993's brilliant Short Cuts, comes close to a comeback with his most recent film, Cookie's Fortune. The film, which passed itself off to audiences as a mystery, actually reveals Cookie's killer within the first 30 minutes of screen-time, and then spends the next 90 letting us get to know the kooky residents of a close-knit Southern community.  With exception to Chris O'Donnell, who should stick with his rubber-suit and codpiece, the cast is fun to watch, and each play their part with an effervescent charm that is damn near contagious.  Although it moves along at a fast enough pace, Anne Rapp's screenplay never quite works as a straightforward comedy, and the actors seem as though they're putting on performances tailor-made for a far better movie. "},{"Title":"Altman knows how to make a movie (spoiler warning)","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Can you guess what I thought was best in this film? Julianne Moore. She is the true main character, getting her revenge in the end.But there are other facets to this film that make it great the weird people that seem to be Altman's specialty, the over-sexual deputy and the theater scenes. Brilliant and funny. "},{"Title":"The Liv Tyler Transformation, by Robert Altman and Liv Tyler","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman's roving camera is a bit more restrained in this hilarious comedy, but I especially liked the role of Emma Duvall, played by Liv Tyler. Who else but ol' Bob would have cast such an extraordinarily beautiful person as the affable, albeit a bit raffish, tomboy?  With the catfish and all, it's just not a glamorous role, but Liv seems right at home here. Perhaps she's simply more comfortable romping around a Mississippi town in grungies, eyes sparkling bright with just a touch of southern accent in her whiskey-soaked (literally) voice, than all the other fluffy stuff other directors have tried to pull off.  I thought Liv Tyler was perfectly cast in this film, and I think Robert Altman showed his usual flair for the unusual in selecting her.  Moreover, the film is filled with great performances by the whole cast, and carefully crafted by the director and crew with the usual winning combinations one soon comes to expect from Robert Altman.Liv, Robert, ...          ***  ENCORE!!  ***  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Altman","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of the most emotionally warm films Altman  has done in a while, and certainly one where he hadn't been so obsessed with Hollywood Cameos (like pret a porter, short cuts, the player). The script was excellent and the performances were top notch. It was suprisingly suspenseful as well, and quite amusing too. Witty and charming, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good solid laided-back southern fun!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman's Cookie's Fortune is a funny, witty and sardonic look at Southern America.  Liv Tyler and Glen Close shine in this story of an aging widow, and the suspicious circumstances surrounding her death, and life.Ned Beatty is the real star of this movie as an old deputy with  his one-line explanation of innocent.  Chris O'Donnell as the blundering deputy who loves Liv's character, is hilarious and lucky.If your tired of movies that leave you feeling cheated, then this is your winning ticket.   "},{"Title":"Solid, warm-hearted Altman","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It may not be The Player, M*A*S*H, or Nashville, but Cookie's Fortune still stands as a delight for anyone with the courage and/or wit to actually pay attention to what Altman's doing here.  For one thing, it's another in his long series of genre takes, this one the Southern Gothic comedy (think of Steel Magnolias in Nashville, or Reflections in a Golden Popeye).  As in virtually every Altman film, the acting is magnificent, even when the script droops (it does occasionally).  EVERYONE is at the top of their form, but special kudos go to Patricia Neal, Ned Beatty, Julianne Moore and Charles Dutton.  And Glenn Close is far from over the top -- I KNOW Southern women exactly like this.  The photography is splendidly atmospheric, the mood both silly and affectionate, the characters compelling.  But I must voice some disagreements with many of the other reviewers  this is NOT a movie about race, except to show how the South has changed (see Beatty, Tyler, Moffat and Neal's attitude toward Dutton).  And everyone who mentions the stupid sheriffs/cops just wasn't watching.  Except for Chris O'Donnell's (very funny) character, the cops are all pretty darn smart in this movie.  And yes, the film moves lazily, but have you ever spent any time in the South? LIFE moves slowly there, and Altman has done much slower-paced films than this (That Cold Day in the Park, Images, Quintet).  Sure, one or two of the running gags get tedious, but by now that's almost an Altman trademark (think bird droppings, dog doo, tuna melts).  Highly recommended except for those who haven't graduated beyond chases and explosions; and eminently re-watchable, which is the highest compliment I can pay a film. "}{"Title":"High Southern Gothic","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's just something about stories filmed in the South that take my breath away. These are characters right out of Flannery O'Conner, Tennessee Williams, William Faulkner. Loved it! There were some hilarious moments -perhaps a bit unexpected- like the feathers flying from Cookie's pillow when she does the deed; the District Attorney's (?) interview of the individuals in the bar. Niecy Nash was especially fine here. Close and Moore were amazing, and Liv Tyler was perfect for the role, contrary to the feelings of others.One BIG disappointment. . .there were no credits for the soundtrack!! The music was fantastic, and I wanted to run out an buy the CD. Haunting, Mississippi blues, and no credits! How did that happen? "},{"Title":"Altman Does Americana Again...This Time Even Funnier Than Usual...","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman is the king of all filmmakers in two regards 1 being his ability to cast anyone he wants in a picture, and 2, his keen eye and skill at putting together a carousel of characters, situations, and dialogue that uniquely captures a piece of the American way.  Just see NASHVILLE, his 1976 masterpiece about mayhem in the heartland and the overwhelming political element in this country (even in the country singing capital of the world). COOKIE'S FORTUNE is Altman at his simplistic best, light years from the ferocity of THE PLAYER and still as fresh and innovative as his first classic, M*A*S*H.Glenn Close delivers a Gloria Swanson-like portrayal of a demented southern belle whose bell seems to have rung one too many times.  Her performance is over-the-top but effective.  The fortune of the film's title is not exactly what you'd might expect if you know COOKIE'S FORTUNE's premise, however Close keeps the viewer thinking maybe she knows something we do not. The fact that she eats a certain note is stunningly hilarious.The rest of the cast is great.  Ned Beatty talks about fishing as if it was a form of breathing for him and he never strays away from this simple-mindedness.  Neither do any of the less-than-brilliant characters. Charles Dutton is the dramatic centerpiece and pillar who exists at the most important points of this charade Altman is depicting.  He and Liv Tyler have some nice moments together.  Racial harmony is even touched upon with Dutton's conflict and is integral at tying the film's sometimes loose ends together (at times you remain confused as to who is Cookie's daughter or daughters and whether or not Tyler is the granddaughter).Keep an eye out for Chris O'Donnel's best performance in years, however brief it is.  His simple police officer brought me to laughter many times, partly because O'Donnel is masterfully overplaying him.  That is the point.There are many motiffs surrounding the goofy citizens of this small town (police tape, open glass doors with guns behind them), but the film is indeed as simple as it appears which is good considering Altman has sometimes gone nuts in his films (THE WEDDING, GINGERBREAD MAN).  He still employs the overlapping dialogue and scenery he so expertly displayed in SHORT CUTS and THE PLAYER.  See the film for an entertaining romp with a glint of American commentary that is enough to make COOKIE'S FORTUNE both important and delightful. "},{"Title":"Altman Does Americana Again...This Time Even Funnier Than Usual...","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman is the king of all filmmakers in two regards 1 being hisability to cast anyone he wants in a picture, and 2, his keen eye and skill at putting together a carousel of characters, situations, and dialogue that uniquely captures a piece of the American way.  Just see NASHVILLE, his 1976 masterpiece about mayhem in the heartland and the overwhelming political element in this country (even in the country singing capital of the world).COOKIE'S FORTUNE is Altman at his simplistic best, light years from the ferocity of THE PLAYER and still as fresh and innovative as his first classic, M*A*S*H.Glenn Close delivers a Gloria Swanson-like portrayal of a demented southern belle whose bell seems to have rung one too many times.  Her performance is over-the-top but effective.  The fortune of the film's title is not exactly what you'd might expect if you know COOKIE'S FORTUNE's premise, however Close keeps the viewer thinking maybe she knows something we do not.The fact that she eats a certain note is stunningly hilarious.The rest of the cast is great.  Ned Beatty talks about fishing as if it was a form of breathing for him and he never strays away from this simple-mindedness.  Neither do any of the less-than-brilliant characters. Charles Dutton is the dramatic centerpiece and pillar who exists at the most important points of this charade Altman is depicting.  He and Liv Tyler have some nice moments together.  Racial harmony is even touched upon with Dutton's conflict and is integral at tying the film's sometimes loose ends together (at times you remain confused as to who is Cookie's daughter or daughters and whether or not Tyler is the granddaughter).Keep an eye out for Chris O'Donnel's best performance in years, however brief it is.  His simple police officer brought me to laughter many times, partly because O'Donnel is masterfully overplaying him.  That is the point.There are many motiffs surrounding the goofy citizens of this small town (police tape, open glass doors with guns behind them), but the film is indeed as simple as it appears which is good. Altman still employs the overlapping dialogue and scenery he so expertly displayed in SHORT CUTS and THE PLAYER.  See the film for an entertaining romp with a glint of American commentary that is enough to make COOKIE'S FORTUNE both important and delightful. "},{"Title":"Just another fine movie from Robert Altman","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman is definitely one of the greatest contemporary  American directors. In Cookie's Fortune he describes one of the funniest murder inquiries I have ever seen. This is not slap-stick comedy. It made me laugh even more deep inside because of the discretion with which the humor is delivered. There is also a lot of love in this movie. I like the long time friends coming to the rescue theme and the multileveled message. It touches religion, racism, friendship and destiny. Very positive and enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has the same laid-back, easy feel as the equally underrated Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil. Both films share the drawback of over-plotting, but both overcome it with rich performances, wit in the script and a light directorial touch which stops you worrying about the denouement.The nicest surprise is to see Tyler and O'Donnell, two actors I have always regarded as soporific, finally come out of their shells and produce something credible and expansive. In fact, there is not one weak link in the cast - even Glenn Close seems idiomatic in her OTT character.Altman directs with obvious affection and, even if the ending is not really in doubt from the start, there is plenty to enjoy along the way. Altman's best since Short Cuts, and 9 out of 10. I'd happily sit through it again. "},{"Title":"Fair enough","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie's Fortune is an extremely dire film up until the murder takes place (a rather long while, may I point out), but from there on it is pretty entertaining.The cast is impressive, and I have this strange feeling that Glenn Close might be in for her first Oscar with her performance in Cookie's Fortune. Her character is the one we're used to see her playing; a bitch with no conscience whatsoever, and with a psychotic outburst at the end. It's solid, but far from her fantastic performance in Fatal Attraction, but just look at Jessica Lange, who finally won best leading actress for her performance in Blue Sky, far from being her best, and obviously a compensation for all the times she was overlooked by the Academy in the 80's. I think the same will happen to Close. Julianne Moore, Liv Tyler and Chris O'Donnell deliver good performances as well.Cookie's Fortune is a fair enough film. Pretty good entertainment, but not a must-see. "},{"Title":"Good Altman","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A combination of Southern gothic and comedy...sounds impossible but Altman manages to pull it off.  Cookie (Patricia Neal, looking TERRIBLE!) commits suicide.  Her witchy daughter(?) (Glenn Close) tries to cover it up and make it appear a murder.  Unfortunately this implicates Cookie's live-in handyman (Charles S. Dutton).  Then things get complicated.The cast is great, especially Close.  Even Chris O'Donnell (who's usually just very cute and very bland) is good.  Altman tones down his usual hatred of women (although he treats Julianne Moore here almost as badly as he did in Short Cuts) and turns out a pretty good film.  There are a few complaints Why did he do this?  This is miles away from his previous work. It seems like he enjoyed working in the Deep South so much with The Gingerbread Man, that he decided to do it again.  Liv Tyler's character is criminally underdeveloped (she's still quite good). Seeing Patricia Neal so old and infirm was scary.  And I never thought I'd see product placement in an Altman film!  (If 1 more person had asked for a Coke or if there was another shot of the Coke machine in the police HQ, I would've screamed!) Not great Altman (that's Nashville and MASH), but not bad (that's Ready to Wear and the godawful Popeye).  Hopefully next time he can move out of the Deep South and stop the product placement. "},{"Title":"One of Altman's Best","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cookie's Fortune is Altman at his very best. Altman weaves a story in and among a motley collection of small town southern characters, which at the hands of a lesser director would become nothing more than caricatures of southern stereotypes. However in the hands of Altman they become real people, good, bad, or indifferent. Altman has always been known for his ability to weave multiple characters into a tapestry held together with just a touch of a story line and Cookie's Fortune is no exception. The plot is really just a framework, which Altman uses to support a profile of a small Mississippi town and showcase how its citizens interact with one another.Cookie's Fortune moves at a leisurely pace that may seem slow to someone who hasn't grown up listening to southern storytellers. The story weaves in and out of the lives of the residents of Holly Springs a small Mississippi community whose main industry appears to be catfish farming. We are introduced to Jewell Mae `Cookie' Orcutt played believably by Patricia Neal. She is the elderly matriarch of southern family of declining means, and is so believable that she immediately put me in mind of every great aunt on both sides of my family with a bit of both my grandmothers thrown in. We are also introduced to Willis Richard played by Charles S. Dutton in an Oscar worthy performance; he is Aunt Cookie's live in handyman. For the first half hour the film lets us get to know them and understand and love their relationship; a relationship that is quite similar to the one between Tandy and Freeman in Driving Miss Daisy. Then the film takes an Altmanesque turn when Cookie commits suicide so she can rejoin her husband who passed away some years back. This is where the plot of the film really begins.The plot of Cookie's Fortune moves at the same relaxed pace as we meet various residents of Holly Springs. Like a good southern tale told by a master storyteller, Altman lets characters come and go without feeling the need to explain their purpose in the story. For example, Lyle Lovvett's character in this film appears at the beginning as sort of a menacing person. At this point, traditional Hollywood film rules would normally dictate that he pop up later in the picture as a surprise bad guy. He doesn't, he just exists harmlessly on the periphery of the film as this guy who adds color to the whole story without having to play a traditional role of bad guy or good guy. He is like a real person just a guy Altman doesn't throw a character up on screen and say, `here is the hero look he is doing heroic things to establish who he is. And here is the villain look how evil he is, he just kicked a dog. Instead Altman lets his characters do there thing and their nature and purpose is revealed at its own pace, at the same time you learn their past as you would in real life, gradually in little snippets. The only criticisms I can levy at the film is that the ending is a little confusing and hard to understand. Too many revelations flow one after the other, and so much is revealed in the exposition that I had a little trouble keeping it straight. The other problem is Glenn Close. She is so effective in her role as a self-obsessed evil overbearing old maid that she is almost unpleasant to watch on screen.One performance that must be mentioned is Ned Beatty as Lester Boyle the small town sheriff. Beatty gives a beautiful and believable performance as a local deputy sheriff who is better able solve the crime better than the big city detectives, simply because he knows the residents of his town. In one scene Beatty is able to believably pronounce Charles Dutton's character on the basis that he has fished with him. A lesser actor would have had trouble selling a line like that, but Beatty makes it believable.Believability is at the core of what is good about Cookie's Fortune. Too often films set in the south portray southern towns as hot beds of racial intolerance and ignorance, populated with psychotics, criminals, and corrupt officials. Cookie's Fortune shows the true nature of a specific type of rural southern community without malice or condescension. It is one of Altman's best films, and easily his best effort since The Player. Definitely a must see for Altman fans and fans of southern fiction in the vein of Truman Capote, Oscar Wilde, Tennessee Williams, or Ferral Sams. "},{"Title":"Strike it rich!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Altman's films are always a gamble.  Either you get the focused Altman of `The Player', `M.A.S.H', or `Short Cuts', or you get the dreadful Altman of `Ready To Wear' and `Kansas City'.  What `Cookie's Fortune' reveals is a kind-hearted Altman. An Altman who wants to be a little silly and yet shows us his typical array of colorful characters. As with all the director's films, it's the actors that sell the movie best.  Like the aforementioned Andy Garcia, Charles Dutton is another actor of far-reaching talent that keeps picking crap to spend it in. With `Cookie', Dutton is used perfectly.  He brings a sweetness and gentle charm to the role, and with co-star Liv Tyler (also as good) the two share the best moments of the film. Glenn Close, Julianne Moore, Ned Beatty (who is hysterical), and - God help me - Chris O'Donnell all make such a wonderful collection of performances. I really enjoyed just watching these people.When the story kicks up, my interest waned a bit.  The end of the movie is this mosh pit of names being thrown around, it is all very disorienting.  It's mutes the film's final impact, which up till then was fairly solid. Basically it was just neat to sit and watch this simple story unfold in a wonderful location, and with a ensemble that knows how to have a little fun. After `Gingerbread Man' I was a bit worried that Altman was going to become a parody of himself. But if this is the new Robert Altman, I welcome the change.------------ 8 "},{"Title":"Excellent acting by ensemble cast","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robert Altman has assembled a perfect cast, as usual, to tell a slow-moving tale of denizens of a sleepy southern town. Cookie's Fortune refers to Patricia Neal (Cookie) who lives with Charles S. Dutton (Willis) as her aide and confidante. The other characters, and I do mean characters, are the members of her family. Her niece is Glenn Close (Camille) who is fantastic as the most idiosyncratic of her relatives. Julianne Moore (Cora) portrays another family member subtly. She will be one of the great actresses of the coming years. Liv Tyler is Amy, Cookie's grand niece. If this sounds complicated, it is. But don't worry, it all comes together in the end. Other fine performances come from Ned Beatty and Chris O'Donnell as local sheriffs. Altman, as usual, has his eye on characterization rather than plot. However, his setting of the mood and the magical relationship between Cookie and Willis, and Willis and Amy are the warm core of the film. Count on Altman to have a few surprises in store, even though he sort of runs out of steam toward the end.  "}{"Title":"How to turn death into a will to love","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Actually, I didn't expect much from this movie, but Liv Tyler & Charles Dutton are such great performers that I really shared the whole feeling Altman tried to create. The story relies on excellent music (just as present as it needs to be) and smart art direction. Two regrets  Glenn Close is no more performing Disney's dog hunter. Still, she seems to feel it all along the movie. On the other hand, I felt at least 2 little ends before the real one. Prepare yourself to continue attending a new scene, even when everything tells you it's over... "},{"Title":"A must-see movie not to be overlooked.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With a cast like this, you know you're in a for a cinematic treat.  Patricia Neal should be nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Cookie. But, she is not the only one who turns in a superb performance.  The cast is full of familiar faces and Director Robert Altman has pulled every ounce of emotion from each of them.  You can identify with each character's feelings. It's that good.  I hope that it gets the needed media attention to make it a box office success.   "},{"Title":"A First Rate Dramedy","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, there has never been such a great cast for a film who meets their potential head on.  Julianne Moore is stunningly original, and is worthy of an Academy Award nomination in this taker!  Glenn Close is also maginificent in this story of a suicide turned murder case in a small town in Mississippi.  An old woman dies in search of her recently deceased husband, and the prideful niece (Glenn Close) will do anything to save the family name from the shame.  Awe-inspiringly clever and unparalleled, no doubt deriven from a brilliant script and potentially extraordinary group of actors.  This is the first Oscar-worthy film of the year. "},{"Title":"One of Robert Altman's tightest films.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story is threaded together with masterful precision, Altman extracts excellent performances from the entire cast with the exception of Lyle Lovett who is just plain goofy.  Charles Dutton turns in the performance of a lifetime. And the on screen chemistry between Dutton and Patricia Neal is spell binding.  Ending the film seemed too difficult for Altman and so it runs past a few places where it could have stopped, but what do I know.  "},{"Title":"I really liked this.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was only really watching it 'cos there was nothing else on and 'cos i wanted to see what Liv Tyler was like in a non-elf kinda film. It started off pretty boring but after about half an hour (after i woke up a bit) I got into it. I don't think there's really meant to be a point but it was a 'nice' movie, made me feel kinda summery! "},{"Title":"Robert, you did it well this time.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that Altman made. I loved this one very much. It was a comedy, but in some way also a tragedy. The best part was for Glenn Close who made a very good job. Also Julianne Moore, Liv Tyler and the old diva Patricia Neal give very good performances. In the beginning wasn't it very good, it was strange and sometimes boring, but at the end everything was changed, maybe Robert want it so. A good film with good actors.Rating 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ, snort!  Oh, it's over!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If my summary doesn't say it all, well, it was slow.  I think the acting was very good and the writing was unique, but this could have been a 35 minute movie without compromising the story.  Also, I was painfully deceived by the placement of this movie in the video store and by the video cover summary.  This was touted as a comedy.........um, WHAT!  There were some humorous moments in this movie, but no more than Saving Private Ryan and just as close to being a comedy. "},{"Title":"Landing on Bankrupt","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"      While this movie's finest moments could be described, with slight exaggeration, as amusing, its weaker moments are dull, confusing, contrived, and arbitrary.  Expected a comedy, so the slow and meandering beginning threw me off. The middle portion of the film succeeds somewhat, in that is derives a few chuckles and keeps you watching to see what happens. The ending, however, completely disappoints distant (and hard to believe) familial connections emerge between major characters, and Glenn Close's fate seems overly tragic within the relaxed, droll environment of the movie. These elements just aren't handled well, and don't particularly add anything to the story, although you get the feeling they're supposed to.       This brings me to the performances. Charles S. Dutton has a much larger role than he deserves...he plays a lifelong resident of a small southern town, but looks like he just walked out of a department store in Fresno and was handed a fishing rod. And he has very limited charisma here, too. As for Glenn Close, she's pretty good, but I'm simply tired of her disturbed, pretentious characters and her histrionics. The bright spots here are Julianne Moore and Chris O'Donnell, but unfortunately their roles are somewhat superfluous and not central to the plot.        COOKIE'S FORTUNE is good for a few mild laughs, and the chance to see Lyle Lovett onscreen (however briefly), but little else. "},{"Title":"Check Please!!!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to this film not knowing what to expect, in which case my expectations were not very high - this was a good thing.  This movie fell very short of anything to be even remotely expected.  There was not one character in the whole move, with perhaps the exception of the lawyer, who's IQ would even register on a pez despencer.  Near the conclusion of the film one can also notice that the Boom mike found it's way into the frame several times.  If you've got some time on your hands then see the movie, but not in the theatre - you'll feel like your money was stolen. "},{"Title":"Not","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have read with growing consternation the positive reviews and user comments for this film. For the record, Glenn Close's over-the-top performance is depressingly debilitating to this film. Honesty in this role would have made the film (perhaps) ultimately touching and moving. As it is I had to restrain myself from actually yelling at her on the screen to just go away - or perhaps for Chris O'Donnell to shoot her. The plot, of course, makes no sense. Willis, Cookie's companion, is held for Cookie's murder - even though the fake trail at the house is obviously breaking and entering. For God's sake - Willis lives in the house. Even the stereotype stupid bozo Mississipi sherrif's in this film could figure this out. And do we really nead to see Chris O'Donnell jumping on Liv Tyler constantly - it's dumb, just plain dumb. This is a film made by a great American director who is obviously lost as we approach the 21st Century. The film is feebly plotted, and a clone of all sappy, patronizing films about those zany, eccentric Southerners. I lived in the Deep South for 18 years, and I can promise you these Eudora Welty-ish characters are in the minority.If the entire film were made up of performances of the reality and dignity of that given by Charles S. Dutton, this film might have been very different.Put a bag over this one. "}{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw  Cookie's Fortune commercial it instantly registered in my mind as a must-see. I liked everything about this 3-min `leader'. Altman is one of the best US directors. His individual voice, unyielding to the pressures of market,  deserves respect and excites high expectations. I really love some of his movies  --  Short Cuts and The Player first come to mind.In this commercial I saw Glenn Close in a part that could give this terrific actress on opportunity to shine. It looked like it had good plot, a sound mixture of interesting character studies, social observations, etc. It promised to give you a satirical depiction of provincial life, combined with warm optimistic note of good people prevail and the system works.So what went wrong? It was unbearably boring!!! Nothing worked. Good actors were creating realistic and sometimes funny characters, the plot line was moving along, Glenn Close was in her Cruella De Vil mode and shining. Nothing went wrong, except that it was unbelievably slow, predictable, illogical, syrupy, and, from time to time, plain stupid.  All comedic elements were overused and beaten to death. I've seen already quite a few dumb but good cops, talentless but devoted amateur players, horny young men jumping on horny young women and copulating obsessively, unable even to unbuckle their belts, etcetera ad infinitum.It was a huge load of dusty cliches, coming from the director who used to make fun of those cliches. This was really sad.The audience seemed to enjoy the movie, at least nobody were leaving. I was bored to death. When in the end the authors threw in some revelations about the character's past, it did not change anything, just increased my bewilderment.I would compare my disappointment with Cookie's Fortune with the similar one I had a couple of years ago when highly acclaimed and Academy decorated Slingblade left me baffled in a similar way what did people see in that boring stupid movie that I did not?All in all I am capitally disappointed. It is one of those movies that you'd better enjoy it's commercial and keep it indefinitely in your list of possible future video rentals. At least you'll have the advantage of the FastForward button!  "},{"Title":"What's happening to Altman?","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a disappointment.  Altman has made many of the best films I've ever seen.  They usually touch me in some way.  This film missed every time. Sure, it's sweet and well made, and if it had come from a new director I would think to myself keep an eye open for more films from this person. But it isn't by a newcomer, it's by the director of The Player and Secret Honor and 3 Women.I thought the same thing after seeing The Gingerbread Man.  Why is Altman spending his time on these projects?  Either they are just fluff, or the intent is lost on me.  Is he mocking himself with the surprise ending? "},{"Title":"The warmth and great cast don't hide a clumsy, thin, stereotyped core...","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cookie's Fortune (1999)A wacky, wobbly comedy with a stellar cast playing types and clichés that sometimes run against type and sometimes are too typecast to quite work. The writing varies, too, from warm to comic to contrived. The best parts of the movie might balance out the gaffes for you, though, as the plot coils and the very warm, almost-black comedy grows.The main character here seems at first to be Cookie herself, played by a venerable Patricia Neal. As an old movie fan, this was enough for me alone, and it was great to see Neal at 73 still going strong (she made two movies after this one, too). But the real central character is Willis, played by the little known Charles S. Dutton, who has done a lot of t.v. Willis is a great old friend who helps the old woman out of appreciation and love. One key to this movie is its setting--a small town in the Deep South where everyone knows everyone. And where old racial boundaries and still slow to fall. Cookie is the old white woman in the big house living alone while Willis is a poor black man who drinks a half-pint of Wild Turkey a day. The clichés are too plain to see, and are magnified by the ditzy, apparently racist two women who share a house, Julianne Moore and Glenn Close. Finally there is Liv Tyler who plays the new kind of woman, young and without prejudice.Such warm and fuzzy comedy is bound to avoid real social commentary just as much as avoid biting humor, or laugh-aloud humor for that matter. You have to immerse yourself in the quirks of the town and the likable characters everywhere. Even the most murderous intentions here are just twitches and mistakes. You could almost picture living here, despite all the dumbed down clichés about what white and black culture is all about, and what the people in such a place are like.No, Robert Altman has not quite laid an egg here, but if you take any of this seriously you might find the assumptions and clichés almost insulting, or at least so obvious and worn-out you want to run. From the goofy white cop who play Scrabble with the inmates to the big black woman who sings, of course, the blues in the local bar. From the worker by the railroad yard who lives in a caboose to Liv Tyler herself with that weird voice of hers who is so outside of convention and propriety you wonder why did she come back to this town at all?The writing by Anne Rapp, a script supervisor by profession, is the weakest link here. The movie might gloss over its thinness by claiming to be funny, but it just isn't that funny, and it's too laden with the obvious to rise up in other ways. I think this is one of those movies that's going to get worse with time, too, as the clichés look more and more wooden.But hey, lots of people like the film and the trick is to just enjoy what works and accept, if you can, the overworked clichés. "},{"Title":"BAD","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is appallingly bad, and I am someone who finds it very hard to hate films but this was easy!This is a very very slow film. So much so you can miss the first 45 minutes and have missed nothing of any importance.I was tricked into seeing this film due to good press on the posters. A near perfect comedy & I was ready to see it again were quoted! And I knew some cast members so it couldn't be that bad. And it was meant to have a world class director. How can it fail?The film is simply boring! I'm sorry but it was so dull that you it is more fun to count to empty seats than follow the plot. The film just simply plods along at a snail like pace and nothing of consequence ever happens. Even when someone is in jail, the door is kept open 'cos the police think he did nothing, and THATS the plot! Yes, it really is!That said, some people in it are quite good but don't ask me who they were because I couldn't bear to sit through the credits at all and check. Well, the Aunt/director is quite good, and the suspect isn't bad....but that's pretty much where it ends.There are three things though that are good about this film and I think we should end on a positive. i) Liv Tyler - or rather her accent. Intentional or not, it is the funniest thing in the film ii) The end - you can leave! This film is slow, is just plan boring, uneventful and about 2 hours to long iii) You get some trailers at the beginning which are much more entertaining.This is the sort of film that will be shown in 5 years time every easter on TV at about 2 in the afternoon that means that it is time to eat. I am sure that was the reason this film was made - an elaborate clock! "},{"Title":"A script goes out of control","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My only prior exposure to Altman was READY TO WEAR - a film I did not survive. COOKIE'S FORTUNE started off only slightly better, with the story held together by whimsy for the first 20 minutes or so. Once Cookie blew her brains out in one of the most uniquely-filmed suicide shots I've ever seen, I was finally hooked.Unfortunately, that didn't last. I come to films for good, soild story, and that's lacking in abundance here. As with READY TO WEAR, there are so many characters in this film that they crowd each other out - we never know enough to care what happens to any of them. The story lumbers foward until the villian's doomsday draws nigh, the just desserts are served as per the menu - and then everything *dies*, leaving about a half-dozen subplots and love stories crying for their mommy.Glenn Close's Camille, unfortunately, takes center-stage in all her one-sided glory. We never see anything but her ugliness. A last-minute attempt is made to infuse some humanity into her, but it's cheap and has no follow-through. Close's acting is solid, but she puts more into this character than it can contain, and ultimately turns her into a caricacture. Julianne Moore is as good as she can be in the limited role of Cora, a mousy little thing with an arc that peaks too steeply, too quickly.And then there's Liv Tyler. Whoever cast her as Emma should be shot. (And yes, that applies to Robert Altman.) She plays this bad girl role with the same whispery whininess she brings to INVENTING THE ABBOTS (where it worked) and ARMAGEDDON (where nothing worked). In the hands of Christina Ricci, or Drew Barrymore, or even Winona Ryder, this might have been a compelling character; in Tyler's hands, she's Pamela Abbott with a butch-dyke do and a bunch of unpaid parking tickets.Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Poorly executed","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This one might have passed on its story -- handled properly, it might have had some charm -- but Altman misfires, and badly.  It is well known that he lets the actors have free reign, and in this case, that's not for the best Glenn Close has found interesting mannerisms, but her performance is over the top; Patricia Neal and Charles Dutton work together as if they were onstage somewhere, and Every Line Is Pregnant.  Lyle Lovett is awful -- why does Altman continue to hire him?  He only worked in THE PLAYER, and that was just at times.The camerawork here is shoddy, and some scenes are staged as badly as a high school play.  Other times, a camera cuts quickly to an inappropriate close-up, giving a weak line (or line reading) too much weight for its own good.Liv Tyler, however, does very well.  The one moment of authenticity throughout the film is the scene with Dutton on the police station's stairs. Something very real happens here, and it makes the viewer long for when an entire Altman movie hit such emotional honesty -- McCABE AND MRS. MILLER, NASHVILLE, even THE LONG GOODBYE.  Sorry.  This film is as fake as the stupid bit Tyler's character has to do with her truck -- parking on the sidewalk, getting a ticket, crumpling it. Hogwash. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I ever saw","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From a director that made the extremely clever The Player, Cookie was a major disappointment.After five minutes, I already felt manipulated by the trite dialogue.  I guess this was supposed to be a sort of character study, but the characters were never developed, seemed one dimensional, were uninteresting, and worst of all, could not act.I like Charles Dutton, but he is more suited to television.  Liv Tyler is cute, but needs to stay off the screen, or at least not be given so many lines.All in all, this is the only film I can remember seeing that actually made me angry at the filmmakers.  However, the other members of the audience seemed to like it, so maybe it's just me! "},{"Title":"Interesting Character Study","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Cookie's Fortune to be rather slow moving.  Even though the story line was somewhat predictable,  the small town characters were interesting enough to keep me watching!  Everyone involved in the story played their  role well.  SPOILER BELOW........The ending showed who was really crazy!   I give it 7 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Glenn Close and Julianne Moore","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't get over how much I enjoyed this movie especially the performances of Glenn Close and Julianne Moore, each of whom are incredible actresses and honestly deserve to be showered with awards.  Close played the perfect evil woman.  Through the chaos of the film we get a feel for her instability, and her resulting need to control everything around her. Close's performance was a perfect caricature of the overly controlling personality, and what happens when it is taken too far.  Close's character had gone much too far for Julianne Moore's Cora.  Cora spends the entire film (and we get the feeling she has spent her whole life) taking orders from her older sister without complaint, but with Moore's superb performance we feel the undercurrents in Cora's personality.  Those of rebellion, and even a glimmer of intelligence peek through on occasion.  Cora, played by any other actress would have been flat and uninteresting, a mere plot device.  In the hands of Moore, she became multi-dimensional and fascinating.  Moore simply proved that it isn't quantity of lines that make a good part but the quality of the actress that can make all the difference.  Great movie great performances great story go see it. "},{"Title":"An easy-going southern story from a great old craftsman","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When filmmakers portray the American South, cliche reigns supreme. The ghosts of Margaret Mitchell and Tenessee Williams seem to hover over every scriptwriter's shoulder. Even those who write from personal experience are unable to resist the sleepy small town with its overbearing patriarchs and matriarchs, too much boozing, illicit liasions, dark family secrets, highly sexed youth and complaisant local cops and other officials keeping a lid on things. The whole thing is usually redolent with the feeling that Tiyam Has Parsed Theis Playce/ Culture By. Not to mention of course the Race Question.In this comedy (alternatively billed as a murder mystery)  written by Anne Rapp and set in Holly Springs, a small (mythical) Mississippi cotton town, Robert Altman is able to combine all these ingredients to produce an entertaining story with a light satirical touch. Yet it is one in which it is possible to feel some empathy with the characters, who rise above the cardboard cut-out. For Altman it's a fairly straightforward piece though he uses some of the cross-cutting techniques that were so effectively used by him in films such as Nashville. Altman knows how to put a whole village on film without the audience losing track of the story or the main players.As Cookie, the matriarch still mourning her beloved late husband Buck, Patricia Neal with her gorgeous gravelly voice is spellbinding. Unfortunately, the story requires her to depart fairly early, but there are plenty of other characters to entertain us. There is Cookie's middle-aged black retainer and friend Willis (Charles Dutton), who regularly steals pints of Wild Turkey from behind the counter at a local bar and just as regularly furtively returns them. There are Cookie's two nieces Camille and Cora, (Glenn Close and Julianne Moore) one a harridan, the other an emotional basket case, still, in their 40s, sleeping in the same room and saying their nightly prayers together. There is Emily (Liv Tyler of Stealing Beauty), young, beautiful, feisty and independent, and her male bimbo policeman boyfriend (Chris O'Donnell - almost too dumb to be true but very funny). There is a host of minor characters including Lester, the old cop who has seen it all and whose great passion in life is fishing (Ned Beatty), and the canny old lawyer Palmer (Donald Moffat) who is wise in the ways of the Southern gentry and Southern cops.The story doesn't matter much except that it involves a suicide, an attempt to disguise it as murder, and a local church group's production of Oscar Wilde's Salome. It does end with a few surprises. More interesting is the characters and they way they rub up against each other. The South evoked is a sort of sleepy New South. Women as well as blacks have been released from slavery - Emily is a very modern miss. Blacks themselves are into the power structure at last - the most senior and powerful policeman portrayed is black. Willis the retainer is treated as an equal by his mistress and by the other white folk in town. Yet the catfish are still biting, the climate still humid and soporific and the way of life still languid. The New South is like the Old South, but with some of the nastiness removed. However this is a movie to be avoided if you do not wish to know how catfish are gutted.  "}{"Title":"we're fortunate that this movie exists","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We can pretty much always expect something good from Robert Altman, and Cookie's Fortune doesn't disappoint. Focusing on a suicide in a Mississippi town and how it reveals some secrets about various people, they make the most of everything. Camille Dixon (Glenn Close) is a character of her own when she sees that her aunt Cookie (Patricia Neal) has taken her own life (the old woman wants to rejoin her late husband), she tries to make it look like a murder, claiming that only crazy people commit suicide; watching the movie, anyone would have to agree that Camille's the craziest person in the movie.I will assert that this is Charles S. Dutton's best movie yet. As Cookie's caretaker who gets charged with the murder, he shows himself as strong, but not ridiculous. Julianne Moore, Liv Tyler, Chris O'Donnell, Ned Beatty, Courtney B. Vance and Lyle Lovett also have some great lines. The movie mainly goes to show that despite the racism in the South, white people and black people have a lot more exposure to each other than in the rest of the country. Really good. "},{"Title":"Banal storyline","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some good acting, some interesting subplots, but a banal main story makes this film something near nadir, If you like actors doing their thing, and you don't care about interesting plots, then this is your kind of movie, but in any other case just skip it.Of the actors, I liked specially Patricia Neal, Glenn Close was a little too much 'theatrical' and people like Lyle Lovett, Chris O' Donnel and Liv Tyler were just ok. Julianne Moore was as good as ever.The ending leaves me with a bitter taste in my mouth, maybe because the characters didn't seem real, or either because the improbable plot, I don´t know...   "},{"Title":"Nicely directed, filmed and acted, with unfortunate humorous touches","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Given the story-line of this piece, I thought some of the humorous touches were just slightly out of place and is my only complaint. Otherwise this is a neat little piece, with evident hallmarks of teleseries-style in the making of it. The first part of the film especially was excellent as the background and personalities were being established, and the development of characterisation showed good directing. Worthy performances by Glenn Close (however could it be otherwise&#133;.?), Julianne Moore and Lyv Tyler, as also Charles Dutton as the lovable fellow he is, and Patricia Neal was natural, real, in her playing of 'Cookie'. Chris O'Donnell unfortunately did not have to do much to earn his pay-check, which was a pity. You really should see him with Al Pacino in 'Scent of a Woman' (qv), without a doubt one of the best character-driven US films of the last ten years or so.David Stewart's music is very reminiscent of something else but cannot place where, and together with the humorous touches, somewhat suggestful of a kind of attitude belittling country folk lost out there in the middle of the flatlands ...&#133;...&#133;&#133; which I doubt very much was the intention of either Altman or Stewart. The photography is really good.Despite certain reservations, the film is entertaining and has really excellent moments, but I cannot give it more than a 6 out of 10. If some of the unnecessary humorous touches had been left out or made a little more in keeping with the proceedings, my vote may well have been a resounding 8+. Take it or leave it but even I have my little obsessive foibles from time to time. All that said please do not go away to some other channel the film is worth watching, seriously. "},{"Title":"Worth watching.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even with its flaws, the film was very entertaining. Charles Dutton's performance by itself made the picture worthwhile. He was perfect for the roll. Julliane Moore was miscast in her role as Cora Duvall. It didn't fit her. Parts of it were corny particularly Chris O'Donnell in his role as a goofy rookie deputy Sheriff which detracted from the film. On the other hand, Glenn Close who is a natural villain, was ideal in her role. All in all, the movie had its good and bad moments, good and bad casting, but the good outweighed the bad enough I would recommend the movie. "},{"Title":"needs a deal of editing","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Altman's but was drawn by the cast, the promise of a good comedy, and the good reviews; I returned the video still no fan of Altman's. The best part of the movie is Patricia Neal's wonderfully crotchety though brief performance as 'Cookie'. Glenn Close and Ned Beatty do good work also. Of note is Liv Tyler as Cookie's granddaughter Emma; her eye-catching performance shows this is an actress on the way up. The story line is interesting but the movie wanders around too much; it needs tighter direction and better editing. What comedy there is is a tad dry; it's certainly no knee-slapper. What is worthwhile is the out-of-left-field surprise ending; I was caught totally off-guard, though in retrospect I feel stupid that I didn't see it coming. It's a mixed bag; I've seen a lot worse movies lately but this is still a bit of chore to get through. "},{"Title":"tolerable but overpraised Altman work","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will be the first to admit that, when it comes to evaluating the films of Robert Altman, I seem to suffer from some sort of critical blind spot.  No director has seemed to me so critically overrated, yet, because of his obvious qualities of innovation and originality, one feels guilty being so negative.  Certainly, the one thing no one can ever accuse Altman of doing is playing it safe, of selling out to the principles of commercial moviemaking.  His works have always remained almost doggedly original in both form and content despite the inevitable temptation to compromise in the name of box office success.  Admirably, Altman has tenaciously insisted on remaining his own man, even at the expense of gleaning financial failure after financial failure.  He certainly has his avid admirers, who worship him even more for this streak of defiant iconoclasm particularly in the face of an industry whose very life's blood is found in the celebration of the almighty buck and in which praise and recognition are often determined by how many tickets a director is able to sell.  Yet, ironically - and even acknowledging the validity of all those previous statements &#150; in my opinion, Altman hit his artistic peak all the way back in 1970 with `MASH,' his one certifiable box-office smash.  His career has consisted of a steadily careening slide downhill ever since, despite the fact that most major critics, especially through the 1970's, managed to elevate his reputation to near-mythical proportions, enshrining him as a paragon among American filmmakers.  Admittedly, Altman practically pioneered the multi-character format so often employed by independent filmmakers today.  The irony is that their films are often more interesting and engaging than Altman's own.All this is preparatory to discussing Altman's latest film, `Cookie's Fortune,' a generally entertaining, offbeat comedy that again falls far short of greatness.  At least, this latest work boasts an intriguing plot line that helps to sustain our interest &#150; and, it must be stated right at the outset, that the second half of the film is far more engaging than the first, partly because of the intricacy of the story.  Set in a small, sleepy Southern town, the narrative revolves around the complications resulting from the unexpected death of an aging matriarch named Cookie.  We, in the audience, know the demise is the product of a suicide but, thanks to the machinations of a bitter, deceitful niece of the woman, Camille Dickson, who fears that suicide will be seen as too great a cause for scandal, the town's members are led to believe the death is the result of murder.  When suspicion falls on Willie, an innocent black friend, the only person in fact still loyal to Cookie in her old age, Camille remains determined not only to stay closemouthed about the truth, but also to do all in her power to see this guiltless man tried and condemned for the murder.  The film is at its most enjoyable near the end, as we watch, with undisguised glee, the ironic hand of fate inexorably closing in on this despicable comic villainess.So far so good.  Somehow, though we suspect that the narrative is supposed to be of secondary importance to the gallery of eccentric characters Altman and writer, Anne Rapp, have assembled for us.  Unfortunately, with few exceptions, the people in the story never get much beyond their one-note stereotypical nature.  Cookie (embodied by the legendary and magnificent Patricia Neal) is essentially the typical crusty old family matriarch, straight talking and no-nonsense, who loves her devoted caretaker far more than her conniving kinsmen.  Her niece, Camilla Dickson (Glenn Close), emerges as that great old Southern stereotype the appearance-conscious, misanthropic moral gargoyle who will stop at nothing to retain the family dignity and honor in the face of a less-than-palatable reality.  Camilla's sister, Cora (Julianne Moore), though she does get the satisfaction of exacting worm-turning vengeance at the end (albeit it comes through a change in character quite unprepared for in the screenplay), basically comes across as a gaping-mouthed simpleton who inexplicably allows her more dominant sister to manipulate her every move.  The remaining characters are equally shallow and two-dimensional  Emma, the sassy young rebel of the family who stands for truth and justice in the face of her family's seeming madness; Willis, the innocent harmless black man who loves Cookie far more than the members of her own self-absorbed family; and, most drearily of all perhaps, the dimwitted young deputy who serves as a constant source of exasperation for the other, more seasoned officers in his department.The comic level of the film seems, at times, distressingly low.  We are supposed to derive humor from the slipshod antics of the investigative authorities on the case, from the fact that the prisoner is allowed to sleep in a wide open jail cell and from the sight of the jailers and their prisoner playing a friendly game of scrabble together.  In fact, for the first 45 minutes or so, the film seems to wander aimlessly, searching for a purpose, plot and tone.  Luckily, after the suicide, Altman and Rapp pick up the pace and engage us enough in the story to make us eager for its eventual resolution.  The actors generally perform their roles admirably, saddled as they are with the fact that the authors have provided very little room for them to explore their characters in much detail or depth. I can't say, based on my overall track record with Altman films, that I was expecting a lot from `Cookie's Fortune.'  But, given its extraordinary number of positive reviews and the never-dying quality of hope that comes with eternal optimism, I sure wish it had been better.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully detailed but sadly self-conscious","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Altman gets more laid-back with every movie. So much detail has been put into this deep Mississippi tale of mischief, both in the sets and in the acting. Yet it all has the vaguely self-conscious feel to it that says Look at me! Isn't this a great performance? (a dubious quality some critics have dubbed the Streep factor).A relaxing afternoon in the cinema no less. Certain details are revealed at the end but by then does the audience really care? Not all of them - it had too much of a made with big bucks and check out the understatement look about it. There are a great many very creative directors about - Altman used to be one of them. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear God...","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unbelievably awful.  Genuinely wretched.  Shot in that same bland, over-lit, TV-movie style that afflicted the equally dismal Midnight in the Garden of dull and stupid.  Robert Altman (yes, the auteur who made MASH and The Long Goodbye) presents us with a film so tedious, so pointless, so insultingly drab and banal that it makes you want to chew your own fingers off with frustration.  Or simply stop watching it, of course, which would be a lot less painful.  Altman's one great achievement in this disaster is making Julianne Moore look unattractive.  It's hard to believe, but it's true. Glenn Close, meanwhile, looks alarmingly like Robin Williams in Mrs Doubtfire.  If this sounds like the kind of film for you, then you have my sympathy.  Full of deep south quirkiness and other equally patronising crap, this is an awful, awful movie.  Patricia Neal does the right thing early on, by shooting herself.  I guess she thought it was the only way out.  From Breakfast at Tiffany's to this.  Let that be a lesson to us all.  "},{"Title":"TOO BAD TO BE TRUE!!!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came across all the comments in here and all i can say is WHAT???? How can someone say this movie is a master piece? How can anyone say this movie is even good? This is a movie that is bore, stupid, slow, without any kind of interest about it. Dont see it. Its useless. Dont even bother! The only thing tolerable is Liv Tyler but to see her rent Stolen Beauty or even Armaggedon, because this movie is unbelievably BAD!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"This Cookie Crumbles","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The death of an old woman in a small Mississippi town leads to some minor intrigue. It gets off to a slow start, and doesn't really get interesting until the death of Cookie. And even after that, nothing much happens to hold one's interest. The characters are so stupid that one doesn't care what happens to them. The logic given for Close covering up the suicide of Cookie is absolutely ridiculous. The characters' blatant disregard for police procedures is meant to be funny but it's totally idiotic. A good cast is wasted. Altman has directed some great films, but by the time he made this his career was in decline and he does little to breathe life into a weak script. "}{"Title":"This film is always just a few inches from being special, but never makes it. (Possible spoilers)","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It can be the most wearing thing in the world being a Robert Altman devotee, with much pulling of hair, grinding of teeth, shedding of tears.  'Oh no!' we cry, as another opportunity sidles shrugging out of grasp, with inspiration, always visible in the distance, slipping away.  'Why did you pick this script?';  'DON'T do that shot, you're just winding them up!'; 'But that insight is so...banal!'There are so many movies on his filmography that aren't bad per se - every one of his films is directed with thoroughness and intelligence.  It's just that that vital spark is often missing, (erroneously)giving the impression that the great man's heart is not in it.  So why do we submit to this torture?  Because, quite simply, cinematic thrills do not get much better than THE LONG GOODBYE, NASHVILLE or SHORT CUTS.COOKIE'S FORTUNE is another exasperating Altman experience.  There's nothing inherently wrong with Altman's direction - of all the great modern American directors, he is the most unerring at capturing the essence and atmosphere of a locale, whether it is through character quirk, an unusual, overlooked element of the landscape, or a little, local, detail that seems to sum up a way of life.He is often accused of being misanthropic and patronising, but he understands his characters, pinpoints them through seemingly aimless and banal dialogue and obsessions.  This is all present in the film, as well as his seemingly casual accumulation of connections, comparisons, contrasts and the narratively superfluous image that enriches (and often changes) the film's meaning.Altman is probably most famous for being a deconstructor of genre, and he continues this project here.  Ostensibly a murder mystery story, there is little fear or danger on the narrative level here.  I'm not spoiling the story by stating that the suspect is too amiable, the evidence too flimsy, the police too endearingly inept, the style too casual and sunny.  All of these elements, in Altman's prime, could have climaxed in a brutal, cynical, ironic ending, a horrible miscarriage of justice, but maybe he's listened too much to critics who have attacked such tactics as childish.The second, submerged, mystery story is the more dark and compelling, making full use of the Deep South locale, which was, initially, irritating.  It concerns race, family, inbreeding, madness, sterility, blood, Southern honour; all dark Gothic subjects treated with a surprisingly (and welcome) light touch, considering the sheer inhumanity and monstrosity lurking between the lines.  This is great Altman, nagging at the surface, but always with a pose of indifference and distance.(I found the gloating over Camille's fate at the end rather distasteful, though - Altman has often been accused of misogyny, which I've always rejected, but the treatment of the lead women here, whatever the Tennessee Williams heritage, seems very wrong.  Maybe it's ironic - I hope so after all, the script was written by a woman.  Only one female escapes unscathed, and she's a man's woman - short hair, whiskey guzzling, rough living, motor loving.  Does the film endorse the self-satisfied picture of male solidarity at the end?  I don't think so just because he was the victim of madness and inbreeding (love the sly casting of Ned Beatty!), doesn't make the implications of his plight any the less terrifying.Ultimately the script scuppers it.  Although it picks up towards the end, it's simply not funny enough.  Its more obvious targets are too soft, and even then they are not hit very accurately.  The characters are too black and white - either wonderful, or lovably daft; or shrieking lunatics (Chris O'Donnell, believe it or not, is a wonderfully funny exception).  Altman has always been a master dissector of life's grey areas - this kind of material is too easy.  Is he ever going to top SHORT CUTS? "},{"Title":"A Completely Useless Movie","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cookie's Fortune is perhaps the most inane and useless movies I have ever watched. Definitely NOT a watershed event in cinematographic history. On the CZTV website, 21 percent of viewers rated it as waste of time whereas 72 percent rated it as excellent, with almost nothing in between. I don't get it. Do YOU get it? I certainly don't get it. Had this film not have had Liv Tyler in it, I don't think I would have watched it to its pathetic and boring finale. Definitely a lot of material for a future episode of MST3K here. I mean, it takes just as much time/effort/money/etc. to make a good movie as it does to make a movie like this, so why did they even bother producing it? I guess CZTV doesn't have a whole lot of money to buy any good films, so all we get here are reruns of Dallas, and garbage like this. Possibly the only good thing I have to say about this movie is the fact that it doesn't copy the standardised model of most American movies. No helicopters, no explosions, no car chases, and no unrealistically exaggerated characters. In fact, the characters were all too ordinary. Even a video of some guy playing chess on his computer would have been more fascinating than this movie. It definitely has its own genre Useless. I mean, even my writing this comment is a useless waste of time. "},{"Title":"A recent Altman film, and just as bad as his other new stuff.","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Altman should go into retirement, as should Scorsese, and all the other former great directors who waste everyone's time with their new material.This overlong, unfunny near-mess starts off with a half-hour of pure tedium, in a sort of Driving Miss Daisy vein; with an old woman and her loyal black friend. Absolutely nothing happens in this part of the movie. I wish it had stayed that way, because once things start happening that is when the movie gets really annoying. (Like Sting's famous song-line Life was easy when it was boring, or This film was easier when it was boring.) The overly familiar plot &#150; already milked dry by the self-copying Hitchcock - of an innocent man accused of murder is just too stupid. It also sinks any chance that the gags and the humour might have; but the jokes are mostly mediocre so it doesn't matter. The other major problem with the movie is the rather blah cast Julianne Moore, Glenn Close, O'Donnell, that country singer, and worst of all - Liv Tyler. While Moore is convincing as a semi-retarded woman, Close is simply annoying in yet another wicked-witch-from-the-South role. O'Donnell is typically bland, while Tyler is not only awfully miscast but a bad actress, as well. For Altman to cast her as some white-trash Southern girl is an insane move. Charles Dutton has a very cliché role he is ultra-kind, pure goodness and is intellectually superior to just about everyone - without feeling that way. And what an annoying plot-point in the kid's father not wanting to listen to what the kid had witnessed. Plus, there is that annoying sporadic schmaltziness that any movie can do without. What a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Perhaps Too Cluttered With Too Many Characters","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to be honest and confess that I'm not a Robert Altman fan . His movies suffer from being cluttered with too many characters having their own sub stories which detract from the narrative COOKIE'S FORTUNE can be used as a good example . For the first half hour of the movie we're introduced to the characters of a small deep south town called Holly Springs , yes that's right a film that lasts two hours wastes quarter of its running time on umpteen different characters . After this has taken place an event happens which sets up the main plot of where a black man is blamed for something he didn't do and if you're able to stay awake at this point you're doing well Did I mention this was a comedy ? I thought I have to mention it since some people might be confused that this might be some type of hard hitting drama like IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT and the movie continues in the same type of unlikely manner of blackly comical characterisation and plot twists . But if you like Altman you'll probably like this movie . I don't much and I didn't much "}]