[{"Title":"Much much better than Never Been Kissed","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"44 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a product of the 80's slasher film and the teenage film generation. Films in the 80's like Fast Times, Wild Life, Revenge of the Nerds and Ferris Bueller's Day Off and such, were films that may not have been classics to the critics, but to a fifteen year old boy, they were our Citizen Kane.  They taught us how to pick up women, how to attempt to have sex, how to skip school and why to skip school.  They taught us that parents and adults really don't understand us and that kids really aren't that bad, we just want to have a bit of fun before life gets too serious.  We have all been through emotions and experiences like the ones that those movies preach about, so it is easy for us to relate to what those films are trying to say. And it makes it that much more fun to relive those experiences ten years later.  Can't Hardly Wait is the closest to an 80's teen film that I have seen in quite some time.  Compared to films like the aforementioned Never Been Kissed and even She's All That, this movie is a classic.The film was written and directed by Harry Elfont and Debra Kaplan, and if they are not about my age ( late 20's ) they certainly are lovers of 80's teen films, because it shows here that they did their homework.  Some of the scenes in this film are complete homages to great 80's films like Sixteen Candles ( the two geeks on the roof ) Wild Life ( a huge party where some of the characters grow up and learn a bit about themselves and each other) and even Say Anything ( a not so popular guy in love with the school hotty.) It seems to me that Harry and Debra are lovers of the films that made growing up in the eighties so much fun.The story is about a party on the day of the completion of exams.  Here we meet all the major players in the film.  And yes, they are all contrived, but that is what a film like this is about.  They were not trying to re-invent the wheel here, they were trying to stick to a formula that made so many movies work. You have Amanda Beckett ( Hewitt ), the prom queen that just got broken up with by the star jock named Mike Dexter ( played with so much zeal by Peter Facinelli, look for him to have a future in Hollywood ).  Then you have Preston ( Ethan Embry ) who is not necessarily a geek but he is far from a popular jock, think of Dawson.  Anyway, he has loved Amanda for all of highschool and now he is finally getting the guts to tell her of his undying passion for her.  You also have William Lichter, who is the school geek that comes of age in the party.  He does all the things that you would expect a typically written geek in a film to do--- get drunk, have a public display of wildness that gets people to see him in a new light, and of course, in here it is his karaoking to Paradise City ( which is one of the film's funnier scenes ) and of course get laid.  As I said, this movie sticks to a very popular formula.  Don't look for a film like this to say new and something profound about today's youth.  This movie is here to entertain and that is it.  And it does that well.Also you have Kenny Fischer ( Seth Green ) as a very white guy who thinks he is black to cover up his insecurities, and his friend from public school named Denise.  Needless to say many issues are going to be raised at the party and some of them are hilarious.A great cameo is turned in by Jerry O'Connell who plays Trip McNeely ( the ultimate jock name ).  He was idolized by all the cool kids when he went to their high school.  Now he is in university and according to him , in a converstion with Mike Dexter, he tells him that  guys like me and you bro are a dime a dozen.  Chicks are a lot different in college.  They care about the environment and things and they all date guys that are in pre-med.  It is a very funny scene.What makes this movie so much fun to watch is that it is reminiscent of an 80's film.  And that is the highest compliment that I can give it. Because, just like they don't know how to make movies like Halloween and Nightmare On Elm Street anymore, they sure as hell don't know how to make films like Breakfast Club, The Sure Thing and Secret Admirer.  But this film comes really close to being like those.  And if you remember those ones as films that were some of your favorites when you were sixteen, see this, it will make you laugh and entertain you, and that is an accomplishment on its own.  "},{"Title":"A cute funny little movie","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great. It's not blockbuster, but it wasn't made to be. It was  something geared towards teenagers, so older folks beware. I would not go  see it if you're out of your twenties. It was funny, it was sweet and that's  about it. The two best performances were given by Ethan Embry and Seth  Green. Ethan was male lead, Preston who convincingly yearned for Jennifer  Love Hewitt's character, Amanda. Ethan pulled his role off wonderfully. The  second awesome performance was given by Seth Green who was the local  gangsta-wannabe Kenny. This one had me rolling on the floor laughing  because sadly, most of the guys i know are just like him. So, if you just  want something to entertain, make you laugh, and not think to hard, I'd go  see this movie. "},{"Title":"Ranks high in its genre","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a sweet movie this is! Predictable all the way, but saved by it's extremely likeable cast Ethan Embry, as the daydreamer nice guy, Seth Green, showing off is talent in his part as a wigger and the photogenic Jennifer Love Hewitt, who has the part of perfect girl down to perfection. (Is there any other way to describe it? She really is that good at it.)Like most good films in its genre Can't Hardly Wait has many witty moments, pace and charm. The parallels with Fast Times At Ridgemont High are obvious.Seth Green as a white boy who really would rather have been a black boy is a very funny and to the point social comment. It's a shame, however, that the film can't break loose from the stereotypes that resurface in every teen comedy. There's the blonde bimbos who just look pretty and are armpieces to the jocks. There's the jocks who drink beer and pick on the nerds. There's the nerds who have big glasses and re-enact scenes from Star Wars and the likes. Why don't producers seem able to break away from those stereotypes? The moments where these characters are brought into play, the boring slapstick they engage in... Those are the moments where the film loses it's pace and that's why these films only brush upon interesting subject matter. This is also the reason why new generations won't be bored to watch until the end of this film in twenty years time. I know I changed the channel 30 minutes into Fast Times...Without the everlasting stereotypes and standard storylines (nice boy wants girl... nerd gets cheerleader for one night or forever more) this kind of film might actually distinguish itself. As long as that doesn't change the rating of this film is likely to remain stuck at 6.3, at which it is stuck right now. That's where the genre deserves to be as it is. I rate this film slightly higher at 7. "},{"Title":"A Huge Surprise!!!!!!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While walking through my local video store, I have walked past this cover box a trillion times and never really looked at it.  Then one day, I noticed that Seth Green was on the cover, and since I became a fan of him during Buffy, I picked up this movie, thinking, What the heck, it's free! (I had a Rent One Get One Free Coupon).  I took it home not expecting anything but a few laughs from Seth, and boy was I ever shocked!Can't Hardly Wait is not the greatest movie ever made, but I'll be totally honest with you, it's the biggest surprise of a movie I have ever watched.I now own this movie, and it's one of those movies that, when I'm just not in the mood to go to a galaxy far, far away, (yes, sometimes it happens) I pop this in and giggle hysterically.Seth Green is wonderful playing the wannabe gangsta.  The members of Loveburger are a riot.  And Jennifer Love Hewitt isn't even all that annoying.The soundtrack is quite amazing.  With a movie like this, you'd assume that it'd be just Smash Mouth, Blink 182 & Third Eye Blind, and yes, those groups are included, but during the party scenes, there are a number of classic party tunes from Guns -n- Roses, Tone Loc and RUN DMC.  Not to mention the whole Barry Manilow Mandy references.No, this movie will not be re-released for a 20th Anniversary, but it's definitely worth watching, and ranks far above all the other teen flicks that are swarming to your local theater as you read this. "},{"Title":"One of the better teen comedies.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Again, like the many, many teen comedies to come before it, CAN'T HARDLY WAIT has you watching as the teenagers run around, crack jokes, yell at each other, scream, drink beer, and kiss and fall in love. Yes, it's all very mushy and romantic. Not so much in this movie...Like 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU, this movie doesn't really concentrate on the romantic elements until later in the film, which I like. It is more original and gives the movie more flavor. This is why most of these teen romance flicks are not really big at the box office. Its because they are predictable, they have been done a thousand times before and because everyone knows how it will turn out. That is why horror movies are always big. Because at least with a horror movie you usually have to figure out who the masked killer is or something like that. But with these boring teen comedies, you always know how it will turn out. This movie is different.You never really know what is going to happen, because this movie takes the honor of having a very large cast of characters and follows each of them very specifically, developing a story and history for each of them. The cast includes Ethan Embry, Seth Green, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Melissa Joan Hart, Charlie Korsmo, Lauren Ambrose, Peter Facinelli, Jenna Elfman, Breckin Meyer, Sean Patrick Thomas, Brandon Williams, Jaime Pressly, Liz Stauber, Clea DuVall, Brian Klugman, and Jerry O'Connel have parts in this movie. Many of these people only have small cameos, but all are hilarious in this delightfully funny teen romp.CAN'T HARDLY WAIT gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The plot was ok. I love the actors. Jennifer Love Hewitt was amazing. She really pulled it off. Ethan, of course, was good. He made Preston Meyers the person we all cheered for. Seth Green once again came through with his humour and his serious side. The movie is a good movie if you want a laugh, or if your a romance type person, it's also very good. Or if you just want to relax and watch a pretty good movie, this is it.  "},{"Title":"If I'd gone to a party like this, my life might've turned out better","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After a while, it's hard to remember back to that immortality of youth that this movie captures in a very clever way. The number of now famous actors and actresses who pop up in this epic is amazing. The characters are well polished The jerks are jerkier, the nerds are nerdier, the jocks are even more jocked up, and as a boy who remembers what it was like to love the most popular girl from afar, the pain you suffered with that love was of a white hot intensity that the hero of this movie could not let go, much to his betterment, and to my loss (I didn't go, and she never knew).Brilliant. "},{"Title":"best teen movie EVER!!!!!!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this movie was great! i first saw it myself and it was really boring, but when i saw it w/ my friend it became my favorite. i guess this was because u feel stupid to laugh by yourself, and this is a movie u need to watch w/ someone. my fav character, like everyone else, is kenny fisher played by seth green. sadly, i know a lot of people just like him who are wannabe wangstas or wiggers. its hilarious. he reminds me so much of my best friend who's like that. also the small appearance of Jerry O'Connel was good. this is my fav Jennifer Love Hewitt movie, and a lot of people i never even heard of did a good job. i also liked the TINY roll of Breckin Myer who i think is hilarious. this isn't just a teen movie because my parents loved it. "},{"Title":"This one's a nice party...","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yeah, yeah. It is the girl, it is the boy, it is the crazy one, it is the geek, it is the popular one, it is the party. I know all those things that most of the time come along in the package of a teen movie. But this film is really one good piece. I can't say great, but I can't also say bad.Here, unlike many teen comedies, we get to meet the characters. To know details and things about them, because they aren't comic creatures. They aren't one dimensional, you know? It always happen that some characters just got to be there, and don't have much development, but some others do. And it's not easy to create much development for one night only, because there is only a party.This guy, Preston. He is totally mad for this girl, so that he thinks they are meant to be. And maybe they really are. And this girl, is so trapped in her world (no matter what that world is), that she's not looking anywhere else. And if she looks, it might be too late. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Ethan Embry are more than alright for this characters. She (Hewitt)is gorgeous, and she doesn't need a lot of effort to play Amanda's part. It's just the part of a gorgeous girl. He (Embry) is impressive. In his eyes you can see that he has been left aside, most of the time. Embry gives some kind of depth to his characters, even if he doesn't have to. I liked him in White Squall and I understand him here.The rational character is Denise. She doesn't want anything to happen but she hasn't even tried. Ambrose gives simply the best performance of the movie. And Seth Green made me laugh. His character, Kenny, wants anything to happen, but he has looked to much, and needs to stop a little bit. As for William, well, he is that neutral character, he needs some new things in his routine. His life has been the same for too long. Many things could happen in this party.All the rest of the cast is in and out, going and leaving, talking, remembering. High School is ending, it must be enjoyed, I think.Last, but not least there's fate... "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think there is two kinds of thoughts of this movie, Hate and Love I love it, i think this movie has everything that is needed to be enjoyable, it has good acting, a good soundtrack, good characters, its really funny, and it got Jennifer Love Hewitt, (a women that can make almost every movie worth watching, because she seems to be one of the sweetest girls in the world).I think i don't need to say anything more. This is the best(and first) college movie that is ever going to be produced, its miles before American Pie 1&2&3 and other movies...  "}{"Title":"Not as good as some would have it","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have certainly seen high school movies I enjoyed more (Dazed and Confused, for example). I felt many of the performances, like that of Jennifer Love Hewitt, only came alive later in the action - JLH did not make much impact when she first appeared, but was good later on - and maybe there were too many different story lines. The most consistently good actors were Ethan Embry and Lauren Ambrose; I have to admit, I found Seth Green's character a pain in the backside, and, not being of that age or culture, had little sympathy for his relentless homeboy stuff; he was much better when he stopped! There were some nice set pieces, like the nerd suddenly lighting up the party with his (drunken) karaoke performance, and the top jock getting his richly deserved comeuppance - but why was he back with his friends the following day, as if nothing had happened? One can't feeling they would have been uneasy with him, maybe even a little contemptuous after what they had seen and heard.It was undoubtedly a bonus to see actresses such as Jaime Pressly, Selma Blair, and Melissa Joan Hart making an appearance, if only fleetingly in Selma Blair's case.Nice ending (after some credits), reminded me of the end of Gregory's Girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Above average Animal House???","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only idiocy here is attempting to even compare a classic like Animal House with a piece of pap like Can't Hardly Wait (to see Jennifer's Boobs), let alone comparing it favorably. Can't Hardly Wait is your typical high school movie, filled with typical high school moments- nothing too memorable, inventive or creative here. For movies it gets a 4, for comedies it might rate a 4.5 but as modern appeal to the raging hormone teenage girl movies goes it's better than the rest, maybe a 7.More enjoyable than Animal House? Put the crack pipe DOWN bro....When you want to compare something like Can't hardly Wait you should use other more high school themed films like 10 Things I Hate About You or She's All That (both just as good, just as pap as Can't hardly Wait- perhaps they're all done by the same 100,000 monkeys working at 100,000 terminals at UCLA) but you shouldn't ruin your movie credibility forever by using Animal House and this seat wetter in the same sentence, much less the same movie review. "},{"Title":"Apparently Some People Can Wait","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well my prediction that this movie would bomb was correct. It spent all of 2 weeks at most theatres. It's not even pulling very good video rentals.  It now seems to me that one of the only thing that keeps any one (especially guys) going to Jennifer Love Hewitt movies is the possibility that she may have a nude scene in a R rated horror feature. Alas, she probably will never opt to do this, thinking she actually has talent as an actress. A good actress needs to evoke emotion in the viewer. While she is nice to look at, about the only emotion she's ever evoked in me is disgust at how dumb her character is in whatever movie she's in. I foresee either a career nosedive or a continued future on TV. I can't decide which is worse. As for the movie itself, I couldn't watch most of it because all I kept seeing was a board meeting of producers trying to figure out how to sell to a teenage audience. Apparently blatant stereotypes and annoying characters no longer pull in the kids like they used to. A John Hughes movie (though it shares some of the stupidity of those films) it ain't. "},{"Title":"A typical nineties teen comedy","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait summarizes perfectly well every single cliché and archetype from any of the teen comedies done in the nineties. Not That this is a bad thing, and think that I prefer the clichés from the teen movies made in that decade than most of the awful and unfunny comedies from the recent years.Even when some of the references in Can't Hardly Wait could considered dated by modern audiences, and despite the fact that the story from this film is totally stereotypical and predictable, at least it still has a certain level of entertainment value to be worth-watching.Personally, I'd rather see a movie like this than stuff like Project X any day. "},{"Title":"Total Rip off of Dazed and Confused...","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just want to add that the line by the stoner guy, poolside at the party when he says You know who else I like that didn't get much play? Velma from Scooby-Doo. She was cool. She was a hip, hip lady. That last part, she was a hip, hip lady, is a total ripoff of Slater's comment in Dazed and Confused at the end of the part when commenting on Martha Washington he says that she was a hip, hip lady emphasis in both movies is exactly the same, and Dazed was first. yo Not to say that I don't like CHW, its definitely one of the best 90's teen movies. I definitely remember the early blink, and the huge house party in the movie, basically it set up an ideal of what a house party should be like... "},{"Title":"Not like I remember high school","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Geez, this movie is sure made for teenagers (which I'm not). The only reason I watched it was because it happened to be on cable. I'd be upset if I'd actually payed money to rent it much less see in the theatre (of course I never had any intention of either). Pretty much every character in the movie is completely shallow and not believable, including Amanda and Preston, whom we're supposed to be rooting for. The only reason these two characters look good is because everybody else is so bad. I mean come on, one day she doesn't even know who he is, and then the next day meets him at the train station where the two start making out after only a couple of minutes of conversation? And the rampant sex, even amongst total strangers, at the graduation party? And the nerd has the girls drooling over him after singing karaoke to Paradise City by Guns 'n Roses? Gimme a break! Anyone who thinks this is a good film is either a) a Jennifer Love Hewitt fan or b) just hasn't developed any taste for decent film-making yet. Everything about this movie is catered directly to teens, and is quickly lost on anyone else. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly wait was like one of the best movies ever! It inspired me to become a screenwriter. My name is Priscilla, I am fourteen years old and can't hardly wait touched me. The plot, the music, and the friendship between Preston and Denise. I really loved the hooker's words of wisdom about fate! It's so true fate is there, but it only takes you so far because once you are there it's up to you to make it happen-The angel hooker.If you have not seen can't hardly wait and you have ever wanted to do something so bad, but you never got the chance to just remember if fate was willing to take you that far then take that chance! This movie is about love, fate and following your dreams. Fate clearly brought this movie and me together! I give it more than 10 stars!!! "},{"Title":"The last great teen movie","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. It had all the elements of a great teen movie without the whinny, class warfare of the 80s teen flicks. Seth Green was excellent in his role and has a lot of one liners that we still use around our house today. Its hard to really critique this movie on a normal basis because it lacks real depth. But if you want to laugh a lot and have a good time with friends, this is the movie to break out of the DVD collection. Like I said before, this is truly the last great teen movie to come out of Hollywood. I've heard that the directors cut is better but the original has enough laughs to make it watchable. Watch it....and watch it again! "},{"Title":"A staple on the nineties","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait had me shaky for the first forty minutes, than it introduced a sweeter side to its characters, and then it showed off its real side in the final minutes of the film. This teen film does have a couple of minor problems, one of which almost bogs down the film. But when I found out what it was trying to accomplish I was more or less won over by its attempt. It didn't succeed so great it puts the whole genre to dismay, but it does succeed in a subtle, more low-key way.The movie follows numerous characters, all of which attending the same party, for one night of their lives. They have finished High School, and are now graduates. All of them are going to separate schools, hoping to live successful, independent, and rewarding lives. Don't we all. These characters are all different, but provide a lot. We have the ordinary boy (Embry) trying to win over the girl he lusted for in High School (Hewit) by giving her a sappy love note. It just so happens that same girl hates being popular. We also get the awkward relationship between the token-white guy (Green) and the socially awkward, brutally honest outcast (Ambrose) trying to catch up on past events. We have the nerd who becomes popular for one night in his life (Korsmo). And we also have little minor, here and there characters including two dweebs waiting on the roof for their buddy to give them the signal to attack the jock (Facinelli) who just broke up with our main character's dream girl.As you can see, this is a very eventful party. But the characters come off as just shallow stereotypes for the first half of the film. Just reading what the synopsis tells you enough about these characters to know, they all fit into their own stereotype. There is some dialog that tries to morph them into proper human beings, some of which works but some doesn't. Still, the characters grew on me to the point where I cared. But the main flaw of the film is it doesn't know how to dig deeper into the character or decorate them to make them into more recognizable humans.The final moments in the film are where its real side starts to show. This whole movie is about an underdog. And gives the important message that High School isn't everything. People who are popular might turn out to be losers in real life, and I've heard from adults it happens. The movie tells you that if you're not popular in High School, you may go places because others might accept you for you are. That only makes the movie enough to recommend. Sure it does it in a comical, silly way during the epilogue, but it's an honest attempt at a good moral.The actors in Can't Hardly Wait grew up to be successful, and I believe everyone in the film is still acting to this day. The main characters at least. Can't Hardly Wait is more mature than American Pie per-say, but it still doesn't achieve the laughs and the connection I was hoping for. But, its message and some of its characters (like Lauren Ambrose who definitely needed more screen time) may stick with you which is enough to let it sneak by unharmed.Starring Ethan Embry, Charlie Korsmo, Lauren Ambrose, Peter Facinelli, Seth Green, and Jennifer Love Hewitt. Directed by Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont. "},{"Title":"A timeless effort in analyzing stereotypical characters in High School with humorous acting.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait...There is so much I can say about this movie. It happens to be one of my favorite movies and my all time favorite teen flick. This movie surpasses all other recently released teen movies because of the hilarious plot line that managed to capture different groups from high school to a tee. With cute Preston Meyers as a bashful hopeless romantic, the audience is forced to follow this fellow through his teenage years of pining after Amanda Beckett. Then in comes Kenny Fisher. I could go on forever about the hilarious antics that Kenny pulled in this movie and how well he pulled the audience into his world of rap music, gangster talking, white boy thinking he is black attitude. Denise is another actress that captures our attention so willfully as we constantly listen to her monotone voice bantering on about why growing up sucks and life is just really messed up. The flirting between Denise and Kenny is so hilarious that you can't help but laugh at this unfortunate disasterous couple. Next is William. William is the dork of the school who was always the butt of everyone's jokes. But he managed to play the role well as the dork that finally cuts loose and lets the good times roll. While Mike Dexter might be the worst portrayal of the jock thinking he is too cool for high school, his character makes him the enemy, which is what the audience is supposed to think of him. The movie itself has amazing shots, and I love it whenever they start following one action from room to room and then pulling something from that and following another action. For example, the letter that is traced from the trash outside to being swept inside by hockey player, to being rolled over to another room by way of keg only to finally make it to Amanda Beckett in the pretzel bowl. All in all, this movie captures all the stereotypical roles of high school teenagers bringing this movie to epic heights with its comedy and its acting. Great Comedy about life, love and finishing up high school the way it needs to be done!   "}{"Title":"A movie one can appreciate only in time...","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this movie?  A lot.  While it may seem like a movie geared towards high schoolers or teens, I think that the only way to really appreciate this movie is to see it after you leave high school.  Only after you leave the wonderful world of 9-12th grades and have some college under your belt can you fully appreciate all the subtleties here.  The creators wonderfully place all the stereotypical high school personalities throughout the movie, from the girl who has way too much spirit to the geeks who are at odds with the jocks. And I think that the creators behind this movie have done an excellent job of inserting songs that coincide with the feelings of each scene.  I don't know if I've ever seen a movie with better fitting songs to the heart and meaning of a scene.  The music makes you feel right along with the characters.  The casting is nearly perfect, with Jennifer Love Hewitt playing the hottest girl in school, and Ethan Embry gives a masterful performance as the intellectual and introspective Preston. Bottom Line A light-hearted movie that looks back and reminds us how truly pointless and insignificant all that high school bs truly was.  Take a look at it, but only if you are out of high school. "},{"Title":"Truly a classic!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice, and I must say I like it even more since I watched it again. This one is not just a great, entertaining movie with a really great cast (Seth Green being the most outstanding actor), no it is also responsible for the teen-movie revival after 1998! Because this movie was never *that* successful it is hard to compare it with John Hughes The Breakfast Club, but in my opinion Can't Hardly Wait made a lot of great teen movies possible, just like The Breakfast Club did in the 80's!My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"I Don't Like This One","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Out of all of the teen movies that I've seen, this is one of the worst.  The plot has been done so many other times, its not funny.  The cast was okay, but still, the story was not good, and it wasn't that funny.  The only way that I could see a person watching this film is if they were determined and or had nothing else to watch.  It was not good, and the only two characters that I liked were Seth Green's character, and the girl he was with. "},{"Title":"best teen movie ever","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Awesome movie. Great actors and actresses. They were all talented and hot. I love seth green. Hence the name special k! It was a good story line and the soundtrack was awesome. Now the teen movies are all stupid and have too much sex or violence. I wish more movies would be like this one). "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but not bad","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about this flick, I mainly only wanted to see it for Melissa Joan Hart (even knowing she had a very brief role). I'm no fan of giraffe neck Jennifer Love Hewitt and in this movie she did her typical I have large breasts, so don't really need acting talent impression...Being of the Generation X variety, I liked this movie more than my fellow Gen Xers and a few grumpy boomers...(FWIW, American Graffiti was overblown and if you weren't of that era, it was nothing special). MY egenration had Fast Times At Ridgemont High and the John Hughes films. This was a nice throwback to those films. Simple, humorous and fun. No overblown plots, character development, etc. just a fun time at the movies.Amongst the other positives Seth Green, not a bad performance yet. MJH, not many scenes, but then, I'm a tad bit biased ;) The band that never gets to playa  single note (having had a high school garage band, I got a kick out of the pretentious lead singer, the guys arguing over what they were going to wear, etc.) The nerd's first beer Jenna Elffman as the stripperA nice pleasant film that sadly sounds as if some funny scenes got cut to appease the MPAA and get a PG13 rating...funny that this movie has the same rating as Indiana Jones And The Temple Of Doom where a man pulls another man's beating heart out of his chest (not that I'm against some good old fashioned heart ripping, just odd that these two movies carry the same rating). Maybe is Speilberg had directed this...Overall, a decent little film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awful Movie","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The stereotypes, though intended, were painfully irritating.  This film preyed on simple minded teenage audiences who would laugh at the most ridiculus of jokes.  I couldn't wait for it to end.  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait... for this to end","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  that's all i was thinking for a hour and a half.  it was like a bad remake of dazed and confused and that move wasn't a whole lot better.this is just another example of a brain-less, point-less and plot-less movie that my generation goes to see ( and i like 'stupid' movies like bio-dome).  i didn't even find it funny (with the exception of a few scenes).i'm just glad it was my sister that rented it. "},{"Title":"Sleep aid","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Badly dated teen party flick that might have played better in the 1980s. Ethan Embry goes to a high school graduation party in a private home where he encounters Jennifer Hewitt, whom he has loved since childhood. He spends most of the movie trying to find a way to approach her. She, on the other hand, has just broken up with the class jock and is besieged at the party by an army of guys looking to hook up. Why she stays as long as she does is a mystery, but it makes for a convenient finale when Embry finally catches up with her. Dullsville. Blandsville. A more interesting storyline has supernerd Seth Green getting stuck in a bathroom with chubby classmate Lauren Ambrose. They have never been particularly fond of one another. So they argue and fight, then they make out, then -- well, you will have to see the movie for the rest. But frankly, I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Best movie","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a very special movie for me and one of my friends. We saw it for the first time very long ago and we did directly connect with the character Kenny Fisher. From that moment the movie is a standing internal joke between us and later on we actually bought the movie, mainly for the purpose of seeing it whenever we want to and make us happy when we're down. The movie is so funny, and it's just getting funnier and funnier each time you see it, especially for all the details you recognize after a while. For an example, early in the movie and in the beginning of the party William Lichter is making his way through the kitchen towards the beer. Right next to him a girl stands, examining a banana?! This movie is a clear choice for a fun evening with your friends. The only thing you want to cut out of the movie is all the scenes with the main character, Preston, he's so boring, therefor the 9 in grade.Use me for my body baby "},{"Title":"A great teen film","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen a lot of teen films in my life and this is probably in my top ten. Can't Hardly Wait was a really funny movie with multiple characters having a lot of screen time and funny lines. Mike Dexter, in my opinion, was the funniest character from the whole film as the cocky and bully jock played by Peter Facinelli. His role was funny as hell along with Seth Green and the nerdy kid, (I forget his name.) The movie was good and had a great soundtrack along with good performances by mostly all of the cast. If you are a teen movie fan, then Can't Hardly Wait is a film not to miss. Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "}{"Title":"A teen movie that IS worth watching","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Typical American end-of-term party in a large house with lots of drunk teenagers trying to hook up with each other. There is a plot to this film though, where Amanda (J L Hewitt) has broken up with her boyfriend and is now single. Word spreads around school pretty quickly and EVERY guy interested turns up at the party. But there is one guy who is determined to hook up with Amanda because he feels he has a lot in common with her and that she is the one.I liked this film a lot, for a number of reasons- there is a plot/storyline that unfolds throughout the film and branches out into a serious of smaller plots, introducing new characters into new scenes or smaller plots/story lines that are carried forward during the film- unexpected turns in the film that keep the viewer entertained- the sheer comical aspects of almost every scene- the truth behind some of the characters; the realism of characters portrayed  "},{"Title":"An Above Average Animal House","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This Animal House update brings more intelligence, more meaning to a dumb period of college partying.  The focus on selected characters and the relationship are both entertaining and enlightening.  In addition to the somewhat less raucous but much more intelligent college party - Can't Hardly Wait is both a fun movie that balances both dumb antics with meaningful interludes between the characters.  Seth Green from Buffy the Vampire Slayer offers up a different and rather deeper character demonstrating his flexibility as an actor and Jennifer Love Hewitt portrays a reluctant Prom Queen misunderstood - in an anti-popularity role.  The memorable aspect of this movie is in its balanced treatment of the post-high school experience, avoiding the raw, idiotic nonsense of Animal House and bringing a much more rewarding entertaining experience to the audience.Seven out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, Cant Hardly Wait was one of the best movies i have ever seen!! With Strong performances by Ethan Embry(My FAVE Actor, plays Preston), Seth Green(Real Funny Guy, plays Kenny), and Peter Facinelli(The Jock) made this movie incredible.Now if u love all those teen-age flicks, this is a sure pic for you, but if not, i think u might find the movie to be cute and funny at points, but this one is geared towards the younger generation.But i think that it was a great movie that kept me laughing and i highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Better than I was expecting","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't tend to expect much from teen comedies, but this turned out to be a minor surprise.  It's nothing great, but it was generally enjoyable, and the young cast did a reasonably good job.  Lauren Ambrose and Seth Green easily gave the best two performances, and their relationship was far more interesting than the central Hewitt-Embry situation.  Had the filmmakers focused solely on Ambrose and Green, this could've been a great movie.  But as it is, it's better than most teen flicks, and worth watching the next time you want some undemanding entertainment. "},{"Title":"We all see parts of ourselves in this beautiful movie!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I gave this one a ten, not only because I liked it enough to see it again, right after the end.  This movie really touched me! There are a lot of different characters, doing a lot of different things, in this comedy that is actually nothing else than one big graduation party! The characters are so many, and each is so versatile, that every person can actually see him/herself in this movie, as they once were, or are, or will someday be! I, for one, certainly found myself hiding in one of the guys, and I was astonished at the similarities between us! It made me become one with the whole situation it presents, therefore I believe it's a great movie for all kinds of people!  "},{"Title":"Made me relate to so many things, it was exciting.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my favorites.  It made me feel so many different emotions throughout the movie because I felt that I could relate to all the characters in one way or another. Ethan Embry is one of my favorite actors, and his quirky facial expressions, his funny dialogue, and the way he goes after Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt), make the movie worth watching.  Of course there is also Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Wow.  Seth Green puts on an amazing performance as Kenny.The main reason I liked this movie is because I felt that I could relate to every single character.  Each person brought something different, funny, and memorable to the movie, and they all took me to different points in my life where I have been THAT character (especially Ethan Embry's).Older people might not enjoy this film as younger people, but I truly enjoyed this film and enjoy showing it to other people who haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. I have always been a fan of movies which are about how one night can change everyone's lives. Recently there have been alot of teen-themed films being made. Alot of them are good, but some are bad. I was worried that this could be as bad as She's All That, but this is the best teen film I have seen in quite a while. "},{"Title":"Funny and sweet.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think this would be very interesting when I started to watch it, but that soon changed as I found this film very funny and heart-warming. It's not the greatest comedy but the cast is very good and they run with their lines. I was interested in every character. Good movie. "},{"Title":"If nothing else, at least this film has Jaime Pressly.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although not in the same class as The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, or even Better Off Dead, this is still a highly effective teen movie. It's really the only teen movie made in the last 15 years or so that I keep in my collection.The plot is simple enough. We have a bunch of high school kids getting together for one last party after graduation. We see all types interacting with one another and getting pretty wasted in the process. Our main character is a sensitive writer type who has been lusting after the most popular girl in school for the past four years. She has recently been dumped by her jock boyfriend, so this Mr. Sensitive thinks this party is his chance to finally hook up with her! Along the way we see several side plots involving nerds, sluts, stoners, jocks, white guys trying to act black, and any other type of kid that the high schools of today produce. Overall, this film is very, very well done. I'm still surprised how much I like it.And every 15 minutes or so Jaime Pressly can be seen strutting her stuff. I swear that girl is amazing! It's too bad she doesn't have that many scenes. The last we see of her is when the cops bust that party. She's all curled up and passed out on a chair. Just waiting for that special guy (like me) to carry her out of that party and take her home! Oh well, we can dream, can't we? By the way, the guy who plays her boyfriend is the guy in the pickup truck whose buddies beat the crap out of Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights!Anyway, I like this film. The sensitive writer guy is a lot like me. I also connect a little with Seth Green's character since I was accused of acting black in high school because I was the first kid in the suburbs to listen to rap music. There's a little of each of these characters in all of us, I suppose.Do yourself a favor and watch this film if you get the chance. It's nothing profound or deep, just a bunch of kids having a wild party and learning some things about themselves and each other along the way.Oh, and have I mentioned that Jaime Pressly is in the movie?I'll give it 8 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Calm down!  There is still hope for teen comedies!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is proof of that!  It's not your regular I wanna get laid or Unlikely friendship thing, it's solid, dramatic fun!  The story follows a group of different characters' stories the night of a party.  There's Preston (Ethan Embry), who is dying to talk to Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt).  Kenny (Seth Green), the wannabe black 'gangsta' who is accidentally locked into a bathroom with quiet Denise (Lauren Ambrose).All of the different actors/actresses play their roles believably.  Sure, you may think a story about a teen party is shallow, but believe it or not, this is one of the most funny, dramatic films I've seen in a while.Underrated (6.2?  No way!) and overlooked, Can't Hardly Wait deserves a good 8/10. "}{"Title":"Will you enjoy this movie?","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First, if you're over 30, you're right out.  You're too far out from high school to take this movie seriously.Now, there are two types of people under 30.  The first category are the teen-movie lovers --  those who laughed out loud at American Pie, boogied to 10 Things I Hate About You, and even misted up at the unlikely finale of She's All That.  It doesn't matter that some of the dialog is campy, the events don't make too much sense, the sentiments aren't profound, and sometimes the hijinks don't resemble anything that ever happened in any high school anywhere.   The movies are good fun, a nice reminder of a simpler time.For these people (myself one of them), Can't Hardly Wait is great.  It's funny, it's got Seth Green, a personal hero, and it has great intertwining plot lines held together by photogenic actors and actresses.  Bug-eyed Ethan Embry is at his best here, as is Melissa Joan Hart as a yearbook-obsessed kook and little Charlie Korsmo, all grown up, as the resident geek who finds fame lip-synching Paradise City.  All of the stock characters are represented -- the jock, the nerds, the beautiful cheerleader,  the shallow best friends, the white wanna-be homeboys -- but, as in American Pie, are given enough human dimension that they're plausible and fun to watch.  The movie's entertaining from start to finish, refreshingly irony and angst-free, and the ending is cute as can be.The other type of people under 30 are those who take their movie-watching very seriously.  They don't have time for fun, silly movies, and they viciously rip them apart because they aren't perfect.  They hated American Pie because it had semen humor, they loathed 10 Things because it blasphemed Shakespeare, and they wouldn't think of buying a ticket to a movie called She's All That.  That sort of person should avoid this movie like the plague.  If it's playing at a party, leave the room, you're only going to spoil it for the people born *with* a sense of humor.So, all you category-one youngsters, enjoy Can't Hardly Wait.  All you category-twos -- lighten up, start slow (maybe Breakfast Club), and sooner or later you'll learn to enjoy life. "},{"Title":"forgettable","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  in twenty years, people will mention this movie, and people will say 'what?' and 'umm haven't heard of it' or 'uhhhh nope.'every character in this movie is annoying except clea duvall, and we dont get to see enough of her. i wish the trench coat mafia had been students at this school so they could wipe out these irritating geeks. i couldn't hardly wait for this movie to be over. "},{"Title":"This movie made two hours seem like two years.","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is the worst movie of the year for myself.  Even I, a teen , didn't find one single joke funny.  And after about 2 minutes, you'll say  to yourself I can't hardly wait to get out of here. "},{"Title":"I couldn't hardly believe it but...","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...This is actually one of the most entertaining teen comedies I've seen yet. In the post-John Hughes teen era, 1998's underrated multi-character comedy, Can't Hardly Wait, a joint venture by directors Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan, is funny and engaging in a way most teen comedies aren't anymore. This is a movie I've seen a fair number of times over the years but I have to admit a particular fondness for the characters, despite an uneven script and other writing issues, as it brings back memories of my high school career, which I left in June of 2004.In the movie, Denise Fleming (Lauren Ambrose) reminds the audience that fate works in some really expletive ways sometimes - we get rebuffed every time we want something to happen but doesn't. But sometimes life cuts us a break and that's what would happen for Lonely Guy Preston Meyers (Ethan Embry). For four long years, Preston has pined for Amanda Beckett (Jennifer Love Hewitt), who is of course the pretty cheerleader and has conveniently ended her relationship with her idiot jock boyfriend Mike Dexter (Peter Facinelli). In the opening sequences, Preston explains the circumstances regarding his fateful relationship with Amanda. An aspiring writer, Preston has revised and revised a soul-bearing love letter that will confess to Amanda the feelings and reasons for why they were destined to be together despite life elements that have proved otherwise. Preston plans to give her the letter at a post-graduation party the night before he's scheduled to leave for Boston. And of course, a number of circumstances and misunderstandings will hamper Preston's dogged determination to give Amanda his letter. But before one writes this off as a typical teen romance, please let me continue...Even more interesting, are the various subplots taking place paralleled next to the main plot line. Mike Dexter isn't exactly the most cherished individual in high school, as explained by William Lichter (Charlie Korsmo), in a verbal tirade that parodies Bill Pullman's inspirational speech from Independence Day (1996). Along with his two geek buddies, William plans to lure Mike and one of his random jock friends to the pool house, take Polaroids, and capture them in a naked embrace. However, circumstances allow William to become the unlikely life of the party. Meanwhile, wannabe homeboy Kenny Fisher (Seth Green), plans to sex as many honies as possible at this party. He's got the full kit in his backpack, including the Kama Sutra, the Hindu book of love. But his plans take a backseat when he's locked in the upstairs bathroom with Denise. It is here that the two former friends, now strangers, confront one another about the drastic changes their lives have taken since junior high, and it is this portion of the script that comes to be the most interesting, largely because of the interaction between Ambrose and Green. In addition to these, there are plenty of smaller subplots including a foreign exchange student, the party hostess as she tries to control the night's events (as well as her sanity), a yearbook geek (Melissa Joan Hart) who wants to be the first to get the signature of every graduating senior, William's nerd buddies who are on top of the pool house, and a band called Loveburger (fronted by Breckin Meyer) tries to get its act together but in-fighting nearly proves to be the group's demise. Boy, it's going to be one hell of a night...Despite its script problems, Can't Hardly Wait is sure to get some kind of a cult following in a few years, which of course comes from the fact that the subplots are far more interesting than the core story. But I dismiss it as nothing truly detrimental to the film as a whole. Of course, my favorite story just happens to be the one with Amanda and Lonely Guy Preston. (I guess it's because I more or less fall into the category of high school Lonely Guys who pine for the pretty girl but don't get the pretty girl.) Yet, Can't Hardly Wait obviously can't hardly wait for some kind of cult fame over the next couple of years.7/10 "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait ... what, for this?","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that people would waste $7.00 bucks to this crap which is nothing more than your average NBC teeny bopper movies! All of the characters are cardboard cut-outs from previous teeny bopper flicks The poor little rich girl who whines if anyone so much as breathes on her parent's furniture, to the Casanova wannabee, to the black sheep of the school, to the nerd who ends up scoring all of the girls, Pluleeease!!! I guess this film didn't come with the tag..No Trees Were Harmed During The Making of This Film.I really feel sorry for Jennifer Love Hewitt. You get the feeling that Hollywood's mocking her with these B movie material scripts--and don't tell me that it's because of her age either! Just take a look at Christina Ricci!Rating 1 "},{"Title":"everything a teen movie should be","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this movie is one of my favorites not because its an epic crime movie, or a moving memory masterpiece (i heart alliteration), or even a funky unique cult movie- its just a damn good chick flick and my favorite one of all time. this is because 1. it has my former dream girl of all time Jennifer Love Hewitt in it, and 2. the protagonist- Preston is me pretty much or at least i think of him that way. its a simple movie, as should all chick flicks be. and I'm gonna go on a chick flick tangent now. you know you like chick flicks, how can you not? if your a guy reading this then deep down you know a chick flick at some point has made you smile, or even made you shed a tear even if you refuse to admit it. there's always gonna be a place for chick flicks in the movie world, because we all want that happy ending. sure some stuff is nice during the movie but it all leads to the climax, it all leads to the happy ending. and whats not to like about a happy ending? nothing. cant hardly wait has a freaking good ending by the way. I'm not gonna spoil it for you but you'll definitely smile at the end and that means the movie has done its job. plus Seth green makes a nice appearance as the white guy that acts black. this movie has it all, or at least all that it should for what it is. i dunno what it is but i love this one. "},{"Title":"Maybe I Shouldn't Have Waited","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't hardly believe it took me this long to see this for the first time. I mean, I love the 90s&#x85;and this was sooo the 90s. I guess I'm warming up to house party movies. If they're done right, i.e. 2012's Project X was an abomination. But, recently, I watched the 2016 house party-themed Sisters and loved almost every minute of it. Going back almost 20 years, and I felt the same here for Can't Hardly Wait.Sure, it's typical &#x96; even for 1998 standards, and you know how some of the multiple stories will play out, but the interactions, the genuine comedy and dialogue mixed in with everyone's great chemistry and this movie stands above most house party films.Graduation night brings together multiple groups of just released high school students into a late night party where pretty much everyone reminisces about other people's memories dating back as far as the second grade. If they were sad to let it all go and move onto to their college lives spread across the country, they didn't show it. Most everyone was having a blast. Well, maybe not Yearbook Lady. Or the host.Oh, and there's a main thread of a plot Normal Preston has had a crush on recently separated and popular Amanda and works his way through the film to find the courage to confess his stalking to her. Er, I mean, love.It's a good movie with an incredible number of recognizable faces in the background &#x96; always love an early sighting of Jason Segel and always had a girl-crush on Clea DuVall. And there were many more people I loved from the 90s. In fact, this is the perfect 90s nostalgia film, speaking of reminiscing, myself. I mean, just listen to the soundtrack&#x85;***Final thoughts I probably would have never seen this movie had I not missed two questions of a ninety-nineties movie trivia game and both incorrect answers were from this movie. So, I guess that was&#x85;fate. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Age Well","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Don't look back. You should never look back.There is a scene during the movie where someone spray painted This Party Sucked on the door, and I guess that the same thing can be said about this predictable and formulaic teen comedy that tries way too hard to capture the spirit of former John Hughes' comedies from the 80's. Perhaps it is my fault that I just got around watching this film now, but if that is the case all I can say is that it hasn't aged well considering many films since have done a much better job at delivering laughs and breaking genre conventions. Can't Hardly Wait is completely predictable from start to finish and the characters all fall flat despite some charismatic performances from the cast. The script may be the biggest disappointment because the characters aren't given anything interesting to say and they all play generic characters. This was Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan's first feature film as directors, and they only went on to direct one other movie together (Josie and the Pussycats). Can't Hardly Wait was received quite well in the late 90's, but I can't see its appeal. It feels like a generic teen comedy about teenagers partying after graduation. They all promise to be memorable, but in the end everything that goes on in the party is completely predictable. There are fun moments, but the film never justifies it 100 minute runtime. Jennifer Love Hewitt plays the girl everyone in school loves and admires, but she has recently been dumped by her boyfriend, played by Peter Facinelli, who wants to move on and meet college girls now. Their breakup is the talk of the school, and Ethan Embry's Preston believes fate has given him another shot to talk to the girl of his dreams. Preston has always been in love with Amanda (Hewitt), but she doesn't even know of his existence. We find out about his secret crush for Amanda through his best friend, Denise (Lauren Ambrose), who he confides in. Other people we meet at the party are the classic characters we've seen in many other 80's and 90's teen comedies some of the hot shot athletes who are best friends with Mike (Facinelli), their gorgeous girlfriends who are part of Amanda's group, the rockstar wannabes, and the nerds who want to avenge all the years of bullying they've endured. Charlie Korsmo gives one of the most funny performances as this nerd who after drinking a bit too much becomes the sensation of the party. There is also a side plot involving Denise getting locked up in the bathroom with Kenny Fisher (Seth Green), someone who she shared a past with but hasn't been in contact since. Locked up together in the bathroom seems like a good way to dig up the past and they both open up with each other. The side stories and secondary characters are actually more interesting than the actual main plot involving Hewitt and Embry's relationship and that is what ultimately hurt the film for me. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"OK, funny little movie","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait is a high school comedy that takes place mostly at a graduation party, in which some guy falls in love with Jennifer Love Hewitt and is trying to tell her what he thinks about her since she just broke up with her boyfriend.This movie has all the high school clichés the jock, the cheerleader, the better than everybody else, the nerds, the white dude who thinks he's black, the popular kids and more. And it works for some of the movie, I just didn't find it nearly as funny as it was trying to be.Can't Hardly Wait probably gets more credit in pop culture than it should, cause, even if it's funny, it's just not that funny. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious Teen Comedy","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait is an excellent,hilarious Teen Comedy that combines great direction,a wonderful ensemble cast,a fun script and a memorable soundtrack. All of those elements make Can't Hardly Wait one of the best Teen movies of the 1990s and one of my favorites in the genre.Can't Hardly Wait tells the story about Preston(Ethan Embry),a Teen who has just graduated High School and has chosen a graduation party to confess his love to his long time crush the beautiful and popular Amanda Beckett(Jennifer Love Hewitt). Meanwhile,Kenny(Seth Green),a Hip-Hop loving misfit who wants to lose his virginity but gets stuck in the bathroom with the cynical Denise(Lauren Ambrose),a former friend. Class nerd William(Charlie Korsmo)wants revenge against his bully football jock Mike Dexter(Peter Facinelli). All of them are in for a wild hilarious night they will never forget.After the critical and Box Office success of the Teen/High School classic Clueless(1995),the teen genre was booming again in the late 1990s and in my opinion one of the best Teen films to come out during the 90s and one of my favorites of the genre was Can't Hardly Wait,a terrific and hilarious Teen Comedy that was a modest success at the Box Office and over the years has developed a Cult following that is well deserved. Can't Hardly is a movie that is just entertaining from start to finish and it's a film that wonderfully pays homage to it's inspirations and fore fathers in the Teen genre whether it's the John Hughes films,American Graffiti,Dazed And Confused and Fast Times At Ridgemont High and while it takes most of the elements from those movies Can't Hardly Wait creates it's own world and style that makes it entertaining and re-watchable after many viewings. Also,like the movies I mentioned above Can't Hardly Wait shows off tons of actors who would become bigger and more famous years later. Nearly 80% of High School movies have one or two party scenes but in Can't Hardly Wait nearly the entire movie takes place at a party where tons of wild and crazy things take place. Having the movie take place at a party makes the film feel fresh and almost like a stage play and that is one of the things that I think sets CHW from the other Teen movies during the late 90s early 2000s. Despite being set at a party the movie never runs out of steam or wears out it's welcome and there's an energy that keeps going until the very end. The Comedy and laughs in Can't Hardly Wait are funny and non-stop with a mixture of slapstick,over the top characters and moments of hilarity and insanity. I also enjoy the fact that CHW takes place in one night which I think makes some of the situations ever more funny and over the top. The screenplay by Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan is fantastic giving the characters dialog that hilarious,witty and clever. I also enjoyed how Can't Hardly Wait despite being a very funny movie deals with love,fate and looking back at the past while moving into the future which is dealt with in different ways by the main characters. And speaking of the main characters they all are very much the same kind of stereotypes that you see in other High School movies(Nerd,Jock,popular girl etc..)but as the movie goes on we learn about who they are and what they want with some depth and emotion. CHW also has one of the biggest and largest ensemble casts I have seen in a Teen film with lots of fun and interesting supporting characters who make small and brief appearances but leave an impression on viewers. The ending of Can't Hardly Wait wonderful because not only do we learn about the fates of the main characters with also get laughs,romance and some surprises. A great ending.The cast is great. Jennifer Love Hewitt is excellent,beautiful and sexy as Amanda,a popular girl. Ethan Embry is terrific as Preston,a guy in love with Amanda. Charlie Korsmo is wonderful and funny as William,a nerd looking for revenge. Lauren Ambrose is fantastic as Denise,Preston's cynical best friend. Peter Facinelli is amazing as Mike,a Football jock. Seth Green is great and hilarious as Kenny,a Hip-Hop loving goof ball. Also,lookout for fun appearances and cameos from Melissa Joan Hart(Vikki,the yearbook girl),Jenna Elfman(The Angel Stripper),Jerry O'Connell(Trip McNeely),Breckin Meyer(Walter)and early roles from Jason Segel,Freddy Rodriguez,Jamie Pressly and many more. The direction by Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan is fantastic,with Elfont and Kaplan bringing a simple but effective style and energy to the film with good lighting and pace. Great direction,Elfont and Kaplan.The soundtrack is a wonderful mixture of Rock and Pop songs that go with the energy and atmosphere of the film. In final word,if you love Teen Films,High School movies or Comedies,I highly suggest you see Can't Hardly Wait,an excellent and hilarious Teen Comedy that you will watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait for It to Be Over.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait (1998) Dir Deborah Kaplan, Harry Elfont / Cast Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ethan Embly, Lauren Ambrose, Seth Green, Jenna Elfman Teen comedy about moving onto the next stage of life. It centres around a party where sex and loud music are the norm. Jennifer Love Hewitt is tired of countless sexual innuendos and Ethan Embly is a love struck graduate who has kept a hand written love letter for four years in hopes of giving it to her. Film serves as another example of teens viewed as sex starved alcoholics. Predictable tripe directed by two people, which is perhaps the film's biggest surprise. Their names are Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont who do well in a sequence in which a note transcends about a room. Unfortunate a decent script never floated about the set or this might have been better than the concocted formula crap that it became. Hewitt basically sits and looks pretty while Embly bellows and wails about his urge to share his feelings. It is obvious that they will connect and that Hewitt will look at him with starry eyes. Lauren Ambrose and Seth Green dislike each other and are trapped in a washroom until they finally put differences aside for sexual conquests. Then there is Jenna Elfman making a ridiculous cameo as an angel who hasn't anything better to do. With its total lack of anything original, I can't hardly wait for studios to quit producing crap like this. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Oh look, it's the 90s!","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wow, Blink 182, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Seth Green, Tupac RIP references, Dharma (but not Greg) Jenna Elfman, that guy with the high pitched voice from Empire Records (Ethan Embry) and OMGZ!!! is that the little kid from Hook (1991) all grown up (Charles Korsmo)? Looks like this one's about the late 90s, and it's a decent example of a prime vintage.I can't really explain the nostalgic value of seeing Jerry O'Connell drop in for a cameo, seeing Selma Blair get hit on by Mike Dexter, seeing Sabrina herself Melissa Joan Hart run around like a kid with ADHD and seeing Breckin Meyer ask us if Anyone ordered a Love Burger? But it is magic. And if you look really carefully, there's Jaime Pressley and Jason Segel, present at the role call as well. When they were making this film they were looking for more than a fast hit, casting some popular young actors in a clichéd situation involving a party after the last day of High School. They made a film that encapsulated the time perfectly. Not just the fashions and attitudes, but the way movies were being made, and the way popular culture viewed the world. This movie was accurate to the time by showing its characters to be shallow, materialistic and oblivious. It didn't have anything to say about 90s teen culture, but caught what it was. While I don't give the film credit for its clichéd characterizations, I do give it credit for the way these clichés engage with each other into a coherent, though predictable whole.The main story being told involves Amanda Beckett, who has just been dumped by her jock boyfriend Mike Dexter. Nerdy classmate Preston Meyers, flanked by his nerdy friend Denise Fleming, decides that this is the night, at the end of High School Party, to confess his love for Amanda. And that's pretty much it. There are a lot of subplots and minor characters but it all happens around the main narrative.Ethan Embry, as Meyers, is pretty funny, Korsmo, as a vengeful nerd seeking revenge on Mike Dexter for a life time of cruel pranks is actually pretty good. Lauren Ambrose is decent as Denise, but her character is annoying and quite hypocritical. Most of the cast come across well in limited screen time, and some good cameos and funny scenes fort the trailer, with a theme by Smashmouth I can't get Enough of you Baby, and it was a minor hit at the time it came out.More than a decade later, Can't Hardy Wait is the ultimate nostalgia fix. It looks like a 90s movie, follows all the conventions of a 90s movie and is made like a 90s movie. Not intelligent, but still entertaining. I'll admit a personal bias, but still recommend it if you are a fan of the era. "},{"Title":"Competent 90's teen comedy","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The high school seniors have just graduated, and they're having a blowout final party. Preston Meyers (Ethan Embry) is hopelessly infatuated with Amanda Beckett (Jennifer Love Hewitt). When she's dumped by her douche jock boyfriend Mike Dexter (Mike Dexter), Preston can't hardly wait to proclaim his love for Amanda.It's nice to see some familiar faces when they were young. Ethan Embry does a pretty amiable teen. Jennifer Love Hewitt does this hurt face throughout the movie. She's hurt by the break up. She's hurt by the douche boyfriend's attitude. Then she goes nuclear on everybody. The best has to be perpetually short-tempered outsider Lauren Ambrose, and the over-compensating Seth Green. However it's all too familiar. In the end, it's hard to see what Preston actually sees in Amanda other than an object on an unachievable pedestal. Does he really know her? She doesn't even know who his name. They probably never had two words together. "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wow, this movie is awesome I first saw it when it came out on the theaters and I was like man that is exactly how it is in highschool, out of all the characters I guess I can most relate to all of them each one had something, Peter Fascinelli was sooo hot, the type of guy I would have lust over but probably would have been anything with him, turned of if I were to ever even speak to him because he comes off as a duschbag, and then Ethan Embry comes in he is HOT!!!! and sweet and everything I guess I would like in a boyfriend. This movie is cute because all of these characters are all so diverse, you had the geek guy, that for one moment, was singing karaoke LOL and he was cool, The cool guy that for one moment was a total nerd LOL ) Jennifer Love Hewitt, yeah us girl at times we get so harassed that we don't know if they like us for ourselves or for our looks which sucks in really getting to know someone. Th red head hirl (lauren ambrose) came across really real like someone that didn't pretend to be anything, just herself that's pretty cool I liked her character, and I aldo like Seth green, cause he thought it was cool talking a certain way which really wasn't even him LOL i thought they made a cute couple ) its a great movie I give it a 9 "},{"Title":"What a Party!","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Can't Hardly Wait' has nostalgic value for me and it is a really fun film. While it sort of centres around the Ethan Embry-Jennifer Love Hewitt romantic track. It is really the surroundings that are the major treat of this film. You'll see a host of upcoming talented actors, like Lauren Ambrose, Freddy Rodriguez, Peter Facinelli, Seth Green, Selma Blair, Clea Duvall, Seth Peterson, Jason Segel, Erik Palladino, Jaime Pressly, Sara Rue, Jenna Elfman, Melissa Joan Heart, Leslie Grossman and Donald Faison, either in supporting roles or making funny appearances by playing colourful characters. It's interesting to see the progress they made as actors over the year. Elfont and Kaplan's writing is amusing. The movie has plenty of slapstick and the jokes work brilliantly. Of the main cast, Embry and Love Hewitt are good but it is Lauren Ambrose, Charlie Korsmo and Seth Green who steal the show. I personally prefer 'Can't Hardly Wait' much more to overrated rubbish like 'American Pie', 'Ten Things I Hate About You', 'Never Been Kissed', 'Superbad' etc. "},{"Title":"The ONE Teen Flick from the 90's I enjoyed (as a Teen)","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" during the 90's there was a slew of movies of this Genre coming out. I had no interest in Freddie Prinze, Jr., The American Pie Cast or Rachel Leigh Cooke at the time...Not because they weren't talented, but because of the amount of fluff their names were attached to. As a Teenager, I could not relate to ANY of these Teen Flicks until Can't Hardly Wait came along. It was practically a Spoof with a Plot. I remember being happy about the Character's resolutions, and most of the characters were played by funny actors. I decided pre-Robot Chicken that Seth Green was a genius after this movie. Perhaps it is the way you recognize all these characters hitting their extremes as Caricatures that makes us want to keep watching this movie.The other teen flick from the 90's I recommend is 10 Things I Hate About You. Again, another movie that goes overboard showing the High School experience, and doesn't force a sincerity that isn't there. "},{"Title":"This does bring back memories","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this came out in September '98, (Australia) I graduated High School in October '98, and can relate to everything that is in this film. Whilst not in the same categories as Shawshank Redemption, or Casablanca, this is still for its genre a remarkable film. The cast in one word perfect. Jenniffer Love-Hewitt obviously didn't have to act here... her Amanda is both likable, yet god! she doesn't know that prince charming aka Preston Myers (Ethan (Embry) has pined for her, for four years! Man! and if that weren't enough there are a load of real interesting sub-plot's in this film. Including the legendary Seth Green as a white homeboy, Kenny Fisher, who think's he black. He mainly interacts with another great actress, Lauren Ambrose, (who was also in Six-Feet Under, and a few others from this film). who's character Denise Fleming, doesn't want to be at the party at all. Without giving away, how she and Kenny (Seth Green) end up together, confronting how, and why there are no longer friends it's hilarious.Another two interesting sub-plot's are the band Love-burger, and the actions of the class nerd William Lichter, are so goddamn funny!For its genre, this is hard to top, other films, try but without much success. If you haven't seen it, then go get it. As for what happens to the major characters, the answer is simple Fate, its brilliant and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Great film, Seth Green makes a good film great.","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The film is a good depiction on views on the future and sudden realizations before their life truly starts. The film is about the party after graduation involving nerds and jocks alike. Seth Green plays the Cool in his own mind type of guy and really makes this movie special. The main character is good as the nerd who just wants his break for once instead of being broke. As a nerd, it was good seeing what happened to the jocks. Overall, anybody anywhere will like this movie, it is funny, it is witty and the stars are just so numerous it becomes sort of a Which star comes next type of movie. I rate this film 72%. "},{"Title":"A surprise classic!","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just read a review of Can't Hardly Wait on the IMDb by a user who mentioned that he has walked by the movie in his local video store countless times before finally renting it. Personally, I saw it countless times when it was released because I worked at a video store at the time, but it is probably the one movie that I have been meaning to write a review about since I started writing reviews on the IMDb nearly ten years ago. The teen comedies, especially the ones that use losing virginity as major plot devices, are an intolerable lot almost without exception. This one, however, is definitely an exception. Everything is blown out of proportion from what high school is really like (and I went to a ridiculously rich high school, so I know what it's like to party in multi-million dollar mansions while the parents (someone else's, of course) are away), but it's blown out of proportion in all the right ways. It's hard to pinpoint what it is that makes this movie work while so many other movies like it fail completely, because it does have a lot of the same flaws. Granted, I should be a little careful, because I haven't seen the movie in at least six years and it's dangerous to review a movie I haven't seen for that long (the movies that I thought were cool when I was in high school are now sometimes shockingly bad), but while this is certainly not a family movie or a critic's movie, for its target audience it can definitely serve as some pretty good fun.It's true that Can't Hardly Wait doesn't remotely approach the honesty and importance of the classic high school films, like Say Anything or The Breakfast Club, and it's also true that most of the characters (almost all, in fact) are comic caricatures of the traditional high school types, but the movie never pretends to be anything more than that. I think it understands that it's a joke, and so it just has fun with itself, and with the right state of mind we can have a blast along with it.Seth Green is the white kid who thinks he's black, and he pulls off the accent and the behavior remarkably well. So well, in fact, that for a while I thought he might be typecast like Sean Penn was for a while by Fast Times (another classic) and Keanu Reeves was by Bill & Ted (Keanu had a much harder time shaking that image, but he has definitely done it by now. Peter Facinelli is good as Mike Dexter (his most memorable role before or since), the cool kid with the hot girlfriend who has an agreement with his friends to break up with their high school girlfriends so they can graduate to college women. Unfortunately, he's the only one who goes through with it, and thus enters poor Jennifer Love Hewitt, who mopes and moans through most of her role, one of the only boring and totally uninteresting parts of the movie. Even her goofy future-sorority-girl girlfriends are more entertaining. Then again, Hewitt's character, as it is, doesn't belong in this movie, she belongs in a movie that takes itself a little more seriously, and even then she should be played by someone else. But the real highlight is Charlie Korsmo as William Lichter, the geeky kid trying desperately with his Star Wars buddies to get into a cool party and sabotage it. While his buddies wait on the roof acting out their favorite Star Wars scenes, William proceeds to get drunk and ultimately give us the best scene in the movie, a heroic live performance of Guns N' Roses' Paradise City in front of the whole party, who finally begin to see him in a new light. Strangely, Korsmo hasn't acted since this movie.There is another character named Denise Fleming who spends most of the movie locked in a bathroom with Kenny Fisher (Seth Green), with whom she used to be close friends until he became, as they say, too cool for her. Their conversation is the most realistic and heartwarming thing in the movie, it's always been confusing to me why the writers locked her in a bathroom for the whole movie. Probably to give her and Kenny enough time to have their heart-to-heart chat, etc.It's easy to badmouth a movie like this. It has many of the stereotypes of your typical high school comedy, and the situations and the structure that the writers have created are often ludicrous in the extreme. The movie's target audience may not be as big as the truly successful coming of age films, but the target audience is richly rewarded with this movie. It's about 100 times better than American Pie, for example. Unlike that movie, there are no cringe-inducing scenes, no stomach-turning toilet humor, and no conspicuously shaped holes in any apple pies. This movie is just good fun! "},{"Title":"Great teen film","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rated PG-13 for teen drinking and sexuality, and for language.Can't Hardly Wait is a great teen movie.I watched it yesterday because I love the teen comedy genre.Can't Hardly Wait is a film that is very funny at times but it also realistic and sad as well.The film follows a bunch of graduates at a party.One of them wants to find this girl who recently broke up with her jock boyfriend and express his love for her.He has been lusting after her since the beginning of high school.There are three geeks who want to get revenge on the jock.One of the geeks goes to the party to lure him out but eventually has a good time, gets drunk, popular and befriends the jock for a brief period of time.There are also two people who were friends when they were younger but now dislike each other who get locked in a bathroom.Cant Hardly Wait is a funny, interesting and realistic portrayal of high school and if you like teen films, you wont want to miss this. "}{"Title":"I need to know","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" in the movie the last scene, with Amanda Becket and Preston Meyers. when she sees him at the airport, and they start talking, and then they shake hands and she walks away and he walks away, well when he turns around the second time then walks and and stops and drops his bag and runs to her while she is walking away and he jumps over the seat and the guy looks at him, then he reaches her and is out of breath and says........ maybe there is a later train..... and he trials off while looking into her eyes nd then the kiss last for about three seconds and then they part and look at each other and then are both smiling and the kiss and and then they continue kissing and the center camera zooms out and there is dialog at the bottom talking about how he got on a train seven hours later and for every day the he was away she wrote him for every day, and to this day they are still together, now i liked that scene that was my favorite scene but one problem for the whole kissing during this scene who was the artist singing i really want to know because i love this movie and have been all over the internet looking for... the soundtrack to can't hardly wait.... and i could not find out who sung this song so please if you know please let me know by contacting me at whitetyger22@yahoo.com , my name is jenny and i would really appreciate it if i got a reply about this question thank you......sincerely Jenny "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie! I didn't really think I would, but it wasn't until my friend told me it was a good movie that I even thought of giving it a look. I didn't even think it was going to be worth money on a rental so I waited until it was on tv. I saw it on the lifetime channel and watched it out of curiosity. It was really a very good movie and held your attention. I even later purchased this movie! This is a really decent movie that I was really surprised on how good it was! I recommend this to many people and with one piece of advice, don't go into this thinking it will be horrible, have an open mind and watch the whole thing! Don't make a premature judgement from the first few minutes! Rent this now! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"the typical teen party","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  at the end of the movie, i still felt bad for the girl that threw that huge party! the party is right after graduation, but some kids come to the party all with different expections and different social cliques that bond all of them together in a weird kind of way.  preston was the average joe who has the guts to talk to the prettiest girl in school, who just broke up with the hottest guy in school after dating their entire high school career.  2 old friends connect again after one night can change their friendship forever and become more than friends.  (**SPOILER**) when amanda and the boyfriend have it out in front of the entire school and he turns out looking stupid.. that was a classic slam.  but overall with some corny jokes and the nerds trying to get advantage of a particular jock for making his life horrible in high school..which most nerds dont do.. i liked the movie and the party was pretty good.   (B- C+) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'd think","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Expecting a typical teen film, and not really liking Jennifer Love Hewitt, I wasn't that excited about this movie. But it turned out to be a funny, cute, not-too-deep entry in the teen movie genre. Ethan Embry is likeable, for the most part, although you do occasionally want to shake him and tell him to get a spine. Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose are particularly funny, both individually and together. Even JLH isn't as bad as you'd think. And hey, you get to see the kid from What About Bob all grown up! What's not to be mildly amused by? "},{"Title":"Nice teen film","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice is the adjective for this film,Can't Hardly Wait carries the spirit of the Teenagers films,I know that it is less famous than American Pie (Perhaps the actors are More friendly for the Watchers)but this film has something good,could be the plot of the party or could be the main actors like Seth Green.Can't Hardly Wait is a film about the nineties,about the friendship and the High School age,for that it look likes as a good alternative to the other teen films.And one of the best points of the film is the soundtrack,specially the song HIGH by the Great Welsh Band FEEDER.CAN'T HARDLY WAITIt is not the movie of the year but it presents nice. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie I ever saw drunk out of my mind","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*My friend and I were shooting pool next door to the movie theater showing Can't Hardly Wait. I had a movie pass at the time which let me get into movies for free. A teen comedy for free sounded good to me. So I told him I could shoot pool with him for awhile but then I had to leave at 930 to see the movie. So we started shooting pool and drinking pitchers of beer. I was winning and drinking, drinking and winning.  By the middle of the fifth pitcher, I realized it was 920. Gotta go dude. He steered me to the movie theater and I grabbed a ticket.I found this movie to be quite hysterical. However, if I had seen it sober, I probably wouldn't have laughed as much. The teens are having a big party to celebrate graduation.  Everybody has things they desperately need to say to each other before it's too late. They Can't Hardly Wait. The scene that really had me going was when the nerd starts getting drunk and decides to sing Guns and Roses PARADISE CITY, (one of the greatest rock songs of all time). He's rocking out while drunk out of his mind, (just like me), and a girl in the front of the crowd flashes her boobs at him. He faints but then leaps right back up like the new found Rock God he is.  I would recommend this movie just for that scene. The rest of the movie was a standard teen comedy mixed with some drama.One last thought, keep an eye out for a young Jaime Pressly as one of the cool kids girlfriends. She has a great dancing scene with another girl. It'll be pretty hard to miss her unless you're completely drunk. Burp.  "},{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait may not be the greatest movie of all times, but I think it was a good movie.  It is worth watching at least once in your life.  It was quite funny throughout the whole movie.  There were also several main characters whose paths are intertwined, which makes it constantly moving.  I would recomend this movie to anyone who needs a quick laugh. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think everyone else who wrote a comment for this movie pretty much covered the basics of the plot. I just want to say that this is one of my favorite movies and probably my most favorite. I like it a lot because a lot of the teen movies these days are so retarded and they don't have that connection with the characters you get when there's actually more than just jokes in a movie. I like the way the romance and the comedy work well together in this movie. So if you ever have the chance to watch this movie, do it because you wont be dissapointed as long as you go in with an open mind. I probably like this movie so much because I am a teenager and i've seen crazy stuff like this happen a lot but still it's great. My favorite character has to be that Klepto Kid, he has no speakin lines through the entire film all he does is go places and steals stuff. Like when everyone was running from the cops, he steals a cop car. Man that's classic. lol Well enjoy.DMan "},{"Title":"loved it!!!!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie like so much! I thought it was cute. Besides I think Ethan embry is cute! I feel like I'm the only one because no one else ever posts anything saying he's cute! I really would recommend this movie to my friends and stuff. "},{"Title":"Flashback","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are two reasons to see this film - if you like teen movies of the 90's, and if you like teen movies of the 80's. Sure, this flick fits right in with contemporary stuff like American Pie, but the folks who made it have definitely studied their Brat Pack classics. The scene in the bathroom with Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose is straight out of Sixteen Candles, and all the little peripheral characters may as well have just walked off the set of Say Anything. Nothing new under the sun. The jocks and cheerleaders are just as vacuous, the nerds are just as geeky, the freshmen are still trying to act like Brooklyn B-boys, and the good guy still gets the girl. But somehow, the formula still works, and a few well-acted characters (Ambrose, especially) make it worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait/ *** starsI was so impressed with how well this movie was. I mean, who would have expected that a teen movie like tis would turn out to be so good. I for one, did not expect such a thing at all. The acting in this movie was really good, and I liked some of the cameos made by actors. For example Jenna Elfman, who did a remarkably good job in EdTV.Can't Hardly Wait is about a party that takes place after graduation. Preston is the main star of the movie as he is trying to find his high school fantasy Amanda Beckett, who he had first layed eyes on four years ago. He is on a mission to find her and give her a letter that he wrote four years ago and never had the guts to give her before now. Then there is Kenny who is attempting to have sex, but no one seems to be willing until he finds a girl who wants to make her ex jealous. He goes up to the bathroom to get ready but is interrupted by Preston's friend Denise, who Kenny happens to be friends with a long time ago. But first Denise and Kenny have to overcome what happened in the past that made them seperate. Meanwhile, there is William Litchner, who is at the party to get revenge against his enemy Mike Dexter, who broke up with Amanda Beckett, who is at the party for a reason she doesn't even know.The writing and acting in this movie is for the most part terrific. there are however a few moments where a character is stupid and that is what made me only give it a 3 star rating instead of a 4. I think any chance that you get to watch this movie, you should jump at, because it is a rare treat to find a movie like this that is actually good. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies out there. And the music in it is awesome. The best part is the part when Dammit by Blink 182 is playing (I'm trying to not spoil it) and the very beginning when that one song is playing and they're all about to graduate. This movie ad Ten Things I Hate About You are the best movies ever. 10/10 "},{"Title":"No, really, it's not bad","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a lot better than I expected.  More people should give it a chance.  It's a teen angst movie for sure, but pretty well done, with some poignant moments and some excellent characterisations (Seth Green, as always, is terrific). If you're looking for something to make you harken back to the days where you pined after the unattainably hot girl, or you want to remember your last good party before graduation, this will bring it all back.  8/10 and worth the time to watch it. "},{"Title":"Showed what it tried to show","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not about some deeper meaning to life. It was about the epic journey a kid goes through. Being that I am the same age as the young man, I know how he feels. I, too, would notice if a girl was indulging in the very same pastry as me at the very same moment. Subtle, yes, but epic. The details about that moment is what makes it a great movie. Life is about the details, for example, finding a dollar on the ground. Sure, it means nothing, but I always smile when that happens to me. I'm not even going to mention the fate aspect of the movie. And not to be critical of the guy who called it a Party Movie but the movie is suppose to be about the crazy things that happen over the course of one night partying. And after all, this is a teen movie. "},{"Title":"Teen fluff, that works pretty well, if you let it.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a totally unoriginal movie, but it has a certain charm, which gives it a passing grade. All the actors are fine, especially Lauren Ambrose and Seth Green. The way the ending ties up everything is somewhat cheesy, but pretty charming, if you let it be. Also, this is one of best soundtracks to a movie, in recent years. Overall, a fluffy, but pretty charming teen flick. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Best of this generation's teen movie.  It's been awhile.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The performances are wonderful. Ethan Embry has never been better. Jenna Elfman proves she's an actress with this role. Lauren Ambrose is wonderfully understated. Love the all the music, especially the end. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye...","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie really is not just another one of those horrible teen movies. No this is not shakespeare, but there is much more than meets the eye. I urge everyone who has seen this movie to watch it a second time and really feel for these characters. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"the best teen comedy around","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly my fav film of all time, it doesn't really have a linear story line and by the end you feel that you know all of the main character's personalities.  In the UK this film didn't do very well and not many people have heard of it so that is probably another reason why I like it so much. It is much more enjoyable that the hyped comedies such as American Pie with much more believable characters.  All in all a great teen comedy. "},{"Title":"Darling Teen Movie, Setting The Standards for the Rest","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This teen movie was one of the teen movies of the late 90s that seemed to set the standard for the rest.  Teen movies after this seemed to echo this movie.  With movies like She's All That and Ten Things I Hate About You coming out around the same time as this movie, this movie was a breath of fresh air.  Sure, the point of this movie is for a guy to try to hook up with a girl.  This occurs in many teen movies.  But I liked how in this movie the guy was sort of the underdog, and he was chasing after the pretty popular girl.  In many teen movies you find a bad boy trying to change a girl into something she's not so that she becomes popular and liked by many.   Ethan Embry plays a great Preston Meyers.  He makes him down to earth but with a dorky edge.  Preston is the type of guy you'd love to hang out with.  He's not the most popular guy in the world, but he would be a great friend.  Jennifer Love Hewitt (in the teen movie world I like to call her Teen Movie Princess Love) plays Amanda Beckett.  Amanda is the type of girl you don't want to like, but in the end you know you just have to like her.  She's popular and pretty and kind of ditzy, but she makes up for it in the long run. The rest of the cast is great too.  We see a white homeboy Kenny Fisher (Seth Green), a friendly girl with not too many friends named Denise (Lauren Ambrose), a nerd who turns out to be one cool guy (Charlie Korsimo).  Also, check out main roles by Peter Facinelli, Erik Palladino, and more.  Plus smaller roles by later made even more famous people like Jamie Prestley, Melissa Joan Heart, Sean Patrick Thomas, Donald Faison, Selma Blair, Sara Rue, Jenna Elfman, Breckin Meyer, Liv Tyler, Jerry O'Connell, and more.  Oh yes, and it has a kick butt soundtrack. "},{"Title":" I haven't been single five seconds","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ethan Embry is fabulous as Preston in this marvelous teen angst farce. The remaining cast is delightful. The costumes are trendy. One of the good movies in the genre, Can't Hardly Wait will encourage the viewer to stalk love. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A movie that just seems to work","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not the biggest fan of the whole teen movie craze, but Can't Hardly Wait is a very entertaining movie to watch.In the same boat that Seinfeld for TV, tagged as the show about nothing, is Can't Hardly Wait. It's not really about nothing, but it has no firm identity, no single story line or direction. And I think it works effectively.The actors are pretty good; I was especially pleased with Jennifer Love Hewitt's performance. She worked well in her role. She managed to make the audience sympathize with her character because she was not a 'snob' despite being the prettiest girl in the school. It's not the best movie ever made, but it is put together in such a way that it works out. It is humorous and the ending ties things together rather well. 8 out 10. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is a great movie.Just the fact that Seth Green(Buffy the Vampire Slayer,Austin Powers...)plays one of the main characters makes it fun & interesting to watch.The storyline is good & pretty much original.The actors & actresses play their parts well.It has what every movie should have & more.Most teen movies you'll see are based on one thing or another(exampleAmerican Pie is based on teenage boys that are set on having their first time before they go off to college) but Can't Hardly Wait is based on different storylines that are all connected.If you wanna understand what I'm talking about then watch the movie.I bet you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Write","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood studio writers seem to be writing the same scripts over and over again.  Doesn't anyone there have any new or original ideas? Are they locked in some sort of time warp in which they must relive their high school years in an unending cycle? The high school students' wild party is emerging as a standard and tired cinematic genre(as in the haunted house, the big game and tragic romance).  Can't Hardly Wait endeavors to string together an entire movie about the eminently predictable events and people of one graduation night party, and generally succeeds in this albeit modest mission of rather limited goals.  Of course, we have all seen this before, recently in the American Pie chapters, but also through a wide selection of teen movies over the past 25 years; (American Graffiti pioneered this in my own early high school years by setting the whole story within one night for high school seniors on their way to their respective futures). Within this context, however, a few notable observations can be made.This was apparently one of the first major screen roles for TV star Jennifer Love Hewitt.  As a vehicle for her, this movie fails, as she morosely sulks through the plotline.  She is supposed to be the most beautiful and sought after girl in the high school, although nothing demonstrates why she would have been considered as such by anyone.  Her boyfriend, (of course) is the school idol and football star, who (of course) is a shallow and self-centered jerk.  The story follows the attempts of one of the students who had admired JLH from afar from the first day she transferred to the school, to reveal his feelings for her (contained in a now four year old letter) before he leaves for college (Dartmouth, in a vaguely original touch).  There are various sub-plots including a dork emulating hip-hop locutions and mannerisms, the revenge planned by the class brain (to be taken on the aforementioned jock with the assistance of some fellow nerds) and the coming of age of an embittered girl, disdained by the in crowd who are shown as vacuous and petty (of course).The hip hop dork is played by Scott Evil of the Austin Powers movies, apparently heavily influenced by the Bud Bundy character of Married With Children.  There is the obligatory foreign exchange student - a male this time- who is (of course) the butt of some simple minded humor.  A recurring character (uncredited for some reason) is the girl who played Clarissa and the 'teenage witch in those TV shows, Melissa Joan Hart (another three name leading lady) who is the school spirit advocate who is (of course) a loser.The movie is predictable, but there are some interesting diversions and false starts (or finishes) that keep the story more interesting and original than one might suspect.  (Is there any one of us who at some point has not felt that a particular song playing on the radio was somehow a message from the Fates intended for our ears alone?) One important issue significantly left unaddressed, however, is what JLH's four year relationship with the jerky jock (who is humiliated in front of all (of course) before the final credits, says about her own character's intelligence or depth.  That's really something for these movies' writers to think about. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie for me is one of my guilty pleasures. It should for all intensive purposes be a pretty bad movie, but for some reason it just works. The acting isn't good, and the story isn't particularly innovative or even all that interesting. But when you put everything together this movie is actually quite entertaining.I think it is sheerly for the fact that we can all identify with so many of the characters in the film. At least all of us who have been through or are in high school. Each of the characters represents someone we know, or at least a conglomeration of stereotypes and people who we may know, or know of. All in all, I would recommend this movie, because for some unknown reason it all works really well.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My two favorite movies of all time are Lord of the Rings (I loved the book) and definitly Can't Hardly Wait!  I loved this movie!  I first watched it because my sister said it was funny and because she told met that Seth Green (my fav actor) was in it!  I had my doubts at first so I went to a site and saw some pictures, and there was Seth wearing goggles.  Imagine what I thought?  Why was he wearing them?  I still think that P! However, they are so cute!  I just saw this 3 days ago (August 2002) and  I watched it 6 times.  I found it hilarious! The best performences were played by Seth Green, Ethan Embry, and Charlie Korsmo.  Kenny was probably the best character here! He had me laughing so much that I was seriously on the floor!  William was my second favorite, him singing/lip synching Paradise City  was my favorite part of the entire thing.  Him getting drunk was very amusing.  It seemed that Preston was my third favorite, the love sick boy just made me crack up.  He obviously was obsessed and when he finally told her he loved her, it was just so funny when he was shot down. Basically, it is great!  I found it blockbuster worthy.  More people who enjoy just to sit back and laugh should watch this.  No thinking after finishing homework, i think it works^_^ "},{"Title":"Oh lighten up!!!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is just a teen party movie!!! It's not supposed to be some profound drama where you think about a lot!!! It's just comedy!!! I for one love to watch it once or twice a year when I'm not in the mood for anything too deep or emotional...sometimes I just need a good ol' laugh, ya know???!!! So Can't Hardly Wait is a really raucus comedy with a lot of the tweenys but none of the names I hate thank god!!! Ethan Embry is just lovely as the hero Preston Meyers, who is struggling to overcome his shyness and talk to Amanda Beckett, the girl he's been in love with throughout high school (Jennifer Love Hewitt). I think JLH is a very sweet gal in real life,  you can just see it on her face,  she is a doll, so stop ragging on her, please!!! Peter Facinelli is great fun as Mike Dexter, the a-hole dimwit jock who dumps on Amanda, gets drunk, and treats everyone like sod under his royal feet.  Lauren Ambrose plays the loner-freak type Denise Fleming to perfection of course!!!  She had the best lines in the movie aside from the little geek William Lichter (Charlie Corsmo, who played Robin Williams' son in HOOK by the way!!!). The only part I have to fast forward in this flick is the part where William sings and that is only because I REALLY CAN'T STAND GNF'NR!!! They are so 1989!!! Any song but that wun,  yuck!!! Other funny moments were provided by Channon Roe and Freddy Rodriguez as Mike Dexter's dumb jock pals and by Jenna Elfman as the angel stripper going on about her crush on...oh no...Chachi!!! LOL!!! "},{"Title":"good laugh","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films i have ever seen,its SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO funny. ALL of the characteres are brilliant and realistic.Its 1 of those switch of films but because youre laughing all the way through it you dont tend to notice the badly laid out plot.its defently my kinda film.really meant for teenagers. i defently think the best actor in it by far is Charlie kosmo who plays william a defenet character in any film which u cant do without.id see it again and again. "},{"Title":"Can't wait to see it again","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyable teen comedy about a group of totally different high school students together in one mad party. This little gem went unnoticed in the UK without a cinema release and I managed to pick it up on video for the reason, like so many other people (probably all males anyway!!) that Jennifer Love Hewitt was in it. Hewitt is not the star here though as she only fleets in and out of the story. Ethan Embry (Empire Records) plays a caring, if a little gullible, guy who has fancied the pants off the schools most popular girl (Hewitt) all though school and he sees this party as an ideal chance to tell her, hearing that she has split from her `jock' boyfriend (Peter Facinelli &#150; Honest). That is the main storyline, although there are many others involving different characters. Seth Green (Austin Powers) is superb as the white boy who thinks he's a `gangsta from the hood' Another storyline, and probably my favourite, involves 2 geeks who desperately want to get into the party, and the different things they try to do so. Good cast, stand out - Lauren Ambrose, who I have never seen in anything previously. Jerry O'Connell (Joe's Apartment), Melissa Joan Hart (Sabrina the teenage witch) and Jenna Elfman (Dhama and Greg) all appear unbilled. "},{"Title":"This is the funniest movie Ive seen for a while","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty funny movie as I'm not usually into teen movies but this is by far the best one yet!! My two favourite characters were Kenny ( Seth Green) and the bands singer ( breckin meyer ( I can't believe he is uncredited!)) Kenny Is so funny and sadly reminds me of most guys I no! I can't imagine anyone other than seth doing a better job!! Breckin makes me laugh everytime as he is never afaid to embarass himself!! other people who should not be forgotten are Ethan Embry doing a great good as leading man, Lauren Ambrose doing a good job with her sacastic humour (with is always funny!!) The whole band (funny everytime especially the hat!!) and the line 'but william you could get drunk!!' a winning movie everytime! "},{"Title":"Good natured and entertaining","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know I'm about to say everything that everyone else has about this film, but here goes.  This film isn't a masterpiece, but it's entertaining, and enjoyable- one to watch between the serious films that make you think. Several of the actors in this film showed amazing performances.  My favourite was Seth Green (as I can see many other people agree), but Ethan Embry, Lauren Ambrose and Charlie Korsmo were also great.  I have to say I'm not a fan of Jennifer Love- Hewitt, and this film didn't change my mind at all.  I thought Ethan Embry was wasted on the Preston-Amanda storyline, which spoiled the film for me a little.  Best parts of the film- all the bathroom scenes, and the Paradise City singing. "}{"Title":"A new classic! Campy, funny and truly entertaining!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the first in the late 90's series of teeny-bopper flicks, I believe this film is one of the best out there. It covered all the cliques that you see in every High School (no matter WHEN you went school) parodied with enough humor and kindness, that no matter which clique you were in, you can laugh at yourself while watching this movie!  Think of the classic teen movies like Sixteen Candles, it has a that familiar feel.  Outstanding performances by Charlie Korsmo, Seth Green, Ethan Embry and Laurie Ambrose. Yes, this movie is campy and you have to suspend your disbelief at times, but it's worth it.  It's a very fun movie and after listening to the audio commentary on the DVD you know that the cast and crew had a blast working on it!  "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I don't know why I rented Can't Hardly Wait yesterday. It's been on TV about a million times and I haven't taken the time to watch it a single time...I am no fan of high school movies. Sure, I've seen many movies belonging to that genre, but they are almost always rather boring. There are exceptions of course, and Can't Hardly Wait is one of those exceptions. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I laughed out loud several times and it was entertaining from beginning to end, apart from one or two pretty boring scenes.Of course, there is nothing new to be seen in the movie. All the high school archetypes are accounted for. Prom queen? Check. Geek? Check. Jock? Check. Guy who desperately tries to lose his virginity? Check. Et cetera... But in CHW these types are more entertaining than in other high school movies. Seth Green's wannabe homeboy is by far the funniest character in the film. The Amanda-Preston storyline is, surprisingly perhaps, the least interesting and entertaining storyline, but it's not bad enough to destroy the movie.I'm surprised, but I have to say that I liked Can't Hardly Wait a lot. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Hey again","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! Its really fun. And has a wicked cast, Seth Green, Ethan Embry, and Jennifer Love Hewitt. Its fab, if u like this u'll love empire records! I love Seth Green in this film, hes characters really funny, especially when they get stuck in the bathroom! "},{"Title":"Good & Fun","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fun. It's entertaining and laughful. The actors is great and the directing is very good. I like the manuscript very much as well. This is a great film for young people, specially for those who's 18, (like me). When I first saw this movie, I'd liked it, now, when I saw it again, I LOVE IT!!!!  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait for it to End","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember watching this, like, 3 years ago and thinking it was the funniest movie I've ever seen. It was showing on HBO, so out of pure boredom I watched it again. This movie is proof that it's hard to relate back to your old self when you've grown a little older. I truly wonder, with all my heart, why movies like this one were made. Like, what's the point? It's not overly funny and doesn't require even the slightest amount of thinking, except oh wait, except maybe like, halfway through? You begin to wonder why are you watching it in the first place. Is it entertaining? Only slightly. Is it funny? No. Where the hell are the jokes? Or rather, where is the plot?Jennifer Love Hewitt proves to be one of the more overrated actresses in Hollywood. Perhaps it's just her role, but her popularity never ceases to amaze me. The lead guy, Ethan something or other, is relatively okay as Preston something or other, but like Hewitt, suffers from a flat character with no depth and no, well, character. The few comic reliefs in the film are Seth Green, Melissa Joan Hart (better here than her regular TV show, Sabrina the Teenage Witch), the guy who goes around reminding everyone of their embarrassing high school moments, and the guy who played William, especially when **slight spoiler** he got up onstage and sang/lip synched to Guns and Roses' Paradise City. Seth Green had totally outdone himself, considering his character in Buffy the Vampire Slayer didn't require a lot from him. Other than the ones I have just mentioned, I don't think  remember anyone else.Granted, Can't Hardly Wait is a good movie for light entertainment, or just to cure your extreme boredom. But it didn't work for me. Perhaps it may work for you. Though I can't begin to imagine how.   "},{"Title":"excellent high school comedy","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I this has got to be the funniest high school comedy I've seen in ages! Firstly it has great music,secondly it has a great cast and thirdly it excellent!There's not one bad comment i can make about this film. The whole film centers around a graduation party which illustrates many different storylines that may change his/her life. There's Preston Meyers who's just heard that the school beauty Amanda has just broke up with high school jock Mike. So he plans to tell her how he feels at there graduation party with hilarous and sad results until the climatic but sweet-natured ending that made me jump up for joy! There's Preston's friend Denise who gets stuck in the bathroom with her old friend Kenny Fisher other storylines includes the class nerd plotting to ruin Mike's life. He also becomes very popular at the party!I highly recommend this movie to all teens who want a good laugh! "},{"Title":"A Great Film!!!! Hip and Funny!!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Can't Hardly Wait is probably one of my favorite films ever. The film is hilarious and funny!!! Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ethan Embry, and Seth Green are great!!!!!! This is one of the funniest films of 1998!!!! The acting and performances were great, and the movie itself is brillaint and funny!!!! This is one of my number-one favorite movies ever!!!                        ******SPOILER ALERT******                                        Also, I thought it was cool when Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) dumped Mike Dexter at the party, and then later on she and Preston (Ethan Embry) got together!!!! That was my favorite part!!!!                       ******END OF SPOILER*****              Overall, this is one of my favorite films, and I HIGHLY recommend it!! I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!    ) "},{"Title":"Not Only For Teens","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not bad. Actually pretty good.While it's a teenager movie, I don't really think you need to be a teenager, or even particularly young, to appreciate it. (Teenagers who think so should consider that, with the exception of preteens, everyone *was* a teenager at some point in his or her life). The essential nature of the characters and situations are more-or-less historically universal.The characters had just the right mix of quirkiness and believability for this type of movie. Seth Green, in particular, created a character who hilariously blended the universal (the guy who desperately wants to be *something* instead of the nonentity he fears he really is) with quirky specifics (his own brazen suburban take on gangsta culture). Ethan Embry was a moony drip, but a likeable one. Mary Love Hewitt was sort of blandly attractive, which is what the part called for. A good ensemble of smaller characters and cameos complete the picture (I particularly liked the remember when you threw up on the bus (etc.) guy). "},{"Title":"Best teen flick","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is probly the best teen flick Ive seen, I mean it is not a genuinely good movie but it is cool to watch as a teenager and it is something every teen can relate to.  Its good fine girls and cool dudes you can get to like as the movie goes on.  Its overall a good movie with some funny stuff in it and good casting.P.S. Jennifer Love Hewitt is HOT!! "},{"Title":"They cut all the wrong parts","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film recently and some of it was really good.  The Kleptomaniac I didn't quite get but he was hilarious to watch, and everyone had a yearbook girl at their school.Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose's scenes together really stole the movie. The girl who feels like she doesn't quite fit in and the guy that thinks everyone loves him but is really just the school joke, these guys should have been the main plot.  Their initial meeting was funny, the way they came together was fun to watch.  Their dealing with past problems was insightful and the way they finally became a couple was moving.  They dealt with teenage problems in a way which was true and un-patronising to kids, this very rarely happens in films today.But these guys weren't the main story line.  Instead we had a guy that was supposed to be a geek, (but he had rather a lot of friends to be geeky) and a girl that was looking for sympathy because she had been dating the school jock for the last 4 years.Jennifer Love Hewitt played the part of Amanda Beckitt with an ego the size of the grand canyon.  She was meant to be likeable but i felt myself desperately wanting to fast forward past all parts where she was whining to one of her many friends that seemed to be queueing up to hear her whine.Eathan Embry was a likeable enough character but I just wanted to scream She's not worth it at him.The geek trying to get revenge on the jock was funny enough but his 2 alien loving side kicks were yet another part where i wanted to fast forward, there were all together too many of those.The Cameo's in this film seemed to be unlimitless from Breckin Myers as the lead singer in a band that doesn't get to play, Melissa Joan Hart as a girl desperate to get people to sign her yearbook, to Amber Benson (Tara in BtVS) as a girl watching a banana move????.It was a good film but should have concentrated more on the Green/Ambrose relationship.  "}{"Title":"Best Teen Movie","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt the best of all movies in the oversaturated teen genre. More accurately describes high school life and kids than any other movie, and especially any TV show (i.e. Dawson's Creek,juniors in HS use doctor vocabulary). If you're a teenager and have not seen this movie, then shame on you, see it at once. If you're over the age of 20 or so, you may not enjoy it as much. But give it a shot anyways, what else do you have to do tonight? "},{"Title":"Boys & girls...","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It´s prom night. There´s Preston (Ethan Embry). There´s Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt). She has just left her  boyfriend Mike (Peter Facinelli), a show-off. Preston loves Amanda. But she doesn´t even notice him, though they´re in the same grade. It´s night of the nights - and his last chance to confess his love...Do I have to tell more? This is the stuff the best romantic teen-comedies are made of. Can´t  hardly wait was never released in German theaters,  because it was no big success in the USA. That´s a shame - it deserves more credit than it got! This film works! It keeps the balance between party-flick and  a romantic-comedy, which gives the movie a relaxed mood and also a light bittersweet taste. I especially think about the scene, when Amanda finds Prestons  letter - sigh... Speaking of bittersweet there´s  this Dire straits-song Romeo & Juliet - taken from their Making movies-album - that appears close to  the end. Every time I listen to that song, it carries  me right into the movie. That´s wonderful! Last but  not least, I would like to clear up one thing yes, I  like Jennifer Love Hewitt. I can´t deny it. But it´s  not just for her looks, as YOU possibly think! Any  questions?A real cute teen-flick! "},{"Title":"The 1st of a New Sub-Genre","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait was the first of a new sub-genre of teen movies of the late 1990's, which are in the spirit of the 1980's John Hughes era.  It is an ok movie but is by far not the best in this new sub-genre nor is it the best movie ever made.The plot is fairly simple, boy wants girl, geek wants revenge on jock, unlikely couple get together, etc.Boy Wants Girl - This is without a doubt the lamest sub-plot of the movie. Preston Meyers has obsessed over Amanda Beckett, a girl whom he has apparently never talked to nor even knows he exists, for 4 years. Magically his outstanding writing ability makes her fall for him.  Ah, maybe something with a recent break-up and REBOUND could have actually had something to do with it.  This whole sub-plot was dumb.  Preston was kind of cool despite his strange obsession and quirks.  Amanda on the other hand struck me, as not bright, shallow, and not sympathetic.  In many ways Preston struck me as too good for Amanda.Geek Wants Revenge on Jock - Simple standard fare although William Lichter's revenge seems a little nasty.  Mike Dexter and him must have had some really bad times.  It is an ok sub-plot.Unlikely Couple Get Together - This without is the best part of the movie, Kenny Fisher and Denise Fleming's past and new situation are interesting and both are believeable characters.Etc - Yearbook Girl, the Potheads, the Geeks (except for the stupid UFO thing), and the others provide interesting characters and situations along with laughs.Don't get me wrong, I did laugh at the movie and do own and occasionally watch it but it isn't the greastest one out there.Part of the problem is the editing.  In order to get a PG-13 rating instead of an R rating, MANY scenes had to be cut or altered.  This leaves an overall feeling of chopiness and holes.  A perfect example is Yearbook Girl and Remembering Guy in the diner.  There is no indication in the movie how they got together.  Apparently there was a cut scene that explains this.In fact the DVD commentary spoke of many of these scenes yet the DVD offered no special bonus footage of any of it.  If a DVD Special edition is released I would definiately buy it.So go out and rent or buy it, just beware that it is not an American Pie, a far superior movie.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still good","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie, maybe for reasons I can't explain. There are flashes of brilliance in this film that probably want me to like it, and I guess that's why I do. Nothing cracks me up more than when the two nerdy sci-fi dudes on the rooftop are talking about how one of them isn't going to get to see their internet girlfriend because she's on a photo shoot in Fiji, before he utters the classic line in total matter of fact fashion, But that's the price you pay for dating Christy Turlington. It's those little things that suck me into giving this thumbs up. Seth Green, as the clueless but likeable (After he drops his guard) white rapper is another reason. Green just has a way of nailing these character so perfectly, projecting all the insecurity of a teenager.Now on to the flaws, the main one being the Jen Love Hewitt/Ethan Embry romance part, which IS the center of the film. I'm sorry, but it is hard to believe that his character would be so enthralled by her for anything other than physical reasons. We don't even have any evidence that he has ever heard her SAY ANYTHING, yet he can write letters professing love and how he sees beyond her exterior. Give high schoolers a little more credit than that, please. Sure he's a goofy kid, but he has to have SOME brains to go to Dartmouth, right? Meanwhile, she rambles on about how everyone thinks she's shallow, yet says nothing to prove the contrary. I can't believe her character is that emotionally dependant on a sophmoronic high school jock that she Doesn't even know who I am. I get the feeling that if the Embry/Hewitt characters sat down over a cup of coffee, he would realize how stupid it was to obsess for four years. Do you think she even KNOWS who Kurt Vonnegett is? Hell, I though she didn't know who she was!Okay, I'm analyzing it too much, but overall the funny moments make up for the flaws. "},{"Title":"WHY !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WHY!!!!! I just looked the alternate versions section and I can`t understand why those scenes  couldn`t be in european version. In Estonia we don`t make changes to the movies and there are no restrictions only suggestions for how old the movie(s) is/are made.  I personaly hate those cut versions ( Perfect exampel of how the movie could have been even better is T2-judgement day (the deleted scenes hold so much information )).Well sometimes there is those directors cut`s  but then there are very big changes (ex. LEON aka. The Professional).Those are OK. But these movie makers who come out with the movie and 6 months later there is like uncut version with scenes witch were cut out with no reason is in my opinion CHEATING(not in this movies case- because there is no uncut version jetShould be). But anyway I give to this movie 10 because I like this kind of movies.  "},{"Title":"Good for what it's intended to be","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is the most recent of a whole subgenre of coming-of-age teen movies (Fast Times at Ridgemont High comes to mind), but it resonates the most with me, probably because it was written with my age group in mind. These movies are supposedly for teens, but they're really for the twentysomethings reminiscing about what high school was like back in the day. The soundtrack is perfect for its intended audience I'm not sure if high school kids were listening to Young MC, Rob Base, and Guns N' Roses in the mid-90s, but that's what was being played at every house party in college at the time. All the stereotypes are loud and dead-on the nerd who gets drunk for the first time (that would've been me), the all-black-wearing antisocial girl, the high school was their peak jocks, the white rapper wannabe, etc. (Did anyone else notice the name of Jerry O'Connell's frat?) Hey, you can say stereotypes are a lazy way to develop characters, I say the plot isn't the main point in this type of movie anyway.The only thing that seems a little off is that Jennifer Love Hewitt, the not-so-shallow prom queen, seems like the only person who's ready for college; everyone else is trumpeting their high school identities one last time (even Ethan Embry, who's still not over his infatuation with the hot girl in freshman English). One other thing that's off how many teens could recognize Barry Manilow songs on the radio? "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, I had seen this movie when it first came out on video, and as a product of the 80's and John Hughes movies, I was entertained, but disappointed.  But what impressed me the most were the scenes between Denise (Lauren Ambrose) and Kenny (Seth Green) which still hold up.The reason I went back to this movie recently was because I've become a bigger fan of Seth Green's and wanted to check out his performance again.I am 30 years old and a few weeks ago I watched this movie 3 times in one weekend!  Why?  Well, it is a stupid no need to think about it movie. Just enjoy it.  It takes you back to the ideal world of high school--that one FABULOUS party where you finally can lay it all on the line and you have no fear because school is over.  Remember how people would write in others' yearbooks I always had a crush on you?  Well, this movie captures that type of notion.  It is a fantasy in a way and if you let yourself, you can be part of that party and part of the fun.One interesting thing about the film was the DVD audio commentary.  No, this is not a classic Scorsese or Coppola film with commentary that delves into filmmaking techniques, motivation, or purpose, but the commentary for Can't Hardly Wait was endlessly fascinating.  It is by the writers/directors and Seth Green, and it was often hysterical--the movie-makers often humbling themselves.  They pointed out things that make the movie more interesting because there is SO much going on in the party scenes.  And they can laugh at themselves and point out what would've made the film better!  It gives you a different point-of-view in the process of movie-making because it is not pretentious.Also many of the actors with small parts in this movie are working in TV and film right now.  Look out for Breckin Myer, Jamie Pressley, Erik Palladino, as well as some familiar faces from the casts of Popular, Freaks and Geeks and Felicity.And the music is a nice mix of 80's and 90's tunes which give it a bit of a timeless feel.  It is not a poignant film, like American Graffiti and it teaches no lessons, but I think anyone who can relate to the feeling of wanting to fit in in high school would enjoy this nostalgic trip.This one definitely grows on you the more you watch it, so if it's something you've seen in the past and are curious to re-visit, I definitely recommend it.  If you're in for a first time viewing and have an open mind, you should be entertained. "},{"Title":"More hilarious than romantic","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. Hewitt, Green, Embry, Ambrose, and that otherguy were very funny. I mean  the only romantic thing about thismovie is fate that happens and the fact that Jenna Elfman plays anangel stripper is really funny. And all the things that happen. Andthe cameos are amazing.  "},{"Title":"A Teen Classic","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Teen movies come and teen movies go. Every now and then, one of them (by accident or not,) turns out to be more than your average, mindless teen comedy and Can't Hardly Wait is one of them. It's funny, smart and touching with an excellent cast that actually has some acting talent. JL Hewitt and Ethan Embry are great in their roles and, as usual, the gifted Seth Green steals the show. Don't let the fact that this is a high school, coming-of-age movie scare you off - I'm 31 and I loved it. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait, more like Can't Hardly Keep from Barfing","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I totally hated this movie, I couldn't relate to any of the characters, the soundtrack sucks, and it totally goes nowhere for about an hour and a half.  There's not much I can say about this movie that hasn't already been said before.  It's basically made to appeal to the worthless MTV generation (Which is probably why I can't relate to any of the characters) and not only that, it's probably the most overplayed movie on cable.  None of the characters have any depth, I've seen this movie numerous times and the only thing I can remember about any of the characters is that there was girl who did nothing but whine and she was trapped inside a bathroom with a wigger.  Other than that, nothing even comes to mind of what the freakin movie was about.  If you see this movie, change the channel FAST "}{"Title":"One of the better teen flicks","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For a teen flick, this one's real good - good acting, plot and sub-plots, witty dialogue, some comedy-of-errors-and-mistaken-identities, and soundtrack. You get a good look at some of the high school cliques - the jocks, the queens, the geeks/nerds, the outcasts, and Preston, the ordinary-guy-who-sits-next-to-you-in-class-whom-you-know-but-don't-talk-to-much. As in, You know, Preston is....you know.....Preston. A surprising cameo role for Jenna Elfman as the angel, witty as ever. Seth Green is ridiculously funny as well, and the whole movie on the whole keeps you feeling good and comfy. It rolls along, picking up on people's lives along the way, and sometimes makes you want to scream/sing/dance/make-out along with the characters. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen flicks ever!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie a couple hundred times by this point and still to this day I am not sick of it. I just watched it last night and it was better than ever for me. I can relate to this movie cause well I pretty much graduated the year the movie came out so it's like I took the trip with them.Jennifer Love Hewitt who I love so much didn't really have as much of an impact on this movie as I thought I would but still somehow she was still the center point of this movie, even though she was barely in it. But everyone else was so damn funny, like Mike Dexter, Kenny Fisher (he was wicked), William (the nerd) just as funny, and Preston and so on, everyone just kicked supreme ass for this movie.It sure brings back a lot of memories growing up until I graduated. One of the best teen movies of all time!!!! "},{"Title":"It was so funny","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I only saw this film recently and it was so funny. It may be imature but hey, it's a teen movie what else do you expect? Oscar Wilde? If you are not a teenager I wouldn't recommend it but if you are you should watch it. The best part is Kenny played by the extremely cool (and cute) Seth Green. It is great to see if you can recognise the supporting cast made up of extremely familiar faces. A lot of fun if your willing to leave your brain behind and treat it for what it is, a teen movie. "},{"Title":"watch this movie!!!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is one of my favorite movies! The storyline is totally believable and most of the actors are great! I say most, because Jennifer Love Hewitt was more annoying than ever. Other than her (and a small part by Jenna Elfman), the cast was awesome. Seth Green was hilarious as Kenny, my favorite character. Lauren Ambrose, Ethan Embry, and Charlie Korsmo were really good also. I own this movie and watch it all the time. I have most of the lines memorized. If you haven't seen it, go rent it now! "},{"Title":"An Entertaining, Enjoyable Film","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, if you haven't been in high school in the last 10 or 11 years you don't need to read any further. You will probably hate this movie. However, if you have attended high school recently you might want to check this film out.Going into this movie I wasn't expecting much, but I was pleasantly surprised. The movie was funny and I pretty much enjoyed every minute of it. The characters, although somewhat shallow, are interesting and distinct from one another. The acting isn't bad, and the soundtrack is one of the best from any film in the 90s. No one will confuse this with one of the all time great films, but it can be solid entertainment for a night.   "},{"Title":"A good mix of teenage stars.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is amazing that the director actually hired almost every current teenage stars for this movie. Everyone in that movie has some appearance on today's TV. The leading guy seem to imitate Tom Cruise. Even his voice sounds like a young Tom Cruise. I am not sure if the direct wants him to do that, or he personally tried to imitate Tom Cruise. In his other movie <<Telling You>>, he has a complete different voice.The most hilarious scene is when the girl who asks everyone to sign her yearbook got pushed away by this leading guy. He was not even looking at her when he pushed her to the floor. The white guy who talks like a black person also is very funny. He is short and talks like he knows how to get girl in bed with him. In one scene, he was so funny that he even had a small, almost invisible smile before he started talking.  "},{"Title":"One of the best teen flicks!","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are an adult, you will probably not enjoy this. But, if you're 10 to 20, and have a sense of humor, you will love this movie. My favourite character is Seth Green (Kenny Fisher). I also like Melissa Joan Hart, who played an annoying yearbook girl. Jennifer Love Hewitt was ok, but Ethan Embry (Preston Meyers), Charlie Korsmo (William Lichter), Lauren Ambrose (Denise Fleming) and Peter Facinelli (Mike Dexter) did amazing jobs. It is extremely funny.Most teen flicks aren't funny, but this one was. It had a better plot than American Pie (If you call four teens trying to have sex a plot), more jokes than in She's All that, and better acting than in Detroit Rock City. There's about only one teen flick thats as good as it (Scary Movie) and one thats better than it (Road Trip). My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"cute and funny!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i didn't expect to like this movie. it looked like the typical teen movie (although i AM a teen and should enjoy it!) but i was bored and suddenly it's on TV. and i loved it. every minute of it. it's very cute especially the part of Seth Green. the trying hard black. i am giving it a 10 because it made my night brighter. this is actually one of the teen movies in the 90s that i can appreciate. can't hardly wait and clueless just to name a few. too much weirdness nowadays. oh well, hope you'll enjoy this film! "},{"Title":"Perfect depiction of High school","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People who would say this movie is an example of poor cinema and bad acting take themselves way too seriously to just sit back and enjoy a movie about high school.This movie came out while I was a senior in high school and I can say that every single part of it is too true.  I can watch this movie and say I know him, I know her, or I know them.True , it's no Fast Times or Ferris Bueler, but it does just as good of a job as them of creating a place that's real to teenagers.  A party.   Hot girls, dorks trying to fit in, maybe a little drama, creepy spirit girls, sex upstairs, people passing out, fights, and white guys trying to be black. All in all a place to drink beer and hang out with friends.  This movie is that.  "},{"Title":"A fun teen flick","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Strange as it may sound, movies that span the time of about one-day fascinate me. Can't Hardly Wait is one of those movies. It's full of delightful (though a bit unrealistic) stereotyped characters who attend the a post-graduation party where anything and everything happens. First there's Preston, the sweet romantic leading man who has been pining for the class beauty Amanda. Amanda is the girl we love to hate because she has everything.  (If anything I would say Jennifer Love is the sore spot in this movie. Her I'm so popular, woe is me act gets downright annoying.) Then there's Mike Dexter, the arrogant self-absorbed ex-boyfriend of Amanda. And you can't forget my favorite character Kenny. He's played by Seth Green and is the sex-crazed wannabe-gangsta obsessed with his image. Seth's acting stretches a long way from platonic Oz on Buffy. Also there's Denise, the basically antisocial girl no one really recognizes, and William, a classic Star Wars dork plotting his revenge upon the popular. And then there's the lesser but still memorable roles such as the yearbook girl played by Melissa Joan Hart. I can see why this movie is disliked by some people. But I honestly loved it. It's a classic high school teen flick all about a party. If that sounds like fun to you, rent it. "}{"Title":"The BEST teen-movie EVER!!!","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was recommended CHW by one of my friends and I thought that it wouldn't be as good as all the other teen movies that came out last year. I hadn't even heard of it. However, when I watched this movie I fell in love. It is one of the best I have ever seen!If this was released in 1999 rather than 1998 maybe it would have gotten noticed more. This reminds me of how great high school was and the party after it.The characters are great! William(Charlie Korsmo - the kid from Hook) is the best in this film especially the Paradise City bit. Kenny(Seth Green)is also one of my favourite characters in this movie.Another great thing about this movie is the supporting cast. (many of them are uncredited)Mellisa Joan Hart is hilarious as the yearbook girl and Breckin Meyer as the singer from the band.If you haven't heard of this film or have seen it somewhere, buy it or rent it because you won't be disappointed. I have lent my copy to all of my friends in college and they have all said that it is the best teen movie they have seen. "},{"Title":"Me neither ...","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Much ado about nothing very much at all. Jennifer L.Hewitt's part requires her to smile and tilt her head to one side. Ethan Embry is called upon to do some seriously hammy acting. Very little is required of the rest of the cast; which is a great shame - as the film boasts many of America's most talented young actors. The plot itself attempts to follow the events of an end of school party. I say attempts, as it digresses into a vague and disjointed blur of vaguely connected events (not unlike an end of school party). The film was only worthwhile watching if treated as a comedy alone, that said - three actors exceeded their remit. Seth Green, the homeboy wannabe - Kenny; Melissa J.Hart as the (uncredited) delightfully irritating yearbook girl; and Victor Togunde, who played a similarly annoying guy who remembered everything you would like to forget about high school. As comic relief from the drudgery which was Can't hardly wait these three actors were a welcome respite. The rest of the cast could only act out their parts which didn't ask much of them. While the concept of the film is not necessarily doomed from its inception, perhaps a two hour time frame was a little too ambitious.  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Love","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  She's a babe! She's a Mega babe!The story is quite original, and it is presented in more original ways. The ending itself is more mature than the story in general. This movie deserves better appreciation.But...The main focus of this movie is definitely Jeniffer Love Hewitt, a mega babe whose best seen in every angle, every performance, every mood. She stole most of the scene and sometimes numb the audience (or guys), with her innocent stare and smile.Grrrrr........Fun, light, easy. That's this movie. Good to watch in every occasion. "},{"Title":"Here's a thought from a teen movie expert!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen She's All That, Cruel Intentions, 10 Things I Hate About You, and almost all of the John Hughes films, and I think Can't Hardly Wait is the best teen film I've ever seen!Many people think that it's inmature and steriotyped too much, but that's the whole point of the movie!My favorite charactor had to be Preston Meyers (Ethan Embry). He did a great job on doing a high schooler even though he's 22!The most annoying charactor though, in my opinion, is Kenny Fisher (Seth Green). He did a good job at acting like a black wanna be but he cussed too much!I think Jennifer Love Hewitt did a good job in her role. She was good at facial expressions and was great at being what comes naturally to her.Lauren Ambrose did wonderfully at being a forgotten face in the crowed of high school.I want to be an actress when I get older and I think this movie would be a good influence on mine, or possibly someone else's career.My rating 10 Stars! * * * * * * * * * * "},{"Title":"not as good as it could've been","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In general, Can't Hardly Wait proved to be nothing better than any other teen bopper type movie.  It gave nothing new or unique to walk away from the theatre with.  It looked as though it had more to offer but budget, rating, or other filming problems made the movie---well...SUCK!!! The only good scenes were the characters of Seth Green and Laura Ambrose.  They brought real points and situations with teen relationships and outcomes.  This movie has a few funny moments (just a few), but because of those...it's a must see for all teens. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait til its over","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK -- I'll be honest. I'm not a teenager and its been years since I've been one. But, I know a good teen comedy when I see one and this isn't one of them. Hollywood knows how to make a great teen comedy. The 80's brought us such classics as Sixteen Candles, Fast Times, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, etc. The 90's has produced a few classics as well, including Empire Records, Clueless and American Pie. Can't Hardly Wait was painful to sit through. It has a truly capable cast, including such emerging stars as Jennifer Love Hewitt, Seth Green and Ethan Embry. But the movie falters because of a tired storyline, vapid dialogue and poor characterizations. The plot is simple - its the last day of highschool graduation and everyone is excited to attend a house party. The jock has dumped his girlfriend (Hewitt) so that he is free to date college girls that will be flocking all over him; the nerd is plotting to publicly embarass the jock for all of the humiliation inflicted on him during the year; the all around cool guy (Embry) wants to finally ask out his dream girl, who happens to be the same girl dumped by the jock. Nothing turns out as planned -- the jock finds out he'll be a nobody in college and wants Hewitt back; the nerd gets drunk and becomes the life of the party; Hewitt mistakenly reads a love letter from Embry, but doesn't know who he is. Seth Green is convincing as an annoying rap star wannabe who's smitten by the class pessimist after being locked in a bathroom together.The dialogue is so ridiculous and the jokes so flat that I kept fast forwarding through. I probably watched in total about 30 minutes of this 90 minute film, and feel I followed the story lines enough to not miss anything important. A truly awful movie -- don't waste your time ! "},{"Title":"Can Jennifer Love Hewitt act?","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait was a perfect fit for Jennifer Love Hewitt. She doesn't have to act. All she has to do is sit on the sofa, pout and show off her cleavage. To her credit, however, she does this very well.I am seriously beginning to doubt Miss Love's true acting abilities. When is she going to be in a substantial movie with a role that requires her to do some real acting? Perhaps if she ever does have such a role her lack of any real acting talent would be exposed and her star would come crashing down. So it's safer for her to stick with lightweight movies such as Can't Hardly Wait.I gave CHW three stars Two for Seth Green, who is pretty funny all the way through, and one star for Melissa Joan Hart in an unbilled appearance. Other than that, you've seen this plot many times before and you've seen these characters many times before.Of course, CHW would have been somewhat redeemed if it had given us a positive message or two. Instead we get more cliches, like getting drunk will change you from Mr. Nerd to Mr. Popularity. Please!Providence fans, look closely to see a pre-Providence Robbie Hanson guarding the beer keg. No, on second thought, leave this movie alone and watch a re-run of Providence instead. That would be much more entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Flashback to the notorious high school years","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie that totally brought me back to my highschool days. Since I am a freshman in college this brought me right back to the highschool days.  The movie is a love story between a guy who has been infatuated with the most popular girl for four years.  The whole setting is a graduation party at this girl's house.  That is where Amanda (the popular girl played by Jennifer love Hewitt) finds a letter written by the guy that likes her.  Since Amanda recently realized what a loser her ex-bfriend who was a jock who got off on giving wedgies and mooning people at Burger King. Also in this movie Kenny (Played by Seth Green) is a wanna be black guy. The way he walks, talks and acts is just plain out funny.  His only goal at this party was to get laid.  He ends up having a deep conversation with a girl he abandoned freshman year because she didnt eat with the cool kids and had little money.  All in all I think this is an excellent movie to watch with some friends.  There are some definite laughs in it and I would recommend it to any college kid that wants to be brought back to the highschool years.   "},{"Title":"Trying to Rekindle The John Hughes Era","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is an amusing little film about a high school  guy's four year infatuation with a girl, that uses the party after graduation for a backdrop.  The sub-plot is essentially what goes on at that party.  While not able to measure up to the John Hughes classics that define this genre, Can't Hardly Wait is a worthwhile film with a good enough story, a few neat gags and some interesting performances.  Seth Green as Kenny Fisher (a young white suburbanite who better identifies with African American culture) is great.  His timing and his tact (or lack thereof) help this film move along.  Ethan Embry's portrayal of Preston is fine as well. Embry has a knack for portraying the heartfelt nice guy.  However, its Charlie Korsmo's performance as William Lichter (the class valedictorian) that steals the film.  Korsmo is perfect right down to his demeanor.  You really see the misunderstood nerd evolve into the teenager that he has desperately wanted to be (and in the course of one evening no less).  In my opinion Jennifer Love Hewitt (the object of Embry's affection) is merely eye candy.  They could have cast almost anybody in her role, and maybe should have.  Hewitt is flat and often devoid of emotion or presence.All in all, a good flick to watch on cable when you have nothing better to do.  Although no comedy today can truly capture what John Hughes did in (and for) the 80's, Can't Hardly Wait is a slightly above par comedy worth taking a peek at.SSB - New York City - October 15, 1999 "},{"Title":"more points about this movie","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie 4 times at the theatre last year. when isaw it those 4 times,i thought it was one of the best teen movies i'd ever seen in my life. i mean i thought it was  nearly as good as the breakfast club. then i rented it onvideo and watched it. i still liked it,but quite a bit ofthe magic was missing from before. but it's still a  funny,and entertaining movie. it's a lot better than theannoying, overrated clueless. the stereotypes in can'thardly wait are all fun. my favorite character was sethgreen's character kenny. even though i liked can't hardlywait almost a lot better in the theatre,it still is in the top 10 of the best teen movies of the 90's in my opinion.  i give can't hardly wait *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Just wonderful!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies i have ever seen. It's so original. These kind of movies are often better than the big blockbusters with the big actors. In this movie we have young actors with just as much talent like the big ones.Ethan Embry plays his character above great. He is one of the best actors today. I saw him in Dancer, Texas playing Squirrel and he is just as good in that movie. Seth Green is also a wonderful actors and his role as the wannabe blackguy is the best imitation i have ever seen.The always beautiful Jennifer Love Hewitt is also great... hell, everybody in this movie are great! See this movie. You will recognize yourself and after you have seen it you will feel warm inside and you want to see it again!  "},{"Title":"The Sixteen Candles of the 90's","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  It was well thought out. The transitions from scene to scene are pretty clever, and the casting.....well let's face it everyone of us can  identify with one of those characters!  The actors and actresses portrayed the anguish and the ecstasy of high school perfectly.  It almost made me want to be back in high school......almost!         "},{"Title":"A big surprise for me! A really good teen movie!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my sister caught this movie at the video store I wanted to kill her. As I used to hate Jennifer Love, watch it would be the worst moment of my life. I let her watch it first and the next day it was my turn... It was until in the beginning of the party and I was already loving it.Can't Hardly Wait is about one party where everything happens! Only this? I can say yes. But it's incredible how the director mixed a lot of stories into it. And as a consequence here in IMDb it's classified in three genres comedy, drama and romance. I really loved Preston Meyers, played by Ethan Embry. Sometimes he was funny, sometimes he was sad... The scene which he talks with the Angel Stripper is very good too. Other good character is Denise Fleming, one rejected girl.  In summary, it's not a unlosable movie, but it's almost. Of course teens will like it more than older persons but it at least deserves 6. It's impossible to hate it. I'll give it 9.   "},{"Title":"Two words RIP OFF.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you've seen SIXTEEN CANDLES, then you've seen this movie.  There is, however, one important difference.  SIXTEEN CANDLES was GOOD.  This movie was not bad, at times amusing, but nothing special.  I have to admit that the producers at least had the good sense to not make Jennifer Love Hewwitt's character the protagonist.  A whole movie about her would have really bit.   "},{"Title":"This movie is more than what you see...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The content of this film makes it hard for some people to grasp how well-made it is.  Sure, the material is silly and the plot is too storybook, but the characters are very likeable and so stereotypical that it makes fun of itself and the genre of teen films. The editing is superb.  The exposition where the characters were introduced was done with eloquence--we get to know all the characters in the first 9 minutes of the film.  The movie feels like a party, man.  This movie could have been terrible, but the characters were consistently well-directed, and the story was well written.  If you want to see a bad teen film, see She's All That. "},{"Title":"It's Not The End Of The World It Just Feels Like It","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes would be proud as punch! A great little comedy of highschool in America. Contains many terms we've heard of but still have know idea what they genuinely mean. FRESHMAN! SOPHOMORE! (I HAD TO CHECK THE SPELLING ON THAT JUST THEN), VARSITY! etc. The list goes on.This is not a gripe on this film, just a general comment. Why is it all other countries must change local terms or paint them out clearly in the script so American audiences understand. BUT... American films don't seem to give a toss if the rest of the world to understand the terms in their films.I guess it all boils down to what John Cleese said, American's, you have a World Series yet no other country is invited to play!GOD BLESS AMERICA!  "},{"Title":"Okay but not great","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the recent splash of teen movies that are fine to view once,but there is no need to really see it again. The party setting is fine, and there is nothing really wrong with the film, Jenna Elfman's cameo was appropriately loopy, but there was nothing too outstanding about the film either. One exception to that would be Lauren Ambrose's Denise. I liked her character who for the most part was extremely self assured, and didn't let other people's opinions of her matter too much in her life. "},{"Title":"A great teen party flick","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is just so much fun!!¡¡ This is the ideal teen party movie. There is probably every teen actor known to man (except Sarah of course) in this movie, and they all do a great job. I won't tell you to much about the plot, but it is a great comedy/drama/romance/teen movie!Get out and rent ( or maybe even buy!) it 2nite!My review 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Engaging highschool romantic comedy","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A story about two young couples learning to be in love.  Since it's also a highschool graduation comedy, the love affairs are between pairs of cliches.  Still, the movie is worth a rental or two.There's the prom queen who admits to herself, almost too late, that her football hero boyfriend is a moron who gets off on mooning the cashier at Burger King and giving the freshmen wedgies; and there's the quiet young writer-to-be who has idolized her for four years and whom she's never so much as noticed.Then there's the painfully virginal boy who wants more than anything else to be cool and who vows to get himself laid at the party, but who ends up falling in love with a childhood friend, a dumpy little girl he abandoned freshman year because she was in all the smart classes and had no money.The prom queen and her writer are kept apart until the very end of the movie, while the other couple spend the entire movie locked in a bathroom together.  Nice symmetry!  Many subplots and incidental characters, and some memorable scenes descended from National Lampoon's Animal House.As often happens in Hollywood, when faced with the job of casting an actress in the role of a supposedly unattractive character, the filmmakers goof by casting someone who might be subtly, or not so subtly, more attractive than the star.  See Janine Garofalo in The Truth About Cats and Dogs, for example.  In this movie, Jennifer Love Hewitt as the prom queen doesn't seem half as desirable as Lauren Ambrose, the supposedly dumpy little bluestocking who is in reality, like Janine Garofalo, a major cupcake.  Plus, Hewitt has these little faces she makes, the visual counterparts of the way girls that age talk nowadays.  Highly annoying, but she has her fans, and we always can hope she'll outgrow it.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, most entertaining movies I've ever seen!!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is a must see for everyone, in my opinion. This movie was thoroughly entertaining to me. The actors/actresses played their characters as if they were actually them. I believe that this is Ethan Embry's best performance yet. He made Preston really come alive.The relationship between Kenny and Denise was quite an interesting and humorous situation. Although some people find them more intriguing than Preston and Amanda, I disagree. Preston was most definitely the star of this movie. Okay, maybe I'm a little biased, but Ethan Embry is very talented. -)It's hard for me to express just how much this movie impressed me. I know that some people may disagree, but Can't Hardly Wait was a wonderfully planned movie that everyone should see! D "}{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait For This Movie To End","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ugh... I thought 10 Things I Hate About You was the worst teen movie ever made. I really don't know why movies like this keep on getting made. Mostly the people who love these kind a movies are teeny boppers. The jokes were never original and the acting was plain awful. Seth Green's talent is wasted in this film. He's performance in Austin Powers is much better than this.The way these people talk. Ugh... Its so annoying, can you please talk normal. Not someone on crack. I can't stand the way these people talk, it get on my nerves.If you owned a copy of this movie, PLEASE TOSSED IT INTO A BIG BONFIRE. Its a great replacement for campfire wood.No Stars all the way! And a really big thumb down as well. Now, can someone get this movie away from me????? "},{"Title":"Marvelous absolutely marvelous","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw this movie. I really didn´t care that much about it. Just thought it was gonna be a boring party movie. But how wrong I was. It was a funny and fast party movie. Just loved it, especially Charlie Korsmo that was fantastic, 10 out of 10 for this brilliant movie.  "},{"Title":"A soon to be classic.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is something like National Lampoons Animal House. I know this analogy is weird but hear me out. Like Animal House you can see this movie over and over. I am not much for that but you are easily able to do that.Jennifer Love Hewitt is great in this film, and Ethan Embry is great as well. This movie is a definite must see for anyone in high school or was in high school. This movie over time should become a classic. "},{"Title":"the essential high school film","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, possibly far too much (in that I saw it 15 times in theatres).  The fact that it came out just as I graduated high school probably helped, but certainly wasn't the whole reason. I don't even know how to express what I want to say about this movie.  For one thing, I loved the archetypical characters.  You have the jock, the princess, the artboy, the homey, and the sarcastic, bitter girl.  Which is pretty much what highschool works out to anyway. The scenes between Kenny (Seth Green) and Denise (Lauren Ambrose) were wonderful.  The hatred between them was delicious, and as they started to talk, it just got better. I loved the relationship between Preston (Ethan Embry) and Denise.  They were completely the almost platonic best friends, the relationship that everyone wants.  Loved them I'm not sure about the ending, but I won't give it away.  Suffice it to say that if you're a fan of high school romance movies, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"I Loved It!!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one great movie.  A teen flick that reminded me of the good ol days with the brat pack.  ahhh, the memories.  like the breakfast club and Sixteen Candles.  Yes thse were good movies and this is a good movie. Great!  everything about it seemed lifelike to me.  everything seemed like it could happen and ethan embry plays a character in that movie who is just like me!  Crazy!!  I love this movie.  It rules!!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic example of a 90s teen flick","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  It was so very funny in parts and it does not slow down for even a second.  I thought everyone did a really good job with the characters they portrayed.  It was so believable as a teen film, because they depicted exactly what goes on at a party full of recently graduated 18 year olds.  The funniest scenes were between Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose in the bathroom, and the sweetest between Jennifer Love Hewitt and Ethan Embry, but that goes without saying.   There are plenty of cameos from very familiar faces, most of which seem to work well.  Its like a cross between Clueless and Animal House.  A very funny film. "},{"Title":"Okay I suppose","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was nothing really withstanding in this film, but it had it's funny moments. Denise and Preston fighting over the dog named Amanda was mildly funny, but everything in this film was just a really sad attempt at portraying high school life. Seriously, not every teenager either 1) drinks 2) smokes up or 3) is constantly preoccupied with sex. Some of us are normal. "},{"Title":"Great Stereotypes...bad ending","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw Can't Hardly Wait last night. The movie is obviously aimed at the general teenage group. I was pretty amused by the exaggerated stereotypes. The nerds were well depicted as were the gossipy, provocative women. Having gone to wild parties in my high school days, I could personally relate to a lot of what went on in the movie, which made it a more entertaining experience. With only about 5 minutes left in the movie, I was feeling very satisfied and was glad I stayed up extra late to watch it. However, I was very disappointed in the last scene, and in my opinion it slightly tainted the movie. Stuff like that never happens, and this entire movie and all the humor it brings is based on realistic, no matter how exaggerated, aspects of our youthful society. "},{"Title":"John Hughes would be proud!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing the trailers for this film and thinking, That looks kinda stupid.  However, after viewing this movie the other night on cable (I had no intentions of renting it!), I am here to formerly apologize to Writers/Directors!I was pleasantly surprised to find this film absolutely hilarious!  For me, it was a real throwback to the teen movies of the 80's that I grew up with. Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, Pretty In Pink (notice the John Hughes theme here?) and a slew of other films that made you feel a little less alone.The writing and acting, combined with the wonderfully diverse soundtrack, makes this a movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good couple of hours of laugh out loud fun.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!!!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I personally thought this movie was awesome!!!!  Ok, so it was a little weird, but that's what made it great!  Ethan Embry was sooo cute in this movie!  He makes the cutest faces and he's a hottie!  JLH was good in it too! "}{"Title":"Seth Green is hilarious! This flick is worth watching","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As Kenny, Seth Green is hilarious! Yo, I gots to have sex tonight. I felt connected to these kids, although I graduated from high school 3 years ago. Jennifer Love Hewitt was too nice though, not all girls are that nice. But, I remember everyone in this flick though as someone that I knew from H.S. Watch with a group of friends and reminisce about the good times! "},{"Title":"Great movie too bad Love had to ruin it","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie was very realistic. High Schoolers, at least at my HS, are shallow and immature.  It was funny,  had a great cast, except for Jennifer Love, she's a good actress but wasn't good for this part she's too serious to play a teenagers part.  She seems like an actress that is more grown up and not versatile at all.  Ethan Embry is a fine actor along with Seth Green they are both two of my fave actors.  I hope to see them doing more films together preferably having something to do with each others parts.  They would make a great Duo.  All in all I give the movie two enthusiastic thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A fun film that will take you back to high school.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sit back, relax and enjoy this film.  It's not going to change your life, but it will remind you why you loved -- and hated -- high school.One interesting note-- none of the kids in the movie smoke cigarettes. The lone adult (a small role, by Jenna Elfman) smokes, but the high-schoolers shown in this film are focused on alcohol.  The filmmakers obviously made a choice here.Seth Green gives a great performance as usual, committing completely to his character.  For those who can get overloaded on Jennifer Love Hewitt, rest assured that she is but a part of the ensemble cast, not the featured player.Check it out! "},{"Title":"whatever","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a kind of movie that I felt was enjoyable to watch, but certainly isn't one I'd say I liked a whole lot.  It should have been more emotional. I do like the cast, esp. Seth Green and Charlie Korsmo.  Those two rocked. Ethan Embry and Jennifer Love Hewitt were ok in this film, and you know they will do better in the future.  Was high school really like that?  Not when I went, and that was only 5 years ago. "},{"Title":"Funny and accurate","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie didn't really attract me at first, but when I finally saw it I found it very adaptable to teenage life (and funny as well).  Some people here have said that it only uses stereotypes of teenagers, portraying them as drinking hormone factories. Well guess what, there's a reason why they use stereotypes because almost anyone's suburban public high school has characters like these.I don't think this movie was intended to show the grand transition from the teenage to adulthood.  This movie takes place on the night of graduation; you don't just get your diploma and are automatically thrust onto the streets to survive on your own, just as you don't turn 16 and automatically know how to drive.  However, it does do a good job of showing how one's actions can land them in trouble later.  Some call this preachy; maybe that's because you're trying to sympathize with the jock who makes all the wrong choices and ends up losing in the end.  This movie also stereotypes people who drink, but as a sober person who has observed tipsy teens, I'd say it's pretty accurate.I realize the times are a little different, but I thought this movie was much more accurate of teens than The Breakfast Club. In that movie, all the stereotypes were incredibly over-exaggerated, and all they did was fight and argue with each other.  And I guess we were supposed to feel sorry for these characters.  Aww, there there (pat on back).Can't Hardly Wait puts a more humorous spin on teen life in the '90s.  Really, the only stereotype I can complain about is the nerd-geek, William (and his two friends).  This is the typical portrayal of smart teens in many movies (including Breakfast Club), but I can't say that I don't know people like that.  And since it lends much comedy to the movie, I won't say they should've made William the most extroverted guy in the school.I also found it very easy to relate to Preston, who has waited four years to finally talk to Amanda.  That's probably one of the biggest reasons I liked this movie so much Preston isn't really popular, and he gets the shaft throughout much of the film, but in the end he gets what he wants/deserves.  Maybe that's seemingly a little unrealistic, but don't be stupid; you know it happens sometimes.  (The little message about fate only taking you so far is a nice touch, albeit a tad sappy.) "},{"Title":"Seth Green stole this show","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was not eager to see this movie, because I thought it was going to be nothing more than a Jennifer Love Hewitt vehicle, and I'm not a fan of hers at all. So, I was very pleasantly surprised by Can't Hardly Wait. Yes, it's brimming with stereotypes, especially about geeks and the prom queen with a heart of gold...but it was an enjoyable, funny piece of fluff.Now, about Seth Green. I started paying more attention to his work after his hilarious performances in the first Austin Powers film--especially interesting because I remember when he was a little freckle-faced cutie in stuff like Can't Buy Me Love. But he grew up, got hot, and ended up stealing this movie right out from under the rest of the cast. The bathroom preparation scene alone is worth the rental cost--the last time I laughed that hard at a movie was at Austin Powers 2, also, interestingly, because of Seth Green's terrific delivery.I would be remiss if I did not also mention Charlie Korsmo's terrific performance.  I suspect most former/present geeks dream of it The one night when you are the star. A very funny, poignant portrayal--with a VERY realistic ending!Verdict A fun way to kill a couple hours. Bring over some friends and some pizza and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Timing is everything...","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am half going through what Preston was in the movie.  Except I gave the girl the note and told her not to read it until tomorrow, and instead I told her everything on it three days later, so she's not as clueless as Hewitt's character was...Anyway, the movie.  It meant a lot to me, but was also really funny and really great.  The stereotypes couldn't have been more stereotypical, and the ending couldn't have been more predictable, but that's what made it great.  We knew what we wanted to happen, and eventually, in a mixed up sorta way, it did.  That's only half of what made it great, though.  There was a surprise even with the predictability Seth Green's character. Lauren Ambrose's character did a great job of bringing it out, while her's, although well developed, had loads more to offer.  Hewitt had a smaller role than expected (as said in an earlier comment) .  I actually found a great deal of symbolism, like an angel showing Preston the way...  Unexpected for a teen hormone flick.  (I was at a party last night, and we were talking about G-d and philosophy on the Holocaust, not about what college girls would be like).  I know exactly where the nerd was coming from, making all the devious plots and whatnot.  I'm glad I grew outta that part of my life...  The other two guys talking on the roof was REALLY funny, and even the we're G-d's salt... bit was great.  And the I don't wanna be Grand Moff Tarkin!  Heh heh.  The part where Preston was thinking that it wasn't meant to be was the exact way I had dealt with things like that, it was a real eye opener that people think a lot like me sometimes.  I just didn't have the ending that Preston did, but then again, I'm not on my way to Boston so there is still hope...I hope you enjoyed my ramblings.  Whether you liked them or not, SEE THIS MOVIE!  Guaranteed to make you smile, even if you still shake your head in disgust at the thought of watching it. "},{"Title":"Can't hardly believe what they're selling to kids in the form of a movie","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the saddest things in the movies is when an energetic and likable cast is ruined. Can't Hardly Wait has the same stretch of thinking as a teenager trying to change himself to fit in better with people who don't even care about him. It's filled with the most basic high school stereotypes and the whole movie is limited to watching all the characters turn into exactly the opposite of what they were before. It's boring watching everyone get exactly what they deserve and the whole thing feels very preachy. I liked Charlie Korsmo as the brainy guy the best. He manages to turn an embarrassing role into something genuinely funny. The worst is Jennifer Love Hewitt; a junior Sandra Bullock in training. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Expected less and got more","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I was with my friends the other night, they wanted to rent this movie. At first I wasn't really into seeing it because some of my other friends had warned that it was a chic flick.  Well I have to say that they were dead wrong.  This movie was awesome!!! I've never seen a movie other than 10 Things I Hate About You (another really good movie) that was so dead on with the way teens interact and the real way they act.  I must admit that the end was kind of corny, but if you look past that you'll see how good this movie really is.  My friends and could pick a person from our school that represented almost every character.  This was a great movie that represented so much of what teen lives really are like. "},{"Title":"very very funny... hahahah!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you read all the other reviews from people all over the world, some of you might agree that the movie wasn't that good in innovation and acting.  But they have to see that these are only teenagers acting.  Sure, some actors/actreses had plenty of experience.  But most of them haven't even been noticed until now.  Ethan Embrey, for example, hasn't been that active in Hollywood.  The only movie I remember him from is That Thing You Do! and Vegas Vacation and he didn't even have a big role. I know he has been in other movies, but he needs more press.  He is good talent that isn't being used efficiently.  I haven't seen him in any TV series.  And they use really good actors/actresses for little appearance (ie Mellisa Joan Hart, Jerry O Connel, Clea DuVall).  Jennifer Love Hewitt (in my opinon) did a decent, but not good, job.  She and Preston would have made a cute couple.  and most of all... the best actor in the movie was SETH GREEN. Seth Green portayed what most teenagers (a lot of Filipinos here in Hawaii) try to act like in school, but when they're alone or at home, they tend to act more normally. But none here go all out with a back-pack full of sex toys and Kama Sutra. But I think I'd be doing something like that graduation night. Other notable acting was with Peter Facinelli who did a good job with Jock and Bully, and Charlie Korsmo as William Lichter who went from geek to popular to geek in less than 24 hours. "}{"Title":"A great Teenager movie! comedic romantic and dramatic and good messages in it too","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw the movie a few minutes ago I thought it was great! I could relate to so many types of people in that movie!! I also think it's a wake up call to all of those people who pick on the loser type of people that it doesn't matter we are all the same in one way or another what a great movie! and that popularity ISN'T everything and that it really won't matter who you were in high school in the REAL world what a fantastic movie... what else can I say? "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments that have already been made. I watched this movie expecting little, and was pleasantly surprised by this cute, nostalgic (for me and no doubt the writers/directors/whole production team) piece. Jennifer Love Hewitt is endearing but has a surprisingly small role. It is the breadth of talent that makes this movie what it is. And what it is is a cute, entertaining, story of growing up, love gone awry, and friendship. Don't expect too much and you'll be pleasantly surprised. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better then expected.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented Can't Hardly Wait expecting to see nothing more than the standard cliched High School movie that usually stars a bunch of twenty year olds dressed in trendy clothes, listening to trendy music, and acting trendy and stereotypical. This is basically what I got but it went a little deeper then expected.  The development of Seth Green's charecter and the tough questions posed to him about his hip-hop, trendy, black wannabe life style were unexpected and very funny. Ethan Embrey's charecter delved a lot deeper into the obsessive love that can often push lonely teens to suicidal limits. The movie is very funny with a much better soundtrack than expected. The cliched ending however is saved by the uncliched end to the Ethan Embrey character's obsessive love. Jennifer Love Hewitt is the sexiest young star to come out of Hollywood since Alicia Silverstone's premier in The Crush. And one other good thing about this movie is it happens to be about the same graduating class as mine. Class of 98. Give this movie a chance you'll be surprised.  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly... Doesn't Rate.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie only recently and was struck by a)Its lack of coherent plot, and b)Jennifer Love Hewitt's failure to act. This movie fell short in so many ways. Maybe it was a better movie before they edited chunks out of the original screenplay to bring the rating down from R to PG-13. I also balked at its cruel treatment of X-Files fans. _Can't Hardly Wait_ is full of teenybopper fluff, but it's not even quality fluff.  "},{"Title":"loved this movie","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well as I said I loved this movie. I didn't get to see it in the theatre but I rented it for me and my boyfriend to watch. He liked it too, which surprised me. I've read some of the reviews and they weren't very good but I have to argue with that. This movie was great.   "},{"Title":"It's a shame this didn't get more exposure.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie four times, when it first came out. Three nights in a row, and then later in the summer. I can't tell you how much I connected with it. Not only is it the story of my life right down to the pop-tart thing- I swear to God, that almost the exact thing happened to me, with blueberry Bi-LO genera-tarts Add that to the fact that I had just graduated, and it takes its name from a replacements song, and I was lost in this film. I saw it with a friend that is just like Seth Green's character, it was weird.  It was one of those moments when you just wanted to stand up, in the theater and proclaim how much you loved a movie but we all know how cool that would come off. Nothing new, but definitely worth making. I'm sorry, but the angst of a teenage boy, is a story worth telling a thousand times over especially, when you are one. We've even joked about the Guns and Roses song, before. The last time I felt so connected to a film, was when I saw Mallrats. Even without my perspective, you should enjoy this movie. All these teen flicks should do, is keep you interested, and this one does. The more teensploitation movies that come out, the more I appreciate Can't Hardly Wait. I'll always remember this one as the most dead-on perfect movie for where I was in life, when I saw it.  "},{"Title":"Did no one else notice the bit with the watermelon?","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very entertaining, despite the fact that I'm high school reunion, not graduation, age. The movie is light -hearted and deliberately more superficial than than Dazed and Confused or the John Hughes movies everyone wants to compare it to. Moreover, the bit with the watermelon is one of the funniest things I have EVER seen in a movie.  I still laugh out loud when  I think of it. "},{"Title":"A star-studded fun fest","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This cute little film not only has an appealing (if typical) storyline, but is absolutely loaded with cameos from the hottest teen stars. I had to watch it several times to recognize everyone, but they're there Clea DuVall (The Faculty), Melissa Joan Hart (Sabrina), Selma Blair (Cruel Intentions), Sean Patrick Thomas (Cruel Intentions) and Jerry O'Connell (Scream 2). The only one missing is Sarah Michelle Gellar, which is surprising since she seems to needlessly jam herself into a lot of films. Anyway, JLH and Ethan Embry are fabulous as the couple fated to be together, although Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose steal the show as the most unlikely and amusing pairing. Perhaps the best date movie in years.   "},{"Title":"A brilliant and amusing teen movie for this generation, with characters who I know in reality.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As mentioned in the admittedly ridiculously long title for this review, part of the fun is that various characters in the movie(save for stereotypical details) are the people who I know!I KNOW a group of rabid white-homies who walk the walk, talk the talk, and wander around like complete fashion victims.  They saw this film, they said, and I quote, 'ey that film sucked A**, ma bruthas!  Anything accurate enough to irritate people that it gently pokes fun of (admittedly those guys have NO sense of humour about these things) is good enough for me.I also know a group of people who'd have been relegated to sitting on the pool house roof discussing X-Files trivia.  The thing that I object to is, that they don't LOOK like that!  Geeks are NOT all weedy and wear thick glasses; the personality is close enough, but they can be quite normal. However, that is a tangent, and will be finished NOW...On to the actual review, at long last.  The accuracy of teens of this age is hilarious, and really adds to the film.  Aside from the stereotypes, someone did their homework.The entire yearbook snapshot of each character, giving us a glimpse of their personality was done brilliantly, and I loved the quotes at the bottom. Very clever touch.The movie was touching and very funny, and as I have mentioned repeatedly, very true to life.  Life doesn't work out like in TV.  Life is messy, with lots of trailing edges and unfinished subplots.  People have argued against the ending, but what the hell.  *grin* Preston deserved a happy one.All of the characters are well acted, and well written.  Seth Green is hilarious as the white homie, Kenny, and all the other characters are of similar standard, especially Charlie Korsmo as William Lichter, the geek (ACK! STEREOTYPES!) who crashes the party in a bizarre sabotage attempt, but by the time he leaves the party, he OWNS it...Jennifer Love Hewitt's character had terrifyingly little to do in the movie, more of someone to be pined for by the good guy than someone of moment, unfortunately. She did well with what few lines she was given, breathing real life into the role.  Pity she didn't have more to say...Lauren Ambrose is brilliant as the caustic Diane, and acts very well, especially in the parts where no one she knew was around, and she sat, or stood, in a massive group of people, and yet was totally alienated.  I've seen people do exactly the same thing, and have exactly the same expressions on their faces.  Good job.See this film.  Hilarious, well acted, and well written.  Someone needs to DEAL with certain filmic stereotypes, but that's a personal gripe that others probably don't share.SEE THIS FILM!  You won't regret it. . "},{"Title":"maybe one of the best teen movies of the 90's!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  can't hardly was better the first time i saw it. i went to see it on 4th of july last year,and it blew me away. i saw it 4 times. but then it came out on tape and i rented it. it was still very good but i liked it almost a lot more when i first saw it. don't get me wrong it was very good. it blew me away the first time. it is maybe one of the best teen movies of the 90's.but when i first saw it i thought it was one of the best teen mvies of all time. and another thing jennifer love hewitt is just too hot.i give it *** out of **** "}{"Title":"The new John Hughes team.  A Breakfast Club for the '90's","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a rather critical film buff and I don't like cheesy movies - but this one blew me away.  Dare I say that it is the *coming of age* movie we haven't seen for so long.  Yes, the film was billed as a comedy but there was so much more on top of that.  This movie showed us a lot of the stupid things that happen to us in high school.  Things like; stupid crushes, mega egos, ignoring the people you grew up with, the need for sexual confrontation, and embarrassment.  It was dealt out to us in a humourous manner but it was so much more.  Maybe it ended on a cheesy note with Preston getting together with the girl of his dreams - but sometimes we need that cheesiness.  All in all it was an excellent movie and if you've got some time - pop it in the good old VCR, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"a very positive commentary","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is geared towards teenagers (eg. 13-18). So if you aren't in this demographic, you should still see it, but you probably won't like it as much as I did (with some exceptions). I saw Can't Hardly Wait three times at the movies which cost me over $20, but every single cent was worth it. I know where I'll be on March 9th (Australian video release date)- at the video shop purchasing this, my favourite movie of all time (that would be almost 15 years).When I went to see this movie I was on the verge of a breakdown because I so desperately wanted to see it, and complications (7 year old brother) had gotten in the way. By the time I walked out of the cinema, I was restored back to complete sanity. It was absolutely hilarious and my friends and I almost fell off our chairs from laughing so hard.In my opinion, the funniest storyline was Seth Green and Lauren Ambrose locked in the upstairs bathroom. I think that they gave the funniest performances of the entire cast. Ethan Embry was good too, and when Charlie Korsmo got up and started singing Paradise City, while completely smashed, we laughed and laughed.This movie wasn't meant to provide a deep insight into today's youth. I didn't expect it to. But I did expect to have good time, and come out of the cinema wanting to do it all again, and I did. "},{"Title":"Pablum","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Pablum, at best.  Couldn't hardly wait for it to be over. This movie offers nothing new.The stars of the movie actually had fairly minor parts. J.Love H., for example, was really only in a few scenes.  Instead, we are subjected to nerds planning revenge, popular jocks planning conquests, white boys emulating black rappers, and lots of beer and silly string.Ethan Embry is OK, but we never really understand what he sees in Amanda. Perhaps if we had seen the letter . .. but that would only be possible if the screenwriters were capable of writing something better than CAN'T HARDLY WAIT.Rent SAY ANYTHING or FAST TIMES instead.  "},{"Title":"Awesome one-liners!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic example of teenagers in the 90's. The one-liners in this movie cracked me up (Man, I've gots to have sex tonight!, Don't worry, I don't think it's weird...hey, Scott Baio, You think I'm just going to strip off my clothes and do you, If I had known you would've been in here pleasuring yourself, It would've been nice to make out with her....can I make out with you?, Look, there's a mirror right there....you're white.). It's great to watch if you're in the mood for a light-movie. Especially for those who are in high school or just got out of high school, it's a film that brings back fond, nostalgic memories.  "},{"Title":"Fresh Generation-X movie","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute movie for teens and 20-somethings because I think it's something we can all relate to.  It focuses on the intricate workings of high school people, and realistically depicts it.  It makes you laugh, it makes you hold your breath, it makes you cheer, an all and all good movie.   "},{"Title":"I was shocked at how good this was","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Listen, any and all pretentious whiners who watch nothing but dramatic watered-down cinema verite, and those godawful Meryl Streep dramas, cover your eyes, because I will shock and offend you. This movie, which, prejudging, I was SURE would be crap, is really an exercise in young brilliance. The feel of this movie recalls Kevin Smith, and another incredibly good young-adult movie, Empire Records. The soundtrack is stellar, Ethan Embry is perfect, and the Jenna Elfman cameo is absolutely on the mark. It is a tightly scripted, immensely entertaining and enjoyable flick, which recalls the best parts of all of the teen movies of the 80's. If you skip over this movie to try and look cooler than you really are to your look at me being all angst-ridden now friends, then you are truly a tool. Don't miss out on a movie that is almost guaranteed to make you smile. Great Job, all involved. "},{"Title":"A positive review","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot.  The characters were fairly one dimensional but I still recognized them as myself and my high school peers.  I related to a lot of the situations the movie presented.  I too have been in love with someone since middle school but never been able to tell them.  I liked how everything works out the way it should.  Though real life doesn't work that way, it is nice that things can at least work in a movie.  It reminded me of 16 Candles and left a good taste in my mouth.  I can't hardly wait for my own graduation parties.  "},{"Title":"Not too original movie that entertains most teens","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was funny in parts, and kudos to actors Ethan Embry and Charlie Korsmo.  The camera-work is also unique. But, the performance (dare I call it that?) of Jennifer Love Hewitt is cardboard, at best.  Another disturbing fact is that this movie tries very hard to imitate another, much more noteworthy film  Dazed And Confused.  The setting of the movie, (a big party on the last day of school) the way it wraps around to the next day, and even the tone of Can't Hardly Wait mimics Dazed And Confused.  There is also a direct quotation from D&C, identical in the way it is delivered as well.  (She was a hip, hip lady.)  I can see why many teenagers would enjoy this film, as it perpetuates all their fantasies about (the movie definition of) high school. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This really was a cute little movie.  It wasn't magnificent or a masterpiece, but I didn't expect it to.  Yes, the characters were totally stereotypes, but that is exactly the way it is in real life.  It was real.  I thought that the idea of Preston mooning over Amanda was going to get tired fast, and it did, but thankfully the other stories (especially anything Seth Green did)were hilarious while the love story got back on its feet.  I laughed out loud at some moments, and didn't feel manipulated or used as I did with some movies.  A great way to spend a lazy afternoon. "},{"Title":"There are so many lines I can use to put down dreadful movie but I think that the name speaks for itself!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are some films where you wish....no let me rephrase that....demand that time that the film makers stole from your life....this film is one of them. I hated everything about this film, from its title Can't Hardly Wait (bad english) to its end credits, which were the only good thing about the movie.There are millions of people who love this idiotic film filled with stupid cheap and immature laughs......and I hate to think that those millions of people are the ones taking over the country one day.Which leads me to my next statement.......if ever a person wrote that all people under 21 should see Can't Hardly Wait......this person should be put on trial for trying to make the world dumb....This movie is the kind of film everyone who watches Dawson's Creek like because its stupid, it has no moral, no story, no sense of humor, no right to be screened even to the dumbest people....This film would be ideal for torture, ten seconds of this and the prisoner would be in agony! They would be spilling their guts about everything....The acting is woeful, the humor is missing, the director is wanted for making a terrible film, the writers were babies, and the fans are simple minded.Can't Hardly Wait is on the screen for about 90 minutes, and that's 90 minutes too long!  "}{"Title":"The bestest movie ever made!!!!!!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think Can't Hardly Wait is the best movie I have ever seen! All the Actors fit their roles. Also, I'm a little impartial to Jennifer Love Hewitt, she's my fav actress, and very beautiful. Peace!!!  "},{"Title":"The absolute best teen movie to come out in years.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait gave a brand new generation of teen's something to call their own. Truly in the great spirit of John Hughes, teenagers across the country are given their own V.H.S. yearbook to hold onto. I just wanna see more!  "},{"Title":"A surprise","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am 31 years old and saw this on video because someone a few years younger than me was raving about it.  I have to say that I was very entertained. Yes, high school kids in the '90s are very different from the way we were in the '80s, but the various social groups--the jocks, the nerds, the prom queens, the male and female misfits--never seem to change.  So I could relate.  Whoever wrote this movie must have LIVED the part of Preston (or Amanda, if it was a woman who wrote it). Very deep and appealing characters, and the actors did a great job with them (I've heard of Jennifer Love Hewitt but never heard of the guy who played Preston).  And the supporting characters were engaging too--even the stereotypical jock had some depth, which only came out when he was drunk, of course.  The movie was a surprise--it wasn't lost on me, and I found it refreshing and even better than John Hughes' well-meaning but cliched teen flicks of the '80s.  "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES EVER","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a D*mn good movie. i am 17, a senior in high-school, so this was geared towards people my age. this movie was awesome. i've seen several times and i can't wait to buy my own copy. I could totally relate to the story line. i'm glad that the nice guy ended up with the girl. And the Gangsta guy Kenny, said some of the coolest things...haha..and we jacked his lines and use them all the time. well if you haven't seen this movie, i would go get it, i stongly recommend it, ya know, if you aren't too old, cause then you might not like it as much as we did. i have 3 favorite movies of all times, which include CHW, Wayne's World and Austin Powers. One more thing..the sound track to Can't Hardly Wait, is really awesome and is worth buying, if you like the songs that they play on CHW!! "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen deeper and more intelligent teen comedies, but this one just seemed to tickle my funny bone in the right way enough times to keep me hooked.  "},{"Title":"This movie was funny as HELL","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was so cute. I saw it for one reason, and one reason only. SETH GREEN. He was so cute as Kenny Fisher Homeboy Wannabe. This movie would have been boring without Seth. I don't think any actor could have played Seth's part better.  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait is THE movie to see!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Can't Hardly Wait with 2 of my very best friends this fall... We sat pretty close to the front and once the movie got goin, we were PSYCHED!  It was HILARIOUS (MY FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!!) and the funny thing was that it felt pretty down-to-earth!  Nerds getting drunk and wild at a huge high-school party was fun to see... ADULTS BEWARE!  Teens are about the only ones that will appreciate it.  Parents might see a clip while their kids are watching it and go WH-WH-WH-WHAT?!?!?!?!? like Kyle's mother off of the hit show South Park...  But trust me parents, it's something your kids will love (it won't toy with their mind... don't get all paranoid!) and some adults will like it...  Anyway, it's for rent right now and my advice to teens or fun-loving adults--  RENT IT !!!!!  You'll bust a gut...  Basically all its about is having fun!  (Theres morals hidden in it too!!!) "},{"Title":"A barrel of laughs, fun for everyone.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm 20, a college junior, and yes, I LOVED this movie!  My friends and I watch it over and over again, and laugh every time we see it.  To the people who consider it stereotypical of teenagers, I ask, how else could every character be portrayed evenly throughout the movie?  No one thought that the Breakfast Club was stereotypical, yet it had the same type characters.  My favorite was Ethan Embry, who will no doubt be the leader of this pack of talented teens.  Jennifer Love Hewwit, who was supposedly the main character in this story, had very little role except to be the object of Preston's affections.  However, I loved the plot, and thought that the party was an almost exact depiction of my graduation night fiesta.  A night when anything can happen, including the geek getting laid.  This movie is a definite movie to watch for anyone who graduated from high school within the past 10 years. Those still in high school may not be able to relate to the sense of freedom this movie exhibits, but will still enjoy the pop-culture references.  Maybe the best thing about the movie is the soundtrack, which combines tunes of today with the all-time favorite hard rock sounds of the late 80s and early 90s.  This movie is something that can be enjoyed by all. I loved it!  A "},{"Title":"A great film...","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Granted, each of the main characters was extremely stereotypical but...each actor portrayed their character so well, that the stereotypes worked! But the great thing about this film is...we got to see a different side to each character! "},{"Title":"cute film!!!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe this film won't hit the box-office but I have to admit it...it's a great one and really entertains!!!Some of you thought that this movie is a big joke and a very unrealistic one...indeed it is.But come on!!You're too serious!!!It's supposed to be hilarious!!I brought my friends along and they loved it so much.Anyone can be entertained by this enjoyable movie...unless you're a prude.You can watch Can't Hardly Wait for a million times and you won't feel bored at all!!!This is a highly recommended film for all ages. "}{"Title":"First well made high school movie of the 90's","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie featured an excellent young cast that proved to be highly effective in delivering the laughs.  With a few exceptions (Eve 6, Smash Mouth) the soundtrack, drawn from the 70's, 80's and 90's, added to the appeal.  All of the requisite teen emotions were presented convincingly the crush, break-ups, partying, trying to score, etc.  High quality pop in the vein of Dazed and Confused, Better Off Dead and All the Right Moves.  "},{"Title":"Yee Haw!!!! Harness ye imagination and go back to 18 for a movie thats a 10!!!!!!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Super, Funny, Wonderful. This movie is honestly jam-packed with some outstanding performances. Ethan Embry, Jennifer Love Hewitt,Seth Green, Charlie Corsmos, and just about everyone else shine like the stars they are. A great storyline and character development.  "},{"Title":"Cute, funny film that set a goal and accomplished it.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I hadn't known any better, I would have sworn this movie had been filmed in my own hometown.Yes, it is very stereotypical, but then again, so are most high school students.  (William's character looks very familiar . . .)  Any more deep thoughts would have absolutely ruined the film, so the Angel Stripper scene and the scene where Mike gets advice on college women (although the latter was a tad untrue, in my experience).I went through a whole range of emotions during Can't Hardly Wait, even if the characters didn't seem to.  There were no dramatic (read changing; not sad) characters, but this was not meant to be a dramatic film.  It was meant to be a nostalgic look at the graduation parties of the 90's, and that's exactly what it accomplished.There were some incredibly hilarious moments that were very much worth watching.I graduated from high school last year (1997), and I'm not ashamed to say I didn't mind seeing this film again and again.This film is highly recommended to anyone who graduated from high school within the last five years.  Anyone not in this category should leave this film alone; they just won't get the point. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly END!!!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mindless movies are good if you are out of your mind at the moment. But if you're expecting a first rate boy crushes girl for 4 years and . . . (no need to spoil the ending), don't watch this. The Amanda/Preston plot played second banana to everything else in the movie.I felt like I was watching a Saved by the Bell episode on crack when I saw how sterotypical this teen pic was . . . and let me let you know now, I'm a teenager. I'm 15, and this is how I feel about this film. Everyone was labeled and one demensional. The nerds were sci-fi x-philie freaks and the jocks are oh-so-cool with their brain-dead girlfriends.The only plots I enjoyed were the Denise/Kenny and Mike/William plots. Not believable, but funny.I couldn't hardly wait to see this film...and now I have. You want to spend 2 hours watch some mindless fuzz of fun? There's nothing wrong with that, but just don't expect it to be My So-Called Life . . . it's more like that dreadful Dawson's Creek show at a party.You'll ask yourself What is this generation coming to? When is this movie going to END? "},{"Title":"If Today's Youth Are Like This, God Save The Future","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was a teenager once and could not find one connection with the characters of 'Can't Hardly Wait'.  I'm 27 years old and could not find anything worth waiting for about this movie.  Every teenager in this movie was overly Stereotypical and not realistic.  EVERYBODY WAS CLUELESS.  Well, at least the movie 'Clueless' had depth.  This movie was entirely too shallow.  I know that today's youth is nothing like this movie would have you to believe.  "},{"Title":"Great way to start up the Teen Movie Genre again... Breakfast Club anyone?","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll go right out and say it- I loved this movie)  It was fun, fast and adorable with characters that don't take themselves too seriously, writers who don't take themselves too seriously and a story with an ending you've seen about a billion times... YET- Can't Hardly Wait stays as fresh as ever, proving that if you have an exceptional cast and a quirky script,old can be new again- and just as fun... I LOVE anything Ethan Embry is in, any picture starring or co-starring him is worth watching- he lights up the screen and steals all the scenes he's in with his wide eyes and goofy smile. And I used to call myself the #1 Jennifer Love Hewitt hater, but lately I've been seing more depths to her character- she isn't always that sickeningly sweet perfect girl you know that you want to strangle... wait a sec- yeah she is- but at least she's a B*TCH in this for a few seconds right? I found myself hoping to see more of the scenes with Seth Green and less with everyone else- but I also apprieciated the way this film doesn't just revolve around one character. There are so many lives going on in this film that you feel as though you know someone like each and everyone of them.. I certainly know a lot of guys that are EXACTLY like Kenny Fisher... At times it's confusing and drifts from the actual plot (if there is one) a few times, but it's not supposed to be taken seriously- I hate it when people analyze films... All I know was I enjoyed it at the theatre and I enjoyed it even more the second time I saw it... and I know one more present I want Santa to bring me...  Can't Hardly Wait with a little green Bow on it please)  B+ "},{"Title":"I agree,very entertaining","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with Amanda. It wasn't an Oscar winner, but very fun and entertaining. And I,m 33 years old. I think it's enjoyable for all ages.Unless you're a prude. "},{"Title":"Tepid, but eager comedy","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film gets about 75% of the way to where it wants to be - a wild, wooly throwback to '80s raunchy teen comedies.  However, having been edited down from an R rating to PG-13 kills it.  Seemingly outrageous antics abound even though not one character is seen engaging in any naughty activites. The result is a pleasant but toothless film.  It's too bad, for most of the performances, esp. Green, Ambrose, & Korsmo, are great.  Every lead is good save for Hewitt, who plays the whole goofy comedy like she's in a really dramatic Party Of Five episode.  She stinks.  Most of the superfluous characters offer a smile or two, though some, like the Exchange Student, are stupefyingly awful. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but still, tolerable to watch","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I only watched this movie because I have this huge crush on Seth Green -- yes, the guy who played Kenny. I watched it once all the way through and then a second time fast-forwarding only to his scenes. After watching it the first time, I remembered all the interviews I saw for this movie where it was compared to a John Hughes movie by all of those involved. Well, it wasn't. Not even close. I'd rather watch The Breakfast Club any day over this movie. The writing was decrepit, and the characters were simply lame stereotypes. The only reason you could get me to watch this movie again is for Seth, who always makes me laugh, no matter what role he's playing. "},{"Title":"Can't hardly wait for this movie to be over","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a mess. It doesn't take long to figure out that Can't Hardly Wait is nothing more than second-rate Dazed and Confused, or for that matter, third-rate American Graffiti. This film adds nothing new to the teen comedy genre, and it conforms to all the cliches and stereotypes you'd expect. If Jennifer Love Hewitt wants to pursue a serious career as an actress, she's going to have to start ACTING, as opposed to strutting around in low-cut tops and short skirts. One amusing scene, where Charlie Korsmo lip syncs to Guns N' Roses' rock anthem, Welcome to the Jungle, is completely spoiled when it falls over into typical cheesiness. The film tries desperately for some deep moments of reflection, where Peter Faccinelli (Mike) confronts former high school hero/college zero Jerry O'Connell, and when Ethan Embry is enlightened by a stripper in an angel costume. It fails in both respects, managing only to attract more cheese than a colony of mice could muster. The ending is completely unbelievable, and incredibly painful to witness. Could have done without the over-used device of subtitle summations in the end, too. The party scenes are totally censored and compromised, and the romantic angle is   terribly unconvincing. Do yourself a favor and rent Dazed and Confused instead. "}{"Title":"I personally know the characters","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie about a month after I graduated from high school, so it seemed as if each character was someone I knew. Plus, it has Jennifer Love Hewitt, which can make almost any movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An engaging, funny treat.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being as though I didn't attend any high school graduation parties, this film filled in a huge gap for me.  I regret not going to one, yet Can't Hardly Wait made it worthwhile.  Ethan Embry shines brightest since he was back in Dutch and All I Want For Christmas.  Jennifer Love Hewitt, the object of my affection, wows me once again.  There were lots of touching and hilarious moments, and I smiled all the way through.  This film is highly recommended to anyone who feels there is a gap in their life. "},{"Title":"This film is cute!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is definitely not Academy Award material but it certainly entertains. Can't Hardly Wait is the glimpse into the life of a raucous bunch of seniors at the party on graduation night. Ethan Embry is Preston Meyers who has been head over heels in love with Amanda Beckett (Jennifer Love Hewitt) since freshman year. What entails are Preston's last ditch efforts to win Amanda's heart before he takes off for Boston. This is an amusing little tale of romance and high school revenge, probably more suited to teenagers and younger people. "},{"Title":"From the Point Of View Of a 20 single Guy","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  High school's out, graduation's over and college life begins... but not before a final party. Amidst the cast ensemble of nerds, losers, creeps, bimbos, wannabes... this hip romantic comedy speaks of Mike Dexter aka Hottest Hunk On The Block dumping Amanda Beckett (Jennifer Love Hewitt) aka School Belle, getting ready for a college-babe fest. Amanda boldly attends the party despite the news outbreak and shatters after being hit on by her cousin, drunk jerks and horny lechers. After harnessing enough courage, secret admirer of 4 years Preston Meyers (Ethan Meyers aka bass player in That Thing You Do!) confronts Amanda to bare his soul...This light-hearted social drama cheek-tones and teases with its cute sub-plots and cool characters. Dealing with common teen issues of crush, lust, love and fate, Can't Hardly Wait is fresh and made for those craving for or reminiscent of their 1st love. A vibrant and fun(ny) picture about young love and new hope, a remedy for any love ailments. Sleepless In Seattle meets Romy And Michelle's High School Reunion?Jennifer Love Hewitt's non-breakthrough performance, which her role did not require, lures audiences effortlessly nevertheless. She draws hearts as an assertive and intelligent 'chick' who finds maturity and her true self after getting dump. Latest heart-throb (whose career should go no other way but up after this movie) Ethan Embry plays an honest and straight 'dude' who's more charming than he knows, hopelessly in love with her. The limited camera-sharing moments between them sizzle nonetheless, even more so than Jennifer Aniston and David Schwimmer's in Friends, with such envious chemical compatibility unseen since The Wedding Singer.A nice prelude to Love's upcoming I Still Know... with costar Brandy, and with so much going for this feel-good pic, it should go down your throat and into your heart nicely. Can't Hardly Wait is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Things haven't changed much have they!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait Can't Hardly Wait is a pleasant film about love, lust, and lots of lager at an end of school booze up. Tried and trusted stereotypical characters romp about trying to score what and who they can in the tradition of American Graffiti, Dazed and Confused, Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Porky's.It seems that teenagers haven't changed much  in the last decade or so, at least on the Hollywood screen, and neither has the genre, with high energy exuberance mixing liberally with the odd nerd, jock, geek, Yearbook Girl and assorted average Joes and Mary's who are coming to terms with looming responsibilities and even stronger drugs. So we have Preston (Ethan Embry) a shy boy in love with the class good looker Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt of Scream fame). But she's the long standing girlfriend of the school grid iron star and jock Mike (Peter Facinelli). He dumps Amanda though, planning to score some real women at college. Meanwhile cute and intelligent Lauren (Denise Fleming) doesn't even want to be at the party but still gets locked in a toilet with white, small Kenny (Seth Green) who affects being a much larger black rapper. Around all of this, as Dame Edna would say, the children get their rocks off. We're presented with a series of moral fables about responsibility and growing up. Can't Hardly Wait is annoying for its first half  but then warms considerably as the personalities of the characters take mostly turns for the better. And there's a great show stopping version of the Guns and Roses anthem Paradise City by one of the nerds. Can't Hardly Wait isn't a bad way at all of spending 2 hours of your precious time "},{"Title":"A Perfect film for the right audience.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've heard a lot of complaints about this movie, but it seems they all come from middle-aged adults or younger teens. The truth is, this film was designed for the class of '98, and that is who it appeals to. The movie was very Hollywood, that can't be denied. Although the soundtrack may not be very original or the directing very innovative, it seems to me there is definitely a kernel of genius underneath. The plot and moral seem to me to be very meaningful and deep, but after the gloss-over by the PR department and the consultants it's possible to watch the movie as a very funny comedy. Although all of the characters are straight-from-the-box stereotypes, I don't think any other movie portrays them so colorfully or so life-like. Every character in this movie reminds me of someone I know and it seems like the dialog is recorded straight from the halls of my highschool. The main moral of the movie, that fate does exist and love is more important than anything else, may be a factor in many movies, but in no other movie is it made clear just how important it is. This is not strictly a chick's flick, anyone can enjoy this movie. This movie is perfect for any high school senior or college freshman interested in a pop-romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Is this the best they can do?","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can be said for a movie that throws cliche'd, often vacuous caricatures into a film (I use the term loosely), fuses the edges with quasi-hip dialogue, and then passes the final product off as entertainment? What disturbs me the most is that people actually buy into this, and empty, hollow films like this one are being pressed off the Hollywood assembly line every year. I'm reminded of the great teen sagas of 70's (American Grafitti, Cooley High) and the mid-80's Hughes fare (you know them by heart ;-)). Those movies worked because of their earnest, honest, and often satirical edge; the characters were genuine, and sexuality wasn't given a paedophile's eye view. No amount of toilet humor, pop music, or cleavage-thrusting can take away from sharp characters, sharp dialogue, and sharp direction, none of which are to be found in Can't Hardly Wait. If this is the direction that teen-oriented filmmaking is headed, please lead me astray.   "},{"Title":"A great movie about growing up and moving on!","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of a group of teenagers, just after their high-school  graduation, as they're ready to move on. The one final secret, the one  final I've been meaning to tell you, the one final hug, laugh, cry, and  that one final good-bye--they're all here. Although it may seem to be a  teen movie it reaches anyone who can remember the high school days. Each  character is portrayed brilliantly and everyone can relate to someone. You  really get to know the character, their motivation, what they're about, and  their weaknesses. So go see it with a friend--one that you'll be graduating  with (if you already haven't). You'll look back on the years of high school  and think that they've gone by way too quickly--so do all the stuff you've  been putting off now, before it's too late.   "},{"Title":"So clichéd...so average....but I cant stop watching","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait is the definition of a cookie cutter high school flick. In honour of High School Musical and Superbad debuting side by side, this is playing on Much Music over and over again. This movie is the generic high school movie homage that seems to be a bunch of classics put together. Part Revenge of the Nerds, part Fast Times, part Dazed and Confused...part everything. This movie thrives off nostalgia of the teen flick genre. That's why I can bear with it. It's a homage to a fun genre, and while it's nothing exceptional, sometimes you feel as if it has the potential to be something more. It's a decent movie to pick you up when you're bored...and as I type, I'm watching it. The cast isn't bad, and the movie does have its charm, but it's definitely not perfect and somewhat of a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"The most fun of all the teen movies I watched","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For a teen movie, this picture's got a nice re-view value. I watched it numerous times and it was fun every time. The reason I watched it in the first place is because I've always been a huge Jennifer Love Hewitt fan, mostly for her aesthetic value. What sets this movie apart from most teen movies is the lack of anything heavy or depressing. Some directors think that sad stuff are catches the grip you and make you more interested. No, they just put a damper on the experience. The story is nice, the performances are humorous and interesting (props for Lauren Ambrose and Peter Facinelli for two memorable ones). The songs are nicely chosen (Paradise City, ah, the memories). And the movie's got every possible archetype you could think of the geek, the jock, the jock's buddies, the wigger, the prom princess, the wise-cracking outsider, and a plethora of others.All in all, this is the movie to watch if you're looking for something fun, lighthearted and upbeat. Plus you get to see a young Jaime Pressley before she scored big with My Name Is Earl. "}{"Title":"I need more!","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I heard of these movie through the Seth Green page of IMDb, and when I saw it on sale at the video store near me, I had to buy it.I sat down and watched it straight away and it is fantastic. It has everything you could want in a movie - romance, humour, high-school hierarchy. It's all really good and has underlying morals...which you don't notice because you're too distracted by everything else.I love all the characters and I've put all my friends onto the movie and often we sit around just quoting it. A must-watch.The only thing that disappoints me is the cutting-out of all the drunk girl and stoned girl scenes.As a BuffyTVS freak, I am familiar with Amber Benson and immediately recognised her in the few seconds she is on screen in the cut version.I really hope they come out with a directors cut with all the deleted scenes. I wonder how we can contact them to insist on this? Any ideas people? Anyway, think about how we can make them do it and WATCH THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't Hardly Wait 1998Shown on UK TV recently, it was the first time I saw this, (somehow I managed to miss it first time round). It encompasses so many aspects of a typical end-of-school-party, that there are bound to be a few incidents that anyone can relate to in some way. It is a 'teen movie', but not in the normal sense of the word. To begin with, there is actually a semi-decent plot, (ok, a coming of age story), although the best features are really the dialogue and performance by the actors. It feels unusually believable, yet obviously surreal, at the same time. It is sort of a heightened and idealised version of these parties, almost how you would want to remember them, even though things didn't happen quite that way in reality.There are some great scenes that put the characters in situations you want to find them in, and the ensuring comedy is great. Also all spectrum's of a year group have tried to have been accommodated, even if they are portrayed in such a pigeon-holed and categorised way. That's half the fun, and you wouldn't watch this thinking it was an intellectually heavy-weight film.It is a great deal better and not even comparable with the the American Pie trilogy or other such 'teen films' produced by studios. Increasingly, the intention is to make a non-specific film for teenage audiences, with the idea that ticking all the right boxes, with character representation, will create a success. This is not the case, as good films have an undefinable quality about them, which is natural and not contrived.There are occasions when the acting could have been a little better here, (I got the feeling that J-L-Hewitt slipped into monotone a few times), but overall the performances carry the film well.One of the things I particularly enjoyed was that it is genuinely funny without taking itself too seriously, or relying on parodying scenes from other films, in order to get a quick joke (which might be expected), eg. Not Another Teen Movie style.Admittedly, it does reference a number of films, but in a subtle manner, and collates these elements in a highly enjoyable overall film. I really enjoyed watching this film! What a great picture. "},{"Title":"This movie is NOT like Never Been Kissed","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is hilarious and contains a lot of simple wit. It really just depends on how you viewed high school. This movie was sort of an example for what I wanted high school to be like. Too bad my high school was full of worthless...Anyway, the movie is catchy and at least funny, if not a classic for high school movies. This movie would go hand in hand with Dazed and Confused as a movie to laugh and associate with. A catch of mine is the profiling. It also contains a few characters from American Pie, Which would also have to be close to this movie. Face it, its a played out idea with a different method of association each time. Its still worth it for a watch. "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated teen movie","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Intelligent script that has held the test of time - eight years after this movie was released, it's still hilarious. It contains a lot of classic, stereotypical characters - the nerd who plans revenge; the cruel jock; the thoughtful, poetic protagonist; and the elusive beauty (every high school had one).There are also some excellent bit players, like the complete poseur and the annoying person who can't quite seem to leave high school behind (a small, unforgettable role played by Melissa Joan Hart). It would be too easy to have these characters come off as hackneyed, 80's teens who are only interested in sex and getting high. Thankfully, they are much more multi-dimensional than that, and the actors portraying them really show this.The script was also good, containing excellent dialogue and witty one-liners. The reason I did not give this movie a full ten is that in comparing it to the true classics of teen films - Ferris Bueller's Day Off and the like - it still comes up short. Notice that I said the characters were very likable and deep. However, they're not unique enough to warrant instant recognition, like a Ferris Bueller.Try this movie out for an intelligent, late 90's take on high school. "},{"Title":"One of the best teen comedy/drama films to date!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film from start to finish, I thought everything was done very well throughout the film.  I thought the characters were done so well.  Some of them, yes, were a bit stereotypical, but even then, I'm sure everyone knows someone that does, in fact, fit the stereotypes portrayed in this film.  I really felt that I could connect with the characters, especially the star, Ethan Embry.The acting wasn't bad at all, I thought all the actors did a fantastic job with their respective roles.  Ethan Embry especially did a great job, as did Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Peter Facinelli, Charlie Korsmo, Lauren Ambrose, and Seth Green were also excellent in the film.  Also, there were a number of other actors in the film that went on to do great things, including Erik Palladino, Sean Patrick Thomas, Donald Faison, Chris Owen, Clea DuVall, Selma Blair, among others.  Also, a few great cameos including Jenna Elfman, Jerry O'Connell, Melissa Joan Hart, and Breckin Meyer.The story in this film is nothing terribly mind-blowing, but it's just a day after high school graduation, guy likes girl, but never had the chance to express his feelings kind of story, but it is quite touching at times.  One thing that I REALLY like about the story and the film in general is that the film didn't contain any kind of gross-out humor.  I'm getting a little sick of every teen film trying to out-do the previous one in gross-out humor.  It's getting a bit old!  This film pulls off a great story, with great comedy and great acting without trying to out-gross other films of the genre.  Kudos to the writers and directors.This film is just a fun movie, if you're looking for a good teen comedy/drama, this is the film for you.  I really enjoyed the film, and I hope you will too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"well-cast but too obvious","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Likable but predictable teen flick centers around a group of recent high school graduates and their perspectives as they celebrate their final days at a wild senior party. Embry is a shy poet determined to express his longtime feelings for the most popular girl in school after she breaks up with her dumb jock boyfriend; Korsmo is a brainy nerd trying to settle a score; Green&#x97;in an amusing performance&#x97;is an insecure trendsetter trying desperately to lose his virginity. The cast is likable and energetic, and there are some funny gags, but the results are strained and predictable. Would have benefited greatly from some creativity with its premise. ** "},{"Title":"A great teen comedy!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Reason I liked CAN'T HARDLY WAIT is because I am a teen. Seth Green, Jennifer Love Hewitt, and Ethan Embry all had great performances, and that foreign exchange student was hilarious! If you want a great movie to watch at a party, get this one, its great and an 8/10 "},{"Title":"An Englishmans View","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a mediocre movie. The acting is generally quite good but as usual it could do with being a little longer to show the outcomes. If you like Jennifer Love Hewitt then this is a must see movie. The downside of this movie is the subplots which are too many to follow in the movies running time and can get a bit anoying. Watch it and see. "},{"Title":"It was all right","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I only watched this because I want to see more of Ethan Embry's movies. I found myself waiting for this movie to get better, and it never did. There were moments here and there that were interesting, but they didn't come often.  Out of the (largely wasted) cast, Lauren Ambrose did the best possible job with her under-written part.  She was the only human being in a movie filled with stereotypes, morons and aspiring supermodels.About Ethan, the best thing I can say is, I can't wait to see him in a movie worthy of his talents. "},{"Title":"much ado about nada","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a threadbare, guess the outcome in the first ten minutes, brain-dead plot. Betcha it did just fine at the box office.I laughed at two jokes in the movie. I laughed sarcastically at most of the others. I stared quizzically at the rest.There are no redeeming qualities to this movie. It is supposed to be about high school life. It has no resemblance to real high school life.The characters are drawn in the broadest, most stereotypical terms possible. It made me miss the Breakfast Club. "}{"Title":"Where's the story, the character development, the structure...* out of ****","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is the kind of movie that would rather talk about its characters rather than develop them. It prefers to leave out all concepts of plot and just consisting of hundreds of babbling teens. It is amazing how the movie ever got the green light to be shot.I won't tell you the story to Can't Hardly Wait, mainly because there is no apparent story. Even so, I can explain the main characters and their roles in the film. But first, the setting It's graduation night a Hunnington High School. The seniors all plan to throw a big party. All sorts of things are supposed to happen there.1.  Jennifer Love Hewitt is Amanda Beckett. The popular, and I mean popular, talk of the school. She is described as a legend who just broke up with the much-liked jock named Mike Dexter. 2.  Peter Facinelli plays that jock, Mike Dexter, who flirts with all the good looking girls and broke up with Amanda because he thinks that the college women will be much more interesting-and attracted in him at that.3.  Ethan Embry is casted as a meek Preston Meyers who has been in love with Amanda since the second  he first saw her. He is just to shy to ask her out&#133;or even speak to her. 4.  Lauren Ambrose is the films only half interesting character named Denise Fleming, who realizes that her classmates are a mess, but the filmmakers destroy her credits too by locking her in a room with the half whited and self centered Kenny Fisher. 5.  Kenny Fisher (Seth Green) is that fool who only cares about having sex with some of the local party girls. He has a specific list of victims whom he plans of hitting on during the night.Well, take a good look at them. None really have anything to do with the other. All are moralless idiots who have no clue about anything except the present day. I don't think that I actually cared about one of them. There are also many other frantics present at the big celebration. There are prom queens, many more jocks, beer bellies, the wild ones, the mild ones who are always teased and made fun of, the spaced guys, the lustful guys, the foreign, the irritated, the irritating, side unknown, no parents or adults of any kind, and the girl whose poor house is being used for the party, which of course gets out of hand. Also there are special guest appearances of  Melissa Joan Hart as a yearbook obsessed chatterbox, Jenna Elfman as an angel stripper who offers good advice to one of our major characters, and even the heartthrob Breckin Meyer from 54.The script is nothing more than a series of mindless party favors, meaningless conversations, and teen chitter chatter. I can't judge the structure because I found none. And how about the comedic perspective of the film. Well, here's a one-liner that directors Harry Elfont & Deborah Kaplan (You mean there are two directors? My my my, I could have guessed that there weren't any) might want to consider next time the make a movie called this Hey, I saw a movie the other day and during the production I was muttering to myself  I can't hardly wait for it to end. "},{"Title":"This movie blows, seriously","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is the worst movie that I have ever seen. It is the blowfest of the century, it's that bad. The sophomoric humor is only underlined by the horrific acting. Do NOT see this movie EVER! "},{"Title":"Graffiti Americanus","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A terrible teen comedy, Can't Hardly Wait watches as a large cast of young men and women assemble at a high school graduation party. Here they reminisce, drink booze, smoke, snooze and smooch. The film was directed by Deborah Kaplan and Harry Elfont.Today, Can't Hardly Wait is primarily notable for the many soon-to-be-famous and soon-to-be-washed-up faces that populate its cast. Its plot &#x96; a succession of clichés &#x96; is unremarkable. Its humour, is remarkably weak. Sultry late-1990s television star Jennifer Love Hewitt plays the film's eventually attained, unattainable object of affection. Overly pouty, it's a strangely creepy performance.3/10 &#x96; See Pump up the Volume. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait for this to Be Over **","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Those who make these ridiculous teen-age pictures which is supposed to show the coming of age after high school graduation do a disservice to the youth out there. High school is shown as one big preparation to graduate and drink the night away and that college shall be a 24/7 non-stop continuation of this.As in all these type of films, we have an assortment of characters where Joe College usually winds up behind the egg-ball at film's end and love is realized by others.Enough of the wild parties at a graduate's home. How convenient that the parents aren't home.These pictures really lack substance when you think about it. "},{"Title":"A wild and crazy look at high school graduation parties","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ethan Embry, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Peter Facinelli, Charlie Korsmo, Seth Green, Jerry O'Connell, Lauren Ambrose and Jenna Elfman are among the fresh young talents that highlight Can't Hardly Wait, a fast paced look at how a group of graduating high school seniors celebrate this milestone. Film has many subplots but mainly focuses on Preston (Embry), a boy who has always had a crush on popular student Amanda (Hewitt) but kept it a secret throughout their schooling. He feels that the loud and raunchy house party is the perfect setting to confess his feelings. Comparable to many other youth oriented films which leads to a lack of originality for this film but it still manages to be enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Wait to Have Teen Films Outlawed.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a teen film. Need I say more? A pure mess that takes place right after high school graduation and focuses on a party with a wide cast of characters who all have different plans now with their high school careers behind them. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Seth Green are the most notable performers here. No direction or screenplay just makes the film feel like a bunch of three-minute skits. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"nothing new","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ethan Embry stars as a shy poet who(after his last year of high school), tries to fulfill his destiny by expressing his true feelings for popular cheerleader/prom queen Hewitt. By the numbers teen fare with some solid laughs. Harmless. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Cute Teen Comedy.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is a cute teen comedy starring, Jennifer Love Hewitt who plays the school beauty, Amanda Beckett (Who has just been dumped by her boyfriend Mike.) and Ethan Embry who plays Preston Meyers, the guy after her. After, the whole school (Where Amanda and Preston attend.) have had their graduation, it's time to party and that's what they do. Most of the goings on, happen at this party where people drink, have sex and have fun. And, where Preston tries (And eventually succeeds.) to get Amanda. Sure, the film is predictable but it's still good in its own little way and I give Can't Hardly Wait a 6/10.   "},{"Title":"Teenagers NEED Movies Like This!!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait, is the kind of movie that today's kids almost lost the chance to see. Every generation of young audiences NEEDS a teen-party movie that they can call their own. The baby boomers had Gidget, and those Frankie & Annette beach blanket movies, my generation had National Lampoon's Animal House, Meatballs, and Porky's, but until this one came out, all they had were psuedo-sentimental American Graffiti wannabes, grunge movies, and slasher films, like the Scream trilogy. Others, like P.C.U., and National Lampoon's Senior Trip, tried to fill the void, but Can't Hardly Wait succeeds where the previously mentioned films don't.True, most of the characters, and storylines are ripped from older teen films of the 1980's, such as those made by John Hughes, but if you recall, Hughes was accused of ripping-off older teen movies as well. This could say as much about the state of adolescence in this country, as it does about the quality of filmmaking,...that is, Nothing has changed since we were kids, and that may or may not be such a good thing.Besides that, the characters and their stories are given a healthy mix. William Lichter(Charlie Korsmo), and his geeky friends, are taken right out of Anthony Michael Hall & Company from Sixteen Candles, but while Hall's character was looking to prove his virility, Korsmo's wants vengeance on the top jock. Did you see how many activities that kid had under his belt? I'm surprised he wasn't listed as a member of the IMDb Contributor's Club. Jennifer Love Hewitt hasn't looked this good since she was on that all-white cover of Seventeen magazine. But my favorite character was Denise Fleming(Lauren Ambrose), a young jaded woman, who's glad to shove her high school years behind, refusing to believe all that best of times, or golden memories nonsense.  Witness her approach to the Yearbook Girl, played by the uncredited Melissa Joan Hart, as she explains why she never got her picture taken for the yearbook, and you'll understand why she was so great.And yes, this is another Films of the Nineties, for the Citadel Press(See my comments of Ace Ventura Pet Detective1994, and Being John Malkovich1999, for further reference). It may not be an Oscar winner, but it's still a noteworthy 90's movie, that came out just at the right time. "},{"Title":"*Spoilers* Fun but a bit disturbing! (Possible Spoilers Ahead!)","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I happened to see this film, for the second time, tonight on cable.The film is a bit of Hollywood teen fluff but, has many funny moments.Jennifer Love Hewitt is beautiful as always and, Seth Green steals the show as the wannabe gangsta.What I did find very odd about the screenplay is that the central character Preston (Ethan Embrey) seems to be fixated on Love Hewitt's character and part of the plot hinges on an obsessive letter he has written her about watching her for years and being fixated on her.In real life, not only is this behavior passive but alarming.If most men left such a letter for a woman they hardly knew, they would quickly find themselves on the wrong end of a restraining order.They certainly would not be rewarded for such behavior.This is what I find totally unbelievable about this film.I hate to say it but some people see things in films and believe that this the proper way to behave.I did enjoy it for the most part though! "}{"Title":"Good movie, better than She's All That and I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because each character had an enjoyable and  worthy plot. I especially enjoyed Seth Green as Kenny, he was very funny, as he was in both Austin Powers. Although I don't usually like Jennifer Love Hewitt, she was worthy in this film, unlike both Summers. Watch with your friends and remember the good times. You will feel like you related to at least one of the characters. "},{"Title":"Can't Believe I've Seen This Before...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A graduating class reunites in this unoriginal look at an end of the year high school bash. It's a 90's version of American Graffiti, with all the stars having a heart to heart with themselves before they go off to college and be snobby someplace new. We heard all about these kinds of stories from John Hughes in the 1980's   "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Pretty good film.But it's those nerds that sit on top of the  roof and talk about Star Wars and Star Trek that make it happenHave you ever reliazed that my retainer kind of looks like a Klingon war ship.Rating**** (out of five)    "},{"Title":"Can't hardly wait to write another disappointing review.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't hardly wait to take this back to the video store and forget about it. Gather 'round your wacky friends, serve up 250 cans of Coors, and enjoy this trashy flick until you drop dead on the floor and it's all over. The life and times surrounding the Gen-X culture ignites a spark, and Jennifer Love Hewitt sparkles on occasion, yet she does fairly good, and so scarcely. This movie is beyond ridiculous, overall. Making special use of our time is the term movie that has no definition. It's a detailed in-depth examination of a night in the life of psyched-out and perverted young people at a house party doing endless rounds of dumb activity that never blesses the all-important plot. What a terrible shock to see cute, lovable Melissa Joan Hart (Clarissa, Sabrina) wasted in something so raucous! The idea of featuring popular stars in uncredited appearances isn't working, I'm sorry to say. REALITY BITES is far better, although showing its age. CAN'T HARDLY WAIT has a couple of good qualities, but nothing really impressed me except for the final fifteen minutes. Party's over!Sony, I have you now! You're all mine! "},{"Title":"Can't hardly wait to stop watching a movie about drunk high schoolers.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was like the sixteen candles of the '90's. It had a big party after graduation and everyone got stoned and drunk and pooped and threw stuff in the swimming pool. Only two people didn't get drunk and those were Preston and Amanda. Preston was trying to give Amanda a letter he wrote to her ten years ago and so is every other guy in the high school.Around that plot, some people get stuck in a bathroom, a guy steals a police car and everyone is drunk (even the nerd). Why is there always a nerd in these movies? Anyway, this movie is just a mess and at least sixteen candles had a good story about a girl whose family forgets her birthday. She at least leaves the house. The budget of this movie was probably only the house. Then there is a angel/stripper which is also a drunken mess.This movie is just a drunken waste of time. "},{"Title":"Red","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.High school movies fall into three types - at least the ones that work within the genre.  You have the ones that goof on kids from the outside `American Pie,' `Old School,'  `Revenge of the Nerds,' `Porky's,' even the `Legally Blond' stuff; those that simply use  character stereotypes to work amusing vignettes `Fast Times,' `Dazed and Confused,'  `200 Cigarettes;' and those that work from the inside.This latter class has entirely different aims. Instead of goofing, we are intended to get  engaged with the situation. Instead of laughs, we are supposed to be endeared, to see  ourselves. `16 Candles,' `Ferris Beuller&#145;s Day,' even `Circle of Friends' are part of this.  But the differences are subtle each has that 5 or seven stereotypes jock, popular girl,  wallflower, nerd and so on.Each usually features a redheaded girl, because of some power of cinematic projection -  especially in this genre. This particular film is a great example.It revolves around a guy and a girl, both red. They are meant to exist in a different  reality, close to the viewer. All else is in a different reality outside, abstract,  stereotypical.I try to understand `folding,' where all sorts of contrasts are overlain. This is a great  example of two realities the one we occupied when we were young (and probably still  do), and the other which is some sort of pretend world that is thrown at us.Molly Ringwald was able to endear, to capture that space between us and the world of  situation. Lauren Ambrose is very much in the same mold, and is here almost as effective  in parts. There are 20 seconds after she has been kissed which display terrific acting. She  has done nothing as nuanced since. That moment is worth it.There is also a sequence that starts promisingly with a woman in an angel costume that  in its early stages promises to take this into even more fantastic territory. I think it was  part of idea to feed the fantasy love world of Barry Manilow songs, but the writers lost  the ball - or the scenes were cut by the studio looking for more outside laughs.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"another teen comedy-predictable but good for a few laughs.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie a few times. It's really not bad or exceptional. While I would not rank this anywhere NEAR as good as fast times at Richmond high, The Breakfast Club, some kind of wonderful or Clerks-to name a few, the movie, Can't hardly wait, is mildly funny at times and is good for a few laughs. Some of the things that happen to these characters will be familiar to viewers when recollecting their own high school years. The movie, however, breaks no new ground and doesn't have any particularly memorable lines or unforgettable characters which is it's weakest aspect. There are a lot of teen movies which deal with these same story lines that just do it better. The ending was a bit hollow, a bit rushed-but this movie is decent enough to pass the time, though not remarkable and you could do worse with this genre(much much worse). All in all it rates about average or a 5.5 or so. It's one of those movies where if one likes this type of picture in general they may like this and it doesn't represent either the best or the worst of the genre. "},{"Title":"Can't Hardly Like, either...","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I knew that Melissa Joan Hart, Jerry O'Connell and Jenna Elfman were all uncredited, but I had no idea that Liv Tyler's voice was off the credits as well. If only they had all had the wrong idea.There have been quite a few good teen flicks in the past few years, but Can't Hardly Wait isn't one of them. Admittedly it did get better in the second half once the messy first bit was over, but apart from Jennifer Love Hewitt (the only reason, to be honest, that I checked it out on Sky Moviemax - in addition to bombing in America, it never got a British theatrical release), the only other performer to make it through intact was Seth Green. But then he always delivers the goods. Grating humour and a soundtrack that, unlike She's All That, is not something I can imagine teenagers today checking out, does not a good movie make. Skip it unless you're a major JLH fan or want to see how many cast members from other teen flicks or TV shows you can spot (and there are quite a few). "},{"Title":"Poor Rehash of Better Movies","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I read the comments and it appears that teenagers love this movie. So I'll give a boomer's eye view. It stinks. It's a poor rehash of much better movies like American Graffiti, Fast Times, Dazed and Confused, et al.CHW is a story of unrequited love set at a suburban high school graduation party (of the unchaperoned variety). All the stock characters are there, and they do the stock things you would expect. It is all excruciatingly predictable and shallow. If you are not an American high school graduate from the years 1997-2000 you would do well to avoid this movie.  "},{"Title":"only worth watching to see Ms. Hewitt strut her stuff.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i recently watched this on cable while i had a horrible sinus/ear infection (that's probably the only reason i actually sat through the whole thing.)it's a cookie cutter teens-on-the-verge-of-college-and-they-decide-to-throw-a-huge-shin-dig movie. there are no real likeable characters (with the exception of Jennifer Love Hewitt) and the plot is as predictable as they come.only Jennifer Love Hewitt addicts will get anything out of this boring mess. it's easy to see why she has such a rabid male fan base. she has a great body and every outfit she's in seems designed to draw attention to her impressive breasts.i felt worse after watching this film than i did before and attribute my lack of getting over my sinus cold to how bad this movie was.rating2 (escapes a 1 just because of ms. hewitt's performance)   "}{"Title":"Can't Hardly Stomach It","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dear God, could this have been worse?  Probably not.One of the worst films I have EVER seen, this flick made me weep for the younger generation - and I'm still in my twenties.The hype for this movie billed it as a Fast Times At Ridgemont High for the late '90's.  When I was done with this movie, I wondered if Fast Times was really a horrifically bad film as well, glorified in the memory of a teenager at the time of it's release.Well, I watched Fast Times shortly after seeing this.  While I must admit that the antics of Jeff Spicoli have lost some of their humor over the years, it is still TEN TIMES more worthwhile of a film than Can't Hardly Wait.A Jennifer Love Hewitt nude scene couldn't have saved this movie.  I would have watched it a dozen more times, but I would still consider it a crappy film. "},{"Title":"Look at it this way... at least it's not the train-wreck 'Josie and the Pussycats' was","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" See-through, predictable teen-romance-comedies... don't we have enough of them by now(if not far too many)? Apparently not according to Hollywood. They keep churning them out, anyway. This one suffers from the typical problems associated with these films, and some more. The lead, Ethan Embry, clearly isn't charismatic or interesting enough to carry the film on his shoulders, so the writers had to come up with about five dozen more main characters, none of which have any real substance or are any more than tired stereotypes. The plot is contrived and uncreative, with every single old arch-type and cliché thrown in the audiences faces. The love-story is thin and vapid. None of the characters are likable or well-developed. The acting is acceptable. Now, what this film really benefits from is the very high number of recognizable teen star faces. Just about every major teenage actor(well, actor in early 20's who's portrayed a teenager) is in this, though most have very minor roles. The humor is fairly daft. The timing is often off, and many of the punchlines are overplayed. Not really anything else to say... one to avoid, unless you're a fan of the genre, I suppose. I recommend this only to big fans of the genre and people who are dying to see all the teen actors in one film together. Everyone else should probably just skip it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Rockhampton, Australia","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The one thing I hate more then this movie is anybody who says 'watch this film, you won't regret it'. No matter if they think a movie is good or bad, lots of people will regret it. Not that I read any reviews here before I saw it, but I have to say that I deeply regretted it.The plot was... minimal. The acting wasn't special, direction meaningless and everything else about the film was bad. Then again that is my opinion, and so in staying true to my first paragraph, if you like teen movies that have something resembling a plot, Seth Green, ignorance and/or stupidity this film is for you. The sad thing is right now somebody is reading the previous sentence saying 'yes, yes, yes'. Sad people. "},{"Title":"The worst, but funniest DVD I ever bought.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK. You've seen the movie. You either like it or hate it. Personally, I thought this movie should have had an R rating, and so do the directors in their commentary. The movie, complete with every flaw imaginable is commented on by the directors and Seth Green. They literally laugh at the scenes which were cut, explaining why they were cut.BUT, this is a high school party movie.The only flaw about this movie is that it didn't have an R rated cut on one side of the DVD and a theatrical release on the other side. The theatrical release steals scenes from many different parties from other movies, and the directors acknowledge some of their steals. I would REALLY like to see this movie in an R version, so I could get to enjoy it at it's fullest.Try to find a movie which has people who are actually closer to the age they're portraying. Believe me, it's not easy! There were too many people over 21 in the movie in real life to believe they were high-school students. Selma Blair, 26 or 27... Gimme a break!!! I could go on about this one, since Ethan Embry was the Bass Player in That Thing You Do and that was made a few years earlier. However, Embry gives the best performance, and I liked Lauren Ambrose, too. Jennifer Love Hewitt's performance was not that good, but they explain the movie was shot at night during Party of 5 shooting. Hence, Jennifer could have been a bit tired. Also, her name on the movie probably put more fannies in the seats. Sure there are a lot of cameos, but most of the people in the movie probably thought it was going to be an R, instead of a PG.Cut like it is, it's a poor excuse for a party movie. Maybe a date movie, but certainly not reality. I can't give it more than 1½ stars out of 5, and that's being generous. There are a lot better movies geared to teenagers then and now. Try Fast Times, Say Anything, Breakfast Club or even PCU - a college movie but Jeremy Piven is 32 and really starting to show his age (balding).Now, had this been a college party instead of a high school party, things would have worked and the plethora of deleted scenes would have been added and you would have seen people actually drinking and smoking and having a good time. Not a scene with cupcakes as breasts! This is one movie I'd leave off the resume, if I was affiliated wit the film. It's not realistic enough. Too much movie magic in one movie results in a poor showing for all. "},{"Title":"One of the very worst of the teen movie genre.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not all teen movies are bad.  Some are actually really good.  Such titles include American Pie and The Breakfast Club.  The reason these films are good is because they have interesting, realistic characters and interesting, realistic (and often very funny) dialogue.  However, Can't Hardly Wait from 1998 has no interesting people whatsoever.  Maybe one or two realistic ones.  No good dialogue, though.  None.  The fact that so many IMDb users love this film is utterly mindboggling.  What's to love in this film that hasn't been done about half a billion times before?  There isn't a single original thought in the entire film.  The characters that aren't boring and mundane are the ones that are extremely stupid and endlessly annoying.  Ethan Embry is a pretty good actor, as we've seen in films such as Empire Records and That Thing you Do.  But he gets stuck with a dull character whose script gives him nothing interesting to say. NOTHING!  Not one thing in 100 minutes of this godawful picture (just 100?  wow, it felt like a decade).  It doesn't help that the girl he's a had a crush on for four years (CLICHE ALERT) is played by Jennifer Love Hewitt, who isn't much of an actress in the first place, and whose character isn't any help.I don't think anything could have saved this film.  There is a ridiculous cliche in almost every scene.  It's hard to imagine this film existing with out them (though it would be fun imagine this film not existing at all).  There are a maybe one or two funny lines, but thats all this films has to offer.  Everything else is pointless.2/10. "},{"Title":"Standard '80s film with less sex.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My only real complaint with this film is that, much like Fast Times at Ridgemont High, there is too little time for all the characters in this film.  Fast Times was based on a book, so I assume the characters got flushed out more in it.That being said, this movie was decent.  It was very reminiscent of high school in many ways; Seth Green's character in particular was a prototype for many people I went to school with.  The only thing that really is not consistent with my own experience, and it is the same with virtually all teen comedies, is the popularity thing.  I went to three different junior highs (Grades 8-10) and a senior high (11-12), and there was never a single popular group, never mind a most popular couple.  In Grade 12, for example, there were three massive groups- one was the drama group, another was the slacker group, and the last was the Indo-Canadian group (which, for anyone who doesn't know, is made up of the people whose families are originally from India or Fiji, not Aboriginal peoples).  All three groups hated each other and in the case of the first two (since the third was not really a popular group but rather the majority of Indo-Canadians in the school) really seemed to believe that they were popular.  In actual fact, those of us not in either of the groups didn't give a sh*t.  At the Grad dance, I did not even know who either the king or queen was.  There were 700 Grade 12s, and no one knew everyone.  So I am unsure whether the popularity pyramid represented in movies is an accurate picture of most people's experience or not.  My boyfriend's school had a popular crowd, but his school had only slightly more students but divided into 5 grades instead of two, making only about 300 grads, most of which a person had gone to school with for 5 years and not 2.  In this film, I believe Melissa Joan Hart says there are 500 and something grads, so everyone did not know everyone else.  Is it realistic in such cases to have two people admired by the entire school? I have no clue. About the only teen movie I can think of where there isn't this one little clique at the top is Fast Times, but that movie doesn't deal with extreme popularity or unpopularity.Still, even having gone to schools without much of a hierarchical structure, there were still enough small hierarchies to understand the popularity issues in this movie and empathise with the nerdy William or the superficially-worshipped Amanda.  I also thought that it was very realistic (and equally as realistically frustrating) that Mike Dexter realised the error of his ways only to continue acting like that; I've witnessed that story before many times.  And I certainly can appreciate this movie's demonstration of the superficiality of high school.  Thank God I got away from that and moved onto the superficiality of university.All in all, this was a decent movie, but it needed either to reduce the number of characters or to increase its length in order to truly be a really good movie.  Still, it is certainly equal to some of the better teen films of the 1980s. "},{"Title":"Not worth waiting for","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Can't Hardly Wait is the kind of movie made, I think, by people who don't remember what it was like to be teenagers anymore, people so distanced from their teenage years that they only remember the throbbing hormones and not the awkward, painful process of crossing into adulthood.  This is demonstrated in this movie, because virtually all of the characters are basically sex objects, or the people lusting after them.  It's a bad sign in a movie when its two most interesting characters spend the duration locked in the bathroom.The movie is basically about the kind of party thrown by teenagers in the movies; it follows on the heels of high school graduation and requires all the necessary players to appear on the scene and have contrived, predictable experiences that change their lives.  The players usually fall into the categories of 1)The hero, who is smitten with the prettiest girl in school, 2) the hero's friend, usually female, who sees past his clunky attempts to win the girl to his innate goodness, 3) the jock, who is a jerk and dates the prettiest girl in school, 4) the prettiest girl in school, who is deep down an intelligent, strong, interesting person who is seen by everyone else just as the jock's girlfriend, 5) the nerd, who has been tormented by the jock and plots revenge.  Add to this mix the character played effectively by Seth Green, who is seems to take his inspiration from the late Tupac Shakur.None of these characters ever really break out of the contrivances of their roles in this scenario.  It comes as no surprise, for instance, that the nerd gets drunk for the first time in his life and gets down to a rendition of Paradise City.  Jennifer Love Hewitt plays the girl with what little skill the role involves but is trapped in a paper-thin character.  I think she is a talented actress and would like to see her in a good movie with an interesting character, someday.  Since right now her resume includes I Know What You Did Last Summer and its sequel, I Still Know, etc, I think it may be a while.The only two characters I could identify with were the hero's friend, played by Denise Fleming, and the Seth Green character.  They are the ones locked in the bathroom, but the writer couldn't think of anything interesting for them to talk about.Is this what people think teenagers are all about?  Talk to most teenagers today and you will find, I think, that they are intelligent, thoughtful individuals who are scared about the future and not sure about what they want to do in life.  Look at them as an adult and you will likely see yourself.  It is sad, and insulting, that the filmmakers here have viewed them mainly as walking hormones.  It's almost like a throwback to the 80's when these kind of movies appeared every week.  Ironically, the 80's were also when movies that really explored the teenage world, such as The Breakfast Club and Real Genius were also peaking.  Strange that we have come so far and yet fallen so low, all at the same time. "}]