[{"Title":"Elizabeth could have unfolded in front of me all day and I would have remained enraptured.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"109 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  England. 1555. Henry VIII has snuffed it from gout or syphilis, it depends on who you read, Bloody Mary's got a tumour and the Catholics' greatest fear is Anne Boleyn's daughter Elizabeth. Director Kapur has brought to the screen some of the most intriguing moments in English history and the result is dazzling.Following recent grandiose French historical epics, such as the glorious Ridicule, Elizabeth more than holds its own as a no-holds barred, gripping English extravaganza. Historians across the land will no doubt pick holes in the accuracy, but it hardly matters.The opening scene signals the film's intent. Protestant heretics are burnt mercilessly at the grisly stake, accompanied by proclamations that they should burn in Hell. It's clear that England is in a pretty gloomy state and ruled by a humourless zealot, Mary (the ubiquitous Kathy Burke), who is hell-bent on converting or murdering Elizabeth My sister was born a whore of that Ann Boleyn.Cheery Mary rules a poor, remote island that is very likely to become the next possession of the growing empire of Spain. She is surrounded by rebels who want to place the Protestant Elizabeth on the throne. So, Mary gets her trusted Lord Norfolk (Eccleston cuts an impressive presence; you can imagine this man swishing on the battlefield) to arrest Lizzy and dispatch her to the Tower of London.The camerawork and the pace of this film are breathtaking. Kapur directs with ambitious panache, whilst supplying more than a wink to Coppola's The Godfather in the process. Two scenes in particular reek of the Mafia masterpiece one in the Vatican, the other a succession of assassinations sparked by the majesty's demand, let it all be done. Pure Pacino.If you shimmy past the slightly silly inclusions of the likes of Eric Cantona (the IKEA School of Acting) and Angus Deayton, and the fact that Dickie Attenborough (plays a fussy sidekick who sniffs the Queen's bedsheets and claims, her body belongs to the State) is starting to resemble an Ewok, the acting is otherwise splendid.Cate Blanchett not only resembles the great lady, but imparts her with enormous affection (her love of Lord Dudley, played by Fiennes, is tenderly dealt with) and delivers her lines with a steely intelligence, I do not see why a woman must marry at all and I'm no man's Elizabeth . Her performance is a revelation and if it weren't for Geoffrey Rush she would have stolen every scene. However, the Shine star, playing her demonic sidekick Walsingham, delights in creeping in the shadows and pulling the devilish strings. A positively Machiavellian turn and worthy of another Oscar.This is a history film made at its very finest and the equal of A Man For All Seasons. Elizabeth could have unfolded in front of me all day and I would have remained enraptured. Intoxicating imagery (English blood on French colours the wicked Mary of Guise, Ardant, proclaims), naughty shenanigans, dastardly deeds, an epic tale and a superb cast. Stunning cinema. "},{"Title":"A small nudge in the direction of romanticism&#133;","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" And Elizabeth did whisper Robert Dudley's name on her deathbed&#133; The movie is an imaginative interpretation of the way that things could have been&#133;Shekhar Kapur's film explores the instabilities of her reign, and the absolute horror and terror that surrounded the early part of her royal office without neglecting her relationship with her terminally ill sister&#133; So it's a glimpse of her girlhood into statehood, and the shedding that occurs, with the people who expended in her life along the way&#133; The film shows Elizabeth growing up in an incredibly unstable, tumultuous environment&#133; But she's an absolute survivor... Someone who has got no solid ground on which she walks&#133; So one minute she's a bastard, the next minute she's a princess, then one moment she's an illegitimate daughter, then she's a queen&#133; And it's a very relevant period of her life, because she was 25 when she became a female monarch&#133; There are four men in Elizabeth's life and all have quite different influences on what it means for a young woman to run the country so young, given that she comes to the throne under very difficult political circumstances&#133;There's Sir Cecil (Attenborough) who's from an older regime giving her the traditions and the conventions that are the most orthodox; Sir Francis (Geoffrey Rush) Elizabeth's great spy master, very astute, almost puritanical and rather dry bureaucrat; Robert Dudley (Fiennes) with whom the film suggests that she has quite a passionate, private relationship; and Norfolk (Eccleston), a major rival who doesn't regard that she is suitable to rule his England&#133; The motion picture succeeds in developing Elizabeth's change and, basically, locks off parts of herself, and dehumanizes herself in order to wield her power among men&#133; "},{"Title":"Creative camera work","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"63 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  During the opening credits the camera hovers high above three people being burned at the stake, what an angle, as the fire consumes them in a maelstrom.  The cineamatography was so incredibly creative, very Hitchcockian.  One need not possess any knowledge of history to make sense of the plot and story.   Like a good mystery there were subtle nuances. Glances between characters that foreshadowed events and interactions to come, such as the woman that betrays Norfolk, and the child that inadvertently reveals his father's hiding place.  The story wasn't exactly historically accurate, but it got my 15-year-old interested in Elizabethen England.  Call it artistic license. The movie was so lush, so complex that I easily saw it twice without becoming bored. Terrific acting, fabulous costumes, great staging. "},{"Title":"Queen Blanchett","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Academy Awards ceremony of 1999 angered many people Shakespeare in Love, albeit a very smart and funny film, robbed the superior Saving Private Ryan of the Best Picture Oscar; Roberto Benigni beat Edward Norton in the Best Actor category (though it was the Italian star's behavior, rather than his performance, that irritated those attending the event); and Gwyneth Paltrow, who wasn't actually bad in Shakespeare, walked away with the Best Actress award, depriving Cate Blanchett of the recognition she should have received for her revelatory work in Elizabeth.This film, the first in what the director hopes will be a trilogy (the second installment was released in 2007), covers the early years of Elizabeth I's reign, from her harsh upbringing to the decision to call herself the Virgin Queen. To describe her situation as tough is an understatement she was a Protestant monarch in a largely Catholic kingdom, several covert groups wanted her dead and foreign sovereigns kept asking for her hand in marriage, without ever succeeding, for the only man she loved was also the only one she couldn't have.Conspiracies and unhappy romances two unusual ingredients for a period drama. And that is exactly why the film succeeds in the mind of director Shekhar Kapur, this is not the usual costume film where events are observed with a static eye and what might be perceived by some as excessive slowness (Quentin Tarantino's infamous rant about Merchant-Ivory sh*t is aimed at those productions); instead, we get a lively, vibrant piece of work, with the camera sweeping through the gorgeous sets and leering at the exquisite costumes while recounting the grand story. And what a story the thriller aspect aims to please viewers who find the genre a bit lacking in the tension department, whereas the Queen's doomed love affair with Joseph Fiennes' Earl of Leicester (a plot element to which the BBC miniseries from 2005, starring Helen Mirren and Jeremy Irons, is a sort of sequel) is the polar opposite of the sanitized, passionless romantic tales that tend to feature in other period films.Good-looking technique and strong storytelling would, however, be useless if the title role wasn't played by an equally great actress, and Pakur found the perfect Elizabeth in Blanchett an odd choice she may have seemed (she was a complete unknown in Hollywood prior to being cast in this movie), but the performance she delivers is nothing short of astonishing. Doubtful, determined, passionate, naive, heartbroken, firm and charismatic - she is quite simply the best on-screen incarnation of Elizabeth in the long history of biopics. The supporting cast (Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Eccleston, Richard Attenborough) is also excellent, as expected from British and Australian thespians, but it is Blanchett who dominates the entire picture. Shame the Academy didn't take notice. "},{"Title":"What Tamed Passion!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"59 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In a year overwhelmed with reminiscent films, Elizabeth rises above the rest to become one of few stunning manifestations of the Hollywood Renaissance. Certainly acknowledged by the Oscars garnering 7 nominations, Shekhar Kapur's intimate portrait of a young Elizabeth further expands the modern view on a distant monarch, whose maturing reign as well as taming nature continued to dazzle the 20th century viewers.Presented here by a superb cast led by Golden-Globe winner Cate Blanchett, early Elizabethean era turmoil and upheaval are captured brilliantly. The lush set itself is a feast for the eye as the audience is drawn to follow a passionate young Elizabeth's path. Against the dark setting of medieval stone castles, a blooming Golden Age approaches as England expands to take control in a world of great unrest after Catholic Queen Mary's death. Her Protestant half-sister, Elizabeth daughter of Anne Bolyne is placed on a throne of a kingdom torn between religion. Cate Blanchett does a fabulous job capturing the details of a frustrated young woman waking to the merciless reality of queenhood--surrounded by enemies such as Norfolk (Christopher Eccleston). Constantly by her side is her reverent adviser Sir William Cecil (Richard Attenborough) who advises Elizabeth to marry for convenience choosing from a pool of ready political candidates--while Elizabeth herself is long set on her lover from the past Sir Robert Dudley (a charming Joseph Fiennes). Yet just as England learns to wake up from the medieval dream, Elizabeth learns the bitterness of betrayal as she looks to Sir Francis Walsingham (Jeffrey Rush)'s counsel.Focusing on Elizabeth's subtle changes of phase from fire to ice at a distant in the midst of a grander panorama beautifully shot, the audience gradually distinguishes her footsteps from the shedding of innocence to a tough ruler that dares to strike first against her enemies, to ultimately become the Virgin Queen to reign above all men.  "},{"Title":"My favorite film of 1998!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"56 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett's performance was awe-inspiring and has made me a fan for life.  She should have won the Oscar in 1998.Terrific performances from the other principal actors, excellent costume/art direction and cinematography, a good script (if you can relax any standards of strict historiography you might have, if any) and well-paced direction and editing make for a terrific period piece.I loved this movie and raved about it for weeks afterward. "},{"Title":"Who can tell for sure how it really was?","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"59 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I just watched Elizabeth, for the second time and once again I was ...what would be the word...moved? Not in the teary-eyed sense, but in a way that makes you want to read more about Elizabeth I.However, I have read other comments and  two things occurred to me. First, that many people (brilliant scholars or erudite people whom I respect) pretend that it did not look that way or  it did not happen that way, such and such. Who are you to tell? History is not an exact science, it is a HUMAN way to try and keep in touch with the events that shaped the world we live in. Being interested in history and costume history myself, nothing STRIKE me as BLATANTLY  anachronistic. I think that Mr. Kapur primarily wanted to illustrate Elizabeth's rise to power, not her entire reign, which would take several films. His film is an account of an episode of English history, not a chronic on life in Tudor England, hence the lack of filth and lice, as someone mentioned... The second element is a more personal one, that in fact came to my mind while watching the film how could Cate Blanchett lose the Oscar to Gwyneth Paltrow, of all people?! Her performance in Shakespeare in Love was charming, no less but no more. I think that trying to catch the conscience of a queen, to make an illustrious historic figure come to life is far more difficult than playing William Shakespeare's (fictitious) love interest.It was my humble opinion, and I wanted to share it with other IMDB users. "},{"Title":"One of the finest historical dramas in years.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As far as Academy Award recognition is concerned, 'Elizabeth' was unfortunately released in the same year (1998) as the much slicker, more crowd-pleasing 'Shakespeare in Love,' a fine comic film but as much over-praised as 'Elizabeth' was overlooked. It certainly borders on the absurd, if not the criminal, that Gwyneth Paltrow's simpering, one-note performance as Viola was handed the Best Actress Award over Cate Blanchett's truly magnificent performance in the title role of 'Elizabeth,' a film whose tracing of Elizabeth's transformation from teenage frolicker to commanding 'Virgin Queen' presented an enormous challenge of acting range that Blanchett met with aplomb. Curiously, 'Shakespeare in Love' and 'Elizabeth' not only share the presence of Elizabeth I as an historical character, albeit at opposite ends of her nearly 50 year reign, but also two prominent cast members Joseph Fiennes and Geoffrey Rush. Although Fiennes' role as the Earl of Leicester, Elizabeth's lover prior to her Virgin Queen persona days, is smaller (and far less winning) than his lead role in 'Shakespeare in Love,' he again cuts a convincing figure in 16th century costume. On the other hand, Geoffrey Rush's performance as Sir Francis Walsingham, Elizabeth's utterly ruthless yet completely loyal bodyguard and Machiavellian tutor, is endlessly and hypnotically fascinating &#x96; a performance that steals movies in movies whose leads are less arresting than Ms. Blanchett. Yet, in an ironic reversal of Hollywood's usual denigration of comedy in favor of 'serious' drama, it was Rush's much smaller comic performance in 'Shakespeare' that secured him the 1998 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Ordinarily, I'd applaud such recognition of comic art and talent, but in this instance it represents another miscarriage of justice. Rush's tone and bearing as he delivers line after line of blood-chilling dialog make Walsingham a character I expect never to forget. 'You were Norfolk,' he responds to the protests of the insufferably arrogant Duke of Norfolk, Elizabeth's chief nemesis, as he leads him away to the Tower, 'the dead have no titles.' Of course, Elizabeth gets off many a great line of her own, as in her unforgettable final rejection of Leicester 'I am not your Elizabeth. I am no man's Elizabeth. I shall have one mistress here. And no master!' A little later she gives license to Walsingham to proceed with the political cleansing of the realm with a laconic transcendence of her 'womanly' emotions 'let it all be done.' Still another memorable line marks the final stage of her political education and her departure from the wishy-washy diplomacy represented by Lord Burleigh (her former chief minister, finely played by Sir Richard Attenborough in his final film role) 'Observe, Lord Burleigh, I am married &#x85; to England.' Elizabeth ultimately forges a political philosophy that combines elements of Walsingham's cynical wariness with an ideal of self-abnegating service to England ('my people'). She envisions a strong, secular England capable of rising above the internecine religious strife initiated by her father's departure from the Roman Catholic Church and depicted in graphic horror in the film's opening sequence. In so doing she succeeds in mapping out England's course toward a stable, advanced society whose history would include a lengthy period of world domination. This film does full justice to the dilemmas of church-state conflict, to the complex character of the queen herself, and to the rich historical milieu that produced her. It is one of the finest historical dramas to have appeared in decades. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and intriguing film which captures the grace and barbarity of the era.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"37 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The acting is superb as is the choreography.  A very da Vinci-like use of like and dark in comparing the young and innocent Elizabeth with the corrupt and conspiracy ridden royal court.  Very compelling and interesting as the new queen, who is thrust, almost against her wish, into power, learns the nature of the beast she must tame and then rule.  It may not be a blockbuster of an event, but you just don't find this level of acting in Hollywood.  Yet, taken as a whole, the story reminded me of the Godfather, yet it takes place some 450 years in the past. "},{"Title":"A very good try","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"54 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As soccer legend Eric Cantona's former colleagues might say this is a film of two halves. Despite an intimidating opening scene, the first half soon settles down to establishing who everyone is - the bad guys drip malevolence, while the good guys dance in gay meadows. It is not until the second half that the politics and intrigue really get going.The film opens in England, circa 1550s. The country is divided, half of the population pledging allegiance to the childless catholic Queen Mary who is dying, while the other half attempt to place their protestant liege, Elizabeth, on the throne.Mary dies before providing an heir so the monarchy automatically passes to Elizabeth. However, she inherits a rebellious court keen to see her removed and a catholic monarch installed. Fortunately for Elizabeth, there are not enough candidates for the job. While, the evil Duke of Norfolk plots to put himself and Mary, Queen of Scots on the English throne, Elizabeth's supporters rush around trying to find her a suitable international king.The crux comes when she declares she is only interested in her English lover, Lord Robert Dudley. When her enemies learn of this, they try to drive a wedge between them. And from this premise the real intrigue flows.In terms of characterisation, the film scores some hits and some misses. Some curious casting decisions undermine a few of the characters - working class mainstay Kathy Burke moves to the opposite end of the social spectrum to play Queen Mary, Brit comic Angus Deayton has an unnecessary cameo, while Eric Cantona seems an odd choice, although his performance seems adequate.As to the main characters, Elizabeth (Cate Blanchett) is well charted from gamboling youth to ice-hard queen. The black loyalty of Sir Francis Wolsingham (Geoffrey Rush) is tested time and again and never found wanting, allowing him to grow from mistrusted bodyguard to Queen's adviser.Unfortunately the Queen's enemies are so numerous it is difficult to focus on one. Michael Hirst, the writer, chooses the Duke of Norfolk as the chief villain but we never really learn why,  or what his plans, beyond unseating Elizabeth, are. Christopher Ecclestone plays the Duke with the right amount of menace but we are never truly intimidated by his smouldering glare. Lord Robert (Joseph Fiennes) is an equally confused character. Is he guilty of the crimes he is accused of? Does he love the queen? Some of his behaviour suggests he does not, yet he constantly returns to her claiming he does. The uncertainty generated by Lord Robert is compounded by the fact that Joseph Fiennes does not belong in this film.Beyond the characters, many of the films finest moments come in the form of the brightly coloured set pieces - when the court takes to the boat lake, the arrival of the french prince and the coronation. Some of the blacker scenes also serve very well - the aftermath of the battle, the plotting in the Vatican.Despite the fine art direction, what we are eventually left with is a sumptuous, well made film let down by a slow start and a few undefined characters. "}{"Title":"Virgin Acting (and Why)","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The first job of fine film in my estimation is to transport our minds through our eyes to another realm. This often requires dangerous adventure on the part of the artists concerned, most necessarily the director. Rarely does it occur in British-made historical costume drama. That's because they are constrained by a stuffy notion of the static observance of `important events.' In such dramas, the character displayed has to hold our interest; all else (particularly in costuming) adds a reverent poise.This is better than that. Elizabeth is an important figure for sure, certainly among the few most influential to my life. She broke the back of Catholic meddling in civil affairs, establishing the first (albeit fragile and oft submerged) notions of state-sponsored freedom of religion. She was the first post-renaissance monarch to elevate plebian arts, as much responsible for Shakespeare as the writer himself. She was a master at coopting religious archetypes to manipulate the masses. All of this is the matter of this film. (She also tacitly encouraged Thomas Harriot in inventing what we now know as algebraic logic, but that's outside the scope of this film which deals with the simpler forces of war and brutish Papism.)But that's not what entrances. Instead it is a combination of the director's commitment to highlight destiny as the focus, and the art of Ms Cate in projecting, infusing her personality into her surroundings.This director is unknown to me. He seems to be of that swelling class of competent, self-aware directors without pretense. There's no dogma here, only knowing craft, especially in the eye of the camera. His DVD commentary is very good - listen to him share his notions of the eye, even to the eyes on her bedroom lace, the eye of the cross-shaped windows, the schizophrenic eye, the scheming eye. He's not a master, but he is better than what he attempts. (Compare this to the stage-struck eye of Merchant-Ivory.)But the key ingredient here is Cate Blanchett. This woman lives in her surroundings. She is as vulnerable to fate and as open to voyeuristic examination as Emily Watson, but she is as commanding (when needed) of her environment as say Pacino (to pick an extreme case, and so flawed). Compare this to the imperious Dench (and many others) to see how important is that former quality. (There must be an Australian acting coach that teaches this, as others from Sydney show this awareness.)The director sees this, and has been adept at building wonderful surrounding characters.See how Rush lobbies for a closed soul. He is perhaps our most celebrated closed actor. (Many others are closed, like Freeman and Hackman, but Rush has depth that they do not.) He ultimately wins and we grieve a little. (His surrogate is played by the quiet method actor Frain. See him in `Titus.' where he shines because of this.)See how the completely open actor Fiennes tries to lure her into simple, emotional acting. (He would succeed the next year with the malleable Paltrow - with Rush providing the same contrast.) (His surrogate in this film was the explosive intuitive French suitor.)See how the ultraminimalist Norfolk threatens with his theatrical intensity, the traditional theatrical style of acting opposing her filmic style. (In fact much can be said of how film style undermines superficial religion, which is why Pat Robertson invests billions in cooptation.) His surrogate is played by the inestimable Geilgud in a minimal part.See how the master Cecil is played by the grand master of British film. Watch him try to guide her through destiny with a vision greater than the other characters, but less than us as viewers we are given control over both the camera's eye of fate and the knowledge of how things `turn out.' Lord Attenborough's presence catalyzes Cate's, and he is outgrown. (Cate's mirror is the famed Fanny Ardant, who does not close off herself and so dies. Her acting style is also external, intuitive, flamboyant.)Blanchett is a wonderful talent, here with all the support she needs. How lucky for her - and for us. What we are given is a film of actors about acting in a film, and the forces in conflict to command us as an emerging virtual `nation' of participants. "},{"Title":"A Prison for Actors is created in Elizabeth","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is an exceedingly poor movie, and this is coming from someone who always watches a movie with an open mind and almost always has something good to say about a movie.  The basic intention of any movie is to tell a story, and the story that is told in Elizabeth is not only inaccurate, it is also dull and boring.  Historical accuracy means little to me when watching a film, as long as it can be comprehended.  But this movie is not, and too many times fails in telling the story of the Virgin Queen.  I felt like reaching into the screen and asking why certain scenes were portrayed in the fashion that they were, the disconnected plot and movable characters defeat the purpose of telling a story about perhaps the most formidable monarch in English history.Cate Blanchett is an exceptional young actress, who can be appreciated for her portrayal of Elizabeth, a woman who was confronted with suitors and questions regarding her faith.  But in my opinion, continuity in the film was completely missing, and limited Cate's ability to bring her character to life.  The lack of intensity in the film is startling when considering the subject matter and how important it was at the time.  Many times it seemed as if the actors were begging to be allowed to act to their full capacity, while the script dictated that they could not.With all the above said, it remains a fact that all of the actors in the film are exceptional and make the best of what they are given. Geoffrey Rush steals the show as Walsingham, who seeks to do all he can to protect his Queen.  Joseph Fiennes as Dudley shows a man who loves Elizabeth but cannot ever marry her.  As told in the movie, we learn that Elizabeth never knew he was already married.  While in reality she did know, this fact does not harm the intrigue the two of them have while Elizabeth tries to secure her throne while loving Dudley at the same time. Kathy Burke does a great job as Mary Tudor, the miserable Queen who sought to convert her half-sister Elizabeth before she could ascend to the throne to replace her and her religion.  Richard Attenborough as Cecil is limited by the character he is given, but stresses the reality of the time, once you become King or Queen, you are bound to your state.  In the end, when Elizabeth declares herself the Virgin Queen, and her service to England, Cecil's once trivial line becomes reality.  The Duke of Norfolk's service to Mary Tudor and intrigues to overthrow Elizabeth are well portrayed by the commanding presence of Christopher Eccleston, who in the end signs away his life trying to take Elizabeth's.After reading all of the praises I have for the acting in the movie, we must return to the reality that the film could have been better if told by a different director and with a different script.  There is no denying the costume design, setting, and music are all well crafted and help to tell the intended story.  But too many times the audience is left to imagine what could have been, and this is what I feel makes many label Elizabeth as a great movie.  Too much is forced into this telling of the legendary Queen of England, and many people see it for what it could have been, not what it is actors without direction or a well-crafted story to tell. "},{"Title":"Corny, Cliched and Boring.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I have ever seen and one of only three ever that I have almost walked out of!Shekar Kapur's Bollywood style may be ideal for an Indian story like Bandit Queen, but here it comes across as pulling out all the lighting and camera cliches in the business.Elizabeth has one of the most fantastic casts ever assembled - and they're all awful (with the possible exception of Cate Blanchett and John Gielgud - who in any case only has a 30 second non-speaking part)!  If only they had underplayed it, or shown a degree of subtlety, then this might have been so much better.  Such a shame to see great old actors like Richard Attenborough embarrassing himself, and great younger ones like Christopher Ecclestone so over the top.  Joseph Fiennes is just bad!The most serious problem is that this movie is just tediously boring.  No plot, and nothing to hold my interest for so long.I can't see what the fuss is about this one, and think that the makers must consider themselves very lucky they got away with some acclaim out of this one - let alone their careers! "},{"Title":"Portrait of the Tyrant as a Young Woman (spoilers)","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Like Sirk's Nazi-era 'Final Accord', 'Elizabeth' ends with a familiar image from totalitarian propagandist iconography - in this case, the Virgin Queen, divinely majestic and aloof from her subjects - having previously revealed the processes that have led to this image's construction.  The gulf between serene image and brutal reality, between Elizabeth's powdered ascetisism and the cynical bloodletting, is all the more grotesque in its distasteful sublimation as religious metamorphosis - as Catholic England becomes Protestant, so Elizabeth replaces the Virgin Mary, like Madonna in 'Like a Virgin' re-chastening herself, in a paradoxically Catholic ritual of renunciation, mortification and abstinence - when she has her hair lopped off, like a young woman entering a nunnery, the fallen locks on her thighs suggest that it is more than hair she is losing.  This sequence completes a dialectic (which very much concerned  Elizabethan England) in the film between the human body and the body politic Elizabeth is a symbol of.This is a historical epic you think Foucault might have approved of - indeed, 'Surveiller et Punir' wouldn't be a bad subtitle.  There is a Foucauldian cynicism about the machinations of State here, where religious ideals are only so much murderous politicking (the scenes with the Pope and his envoy are frighteningly convincing), where a church is seen as a perfect setting for regicide.  Kapur impresses on us the monumentality of the world against which Elizabeth struggles, male power figured in forbidding stone buildings and huge, shadowy chambers, where human activity is obscured by the decor or veils, framed by crucifix crosses that have nothing to do with religious trauma.  The film opens with Catholics burning Protestant 'heretics' in front of a mob; and ends with a 'Godfather'-like massacring of Protestant Elizabeth's Catholic enemies, whose threat is not religious, but one of power. The most repeated visual motif in the film is an unmotivated long shot from deep above a building's rafters looking down on the dotted political players, a terrifying reminder of surveillance and omnipotence, an expression of power that doesn't depend on its human agents, that will always be there to circumscribe human endeavour.  Is it the perenially observing Walsingham, Elizabeth's darkly charismatic advisor-cum-secret-police-henchman, given one of the great entrances in modern cinema?  Or is it the God so godlessly invoked by these monsters?Pedants have complained that 'Elizabeth' is historically inaccurate, as if cinema was a medium for plodding out facts.  'Elizabeth' is not a recreation of Elizabethan England and its modes of cultural expression - the film would be more formalised, ritualised, set as a masque rather than just featuring some.  Kapur's modern techniques, his psychologising, his narrative pace, his restless camera, his (often over-egged) visual effects, all capture the instability of a period that tried to cover it up with pomp and ceremony. This does not mean that the historical colour - the music, the pantomimes, the boat rides, the dances aren't in themselves delightful; it's just that they're imbued with narrative and character value (19th and 20th century values) rather than symbolic ones.  This can be seen in the anachronistic use of Elgar and Mozart towards the end, the latter's Requiem especially, as Elizabeth becomes the Virgin Queen, in effect killing herself as a woman. In the most bizarrely eclectic cast ever assembled in movies, mixing comedians, footballers, TV quiz-show hosts with 'proper' actors,  Vincent Cassel is hilarious, and Geoffrey Rush is outstanding, proving after the false-start of 'Shine' that he is truly one of the most remarkable figures in film. "},{"Title":"Period drama for those who don't like period dramas","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A biopic of the Virgin Queen Elizabeth's rise to power in England showing the corruption in her court with assassinations, unsuitable suitors, political marriages and treachery.This is very much a historical costume drama for those that dislike the dry, lifeless drama of other period dramas such as Merchant & Ivory etc.  This is a wonderfully vibrant piece, full of gaudy colours, comical and treacherous performances.  Director Kapur brings the air of corruption and betrayal to life in a story that is rich in detail and story.  The story is full of action and wonderful characters and holds the interest from beginning to end.  Kapur gives plenty of modern touches to the drama from comical touches of Elizabeth rehearsing her speech in very quickly edited sequences to filming her through a red-veil shortly after a murder that was authorised by her.  It is good to watch a period drama that is so very vibrant and colourful.Cate Blanchett is great as Elisabeth but the supporting cast are roundly fantastic - Joseph Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Eccleston the list of quality actors goes on goes on.  This is also completed by UK TV actors such as Cathy Burke and Angus Deayton.  Ex-Manchester United footballer Eric Cantona also shows that he made a good career choice by putting in a good performance in a small role as a member of the French court.Overall a great film that brings the period to life - warts and all. "},{"Title":"Stylised Historical Pageant","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth deals with the early years of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. We first see her as a frightened young princess learning to survive at the court of her dangerously unpredictable sister Mary, who comes close to having Elizabeth executed because of her supposed involvement in the Wyatt Rebellion and because of her ambivalent religious loyalties. Even when Mary dies and Elizabeth succeeds her on the throne, her position seems hardly easier. At the age of 25, Elizabeth has inherited a near-bankrupt kingdom, threatened from outside by powerful foreign rivals and from within by religious dissensions between Catholics and Protestants. The Duke of Norfolk, a powerful Catholic nobleman, threatens Elizabeth with open rebellion. The film tells the story of how she overcame all these challenges to make herself the unchallenged ruler of England.Elizabeth is often regarded as a Protestant ruler, but this is perhaps an oversimplification of her religious position, which was closer to that of the Vicar of Bray. Under her Protestant brother Edward VI, she was a Protestant. Under Mary she was, at least outwardly, a Catholic. When she inherited the throne herself, she formulated the concept of a single Church of England, independent of the Papacy, to act as a broad church for all English Christians. (The Anglican Church has never declared itself to be exclusively Protestant, and since 1559 no English ruler, except Cromwell, has tried to make it so). In this she had the inadvertent support of Pope Pius V, whose bull Regnans in Excelsis, declaring Elizabeth a heretic and calling on her Catholic subjects to assassinate her or rise up against her, had the unintended consequence of driving into the Church of England all those who were in their hearts loyal to the Old Faith but who had no wish to see their Queen dead and their country racked by religious warfare.The film explores the way in which Elizabeth created a ruling ideology for herself and her kingdom, an ideology of which the Elizabethan Religious Settlement was only one element. Apart from Mary, who only reigned for five years, no woman had previously succeeded in establishing herself as Queen Regnant of England. The advice from all her male counsellors was to marry as soon as possible, preferably to a powerful foreign prince, just as Mary had allied herself to Philip of Spain. Elizabeth, however, realised that such a marriage would be unpopular with her subjects as it could have made England subordinate to a foreign power (the Wyatt Rebellion was inspired more by fear of Spanish domination than by objections to Mary's Catholicism). The alternative of marriage to an English husband was rejected because Elizabeth did not want to surrender her power to any man, who would have become king in all but name. Historians have differed over whether Elizabeth was literally a virgin (the film takes the view that Robert Dudley was her lover physically as well as emotionally), but her solution was to reinvent herself as the Virgin Queen, married to her country rather than any earthly husband, and began a brilliant propaganda campaign to promote herself as such. (The only male European monarch who managed to create such a brilliant persona for himself was Louis XIV, Le Roi Soleil).Cate Blanchett gives a superb portrayal of Elizabeth, and was unlucky to be overlooked for the Best Actress Oscar which eventually went to Gwyneth Paltrow for Shakespeare in Love. (An entertaining film, but hardly a great performance). The other performances which stood out were those of Geoffrey Rush as Elizabeth's devious, Machiavellian adviser Walsingham and Christopher Eccleston as the arrogant, treacherous Norfolk. I did not, however, like the portrayal of Elizabeth's sister Mary; she may have been cruel and callous (her nickname of Bloody Mary was well-deserved) but she was the daughter of Henry VIII and doubtless far more regal and dignified than the demented fishwife played here by Kathy Burke.The film is not altogether historically accurate. Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk (who crushed Wyatt's Rebellion and died of natural causes shortly afterwards) is conflated with his grandson, the 4th Duke, also named Thomas, who was executed by Elizabeth for treason. The Scottish Regent Mary of Guise was not poisoned by Elizabeth's agents. (She had many enemies, but none of her contemporaries regarded her death as anything but natural). Lord Burghley, a much younger man than the character played by Richard Attenborough, was not dismissed by Elizabeth early in her reign; he remained a trusted adviser until his death in 1598. Henri d'Anjou never visited England. Events are not shown in the sequence in which they occurred in history.None of this, however, matters. The film was not conceived as a strictly accurate period drama but rather as a highly stylised historic pageant about the life of one of England's greatest monarchs. This stylisation is emphasised by the locations; mediaeval cathedrals such as Durham and York Minster stand in for Tudor palaces. The use of these buildings is hardly naturalistic, but it adds to the film's sense of grandeur and majesty. We hear music by Mozart and Elgar, neither of whom would be born until many years after Elizabeth's death. Cate Blanchett's costumes and appearance are modelled upon portraits of Elizabeth which were never meant to be realistic, but rather iconic propaganda images. As a historical textbook of Tudor England, the film is of little use, but it succeeds well in conveying Elizabeth's personality and her central importance in English history. 7/10 "},{"Title":"visually wonderful, historically--not so much!!","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have to say first that while I loved this movie for Cate Blanchett's great acting,for the visuals and even the soundtrack, I can't help but wonder how filmmakers can so blatantly reinvent history! I saw this movie in the theater,and had to literally bite my tongue all through it not to shout out loud at the totally fictive events, strangely telescoped time line, and juggling of names and characters.It's not like Elizabeth I is some obscure figure in English or world history. You would think SOMEONE involved in the production of this movie might have bothered to look something (anything!!)up!I can only conclude that the makers of this film had NO intention of portraying Elizabeth's personality, intelligence, forcefulness, and political acumen accurately, let alone the events of her life and reign.The portrayal of her as faltering and weak in the beginning is hard to swallow, as she was politically subtle and well versed in the arts of intrigue from the cradle.Although so many so-called historical films are not accurate, or portray history through a particular bias, this one must be called total fiction. It's much quicker to name the parts that ARE correct. Let's see, there was this Queen of England named Elizabeth--and..well, that's pretty much it!They did sprinkle a lot of her famous quotes throughout, though at completely the wrong times and in the wrong situations. Alas!And did anyone realize that the filmmakers had the wrong Duc D'Anjou? The Duc who liked to cross-dress was the older brother of the Duc who was proposed as her suitor. He had previously held that title, but was King of France at the time of his younger brother's (and present Duc D'Anjou's) suit for Elizabeth.Close, but no cigar.I found especially ridiculous the implication at the end of the story that she was through with Robert Dudley, after his (fictional)betrayal of her. Any biography of Elizabeth is replete with references to the huge part he played in her life, both politically and personally.I needn't go on-- I can't go on! The inaccuracies are legion, and have been mentioned in other reviews. If you don't give a tinker's damn about even approaching anything like historical accuracy, this is the movie for you. Otherwise see Elizabeth R or better yet--read a book about her. "},{"Title":"mediochre","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Although I actually enjoyed the movie, I found the liberties taken with the history very frustrating.  Especially since it was billed as an historical film!The other problem I had with the film was the women's clothes.  The costuming was atrocious!  Most of the garments seemed to be based on popular fictionalized views of the 16th century.  I mean, I even noticed someone wearing the Disney's Snow White dress all in blue!  With so much information available on 16th century clothing there is no excuse.I think the designer's claim that she wanted to do a jeans & t-shirt approach to the 16th century was a sign of laziness and silly (they had their own types of relaxed clothes - she didn't have to make it up).When all is said and done, I did enjoy the film but, don't use it as a base for either history or costumes.  In other words, enjoy the fairy tale but, don't use it for a refernce film. "},{"Title":"highly disappointing","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" To say that this movie takes liberty with historical fact is a gross understatement. I like Blanchett as an actress, but this movie was so far from accurate as to fall in the category of fiction. About the only thing it got right was the names of key figures. One fact regarding Elizabeth and Dudley was glaring in its omission. If this movie renders anyone with a desire to read historical information on this much celebrated queen, excellent. Hers is a story worth learning. I have read a few books on Her Majesty, and much enjoyed Glenda Jackson's portrayal in the BBC mini series. That is why I checked this movie out, certainly withholding any expectation of quality and accuracy as presented by the BBC. I am so glad I saw this fairy tale before I actually paid money for it. It was a pretty film, but seeing how it was so far off the mark historically, I can't even say that the acting was exceptional. Oscar worthy? Perhaps if it had any basis in historical reality it may have been. "},{"Title":"Historically inaccurate portrait of the early reign of Elizabeth I of England","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I was a big fan of the BBC series, Elizabeth R, starring Glenda Jackson, so I was intrigued to see how this movie was going to portray Elizabeth's reign. What I found was a dark, violent, and ultimately inaccurate portrayal of one of my favorite periods of history.The movie covers Elizabeth's treatment under her half-sister, Mary's reign, her subsequent ascension to the throne upon Mary's death, and the early years of her reign. Information about these people and events is readily available from a number of sources, so one wonders how Michael Hirst managed to put together such an inaccurate portrait of this period. Mary Tudor was not the doddering old fool she is portrayed as here, even though most of her actions as queen were misguided. Neither was Elizabeth as uneducated in the ways of court as she is presented to be. And while Dudley was certainly a favorite of Elizabeth's she never slept with him (there is a reason she was called the Virgin Queen after all). Also, she knew him well when they were in the tower together during Mary's reign. She knew he was married. It was what saved his life. Her discovery of this fact wouldn't have been a shocking betrayal because there was nothing to discover. Likewise, he would never have plotted against her. He knew where his bread was buttered. Walsingham was a trusted adviser, but not the only one Elizabeth could turn to, nor was he the murderer he is made out to be in this film. And Cecil left her service for his own reasons, not because she tired of him and banished him.Visually, the film is quite dark. Many scenes take place at night, or in secluded places shut away from the light. Even those in the daylight have a furtiveness about them that gives the whole film an element of paranoia which is quite distracting. While the violence is true to the times, it is excessive, and we could live without seeing the beheading.The cast does a good job with the material they are given. Cate Blanchett's Elizabeth is a bit naive, but still charming. Joseph Fiennes' Dudley is charismatic. Geoffrey Rush's Walsingham is a cipher, as though Rush were unsure whether to portray Walsingham as trustworthy or menacing, and ended up doing neither very well. Christopher Eccleston's Norfolk bristles with evil and menace. Lewis Jones' murderous priest is so over the top that you can't wait for him to get his. Also over the top, although far more entertaining, is Vincent Cassel's Duc d'Anjou. Fanny Ardant strikes the right balance with her portrayal of Mary of Guise. Richard Attenborough's Cecil is quite noble.Clearly Hirst sacrificed accuracy for entertainment's sake. He did have some success in this, as it is an entertaining film. But if you really want to learn about this period, get the first two episodes of the BBC series Elizabeth R, and watch those. They present a far more accurate picture of the beginning of the Elizabethan period. "}{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The casting here was excellent, the performances on the whole very good, but alas the film itself I thought dire. The screwed up history of a period I've a great fondness for, meant that I just could not enjoy this film. It just left me wondering why? Why did the writers of this film think that their very inaccurate script would be more interesting and exciting than events as they actually happened?It could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The lavish costuming and sets and good performance by Cate Blanchett could not overcome the grossly inaccurate depiction of history.First, the Catholics were all uniformly depicted as sexual libertines, murderers, and/or hypocrites.  The portrayal of the Jesuit priest as a murderous 16th century commando was especially disgusting.  St. Edmund Campion, one of those Jesuits, was martyred by Elizabeth for ministering to the faithful in England and refusing to renounce the Catholic Church for Elizabeth and the Church of England.Second, William Cecil - Lord Burghley, was also seriously misportrayed. Cecil, in fact, was Elizabeth's closest advisor for a lengthy period of time; Sir Francis Walsingham was a subordinate to Cecil.  Cecil was not the milksop portrayed in the movie.Third, many of the cast looked like members of a 1990's Los Angeles street gang instead of characters from 16th century England.I believe the high overall ratings given the film are a result of ignorance of history. "},{"Title":"Particularly bad music.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film, posted as a bodice ripper, was in fact tame to the point of dullness. Even worse, I felt that details of the plot and action were sometimes hopelessly absurd for example can you imagine the Queen fornicating in view of her ladies in waiting? or a priest committing violent murder even in England of the 1550s? or that Queen Mary Tudor really was so ugly? To make a film of this sort dramatically effective, it must be convincing in its detail, and this Elizabeth was not.However my major grievance is the music. We are long accustomed to lush string tone attempting to summon up the atmosphere of Olde Worlde Englande, but Walton did it so much better (Touch her sweet lips and part - this was real music). Here we have a pastiche of a pastiche, with all the lumbering dullness of so many bad period costume dramas of the past. For example, the Volta was a dance thought lascivious at the time - not a hint of this from the music here! The quotation from Elgar's Enigma (with a wordless female chorus - bless us) seemed hopelessly inappropriate and the pseudo-Handelian chorus at the end nearly had me falling out of my seat.Film music CAN be good - for example, that of Prokofiev and Walton, good enough to stand alone - but so rarely is. "},{"Title":"Flawed, yet still wonderful","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When watching this film, as with many historical dramas, I have to 'turn off the historian part of my brain', which would rather like to scream at times. Although I love this movie, and have since I first saw it, I must agree with a number of the reviewers on this site who have pointed out the numerous historical inaccuracies.Elizabeth I herself is superbly portrayed by the truly marvellous Cate Blanchett, who totally inhabits the role. However, the real-life Elizabeth was far more politically savvy and personally dominant than the somewhat easily-influenced queen of this film. The awarding of 1999's Best Actress Oscar was a crime against Blanchett, whose work in this film far surpassed Gwyneth Paltrow in the much lighter Shakespeare in Love.Her supporting cast are almost uniformly superb, from Joseph Fiennes to Christopher Eccleston to the almost-movie-stealing Geoffrey Rush. The latter turns in a truly wonderful, Machiavellian turn as Francis Walsingham; had he not also richly deserved his Oscar nod for Shakespeare in Love, this performance would have been worthy of a nomination. Allowed off his leash by Elizabeth towards the end of the film, he faces off against Eccleston as the treacherous Duke of Norfolk I must do nothing by your orders. I am Norfolk. You were Norfolk. The dead have no titles...You were the most powerful man in England. You could have been greater still, but you had not the courage to be loyal. So cut off my head, and make me a martyr. The people will always remember it. No. They will forget. Absolutely brilliant.The cinematography and set pieces are glorious, bright, colourful. In this respect, the filmmakers capture the essence of the Tudor court, its pomp and ceremony.However, if it is historical accuracy you look for in a film, do not look for it here. The film conflates certain characters, meaning that they behave totally differently from their real historical counterparts. For simplicity's sake, it seems, the Duke of Norfolk who lived in Mary's reign and put down the Wyatt rebellion (dying shortly after) is mixed with the character of his grandson, who conspired with Mary Queen of Scots to depose Elizabeth, marry Mary and ascend the throne as her consort. Additionally, Elizabeth's first real love, Robert Dudley, later Earl of Leicester, seems to have been confused with a later favourite, his stepson Robert Devereux, Earl of Essex. While Leicester was indeed beloved by the queen, both of them were well aware that nothing could come of it. Elizabeth knew of his wife (in the film she finds out from Cecil) from the date of his wedding, and although historians will never agree on whether their relationship was ever physical, the mysterious death of Amy Dudley meant that there was never the slimmest chance of them being anything more than the lifelong friends they were. In the film Leicester conspires against the Queen, while in life he remained faithful unto death, forming part of her group of staunchest male supporters, along with Cecil, Walsingham and Hatton. It was Devereux who plotted against Elizabeth, and he was beheaded for it. The other major discrepancy is the character of Cecil. Although extremely well played by Attenborough, he is far too old in the film. Cecil was Elizabeth's greatest adviser until his death in 1598, when his equally brilliant son took over his role. He is sidelined too early in the reign according to the film, as well as appearing far more feeble in comparison to Elizabeth than he really was.In fairness to the filmmakers, they do not claim that this is a true historical account of the early years of Elizabeth's reign, and as I said above, I cannot help but enjoy the film, as long as I do not focus on the errors! Great camera work, wonderful acting, brilliant dialogue - everything else you could need for a great film are here, so perhaps in the scheme of things historical accuracy is not the be all and end all... "},{"Title":"A masterpiece - but three things may bother some...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  SOME SPOILERSThe story is gripping. The acting is of an order rarely encountered - especially Cate Blanchett's Elizabeth. The costumes, the sets, the photography, the atmosphere, the whole direction of the film, all are magnificent. The film should have won several Oscars, and it nearly did. But viewers may wish to be aware of three other things about Elizabeth.The first is that this film is not history. Probably its makers never intended it to be history. Many viewers, however, will assume that it is. They will be gravely mistaken. Take, for instance, the central figure of Sir Francis Walsingham, who - apart from Elizabeth herself - dominates the story in increasing measure. He is portrayed in a manner that opens up an impassable gulf between his film persona and the real Walsingham. In real life, Walsingham was a devout, convinced, spiritually minded Protestant believer. In the film, he is portrayed (brilliantly, by Geoffrey Rush) as having no religious convictions at all in his opening scene, he even doubts whether God exists. He is also depicted as a ruthless murderer, untroubled by any constraints of conscience. Such a travesty leaves one with a sense of grave injustice to the real, deeply Christian Walsingham.Further, the film presents Walsingham as a sort of machiavellian uncle figure to Elizabeth, her wisest guide in politics and the inspiration behind her transformation into the `virgin queen'. In reality, Elizabeth hardly ever took Walsingham's advice, often subjecting him to outbursts of abuse, and driving him to distraction by her refusal to support the Protestant cause abroad, especially in the Netherlands, as he so earnestly wished her to do. Again, in his film role as Elizabeth's advisor, he is portrayed as a middle aged man, counterpointing Elizabeth's youth. The real Walsingham, by contrast, was a mere youngster of 28 when Elizabeth (herself 25) succeeded to the throne.  Of Walsingham's involvement in the assassination of Mary of Guise, history - unlike the film - knows nothing. First, Mary of Guise was not assassinated, but died of natural causes; and second, at the time of her death in 1560, Walsingham was not even in Elizabeth's service.As for the other main male character, Robert Dudley (played by Ralph Fiennes), the film appears to have conflated him with his successor as Elizabeth's favourite, Robert Devereux. Devereux led a treasonous rebellion against Elizabeth and paid with his head. In the film, Dudley participates in a Roman Catholic plot to dethrone Elizabeth and almost pays with his head, but is spared by Elizabeth, albeit he is permanently disgraced. The real Dudley never took part in any rebellion, and never lost Elizabeth's favour.I have said enough to convey my point. This film is not history. It is a highly imaginative rewriting of history, as though from a parallel universe where there were similar people in similar circumstances, but where their characters and chronology were wildly different from our universe. Perhaps if watched in that spirit, the film may provide a kind of bizarre entertainment. Or maybe we should simply accept very frankly that what we are watching was never meant to tell the real story, but is simply a story in its own right which happens to use certain figures loosely based on English history. For all I know, this was the conscious intention of the film-makers (although the opening and closing titles suggest otherwise). I merely warn the unwary viewer who may deceive himself into thinking that he is watching a slice of real English history.The second thing viewers may wish to be aware of is that the film's view of religion is - well, very unreligious. As we have just seen, Sir Francis Walsingham, the architect of Elizabeth's Protestant regime, is portrayed as an unscrupulous cynic. Elizabeth's own religion fares better she very probably was the vague undogmatic quasi-ecumenist that the film depicts her as being. But her Roman Catholic opponents are an unsavoury bunch. When the priest arrives in England from Rome, bearing the pope's edict of excommunication against Elizabeth, the first thing he does is recognise one of Norfolk's servants as a spy in the service of Walsingham, and proceeds to smash his brains out with a rock in a pool of seawater. Not an endearing role model for any Roman Catholic training for the priesthood. In short, none of the characters have anything that resembles a real, spiritually meaningful faith. (And just why is one of the Protestants being burnt for heresy at the film's opening mumbling prayers in Latin? Is he a crypto-Roman-Catholic? Or, more likely, did the film-makers not really understand the difference between 16th century Protestants and Roman Catholics?)The third and final thing some viewers may wish to know is that there are two scenes where sexual intercourse is fairly obviously depicted, between Dudley and one of Elizabeth's maids, and between the Duke of Norfolk and his female partner (who turns out to be a spy in Walsingham's pay). Both scenes are pointlessly gratuitous. There is also a scene where Dudley and Elizabeth make love, but this is presented quite tastefully. Why film-makers feel themselves under an obligation to insert such scenes, which add nothing to the story, neither advancing the plot nor providing striking insights into the characters, is a mystery. Except, of course, that it isn't really a mystery. It is simply pandering to the audience's perceived wish to enjoy some sex scenes.These three factors - the film's capacity to deceive the viewer into a radically false conception of English history, its floundering with respect to the nature of religion, and the two gratuitous sex scenes - mar (for me) what is, from a purely aesthetic point of view, an exhilarating masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Flawed beauty","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First off to get that out of the way, this film is widely inaccurate in historical terms. The events that take place in this film span about 30 years in history but you get the feeling all this happens in a  year. Let alone the fact that some of the  events and allegiances of characters are plain fabricated in order to tell a story. Here lies the biggest problem in this film. Changing history is not a problem, but coming up with a muddled storyline in the consequence is. The film is beautifully shot and acted but you get the feeling this was supposed to be a 3 hour movie which got killed in the editing room. Characters are never properly introduced and so come off one-dimensional up to and including miss Blanchett herself who has a real presence and is obviously a talented actress but never gets room (as the rest of the cast) to actually act. It's like the actors started a war against the cameraman and lost. The film therefore looks like a collection of beautifully framed pictures looking for a story to tell.  If you don't have any interest in or knowledge of the period, I don't see how you can make heads or tails of it. A lot of the relations between characters are only implied or hinted at so some actions the characters take seem bewildering. Lots of cameos (Fanny Ardant as Marie de Guise is wonderful but what she actually wants is unclear as with her cross-dressing nephew de Duke of Anjou) The ending is preposterous and then you suddenly see why everything in this film is as it is. It is all to drive home a point so lame the writer should be burnt at the stake like the peasants at the start of the film. This film therefore leaves a one-dimensional aftertaste, like you have been reading a pamphlet for 2 hours which is very unsatisfying.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Fiction","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Anyone who is looking for an historically accurate representation of the early years of Elizabeth 1's reign had best pass this one by. As far as this type of drama is concerned it has some superficial charm in respect to location, costumes and casting but the hideous distortions of fact are so blatant and so pervasive that the film becomes almost satirical. William Cecil cast as an ancient white-bearded dotard for example - Cecil was actually a mere 38 years old during the period portrayed. Why Hollywood feels obliged to revise history so often (shades of 'Braveheart' and 'The Patriot') is a mystery. Usually the real history is far more dramatic than anything the Hollywood hacks can dream up. Probably the only character who was reasonably treated in this particular film was Geoffrey Rush's Walsingham. "},{"Title":"Great acting by Blanchett, but historical hogwash ...","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Saw this film for the second time the other night. There's some great acting by Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Jo Fiennes and Christopher Eccleston. The atmosphere is terrific & it's been well edited to produce something taut and compelling.Unfortunately, however, it is absolute historical hogwash. Does this matter? Well, of course we are all involved in interpretation, and there is no such thing as a pure fact, least of all in history. But to ride quite so roughshod over events in a film that purports to portray history is poor. There is interpretation ... and then there is complete alteration, and I'm afraid this film is the latter. Rather than shed light on 'truth' by giving a different angle it simply bastardizes what really happened. This is a far cry from films such as Shakespeare in Love or The English Patient, which creatively tell something important by setting them in a familiar landscape. This is distortion. "},{"Title":"Terrific piece of melodramatic fiction, gets Elizabeth wrong on almost all counts (spoilers)","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First off, I must say that 'Elizabeth' is very entertaining.  I own the DVD and have watched it several times.  The dialogue and the characterizations are done very well -- as long as it's understood that this is a complete work of fiction.Cate Blanchett does great work as Elizabeth I in what must be Bizarro World this Elizabeth doesn't want power, refuses to go against her scruples and attend Catholic Mass on her sister's orders, gets played by the men around her, falls onto the throne almost accidentally, and (sort of) fires Cecil. She is betrayed by Lord Dudley and humiliated by an effeminate Duke of Anjou.  What a load of manure, although it is interesting to see that the British can butcher their history almost as badly as we Americans do ours (and theirs, too, for that matter).In reality, Elizabeth's true story is more compelling, in that she suffered no one to pull strings except her, unless it became mortally dangerous to do so.  Elizabeth had a marvelous political instinct, one borne out of sheer necessity, and one her sister never had.  She carefully acquired estates during both her brother's and sister's reigns, leveraging them to cement loyal support from powerful families.  She played a highly dangerous game with her sister, keeping her mollified just enough with showy attendance at Chapel Royal Mass and parrying Mary's attempt to marry her off later in Mary's reign to a Habsburg.  On the verge of losing her head for treason more than once, she showed a remarkable talent for prevarication and obfuscation, all the while preparing in real terms for her own rule as Queen.From the historical record, we know that Robert Dudley had been a serious suitor for Elizabeth, who at one point -- well after she was Queen -- had made it clear that she intended to marry him.  As shown in the movie, this scandalized the nobility, not because of some treason on Dudley's part, but just because there were already many rumors about their (supposedly) disreputable behavior together.  For political reasons, she scotched the courtship, but Dudley remained a close confidant at court.  Her romance with the Duke of Anjou came much later, when Elizabeth was in her late thirties or early forties, and she was as determined to marry Anjou as she once was to marry Dudley.  However, her Council was violently torn on the question, which infuriated Elizabeth, but as always she bowed to political reality and sent Anjou home with some lovely parting gifts.  And the part about Cecil is just remarkably silly.  Cecil was her life-long partner in ruling England, and while I'm sure their relationship had its ups and downs, there is no doubt that he was not only devoted to her, he was one of Elizabeth's main props for power.Anyway, apart from a few other minor issues, such as Mary Tudor's portrayal (think Snidely Whiplash, no subtlety whatsoever), the movie is pretty entertaining, a good costume drama.  It's just annoying that the film industry can't do research when they want to make historical movies.  Is there no responsibility for at least attempting some accuracy?  Or is it their intention to promote historical illiteracy? "},{"Title":"history as myth, and a good thing too","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's curious that Elizabeth has attracted so much flak for its screenplay's tendency to reinvent and mythologize the early history of Elizabeth I's reign, since treachery and fidelity, history and myth-making, are precisely what the film is about. As only becomes clear in the last few minutes (sort of spoiler alert!), the film is the history of an image - the famous public image of Gloriana, the virgin queen, powdered white and with a fright wig that makes her look halfway between a clown and a corpse, locked into a costume that restricts her movements to the ritualistic and barely human.  How could any human being become reduced, or inflated, to that iconic status? Kapur's film has a good deal of insight into the nature of the Tudor court, but its primary interest is less historically specific, more about the relationship between personality, celebrity and power.  But the broad lines of the history are quite rich.  There's an alternative myth of origins for English protestantism here, rather convincingly locating the psychological appeal of Elizabeth's church within, rather than outside, English Catholicism, by substituting the Virgin Queen for the Virgin Mary.  And its analysis of the relationship between Tudor politics and Tudor sex, private and public lives, is subtle and pointed, rather in tune with contemporary academic approaches.  There's little scholars need scorn, for all that a good deal of the details, the events, are as fictive as most of what you find in Tudor chronicles or the plays of Shakespeare based on them.So as a knowingly contemporary work of historical imagination, it's more sophisticated than anything since Sally Potter's glorious, if drastically uneven, Orlando (1993).  Unfortunately, like Orlando, Elizabeth is patchy, sometimes cringe-worthy. Some of the contemporary nudges are unsubtle (a weakness shared by The Madness of King George (1994), where the anxiety to make past and present dance to the same tune can leave the film historically adrift, risking relevance to nobody living or dead).  The soundtrack's late lurch from Elizabethan music into Elgar and Mozart's Requiem doesn't work at all, though you can see why director Kapur wanted to broaden the scope, to underscore (literally) how Elizabeth invents an English mythology - hence the Elgar.  The acting is a mixed bag while Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush are pillars of strength, there are some distractingly odd casting decisions, and Richard Attenborough is no better than usual.  But anyone interested in the ongoing history of how film deals with history, and indeed how history gets made in the first place, should put this on their to-see list. Nice frocks, too. "}{"Title":"so close to great, but falls far short","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Queen Elizabeth was perhaps the most powerful woman in history, so I find it hard to accept this film's portrayal of her as hesitant, dithering, and totally indebted to her advisers for her success. Even as a fledging queen, I think she was probably tougher than she is shown to be here. The way this film tells it, she wouldn't have lasted a week without the help of Geoffrey Rush - he orchestrates her every victory.So it's not really a tale of female empowerment, is it? Granted, the movie isn't necessarily obliged to be feminist in its outlook. But I still find it disappointing on several levels. Elizabeth only becomes the formidable figure of history in the very last - and admittedly great - scene. So we never get to witness her oversee the defeat of the Spanish Armada, or commission Shakespeare to write the Merry Wives of Windsor, or anything like that. We merely get to see her order Rush to whack various spies, foreigners, and rivals. It's like an Elizabethan mobster movie - and it's clearly trying too hard to be sexy and violent to work.I wanted more boring stuff - more religion, more politics, and definitely more character development. The whole point of the movie is that Elizabeth rejects her suitors and becomes a self-governing virgin queen, but her suitors are such cardboard characters that her choice seems preordained. Joseph Fiennes is okay as Sir Robert, but his supposedly wonderful relationship with Elizabeth is already established at the beginning of the film - we don't see it grow, we don't really know its foundations, and I, for one, didn't care about it. And Elizabeth's French suitor, Anjou, is such an idiot that of course she can't help but turn him down. I hate conflicts like that - since Anjou is a flighty pervert, it's a forgone conclusion that Elizabeth will reject him, so all that remains is for the viewer to watch her patience with his antics slowly diminish. Yawn.I also could've used more characterization of Christopher Eccleston's Duke of Norfolk, who basically just spends the movie stalking up and down corridors and looking surly. And was it necessary to make Queen Mary look like some weird creature of the darkness? I felt manipulated into seeing every character and situation in a particular way - Attenborough's character is obviously meant to be misguided, Queen Mary is crazy, everything Geoffrey Rush says is right, etc. All of the active, interpretative sectors of my brain simply shut down and went along for the ride.And that's a shame, really, because this is a well-produced and superbly acted movie. But it's so fundamentally thoughtless that I ultimately can't recommend it. I wonder if they'll ever make a sequel in which Elizabeth actually accomplishes something on her own... "},{"Title":"Disappointing Hollywood Fluff","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" As the post movie text explains, Queen Elizabeth's reign is often referred to as the Golden Age for England.  She helped establish the a power structure that continued for centuries after her death.The acting may have been okay, but I couldn't get past how this movie wastes such a rich story and character.  Her life was filled with grand struggles and intrigues, yet this movie spends endless scene after endless scene showing her dancing in court and fawning after Sir Robert.  We are led to believe that she ascended to the throne as a simple naive girl and fortunately was transformed into a powerful queen.Give me a break.  I can't stand that kind of Hollywood crap.  Her political skill and cunning were forged long before the crown was placed on her head. She didn't dance around the may pole far off in the country, oblivious to the court and politics.  Her father was Henry the VIII.  Portray her with the obvious metal she had from a very early age.I had difficulty not fast forwarding through the whole movie. Fortunately, the movie gets a little better in the last 30 minutes (why I rated it a 4). Watch in on TV during the Summer sometime. "},{"Title":"One of the most heinous crimes in depicting history I have ever seen.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It is clear that this was India's revenge for British Imperialism. This story bore absolutely no resemblance to what actually happened during Elizabeth Tudor's reign. The costuming was a travesty of what it could have been. It was a wonderful Victorian fantasy of what they thought Elizabethan clothing might have looked like. The writer took 45 years of her reign and compressed it into a 2 1/2 hour movie that bore no resemblance to the truth. I'm certain Elizabeth is flipping in her grave at the slander of her person, reign, friends and country. What is worse is that this has a study guide that is being used in junior high and high school history classes as true history. Do not waste your money or time on this waste of film. If one wants an accurate depiction of Elizabeth and her reign, rent, beg, steal or buy Elizabeth R.  "},{"Title":"Queen of Melrose Place?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Gorgeous cinematography, art direction and costumes.  Adequate leading lady. Thoroughly muddled screenplay.  Amateurishly florid direction.  Laughably anachronistic music (did I hear a saxophone?).  Lame Godfather allusions. Many lusty stares and flaring nostrils.  No historical basis.  My score 3.   "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not big on historical dramas, but I saw this because I'm interested in that period. The film is a thing of beauty. The cinematography, lighting, and editing are masterful. The acting is superb refined, and not overdone as can be the case in these things. Blanchett and Rush are especially good. All in all, a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"My intelligence and knowledge was insulted and disrespected.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth, a film of historical dramatization, not historical fiction, appears to have been written, directed, and produced by people who have but poor knowledge and true comprehension for either their subject, Elizabeth I of England, or of the period, Renaissance Europe in the 16th Century.  Even more grievous, in my view, is the makers' apparent assumption that their audience would know no better.The film's conclusion that ER I devoted herself to the rule of England only after she had been betrayed by her lover, Essex, was both a disgusting stereotype of women (that they abandon sex and men after men behave as they will) and gross distortion through oversimplification of the immensely complex political, social, and religious on domestic and international levels that Elizabeth found herself thrust into.In truth, ER was an adept student and observer of her father, Henry VIII, and, in that respect, a more than worthy successor to the transformation of the political map of Europe from the quasi-theocracy of the Middle Ages to secular government by sovereigns that understood that they had obligations to the land and people over whom they ruled.  It is in this context that ER said I am married to England.  In so saying, she rejected the subjugation of England to either France or Spain that would have necessarily resulted from marriage to either the Duke of Anjou or the King Philipp of Spain.  By rejecting an English consort, she kept herself out of the snake pit of scheming self-serving aristocrats that England had the misfortune to suffer under.Yet, I have to believe that Elizabeth remained a vital woman.  Her self-sacrifice to the land and people that were England  were all the more remarkable because of the strength and vigor of her person.  Elizabeth missed this point entirely and in so doing, dishonored one of the truly great people of world history and insulted and disserved movie audiences at the moment of embarking on a new millennium, when we need all of the insights and perspective that we can get.  "},{"Title":"This interesting movie describes the turbulent  ascension to the throne and the early reign of Queen Elizabeth the First,","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Good costumer drama that takes a brilliant look at the agitated life of famous Queen of England . This is a sweeping chronicle of 16th-century English Queen from his beginning until splendor years . She was declared illegitimate aged 3 and tried for treason aged 21 ; however being crowned Queen aged 25 . At the beginning , Elizabeth (Cate Blanchett) was imprisoned by Bloody Mary (Kathy Burke) , who rightly feared Protestant plots to place Elizabeth on the throne . She's the Protestant Elizabeth , she was a brilliant stateswoman who managed to restore England to power and glory amidst public and private confusion . This excellent historic drama recreates the wars , loves , turmoil and struggle for power by Robert Dudley , Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes) whom the Queen Elizabeth I both loved and feared , and whose downfall she ultimately invoked . Elizabeth indeed proved to be her father's daughter as she must keep her head, her mother was Anne Boleyn , executed for alleged adultery . To ensure her security on the kingdom , Elizabeth has to show some leadership, which includes, according to some of her many adviser (Richard Attenborough , Edward Hardwicke , Christopher Eccleston , Geoffrey Rush) . Meanwhile, she's dealing with Protestant religion, intrigues with Spain and France and the vexing question of a political marriage to French prince (Vincent Cassel) . Elizabeth chose her advisers with consummate care, and she was well served by them . The first and best was William Cecil,1st Baron Burghley , he stayed in office for forty years. The heathen Protestant Elizabeth dreads the prospect of the Catholic Church followers and Pope (John Gielgud) about her ascending the English throne , leading to intrigue and divisiveness within the court . A film of the early years of the reign of Elizabeth I of England and her difficult task of learning what is necessary to be a monarch.This is a correct portrayal about political intrigue , lovers and war during the Elizabeth I kingdom . As are splendidly recreated intrigues , treason , turmoil and power fight of its time , including her troublesome days and machinations surrounding . It's magnificently captured by marvelous sets , splendid production design and glamorous gowns . This elaborate , colorful costumer drama packs outstanding performances from Cate Blanchet as an impulsive queen , Joseph Fiennes as a dashing and arrogant Earl , besides a top-notch support cast giving strong acting , such as the charismatic Geoffrey Rush as Sir Francis Walsingham , Richard Attenborough as Sir William Cecil , Christopher Eccleston as Duke of Norfolk , Jamie Foreman as Earl of Sussex , Fanny Ardant as Mary of Guise , Vincent Cassel as Duc d'Anjou , Kelly MacDonald , James Frain , Emily Mortimer , Amanda Ryan , among them . The fine cast does quite well in historic setting . This interesting historical drama contains a wonderful cinematography that adds color to the atmosphere by Remi Adefarasin who also photographed the second part titled Elizabeth The Golden Age . Evocative and imaginative musical score fitting to the past time by David Hirschfelder . The motion picture was rightly written by by Michael Hirst (The Tudor) and finely directed by Shakar Kapur , an Indian director , costumer expert (Elizabeth I and II , Bandit Queen , Four feathers).Other renditions about this known Queen are the following  Elizabeth  The golden age with Cate Blanchett , Jordi Molla , Joseph Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush directed by Shekar Kapur ; Elizabeth R directed by Herbert Wise (72, TV) with Bette Davis ; Elizabeth the Queen (68, TV) with Judith Anderson and Charlton Heston ; and classic version , The Queen Virgin by George Sidney with Jean Simmons and Stewart Granger and The private lives of Elizabeth and Essex by Michael Curtiz with Bette Davis and Errol Flynn , among others "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In a year overwhelmed with reminiscent films, Elizabeth rises above the rest to become one of few stunning manifestations of the Hollywood Renaissance. Certainly acknowledged by the Oscars garnering 7 nominations, Shekhar Kapur's intimate portrait of a young Elizabeth further expands the modern view on a distant monarch, whose maturing reign as well as taming nature continued to dazzle the 20th century viewers.Presented here by a superb cast led by Golden-Globe winner Cate Blanchett, early Elizabethean era turmoil and upheaval are captured brilliantly. The lush set itself is a feast for the eye as the audience is drawn to follow a passionate young Elizabeth's path. Against the dark setting of medieval stone castles, a blooming Golden Age approaches as England expands to take control in a world of great unrest after Catholic Queen Mary's death. Her Protestant half-sister, Elizabeth daughter of Anne Bolyne is placed on a throne of a kingdom torn between religion. Cate Blanchett does a fabulous job capturing the details of a frustrated young woman waking to the merciless reality of queenhood--surrounded by enemies such as Norfolk (Christopher Eccleston). Constantly by her side is her reverent adviser Sir William Cecil (Richard Attenborough) who advises Elizabeth to marry for convenience choosing from a pool of ready political candidates--while Elizabeth herself is long set on her lover from the past Sir Robert Dudley (a charming Joseph Fiennes). Yet just as England learns to wake up from the medieval dream, Elizabeth learns the bitterness of betrayal as she looks to Sir Francis Walsingham (Jeffrey Rush)'s counsel.Focusing on Elizabeth's subtle changes of phase from fire to ice at a distant in the midst of a grander panorama beautifully shot, the audience gradually distinguishes her footsteps from the shedding of innocence to a tough ruler that dares to strike first against her enemies, to ultimately become the Virgin Queen to reign above all men. "},{"Title":"Marvelously acted and staged.","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Yesterday I wrote a review of Clint Eastwood's J. Edgar, where I talked about how biopics are instantly met with the mountain of having to condense the life of a historical figure into a two hour film. I posited that they should instead focus on an important part of their life and work it as a character study around that, rather than trying to produce a history lesson of their birth to death. It's a strange coincidence that today I was finally struck with the proper motivation to sit down and watch Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth, because this is the rare biopic that does exactly that.The film focuses on Queen Elizabeth I of England, but instead of trying to detail her entire life, Michael Hirst's script centers on when Elizabeth first takes the throne and the tribulations that she encountered upon coming into power; tribulations seems far too meager a word though, for what she had to face. Elizabeth was faced with threats from all angles, political, romantic and life-threatening and the film does an excellent job of making you feel as though the walls are closing in on Elizabeth from every side. Slowly everything becomes more intimate and intense, culminating in a rush of drama during the climax where every facet of her life hangs in the balance.Kapur took a gamble by placing the film on the shoulders of the mostly untested Cate Blanchett, who hadn't even done a handful of film roles at the time, and it's one that pays off miraculously. Blanchett gives us one of our first tastes of the mastery of her skill that we would later come to expect practically once a year, and it might just be her finest performance to date. She fully disappears into this role, allowing us to sink in with her to the paranoia and high drama of this woman's world. This is one of those rare gems of a performance that goes through such an extensive evolution, but does it all in a way so natural and effortless that you don't even notice it unless you're paying attention. When you get to the final scene and you look back at the woman who we began the film with, it is absolutely astonishing the transformation that has occurred, and this is all thanks to Blanchett's seamless portrayal. She takes us on this journey from frightened and unsure young lady into a fierce and strong-willed queen.The supporting cast all delivers as well, with a great ensemble including Joseph Fiennes, Richard Attenborough and Christopher Eccleston, but the standout for me was Geoffrey Rush. As Elizabeth's closest protector, he gives a subtle yet incredibly commanding performance that meshes moments of intimidation, seduction and the strangest sense of grace at times. It's a marvelous cast in a film that is quite the treat itself. I'll be curious to see what they do with Golden Age, since this one closes with the standard, ...and these are the things that happened until she died..., texts. "},{"Title":"Great period piece anchored by a career defining performance by Cate Blanchett","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I remember watching Elizabeth in high school and remember how this was the first period piece that completely drew me in. I remember the costumes being the main thing that drew me in, but revisiting it as a slightly more mature adult I realize that a great period piece like this is much more than costumes. Anchored by a career defining performance by Cate Blanchett the viewer is swept into England at a time of turmoil and uncertainty and are given a unique perspective as one of the most powerful people in history comes to power.I really love how the writers chose to spend most of the movie showing Elizabeth as being human being with frailties and insecurities. I also enjoyed seeing her in love, but this ends up being the only weak point in the movie for me. It is mainly because I am cynical and do not buy into that type of undying love that Lord Robert and Elizabeth share with each other. That might just be me being cynical or that love at the time meant something complete different and I just cannot relate to it. It is probably because I am cynical. Other than this there are almost no faults with the movie.One could spend pages talking about how good Blanchett is in this, but she gives us a remarkable transformation of a doe-eyed love struck girl to one of the most powerful and formidable images of power ever caught on film. Watching her psyching her self up in the mirror and then go out in Parliament and getting what she wanted was a fantastic one-two combination that really captures the transition that Elizabeth had to go through to become the leader of an entire country. Together with an impressive supporting cast we get to see Attenborough play a role that he almost always seems to play, but plays it so well. He plays a man with nothing but good intentions in his heart while being misguided at times. Eccleston does a fantastic job of being a villain while doing almost nothing villainous. We honestly believe that he is doing everything for the good of his country, while never losing his villainous streak. Rush does a good job as her mysterious adviser and at the end I love how his intentions are made clear, but you are still not sure if you should trust him. I also loved seeing Cassel playing a character so far from what I have seen him in before. I loved picking out various actors and actress that I recognized from all over the place in small roles. One of the most impressive parts for me was the sets. I honestly could not tell you if there were actually sets or castles that they shot on. Either way they are impressive and I was truly awestruck at some massiveness of some of the sets. As mentioned before the costumes were especially effective. I loved seeing Elizabeth going from simple dresses to some of the more impressive costumes I have ever seen, while never being out of character. In the end this movie is one of the most impressive period pieces I have ever seen while at the same time being one of the most interesting character studies of a historical figure I have ever seen. With a timeless performance by Blanchett this movie is really a treat for any fan of film. "}{"Title":"I knew her  before she was a virginGroucho Marx................","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Of course Groucho was talking about the wonderful Miss Doris Day and not the most powerful and ruthless of English Queens,but it's still all a matter of image and perception. Too often seen as a dried - up old woman with horror make up,it's a revelation to have Elizabeth 1 portrayed as a vital and passionate young woman with normal appetites.Miss C.Blanchett who can sometimes allow herself to indulge in a set of irritating mannerisms is quite mesmerising.From frightened vulnerable adolescent to confident determined grown woman,every change is completely believable.She is one of those fortunate actresses whom the camera loves. It is her performance that sets Elizabeth above the run - of - the - mill.Because for the most part it comprises familiar actors putting on their posh voices and swishing about dramatically in various drafty castles around the country.Mr C.Eccleston is particularly guilty of excessive swishing,closely followed by Mr J.Fiennes. Mr G.Rush alone behaves as though he believes that people in Tudor times did not move about as if they were on the stage at Stratford - on - Avon. Monsieur Cantona once scored a wonderful winning goal against Liverpool in the Cup Final,that,surely,should be enough for any man? Elizabeth is not a great movie,but it does contain one of the great movie performances,and that,surely,is enough for me. "},{"Title":"Superb period drama","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I thought Cate Blanchett had pipped Gwyneth Paltrow to the Oscar post in the Elizabethan drama face-off (i.e. this vs Shakespeare In Love). She's quite magnificent, absolutely plum in the vortex of all those different takes on the famously flame-haired daughter of Henry VIII with girlishness, stature, frailty, beauty, irascibility, steel and wit.She needs to be on top of her game as the support cast didn't turn up for the free lunches by any means. Christopher Ecclestone has a perfect home for his nostril-flaring, ill-concealed belligerence and Geoffrey rush is perfect as his doppelgnger. Josepeh Fiennes is the hapless, naive lover - both Rush and Fiennes can both claim some sort of honour for having worked opposite Blanchett and Paltrow to such considerable effect. The rest of the cast are fine although I wasn't so sure about the French imports (Ardant and Cantona) despite their sincere efforts. England, the tacet character, is beautifully captured by Shekhar Kapur. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but lacking sufficient depth.","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a complex topic to try and do in a film and it shows.We are taken through all the main points of Elizabeth's rise to power but there simply isn't enough time to explain the character's actions, particularly those that oppose her, and this leaves certain scenes seeming pointless even though they probably had huge significance, the biggest instance of this is when she wins a vote and we aren't really told why we should care.The performances are good, Blanchett is superb, but few characters are given a chance to perform. Eccleston is particularly wasted as her main opponent, the Duke of Norfolk, he delivers some menace while on screen but has so few lines it is hard to know, or care, what his motivation really is.I suppose the slight writing for the other characters can be forgiven to some extent since the film is about Elizabeth and focuses on her love life and it's impact on politics and vice versa but as Queen her actions were driven by the powerful people around her and by not giving them a voice the film seems pointless and shallow.It is supposed to be an historical film and the lack of detail leaves you confused as to the significance of events and people and that in turns leaves you feeling a little cheated, it's as if there is a great film there somewhere but you aren't being shown it. As a TV series it could have been great as a film it's just watchable. "},{"Title":"Historical drama","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" By far the worst movie i have seen with such a good cast. Blanchett gives the movie an acceptable look-a-like queen. Costumes and scenery are good. But what a dramatic story-developing. The whole movie develops around the idea that sexuality was the only thing that really counted in the life of Elizabeth. Unnecessary sex-scenes, modern-day views and biases and too many scenery and overviews shots slow down the movie and make it hard to watch. Fantasy is one thing, good film-making another. But if you don't have any of them in a movie... If this movie won anything it will have been only because of its political correct hidden agenda and the even worse other movies of this year. Dramatically bad and historically doubtful. "},{"Title":"An interesting, if flawed, interpretation","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The film focuses upon the life of Elizabeth I during the reign of Mary and the subsequent early months of her own reign.Any film which tells a series of historical events is a mix of interpretation and embellishment of recorded events as well as strands which are made up and make a good story (To Kill a King being a fine example of this last point!). Elizabeth is no exception here although it does veer away from interpretation and more towards making it up! However, the opening sequence is stunning. The burning of so-called Protestant heretics is brutal and horribly realistic. Mary is vividly portrayed by Kathy Burke who gives an interesting performance of the character of Mary. What follows is a part thriller and part romance with Elizabeth facing numerous threats to her position as monarch. I feel that the romance thread slows the story down and at times is tedious. It would have been more interesting to focus upon the threat from Mary, Queen of Scots.The film contains numerous cameos, from the expertly understated Edward Hardwick as Arundel and the almost regal Sir John Gielgud as the Pope to the unlikely Eric Cantona, who just make the mark. Cate Blanchet plays Elizabeth well and she certainly looks the part. However, the outstanding performance comes from Geoffrey Rush as Sir Francis Walsingham who is not only the image of Walsingham but gives a chilling and calm authority to the role.Overall, the film certainly looks good and the story is reasonably well told despite its historical inaccuracy in places. "},{"Title":"good film stunted by akward pacing and script","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was thoroughly disapointed by this movie , it could have been much better but its success was hampered by an akward script and bad pacing.And on top of that the acting is b material.The fact that it was a historical drama is the only thing that saved it. "},{"Title":"Slow and not historically accurate","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The costumes were good. Acting was average. Difficult to follow. Presumes audience has a degree in history. Preferred original movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Hold A Candle To Elizabeth R","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Whereas Bette Davis (Elizabeth & Essex) makes Elizabeth out to be a cold, mannish, megalomaniacal ruler, in this movie Cate Blanchett portrays her as a weak, vascillating woman.  Frankly, Elizabeth I was more a combination of the two and perhaps the best portrayal was Glenda Jackson's in Elizabeth R.  A bit of liberty seems to have been taken, in that this movie clearly asserts that Elizabeth had sexual relations with Dudley--a controversy that has never been resolved by historians.  She was after all, called The Virgin Queen and nobody has yet disproved that moniker.Perhaps my favorite scene in this movie is when Sir Francis Walsingham kills the boy who is his would-be assassin.  Took me completely by surprise.  I wonder if this is all artistic license, this writer knows of no such incident in history.  Still it was in keeping with the character of the times and of Elizabeth's Moor, her great spymaster, Walsingham.This movie is more accurate in some ways than either Elizabeth and Essex or Elizabeth R for it makes clear the lack of warmth, cleanliness and privacy that characterized 16th century England.  It very clearly emphasizes the treachery that Elizabeth faced daily during her reign. Worth watching, but I still prefer Elizabeth R when it comes to telling this story. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth deserves better","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Please see PBS production of Elizabeth R. for a really good look at Elizabeth I. For all the hype, I was really bored with this stunted movie. "},{"Title":"Severe historical inaccuracies","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I teach Tudor and Stuart England at one of the local colleges here. Although I enjoyed the acting (Cate Blanchett was brilliant as Elizabeth) and the art direction very much, there were severe historical inaccuracies throughout the movie, even at the near beginning.....- When Elizabeth was not making love with Robert Dudley when she was arrested for suspicion in the Thomas Wyatt rebellion of 1554.  Robert Dudley was already arrested and in the Tower earlier for the Lady Jane Grey conspiracy.- Robert Dudley had NEVER fornicated with Katherine Ashley, Elizabeth's lady-in-waiting, EVER!!  In real life, Katherine Ashley was Elizabeth's governess and had practically raised her since the execution of Elizabeth's mother, Anne Boleyn. So in actuality, Katherine Ashley was old enough to be Elizabeth's mother. Also, Katherine did not die in a poisoned dress.  She died of natural causes in 1565.- Mary of Guise, the Scottish Regent, died of dropsy.  She was not murdered.- Elizabeth always knew that Robert Dudley was married to Amy Robsart.  In fact, she attended his wedding and had stayed over in Warwickshire several times.- Elizabeth did not start wearing wigs until after she had come down with typhoid fever and lost a good deal of her natural hair.  She had never cut her hair short, placed a wig on her head and declared herself the Virgin Queen.- Elizabeth's father Henry VIII really did a number on her attitude towards men, particularly in the situation of her stepmother, Catherine Howard. Catherine's execution deeply affected Elizabeth and from that point on, she decided never to marry.- Elizabeth did not stay in some dark, moldy, clammy cell when she went to the Tower.  She actually stayed in the Bell Tower, which was a residence to Kings and Queens before their coronation.  She was actually quite comfortable during her confinement in the Tower.- Elizabeth did not go back to Hatfield (her primary residence) after her release from the Tower.  She was under close confinement at Woodstock for the next 18 months.Since the director of the movie wanted to emphasize that Elizabeth was indeed not a virgin, he could have started the story out with Elizabeth being under the care of her guardian, Lord Thomas Seymour and how he used to invade her bed in the early morning and romp in bed with her (and Tudor girls usually slept naked within their bedhangings).For a true history lesson, I would avoid this film at all costs. If you want to see a true film with nearly accurate information concerning Elizabeth, I highly recommend Elizaberh R with Glenda Jackson.  No one can play Elizabeth like she can!! "}{"Title":"How did this film get into Oscar contention anyway???","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The director of this film didn't know how to tell a story.  The average viewer (I'm below average) desperately needed a narrator to fill them in on the English, French, and Spanish history, politics, and religion of those fascinating and turbulent times. What kind of claim did Mary Queen of Scots have to the English throne  blood, politics, or religion???  Too many DARKLY LIGHTED scenes.  How did this film get into Oscar contention??? I noted that Joseph Fiennes was a busy boy what with roles in Shakespeare in Love and Elizabeth in roughly the same time period. "},{"Title":"Artsy, uneven character development, poor screenplay","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Lots of artsy visuals, uneven character development, not much substance, screenplay is embarrasing at times. It was an angelfood cake of a film A lot of fluff and pretense but not much substance. "},{"Title":"Was there a better film here?","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I got the impression watching Elizabeth that, in order to make the running time audience-friendly, huge chunks of this film were lost to the editor's knife.  I can't help but think that there must have been a lot more to this movie.  So many scenes appear only loosely attached to those before them; so many characters appear out of nowhere and disappear just as easily.  As a result, some great performances seem to get lost in a quagmire of choppy storytelling.  There has been a huge glut of three-hour-plus movies recently, many of which are audience killers (The Thin Red Line, Beloved, etc.), but a truly good film will hold people's attention as long as it has to.  Studios shouldn't try to present an epic at breakneck speed.  It's more than likely not going to work.  I would love to see a director's cut of Elizabeth -- I think it would be a much better film. "},{"Title":"Tripe masqueraded as history","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth should be marketed as fiction because that is what it is. It captures the feel of the time and Cate Blanchett and the whole cast do an excellent job of portraying what they were given.However, the history is all wrong. There are several points that do not match up with what actually happened-Elizabeth knew that Dudley was married - she attended his wedding before she was Queen-while Mary I ruled, Elizabeth was not addressed as Princess, but Lady; Mary I refused to recognize her as heir to the throne-Marie of Guise was not wicked; she did not go to bed with Sir Francis Walsingham; she died of natural causes-Sir William Cecil was made Lord Burghley; however, he was not given this title until 1572 and was an excellent advisor until his retirement at a much later date than is shown-nothing is mentioned of Elizabeth I's run in with smallpox, her tremendous intelligence (it is hinted at briefly), or her amazing linguistic ability-also, she never ruled with her heart, but with her head - always (that is not to say she didn't have a heart, she did, but she was very shrewd)The characterization depicted of Elizabeth I really belongs more to her cousin, Mary, Queen of Scots (who did rule with her heart).  "},{"Title":"Riveting, but excessively brutal for most audiences.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Knowing some background of the Elizabethan age did not prepare me for the realistic portrayal of life in and around her court.  The film was well-done (though the Godfather-like climax was not as well done as Coppola) and well-cast, but it seemed somewhat unfocused to me at times. The 27 year old main character conveys a great presence, as do Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes.  Unfortunately, we did not get to see enough of Elizabeth and her advisors in the war room preparing to plot strategy, and I'm convinced that had I not taught this age many times, I would have been thoroughly lost.  An A for effort, but definitely an E for editing.  "},{"Title":"Dizzy Camera Work","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a story, the movie had a lot of potential. Unfortunately, the camera work made me dizzy to the point that I had to close my eyes. Also, I found the very dark scenes annoying. "},{"Title":"What about a story?","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was beautiful to look at, but someone should have been in charge of making sure that there was a story! There were lots of possibilities, but nothing to grab hold of or to care about.  Are we so enamored of royalty that we only have to see a queen to honor the movie? Blanchett's performance was excellent.  Too bad it didn't come in a movie with a point!  "},{"Title":"Much ado about  - not much","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film isn't so bad, but in my eyes (which have seen very costly costumes, locations, stars) the expenditure should have brought forward a much more interesting result, more historical accuracy and - most of all better music! "},{"Title":"The three Ss- sumptuous, superb and stunning!","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This superb period drama has everything going for it, and I am saddened that it didn't get more awards.For one thing, the whole film is splendid for the eyes. A lot of care went into the scenery, cinematography and costumes and it showed. The music score was absolutely beautiful, dramatic in some parts and poignant in others. The screenplay is quite extraordinary, and the story while perhaps historically inaccurate, is still intriguing. The direction, while the least impressive element of the film, was still solid. The performances were flawless; Cate Blanchett was above mesmerising as Elizabeth, and she is supported by an outstanding cast that include Geoffrey Rush, Joseph Fiennes, Christopher Ecceleston and Richard Attenborough. All in all, sumptuously filmed, and pretty darn good. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Appalling Historic Inaccuracy","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film looks great and the cast is wonderful. Cate Blanchett even looks like Elizabeth I, but if you know even the most rudimentary history of the time, the glaring inaccuracy makes you want to puke.This is the kind of film that if you try to watch it instead of read the book and then pass a history test, you are going to fail big time.Skip this and rent the Six part BBC miniseries Elizabeth R starring the wonderful Glenda Jackson.Robin Dudley was an egotistical striver with a lot of political ambition but he would never betray Elizabeth I (well if you leave out taking a governorship without her consent and marrying without her consent, minor squabbles). And don't even get me started about Rush's performance as Walsingham. Oh my God, He was a PURITAN and they portray him as some bright colored clothes wearing bi-sexual bon vivant!! The real Walsingham would barely crack a smile for fear of offending God with his frivolity.Just stay away from this stinker unless you want some pretty people prancing about with no resemblance to the well documented facts of her reign. "}{"Title":"Made me want to learn more","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I watched the beginning of this movie on TV and it really made me interested in Queen Elizabeth. Then I went and checked out the book The Life of Elizabeth by Alison Weir and was totally intrigued. The life of Elizabeth I was extremely fascinating and learning about all the people around her and everything was great. Then I rented the movie and watched it all the way through and was pretty disappointed. There were some characters who were featured prominently that were not actually that prominent in her life and some that were left out that would have been more interesting to see. I loved the acting, but in many parts it seemed confusing trying to keep track of who the people were. If you are doing a report on Queen Elizabeth then this isn't what you should watch. It's an alright movie, but not very strict to the facts. "},{"Title":"An old fashioned star vehicle","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Shekhar Kapur's version of 'Elizabeth' is a fine vehicle to showcase the blindingly talented Cate Blanchett as Queen Elizabeth I. Her portrayal of the great monarch places largely excellent co-stars in danger of being completely swamped by her charisma and total identification and interpretation of the character. An astounding portrayal taking Elizabeth from beautiful young princess to her final transformation into the white-faced doll we have all become familiar with.Kathy Burke (Queen Mary) is just about equal to Blanchett in every regard. Her portrayal of the tortured Bloody Mary in the last days of her murderous reign is touching and powerful. Geoffrey Rush (Walshingham) and Fanny Ardant (Mary de Guise) are superb as well. She is especially serpentine and fascinating. Her nephew, the Duc d'Anjou, is hilariously performed by Vincent Cassel. Of all the fine actors in this ensemble his scenes with Blanchett are the most memorable. His raucous prince is a perfect foil for Blanchett's dry humor. The scene when he appears in drag before the queen is a priceless classic of comedy. Terence Rigby is a wonderfully vile, malevolent Bishop Gardiner, more a demon from hell than a Christian icon. Christopher Eccleston plays the villainous Duke of Norfolk with a sexy swagger. He seems to have a brilliant career ahead of him as a modern Basil Rathbone. Kelly Mcdonald, in an early appearance in a secondary role in film, stands out as the doomed lady-in-waiting. The balance of the cast is quite good with the one glaring exception of Joseph Fiennes. It is a total mystery to me how he lands so many high-profile roles in major films. His acting abilities run the gamut from 'A' to 'B'. When he's not pouting he's smirking and smug. His smarmy delivery of his lines is irritating in the extreme and his attempts to play the laughing cavalier are pathetic and he comes off as an annoying pipsqueak. It was a great shame that the handsome and sexy fine actor, Eric Cantona (here the French Ambassador) was not cast as Dudley.The technical side of this show is good if a bit artsy-fartsy. The myriad of tricky camera angles is more reminiscent of a PBS travel documentary than a major motion picture, but it is pleasant to look at.Even if historical drama is not your cuppa I recommend this film for the tremendous performance by Cate Blanchett. I long for a film that would pit her and her Antipodean colleague, Russell Crowe, together in a love story. Perhaps another historical saga, or something legendary like 'Tristan and Isolde'. "},{"Title":"The making of a queen","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a ravishing, sumptuous, and very Hollywoodish telling of the early years of Elizabeth I who inherited a broken England at age 25, secured her tenuous grasp on the throne amidst treachery from all corners, consolidated her monarchy to become one of history's most notable rulers, and sowed the seeds which sprouted into a prosperous global empire. Praised by public and critics alike with a brace of awards as testament to its value, Elizabeth The Virgin Queen sports a fine cast, offers high end production value, and has little to fault for those who don't mind an infusion of creativity with their history. Good stuff for fans of the players and those interested in the history of the British monarchy. (B+) "},{"Title":"The director was over-ambitious in an otherwise good picture","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was surprised with this picture, not being clued-up on the Elizabeth years I found the film very interesting but surely inaccurate. The film doesn't feature any battles, it never rises to epic proportions. I suppose the budget wasn't large enough to accommodate one particular battle. This film isn't a Hollywood production, it's produced by British talent (backed by some American money). And again, the British technical crew blow away a lot of the Hollywood productions.The film's director is way over ambitious with his camera work, sometimes I'm in awe of the camera angles and other times I'm stamping the floor with frustration. The editing is awful, espeically in the first 30 minutes, we are given so many close-ups which convey absolutely no feeling. And they do affect the scenes drastically! It seems that the director didn't set-up a  decent position with his DP or tried too hard without picturing his film in his head. Shame really.Other than that, the director's work is good. The British photography is excellent, reason enough to see it.The finale of the film is poor, it ends too quickly, very under played. The film doesn't reach a climax as one would expect. The acting is fine as one would expect with a foreign cast but Eric Cantona? Soccer turned actor? No thank you.Overall, an inaccurate screenplay but an enjoyable picture by a promising director.  "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett Dominates While Everyone Else Watches","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a nice little film that tries to be big.  The production design, costume design, and direction are all wonderful.  However, all these elements take away from every actor in the film.  Every actor except Cate Blanchett, who gives a stunning performance and should have won the Best Actress Oscar in 1998.  Her transformation from naive child to powerful queen over the course of the film is remarkable.  She is a definite scene-stealer and when she is not on screen the film seems to sputter. Geoffrey Rush has his usual fine performance as well.  Others like Joseph Fiennes, Chris Eccleston, and Richard Attenborough seem to be overwhelmed by the film itself and give fair performances at best.  All in all it was worthy of seven Oscar nods, but for the most part only because of Blanchett. 4 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  How Hollywood. Take history,and a script and mix them together in a bucket and throw it in a pot. Then take out only what you want. This could have been a marvelous movie on the scale of the BBCs Elizabeth R series with Glenda Jackson. I got to the point where I cared nothing for any of the characters, especially the Queen.On the plus side was the costuming which is the only reason I bought the DVD. "},{"Title":"Appalling history","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The notion that Elizabeth was a free and promiscuous lady before her metamorphosis is appalling, and is totally ungrounded in historical fact. It is obvious that Her Majesty was a lady of good senses, not prone to this kind of rubbish. "},{"Title":"A misshapen pastiche, a true fiasco.  Botch-a-lism","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented this disgusting, difficult to follow film because I was in an Elizabethan mood, after watching Shakespeare in Love.What I found was a misshapen love story/drama/documentary-on-how to-torture-someone/difficult-to-follow-history-lesson-on -mid-1500's-European-politics.  (I am not unfamiliar with the nasty nature of Tudor England and its history, I just hadn't planned on seeing it played out, in close ups, jump cuts and cute the first time but gradually annoying overexposures.)The best part was the costumes (and I'm not sure I don't mean the costumes of the men).My dear partner summed it up best, botch-a-lism!  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not brilliant","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An enjoyable and engrossing historical drama it is, but Elizabeth is full of flaws. The worst is Shekar Kapurs direction, which is always trying to make its presence felt. Its almost as if the camera is one of the actors. Kapur cannot seem to keep his camera still on a single conversation that lasts more than a minute. His standard tricks (shooting ceilings, etc...) expose him as an amateur. The screenplay does well in encompassing a lot of plot points, but it doesn't have sufficient clarity, so that a second viewing is probably required. the acting is unever. Christopher Eccleston puts far too much into a nonedescript part and this has a negligible effect, Kathy Burke is badly miscast and Joseph Fiennes is soppy. The best performance is from Geoffrey Rush, who is effortlessly suave. Cate Blanchett gives a good, subtle performance but has little charisma or humour. She is nowhere near as flamboyant as Glenda Jackson was. She does however leave a strong impression. "},{"Title":"Maybe I was expecting too much....","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth I has always been one of my all-time favorite historical characters.While this film is visually stunning the historical accuracy rates a Less Than Zero.Cate Blanchett was amazing as Elizabeth -- truly an amazing performance; and the FACES -- the casting director had a field day -- (almost) everyone looked just the way I thought they should look.The sole exception was Sir Richard Attenborough...  He looked terribly out of place for some reason.One VERY annoying feature of the film was the constant shifting from VERY dark to VERY bright fades.  Also the fading not to a soft haze but just BLURRY.  The person sitting next to me took off his glasses to see if they were dirty or if it was his eyes.It was extremely distracting and added nothing.Also everyone looked just too darn clean. They all had perfect manicures and haircuts.This was an age when women wore puppy urine as perfume because it smelled better than their unwashed bodies.Bathing was an annual affair and soap, as we know it, did not exist.But, in spite of its faults, the overall look was magnificent. "}{"Title":"Royal Failure","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Given that the filmmakers have taken liberties with historical facts in this account of the rise to power in England of Elizabeth I, it is surprising how dull the script is. It's also quite muddled, making it a chore to figure out who's doing what to whom. Blanchett is fine in the title role and is ably supported by Rush. Fiennes is underwhelming as the queen's lover. Kapur's amateurish camera work, particularly the overuse of overhead shots, doesn't help matters. Despite his indulgent attempts to call attention to himself, he remains one of only a handful of directors of Best Picture Oscar nominees not to be nominated for Best Director. At least the costumes are colorful. "},{"Title":"Wonderful yet disappointing","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cate Blanchett is very good in the role of Elizabeth I. I think it is a crying shame that the script was so bad. It is so wrong about the demise of Mary of Guise. I wish that with such a lot of time and expense going into this film that the history had been accurate. Sir John Gielgud is very good as the Pope. What a brilliant actor he was. Richard Attenborough is also well cast as Sir William Cecil. One of my least favourite actors, Geoffrey Rush is not bad as Walsingham. Joseph Fiennes is also good as the Earl of Leicester. A real surprise is Eric Cantona as Monsieur de Foix. This film could have been a great one but really only had some moments. "},{"Title":"A Shallow Masterpiece, Cheap and Cynical","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's painful to watch this movie, because the overpowering beauty of the locations, the cinematography, and the cast (mainly Cate Blanchett) is used in the service of an almost unbelievably shallow, smug, and cynical reading of English history. Other reviewers have already done a superb job of pointing out the factual inaccuracies of the film's portrayal of Elizabeth and her advisors. What I'd like to comment on is the overriding theme. This is not a feminist movie. This is a pseudo-feminist movie. In order to make Elizabeth strong, the men have to be presented as weak, duplicitous, or stupid -- or sometimes all three at once! Cynically, the film makers seem to assume that the only way to make Elizabeth look strong is to surround her with weak, morally repellent men. Or perhaps they think that the mere presence of a strong woman automatically emasculates men. In actual fact, of course, the remarkable thing about Elizabeth's reign is that she brought out the best in the men who served her. She was in fact an inspiring figure. None of this comes through in the movie. Weak men fail her, and strong men are simply destroyed by her. Whose fantasy is this, anyway?Related to this is the problem of patriotism. Elizabeth's ruthlessness and determination are presented cynically in the film as a matter of strict self-preservation. In actual fact, Elizabeth was beloved by her people precisely because she loved England much more than her own security or safety. Moreover, her ability to take risks and defy France and Spain stemmed from her intuitive knowledge of the strength of the English people. She trusted them, and they trusted her. None of that comes across here. To put it another way, Elizabeth in real life was a master politician who enjoyed interacting with her subjects and was always able to communicate with them. But in this movie there is not one single crowd scene, not one single time when Elizabeth seems interested in, let alone guided by, the hopes and fears of the English common people. This movie assumes that to a modern audience, patriotism is a dirty word. As a result it entirely misses the point of Elizabeth's life, and fails to understand either her motivations or the underpinnings of her success. Cynicism without insight, spectacle without grandeur, passion without emotion . . . this is the most shallow masterpiece ever made.Cate Blanchett deserved better, and so did Elizabeth.  "},{"Title":"visually stunning, but . . .","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've long been interested in seeing this film; the TV ads certainly looked great.  I agree that Elizabeth is visually stunning, and contains perhaps the year's greatest female performance, by Cate Blanchett. But on the whole, it's an interesting political thriller, not history.  The screenplay is almost incoherent at times.  We also get a lot of lines talking about the conditions of England at the time, but very little showing what kind of country Elizabeth had to rule. There is almost no historical context, and of course, a lot of the events are sheer inventions for dramatic purposes. I think a lot more thought could have been put into the script.  But, as all too often happens today, the writer seems preoccupied with will it sell to an audience?  It's history, after all.  Hmm, better fill it with a lot of gore, sex scenes, campy humor, sexual references, etc.  all at the expense of plot or understanding.  I would rather have kept more of the Catholic-Protestant question (which actually drops out halfway through the picture) than all the foolishness about the Queen, er, Duke of Anjou.From many of the other comments of the same kind here, I see that movie audiences are a lot smarter than Hollywood thinks.Oh, one more thing, for what it's worth.  I'm a medieval historian, and not completely versed in Tudor England by any means, but a friend who is a historian of Tudor times says that the decors in the film were not really accurate.  Contrary to the way the film portrays it, the English court didn't live in the middle of vast, darkened cathedrals. There was a lot of comfortable, cheery, domestic space and architecture, for example, at Hampton Court.Altogether, something of a disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Best Picture? I think not...","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a clear example of how trailers looked much more attractive than the film itself. The trailers show us how splendid the color and cinematography is, which is not always consistent through out the movie and in many spots, seemed unrelated to the plot. The trailer show us how intriguing the story line could be, but in the movie, it drags and not very well or clearly told. Two things bother me a great deal in the movie are 1.The opening credit goes on and on and on and well into the movie. It's so distracting. 2. The scene of Elizabath preparing the very important speech before meeting the Catholic priests was shot in a way with many re-takes. I believe the intention was to show us how serious and nervous she was. However, it reminds me of a TV commercial of opera singers started doing Rock &#145;n Roll on stage in the middle of a very classic performance. It's silly. "},{"Title":"In this very disappointing movie almost everything seems to be wrong","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If Mr Kapur only wanted to tell the audience about the nightmare Elizabeth went through, he has brilliantly succeeded. However, almost everything else seems wrong about this movie. Most obtrusive is the soundtrack with its extreme examples of ugly singing.  The choice of the music, for example Mozart's famous Requiem, composed at least 250 years later, is also very unfortunate.The storytelling does not make sense either. The movie starts as abruptly as it ends, and despite Cate Blanchett's great performance, one cannot feel involved with her or anyone else.At the end of the movie most of Elizabeth's impressive career has yet to come. As the movie ends when there's no more blood to show, one is left puzzled about the intentions of the director. Can anyone imagine a movie about Churchill which ends in 1939? "},{"Title":"Elizabeth","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A reunion, of sorts, for Shakespeare in Love actors Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes, Shekhar Kapur's 1998 epic combines their talents along with Cate Blanchett's in the film Elizabeth. Telling the story of the turbulent events leading to Queen Elizabeth's rise to power and outlining the origin of the Catholic against Protestant war in Europe, Kapur's film brings to life the beginning of the Golden Age of England. Highlighting the magnitude of internal struggle one person undertakes to lead a nation, Elizabeth is a captivating story of struggle and triumph. Being born out of wedlock to Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, Elizabeth (Cate Blanchett) never expected to rise to power, but the reality of her childless sister Mary I (Fanny Ardant) dying with no heir made Elizabeth's rise the only possibility. Crippled with fear that Protestant Elizabeth would un-do Catholic reign and bring Protestantism to England. While trying to learn about and establish her monarchy, Elizabeth is aided, sometimes, by a team of advisers. Where many of the advisers have good intentions, some are there plotting to restore the Catholic line, refusing to pledge allegiance to the new queen. Another difficulty for Elizabeth is the immense pressure on her to marry and produce an heir. Her longtime lover Lord Robert Dudley (Joseph Fiennes) is not viewed as an acceptable choice, and once Elizabeth learns that he has been carrying on an affair with her against his wife, she never speaks to him again. Elizabeth traverses the difficulties of her new reign with grace while she decides which of her advisers to keep and which to ignore all the while building an empire. Cate Blanchett is exceptional as ever playing the meek turned mighty Queen Elizabeth. She handles the difficulties of playing a woman thrust into power no one wants her to have, yet still trying to do the best for England phenomenally. She also switches from love to scorn for Robert Dudley in a believable way. The production design on this film was fantastic, so intricate and detailed one feels as though they are truly watching the royals interact. The costuming was also beautiful in this film. I greatly admire period pieces that don't take the easy/cheap way out with simple costuming. For instance, the bird's eye view shot of Queen Elizabeth's first appearance from the throne was brilliantly overtaken by her gorgeous red velvet dress. A wonderful directorial choice made by Shekhar Kapur was to show Elizabeth's transfer to power with bright white flashes of light, illustrating the drastic transformation she, and the rest of England were about to endure. Another directorial choice that added to the depth of the film was the flashback of Elizabeth's trials and troubles near the ending scene. While the film loses some of its luster and struggles with pacing in the middle of the movie, it rebounds with a strong enough beginning that one doesn't mind waiting to get re-engaged into the story. Class and sexuality are huge focal points in this film. Sexuality is under the microscope when many men doubt Elizabeth's abilities to govern as a woman. Sexuality is also an overarching issue when it comes to marrying off Elizabeth and producing an heir, as that is the primary focus of women in the 16th century. Class and nobility are central issues as well, with Elizabeth's longtime lover not being seen as regal enough to marry a queen. There is also a certain expectation of forthcoming change Elizabeth is expected to make once she takes the throne; she must be viewed as a royal and forgo peon activities. Elizabeth is a wonderful period piece and a display of directorial force from Shekhar Kapur, whose work I have not familiarized myself with. "},{"Title":"The Queen","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Loosely based on the life of Queen Elizabeth I, this historical drama examines her ascent to throne following the death of her sister and the hardships she faced as an illegitimate woman wanting to make her own decisions. The film is slow to warm up with a lot of time spent on Elizabeth frolicking about as a youth before taking the crown. The second half of the film flows better with a constant sense of imminent danger and unease. Much of Cate Blanchett's transformation in the title role also comes in the second half as she goes from nervously practicing a speech again and again to confidently telling all her advisors what to do. Highly praised as Blanchett's performance often it is, it is the cinematography that stands out the most here. 'Match Point' cinematographer Remi Adefarasin does a magnificent job shooting the film with spinning shots from extreme high and extreme low angles and lots of gliding shots throughout. The film's next best asset is the performances of Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush and Fanny Ardant, but not everyone is well cast. Joseph Fiennes is only adequate as Elizabeth's controversial love interest while Vincent Cassel plays his role as a cross-dressing suitor with such an inappropriately comic edge that he feels like part of an entirely different film. The casting is generally good though, and the costumes and sets are as detailed as one would expect. This might not be the most accurate or enticing screen depiction of Elizabeth I, but for its insight into the fragile mentality of the monarch during the first few years of her reign, it is a hard film to pass up. "},{"Title":"brilliant Cate Blanchett","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1554 England. Henry VIII is dead. The Catholic Queen Mary is burning Protestants. Her half-sister Elizabeth (Cate Blanchett) is a threat to her crown and is imprisoned. Duke of Norfolk (Christopher Eccleston) is the heavy-handed henchman desperate to get the dying Queen to sign Elizabeth's death warrant. Elizabeth is in love with Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes). After gaining the throne, she faces challenges from Norfolk, Mary Queen of the Scots and others from outside the country. Her main counsel William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley (Richard Attenborough) urges her to marry well to protect the throne. Francis Walsingham (Geoffrey Rush) returns from exile to be her adviser. After a defeat to Mary of Guise, she must consider Mary's wild nephew Duc d'Anjou (Vincent Cassel). This is more than a costume drama. Director Shekhar Kapur brings an urgency to the proceedings. The deadly politics is more thrilling than a massive battle. Cate Blanchett is beyond brilliant. It's her first breakout role. She fits the role perfectly as a princess working her way to becoming a great queen. "},{"Title":"...thinking...","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Indian screenwriter and director Shekhar Kapur's fourth feature film which was written by English screenwriter Michael Hirst, is inspired by real events which took place in the late 16th century. It premiered in the Out of competition section at the 59th Venice Film Festival in 1998, was screened in the Gala Presentations section at the 23rd Toronto International Film Festival in 1998, was shot on locations in England and New Zealand and is a UK-USA co-production which was produced by producers Alison Owen, Tim Bevan and Eric Fellner. It tells the story about a twenty-one-year-old person and Princess of England and Ireland who lived at a royal estate called Hatfield in Hertfordshire, England during the reign of her father named King Henry VIII (1491-1547) and his first wife named Catherine of Aragon (1485-1536) who were the parents of her half-sister called Bloody Mary (1542-1587), who as a thirty-seven-year-old in the early 1550s entered a royal marriage with her first cousin once removed named Philip II of Spain (1527-1598) in the present Rywraneth Unys Breten Veur ha Kledbarth Iwerdon.Distinctly and precisely directed by Indian filmmaker Shekhar Kapur, this quietly paced and somewhat fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the protagonist's point of view, draws a cinematographic portrayal of a daughter of England who was conceived the year before the Succession to the Crown Act 1533 was granted Royal assent and almost a decade after the Crown of Ireland Act 1542, who due to being born in wedlock and another Act of parliament was branded as an illegitimate child, who befriended a properly married lady-in-waiting named Bess of Hardwick, Countess of Shrewsbury (1527-1608), as a fourteen-year-old was introduced to and educated by the sixth wife of Henry VIII, who sympathized with an Englishwoman forenamed Anne who was racked before she was burned alive on a stake, named Katherine Parr (1512-1548), was taken to the Queen's lodgings in the Tower of London suspected of treason (1554), after the Kingdom of France (843-1792) regained the Pale of Calais (1346-1558) in the Siege of Calais (1558) and her inauguration (1559) and a response to the religious divisions in England called the Elizabethan Religious Settlement (1559) made an English nobleman named Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester (1532-33-1588) Master of the Horse, as a twenty-nine-year-old was infected by the Red Plague or Smallpox, whilst in her forties was excommunicated by an Italian Pope named Antonio Ghislieri (1504-1572), was advised by the Queens Majesties Most Honourable Privy-Council, granted the Queen's consent to the Elizabethan &#x85; Law (1601), who said We princes are set as it were upon stages in the sight and view of the world. and who during a period in time when a musical instrument called Harpsichord and a prison called the Marshalsea (1373-1842) which in 1629 imprisoned an English polymath named John Seldon (1584-1654) for his participation in drafting the Petition of Right (1628) was significant, advocated for yet another inalienable right called freedom of conscience.While notable for its versatile and atmospheric milieu depictions and cinematography by cinematographer Remi Adefarasin, this dialog-driven and narrative-driven story about English history, royal prerogative and national independence where one of the Queen's subjects utters the words Her Majesty's body and person are no longer her own property. They belong to the state. and a daughter of France and mother of Elizabeth's only sister who was born in the commune of Bar-Le-Duc, Lorraine in France named Marie of Guise (1515-1560) said English blood on French colors. which was made more than two centuries after an English 17th century Royalist and author named Mary Errington Astell (1666-1731) wrote To question the customs and laws of marriage is to question society itself ... (1700), more than a century after a Welsh father founded a crche in a village called New Lanark in Scotland and the birth of an English 19th century author named Charlotte Brnte (1816-1855), a photograph called Sadness (1864), the publication of the words &#x85; Queen of the Angels, Queen of the May. (1871) and an Australian soprano named Helen Porter Mitchell (1861-1931) who was born in Richmond, Virginia, Australia moved to Marian, Queensland, Australia (1881), eighty years after an English servicewoman named Florence Beatrice Green (1901-2012) joined the Women's Royal Air Force (1918), sixty-two years after an orchestral march called Crown Imperial was performed during the coronation of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth (1937) and twenty-nine years after a twenty-one-year-old Irish daughter named Josephine Bernadette Devlin McAliskey became the youngest MP in the UK and wrote &#x85; Catholics and Protestants are the ordinary people, the oppressed people from whom I come and whom I represent. I stand here as the youngest woman in Parliament, in the same tradition as the first woman ever elected to this &#x85;, depicts an abridged study of character and contains a great and timely score by composer David Hirschfelderth.This biographical, historic and terminologically regal character piece from the late 1990s which is set in England, Scotland and France during the Elizabethan era (1558-1603) in the early 16th century some years before the completion of a theater called The Red Lion (1567-1568) in London, England, three centuries before an English stage actress named Alice Ellen Terry (1847-1928) acted in a one-act play called The First Actress (1911), five centuries before an English singer sang &#x85; blood is running deep &#x85; oh the Queen of Peace &#x85; like a long scream out there always echoing &#x85; (2015) where religion, the monarchy and the state were governed by people and by Her Excellency and His Royal Highness the Archbishop of Canterbury said I crown thee Elizabeth Queen of England, Ireland and France., is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, rhythmic continuity, comment by Her Grace I ask you why we must tear ourselves apart for this small question of religion? and the transcending acting performance by Australian actress Cate Blanchett. A thinking narrative feature. "}{"Title":"Historically Epic","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A film of the early years of the reign of Elizabeth I of England (Cate Blanchett) and her difficult task of learning what is necessary to be a monarch.Although I know relatively little about Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, and just as little about Elizabeth I, their stories tend to make good film. Shakespeare knew royal lives made good plays and the tradition continues still in the 21st century. We may focus less on Henry VIII and more on modern figures (see The King's Speech), but the lives of royalty always fascinate.Is this an accurate portrayal? Well, no, of course not. We could never truly know the personality of Elizabeth or the conversations she had, especially behind closed doors. But in a general sense this is the case. She inherited a mighty throne, and not at the best possible time. "},{"Title":"Real People of the Past","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I was it enthralled from the time it started till it was over. Plus I'm a fan of Cate Blanchett. In the past couple years, I've been interested in history. Not so much for dates and all of that but what were the motivations of these real people. Of course we can't know every detail of what happened in the past. Not like today where we have to tell everybody every single thing we do on Twitter Facebook email Skype etc. They had letters and diaries and that's pretty much it. So we have to kind of fill in what we think people might have gone through along with what was written. I think they did a pretty good job. I mean let's face it in real life many of us change once we have been hurt and devastated by those we care about. Power, greed and lust sadly prevail. I don't think that has changed at all in history. Ha! Look at our politicians of today!!! I think we also begin to learn to see what is necessary and what is not necessary and who we can trust as we age. How is she or any other mom are different? The only problem I have with the movie was the overt sex scene close to the end if the movie; I don't think it was necessary to the movie at all. "},{"Title":"Not enjoying this","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm usually discreet when giving bad reviews for a film, because in front of a work of joint collaboration by many professionals I should learn to understand and appreciate. But this one, really? Frankly I can hardly think of any film that's worse than this, and I've even watched Movie 43. After the beginning of the film my mind already began to drift as an empress well celebrated as the Virgin Queen, why would a film dedicate as much as 30 minutes on her love life? Surely she had quite some suitors, but that's not what made people interested in her. The whole Robert Dudley line is completely inconsistent and mostly unnecessary. Am I suppose to buy the theory that when someone is loved by the Queen, he's risking himself being torn apart inside and forced by his shredded heart to plot her assassination, especially when just 5 minutes ago on the screen he tried to marry her to the King of Spain? This being my first Joseph Finnes film, I might never be able to like him anymore, thank you very much. Besides, judging by what I learned from this film, all Elizabeth can do is to dance, to lie back laughing like drunk, and rely on Walsingham for everything, and her hair seems to contain some active components of onion. She lacked the resolution for a Queen, and the history of England would hardly have changed without her. And that's far from the truth. The details are no more well-organized than the plot. 1. When Monsieur de Foix delivered the marriage proposal to the Queen for the second time and she said she would meed the Duke of Anjou in person, Dudley stormed away angrily, and the Queen went off to chase him immediately. Is that at all appropriate? Will a Queen of England be chasing the first Earl of Leicester during a conversation with the Ambassador of France? If that's the English way, I accept it with deepest respect. 2. The speech by the Queen in the church debate might be the worst speech ever displayed on screen. You can't just introduce a solemn background music and say the speech is convincing (which really happened in the film, and I'm offended). 3. The Daniel Craig part killed me a bit inside. How on earth would the director think that will fit in the film? 4. If the film was overall better in quality, the character of the Duke of Anjou might be fun/funny. But in crappy film like this it just sinks it deeper. 5. The intelligence department of the Elizabethan government seems to be desperately in need of hands, because Walsingham had to act as counselor, muscle, detective and assassin all by himself. I would have thought that you don't have to grope on the wall for a secret door when you are a Sir. 6. Is the Duke of Norfolk being killed right after sex supposed to be artistic? Besides, as an unessential role the Countess of Norfolk got too much screen time. Is she a niece of the director or something? If I were to watch the film again I would be able to find more weird stuff like this, but I always try to avoid such traumatic experience. I'm fairly disappointed that actors as brilliant as Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush themselves would appear in such low-quality film. I think Cate Blanchett(or Naomi Watts perhaps?) said in an interview that one has to be lucky to get good roles, but that's hardly any consolation. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is an extraordinary portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I in her early years of reign. I really like films dealing about British monarchy because it is great source of films, series and theater. Many historians thought that British monarch was going to survive, but in the end it did. Hence, we have all these films and series dealing on the subject.First about the film, naturally plot had to be this way, we know a lot about QEI and her life. Acting is fantastic, no wonder Kate Blanchett received Oscar for her role. Costimography is excellent and choice of the sets also. All in all it is a must see, especially for those buffs of the royals.A little bit about the history. I was always wondering how did she manage to stay afloat, everything was against her. She succeeded in defeating Spain and the poor Phillip II did not manage to bring back Roman Cathoicism to Britain. It was a really an outstanding miracle of her times. Many historian can not explain all of that yet, but explanation is rather simple. They did not have weather man during those times. "},{"Title":"A Regal Arc","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I watched Elizabeth again last night on TCM. I was shocked to realise it was almost twenty years old, but gratified to see it follows a classic structure.As a writer, it must be an enormous challenge to write a historical screenplay and still make your main character dynamic, relevant, someone who changes.Michael Hirst (The Tudors, The Vikings) does this splendidly in Elizabeth. When we first see her, she is a young long-haired princess gambolling in the countryside, excited to see the man she adores. She is laughing and happy, almost unaware of the burden of her destiny. In the final images, we see an austere and isolated monarch, in a rich and contrived Tudor interior, hair shorn and face whitened to an intimidating regal mask. There is no doubt that she is now a strong queen and leader in those last moments.Watching Elizabeth again, it is interesting how the movie operates on the premise of choices, and how these shape a history and an individual. The choice between marriage and duty, Catholic or Protestant etc., are all played out in the story and are set up in the first few minutes of the film in compelling way. "},{"Title":"Good Film With Its Fair Share of Flaws","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have been fascinated with Tudor history, but I when watching a film about the Tudor era, I was not expecting an accurate historical account. When I saw Elizabeth in 1998, I came to see some riveting performances, beautiful costumes gorgeous settings and stunning direction. I never let historical inaccuracies get in the way, because from my experience I know perfectly well that entertainment and historical facts don't collide very well in the Hollywood vacuum.Cate Blanchett was spectacular as the titular character. She just seemed natural for the role, both physically and mentally in character. However, I found the portrayal to be at times a bit uptight at times when it would have been more stimulating if she was more stone-cold. But I guess the Hollywood community wanted to emphasis on the uptight psyche that shines upon Elizabeth's inner struggles. I guess it's more complex to play a laid-back stone-faced queen while being manifested with inner anxiety.I was turned off the scene where Elizabeth was engaged in coitus with Sir Robert Dudley (Joseph Fiennes) while her ladies catch them in the act. I might assume this is a hook by Hollywood to include a romantic entanglement in this Tudor film. However, I found the scene to be grotesque because for the sake of decency, they should have made their sexual entanglement to be a little more private.The scene where Elizabeth comes together as a monarch and uses low-key manipulative tactics towards her Parliament was executed to absolute perfection. Blanchett adds just the right touch of diffidence and nobleness along with subliminal humour to make this scene all the more effective. Elizabeth's shrugging over marriage is quite vocal and very determined fearing that if she should tie the knot, she will lose her powers as the top of the monarchy. The various scenes where our pale-faced majesty starts losing her grip on reality towards her power by consorting towards unremorseful and emotionally distant are brilliantly exhibited.My main desire was to have Elizabeth deliver a more devilish charm while at the same time keeping if more subtle. On a historical basis, she did treat her suitors like puppets as she solely structured her country's defenses in order to gain her independence, but the low-key elements were not properly exhibited here. On a regular basis, she barks out that she will never wed and there was very little in terms of the Spanish suitor who's infamous Armada did not fare very well against Elizabeth's powerful Navy. I was disappointed this chain of events never materialized in the script.Sure I may have done a rant a bit here, but overall the movie was not entirely terrible. It was entertainingly satisfying with plenty of historical references to please people who are aficionados of the Tudor Era period pieces. I guess this movie to me would be a onetime deal for me because there were several flaws about it. "},{"Title":"Well made though not exactly great history.","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Making a historical biopic like Elizabeth is a very, very difficult thing--something many viewers would not expect. Although Elizabeth I of England was an incredibly important figure, there are two HUGE problems with a film about her. First, although she had LOTS of folks executed for treason, we really have no idea if many of these folks were actually guilty of anything. Executing potential threats and rivals back then was like eating potato chips--you can't stop with just one! Untangling this mess of intrigues is impossible today, so many of the plots you see in this film might not have even existed or occurred later in her reign (the executions in the film actually occurred over a very long period of time--not all at once). Second, there is scant little written from the time about the character and personalities of the major characters you see in the film. So, the film makers either inferred or simply made up stuff for the sake of cinematic style and intrigue. For example, Sir Francis Wallsingham was a man of intrigues and operated a personal spy network--so the inferences about him in this sense in the movie are reasonable. BUT, showing him with the young man who he then viciously kills at the beginning of the film is completely fictional. There is no evidence he murdered people with his own hands and I think the scene STRONGLY implies that he's either gay or bisexual--something that is made up for the movie. Another example is Elizabeth's sex life. This is NOT something they kept records of (for obvious reasons) and there has been MUCH conjecture that she was gay, asexual or carried on affairs behind the scenes with men. No one really knows the truth. So, my advice for the film is to take it all with a grain of salt--the main points are accurate but so many of the details are fabricated in order to create a neat sort of fictional non-fiction.As fictional non-fiction, the film looks great. The costumes and sets are wonderful. The acting is also quite good. And, the film is rather interesting and gives a good GENERAL overview of the early years of Elizabeth's reign. However, be forewarned the film is NOT for the squeamish, prudish or easily offended. It is very bloody (beginning with an incredibly vivid opening execution scene) and there is a lot of nudity. In many ways, this film helped set the template for later historical mini series which are much like history, a soap opera and a bit of skin combined. Well made but like most biopics, short on historical accuracy. "},{"Title":"Poorly Done","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have had a hard time understanding why this film is so critically acclaimed. The writing is poor, it is historically inaccurate, and makes little sense. I can deal with some artistic license for historic films, but this one is so far divorced from the truth that I had trouble sitting through it. Several significant characters are not properly introduced, despite the fact that they appear in several scenes. The script was a complete mess from beginning to end. Characters are extremely melodramatic, many of the scenes that we see do not makes sense. For example (spoilers)A dress kills one person who touches it, but not the other person who does so? (This is also an example of an extreme historical inaccuracy). When Elizabeth looks at herself with her hair cut, she proclaims herself a virgin. This makes exactly no sense. This has no basis in how people felt back then, as young unmarried virgins wore their hair down their backs, as she was featured in the beginning of the film when she was young. It doesn't even work as symbolism for other parts of the film. I found this line to be baffling. Basically, the film is one long irrelevant mess that relies on Hollywood's idea of what Elizabethan England is, with little substance or plot. "},{"Title":"Monarchy requires total devotion","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The plots were picked well to illustrate the Controlling Idea, that Monarchy requires total devotion, such that Queen Elizabeth would give up marriage and love to be devoted to England and be known by history as the Virgin Queen. But, the plots don't really grind against each other, the turning points are not natural progressions of each other and the story limps along without being driven by Elizabeth. For example, most of the Monarchy plot turning points are not effected by Elizabeth herself, instead they are by luck (Queen Mary dies, she is declared queen) and by others (Walsingham captures the priest and all the traitors). The Controlling Idea does not feel proved, it does not feel that she HAD to become the Virgin Queen to save her Monarchy and England. The sequel is much tighter in driving home its idea. Given this story, I'm surprised a sequel was given a chance to see the light of day. "},{"Title":"The Best Elizabeth Ever","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is the story of Queen Elizabeth I. The events take place in New England in the early 1554s. I can honestly say that the most dramatic moment is the beginning when she is faced with execution by her own sister and is able to survive persecution for her religious beliefs. I love everything about this production and all the details in the movie. The cast includes John Gielgud, Geoffrey Rush, Richard Attenborough, and veteran actress Cate Blanchett as, Queen Elizabeth I. The scene that I enjoy the most is when she meets Robert Dudley for the first time during the movie. I would strongly recommend viewing this drama and suggesting it to others. I can never get enough of this movie! It is so perfectly pieced together. ) "}{"Title":"A Thriller worthy of its subject matter","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth surprised me, to be quite honest, because I never thought that a period piece would be made into a frightening thriller, but that it was. Elizabeth's first act of the film, opens with a darkness you would expect to see in a Silence of the Lambs type of film. It's shot with beautifully somber cinematography, a terrifying religious-themed film score, colossal costumes, and using palatial sets, Elizabeth could mistake you for a Shakespeare adaptation of Macbeth or Hamlet.Cate Blanchett is really great in the role, as she's hyped up to be, supplying the film with Elizabeth's raw-emotion and cold persona. Geoffrey Rush is outstanding as the dark character, Walsingham, and Joseph Fiennes makes another memorable character of this era in the same year as the release of Shakespeare in Love. The film, though it delivers an excellent first act and a nice concluding third, the middle section of the lags behind because Elizabeth steps out of the thriller-type genre it was going for in the first 40 minutes and topics the expected marriage controversy with Elizabeth.Sometimes film gets lost in its own reputation, but it still towers as period piece. Rating 8/10; Grade A- "},{"Title":"Good drama but with some distractions","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth is a frock movie but, thinking about it, I usually only hate frock movies set later than the sixteenth century so it was quite cool for me to see this one. Long gone are the days when we used to associate Queen Elizabeth 1st with the saintly Glenda Jackson or followed that train of thought that lead inexorably to the picture of her writhing naked on the floor of a train in Ken Russell's The Music Lovers. For now Glenda Jackson is just another sad member of that Stalinist revisionist party, otherwise known as New Labour and it is time for a new face to play Queen E_1.Cate Blanchett is an excellent choice for the role and in many ways she has similar facial characteristics to the young Glenda Jackson in that she can look quite beautiful in one shot but play plain or downright ugly in another. She can act too, so no problems in that department. Geoffrey Rush is excellent in the part of Walsingham as is Christopher Ecclestone as Norfolk. Elsewhere a cameo by Angus Deayton is disastrously naff and although Kathy Burke is good as Queen Mary, it is difficult to disassociate her from the character of Waynetta Slob. I'm sure that Richard Attenborough is a kindly old gent who does charitable works but I've never liked him as an actor and he has too big a part here. Using John Gielguid to play the pope was also completely unnecessary and distracting. So a mixed bag as far as casting is concerned; what about the film itself? The director Shekhar Kapur said something to the effect that he is an outsider to British culture and therefore he was looking at 16th Century England as a strange and exotic foreign land. This vision comes through very clearly in the film and is both a strength and a weakness. You get a good sense of how alien these strutting peacocks and bizarre high-ceilinged drafty buildings are to the modern mind. At times it gets rather irritating too as he seems determined to film part of every scene through gauze or knobbly glass, or else he is perversely dedicated to showing everything from a high vantage point or from the vantage point of someone lying flat on their back in a medieval gutter. Mostly it is beautiful but with sufficient gimmickry to be distracting.The story is an interesting one, with Queen E_1 being depicted as having a young lover and how, through the dirty business of becoming a politician, she loses her humanity and becomes the Virgin Queen. The central section in particular is very enjoyable but the director failed to observe one of my Rules of Modern Cinema i.e. make the film and then cut at least half an hour out of the finished product. The half hour that should go here consists of most parts of the first 20 minutes which leave you thinking they'll never get to her coronation, let alone the rest of the story, and the last 10 minutes when the transformation from warm-blooded woman to cold Virgin Queen was done far too quickly to carry conviction.As for the feminist aspects I just don't remember enough from my school history lessons to say whether they are justified. Queen E_1 is usually seen as a very strong and effective ruler and I therefore think it is believable that she really did kick ass as depicted here, at least within the constraints of what was possible for a female monarch of the time. And probably male monarchs were equally constrained. Whether she really had a lover I don't know but it does make for an interesting film.A good historical drama let down by weird visuals and weird casting decisions. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth is one of my favourite films. Being an avid Tudor 'fan' I couldn't wait to see this when it first came out. Cate Blanchett gives a fantastic performance as the young Elizabeth who slowly evolves from an innocent girl to the Virgin Queen while also trying to keep Lord Robert happy. Obviously this film has changed some events to fit the story so don't watch it thinking it is historically accurate, as it isn't, but then it doesn't pretend to be. It isn't a documentary, it's a Hollywood film so of course things aren't to the letter. If they were the film would be around 8 hours long! i cant believe people have rated this film so low as I found it piqued my interest even further to learn more about this Queen and it had genuinely great moments provided by the great cast. Really well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Don't know what to say honestly.","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I like the history of Britain. I should thank first of all to this movie that it made me search and learn more about the famous Golden Age, the most promising Queen that Britan ever had that brought them not only an economical strenght but also led Britan to have one of the most powerful battle navy in history at that time. It was very entertaining for me to learn about those things giving the fact that we didn't learn about this in school yet and I don't think we will learn very soon.But what I have to criticize about this movie it's it lack of showing those important things, concentrating the plot more on silly events that probably didn't even occurred, transforming all what would have been a good movie in a pathetic, dull at some points story. They focused the story on Elizabeth's feelings and how she manages to exceed in becoming a good queen. That's a very fine thing for sure, because everybody wonders sometimes how those people lived. But again, we can never be sure that the queen really had an affair with Robert Dudley and didn't die a virgin as she pretends. Remember that she was the most successful monarch that Britain ever had in that century that gossips couldn't have missed. Showing the affair in the movie didn't bother me, though.Another thing that bothered me it's the constant idea that it's implemented from time to time, that Walsingham helped Elizabeth in almost 80% of her reign to succeed, otherwise she would have been destroyed. I have a history book, and when I read about Elizabeth's reign I was completely shocked that it didn't even mentioned Walsingham at least once. From that and from what I have further read and searched it seemed Walsingham's role was over shown in this movie only for Geoffrey Rush. I don't want to be misunderstood for this. Walsingham, had of course a lot of influence and helped Elizabeth a lot granted for his experience in politics, but I think that he had a much larger role in the movie thanks to Mr. Rush. Elizabeth was a strong woman that fought for Britain's reputations and for her people, and I think that, while she sure received some help from Walsingham, she wasn't that helpless and not aware of the danger that surrounded her.Anyway, those are my opinions regarding the history. Not necessary about how the movie really is. It was a good movie, with a good cast, a bit dark but that's what makes it good. But, again, something to say against, I don't think that Cate Blanchett was a good choice. I like how she expresses her authority in some scenes, I really like that side of her Elizabeth, but most of the movie, until she realizes the gravity of the situation, she acts a bit childish. Maybe it's not Cate's fault it's the plot. But she acted great nonetheless. Geoffrey Rush is great as Walsingham, he delivered a great performance. As for Joseph Fiennes, well, he seems like he has only a way of acting. The way he acted in Shakespeare in love he acted here as well. With some differences of course, but he didn't impressed me.All in all it's a good movie. Not as wow as everyone else praise, but still very good and worth watching.8/10 "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchette at her best","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Blanchette is brilliant as the brooding sultry Queen who is confused by the duties of honour state and family that beset her reign.Blanchette at her best as she ages from ravishing beauty to haggered old Queen.Unlike many movies this remains fairly accurate to historical fact.I think that you need to understand a little of the historical context to enjoy this film to the fullest.There seems to have been a glut of interest in the old Queens life as Queen Elizabeth the seconds reign has reached its 60th year, I found this one the most enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth &#x96; CATCH IT (A-) After watching King Henry VIII's chronicles in magnificent The Tudors (1-4) back to back. I wanted to give Tudor Dynasty the perfect ending with watching Elizabeth & Elizabeth; The Golden Age. Watching Elizabeth after finishing The Tudors was a perfect idea as it takes you back into whom exactly Elizabeth was and what exactly happened with her mother & father's life. Cate Blanchett did a fantastic job as Queen Elizabeth she was young, vibrant and the Virgin Queen. All the supporting cast did their part with utmost perfection. But the credit for the movie defiantly goes to Shekar Kapur and Cate Blanchett who made us believe in the Queen. "},{"Title":"Queen Cate......is .....Perfect","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Firstly a quick message to the...goof-balls...who whine but its not completely historically accurate Hey ..goof-balls..this is a piece of entertainment. It takes a contemporary look at the life of Queen Elizabeth. The movie is great. Cate Blanchett is truly memorable as Elizabeth. Geoffrey Rush is superb as the crafty Walsingham. Shekhar Kapur directs with subtlety and assurance. Blanchett has never been better --graduating from a love sick youth..to a Queen..who realizes that men are ..dispensible. She remains extremely sexy throughout--this film..and she matures quickly as she realizes---this Queen thing ..is her gig. The modern feel about this work....is not a hindrance. The pace is so perfect we go along--and love every bump in the road. Easily the best movie about Queen Elizabeth. A great movie. "},{"Title":"The building of a Queen","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A historic fiction work (a novel, a play or a film) doesn't need to respect historic true in every detail to be of great value. Some narrative freedom may be allowed in order to promote aesthetic values or beauty providing the true essence of historic facts is not altered. This movie abides entirely by these rules and gives us a story of what in its essence might have been the ascent of Queen Elizabeth I of England to the throne and the intrigues, enmities and hardships she had to fight in that ascent and on the first days of her reign to impose herself in the end as the Queen who made England the first power of the time. Cate Blanchett does a reasonable and rather acceptable role as the Queen, passing from a somewhat childish behaviour in the beginning (very understandable allowing for her youth) to a progressively more serious and stern one as far as she went on imposing herself to friends and foes. The images and scenes show adequately an accurate and even beautiful reconstitution of that historic epoch. However I think that some scenes and dialogues are too modern for the epoch in terms of values as well as of some liberties Lord Robert Dudley (Joseph Fiennes) takes with the Queen in the presence of other people namely the court, which I don't think would be admitted at the time. Not a masterpiece but just a rather good historic movie anyway. "},{"Title":"From the rise to Power to the conquest of Authority ...","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Period films have always been unfairly underrated. My guess is that because of the profusion of historical movies from Hollywood's Golden Age, we've grown with the idea that they were more an excuse for displays of flamboyance, thrilling sword fights and epic battle sequences or exhilarating Technicolorgies than true character studies or introspective examinations into the notions of corruption, integrity, or more generally power whether it's about a rise, a downfall, or both. Thankfully, the injustice has been fixed, and despite a few exceptions, all the recent period dramas have been a triumph on the field of intelligent storytelling, highlighting the intimate correlation between History and Story (the same word in some languages) something that mirrors our Human condition and raises the notion of knowledge to a universal level. And the power of Elizabeth is to tackle contemporary issues hidden in the austere and dark walls of splendid castles, carrying all the paranoid atmosphere of these plotting times. This is the greatest interest of period movies their appeal comes from both the lack of visual modernity and the inner modernity of the topics they deal with. In Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth, it's simply about the rise to power.Elizabeth invites us to comprehend how a young woman, Protestant in an England, not only Catholic but also intolerant toward those who rejected the Pope, as firmly illustrated in a gut- wrenching bonfire burning scene, how this person, outcast in so many levels, took over the power, and begun a reign that would last 40 years, and turns England, the prey of Europe's most powerful monarchies, into the dominant Nation in Europe. It's not just a woman in a world of men, but also a woman in probably the most vulnerable and fragile moment of England's history. She would take the power after the death of her stepsister, daughter of Henry VIII, but the point was to keep this power, and this was indeed a life and death situation for both Elizabeth, and England. In a way, Elizabeth embodied the situation of England in an ironic but inspirational symbiosis. The most relevant example is the invasion of Scotland by Mary of Guise' French troops coinciding with a proposal to marry the Duke of Anjou, the nephew of the same Mary. Elizabeth would be less married than raped in her honor and she's aware of her dilemma and how it echoes the situation of her beloved people. But the key of this torment is to conquer, before the power, the certitude that she IS the one who rules the country, and the game isn't won yet. As it's said before, all she has are enemies, she has a lover too, but the line between the sincerity of his love and his secret ambition are thin to the limit of imperceptibility.Elizabeth's other dilemma is with the bishops, a powerful Catholic congregation refusing to pay allegiance to the queen who dared to deny the Pope's influence. Probably the first turning point of Elizabeth's rise to power is her first confrontation with the bishops, where she explains the reasons of her attitude toward the Pope, how can one be faithful to two countries in the same time. As she said, not without a delighted irony, it's all a matter of 'common sense'. Whether she gained the sympathy of her audience is not the point, at least, she's assessing her independence as a religious person, a first step, before assessing her independence as a woman-to-marry, then a woman, and final step a Head of State, from Elizabeth to the Virgin Queen, a long process occupying the first two thirds of the film.And the force of the film is to never detach itself from the plot's basis, which is to understand the progressive domestication of a throne, of a country, which is like a savage horse that refuses to be ridden. And never falling into simplification, it takes its time to depict all the interactions and influences that would forge the growing authority of Elizabeth. It's about succession and conquest of authority, which is the cement that builds the durability of power. And when we consider how both Elizabeth and England were when the film begun, it becomes one of the most interesting character studies and evolutions in cinema's recent history.It would even remind of another classic The Godfather. Both movies are about a character so underestimated because of an outcast status and apparent weakness (being a civilian/ being a woman) that the conquest of authority is even more captivating. As viewers, watching these films where an underdog becomes a ruthless but charismatic powerful figure is as delightful as reading some pages of Machiavelli's Prince. And this is not a fortuitous comparison when in the last chapters, you read how some cruel acts can help to consolidate a power, you can't help but think of Elizabeth's climax that resonates like the Godfather's Baptism Massacre sequence.And after the climax, the movie takes a new dimension, as we don't just understand the nature of power, but of monarchy. Why this appeal for kings and queens? Because God is so untouchable that we need human figures that incarnate this power in the face of Earth. It almost sounds heretic but if you read the Constitution of most monarchies, you're always to find the mark of religion, and whether this representative power has declined, kings and queens have always been a model of metaphysical fascination. And when they commit cruel acts, the veneration is so strong and the adoration so sincere that we would all find convenient alibis, for people allowed to act as a God-like figure.This is what being a Queen is about and probably the words implicitly written by the last scene where Elizabeth sits in the throne. And Cate Blanchett, 'Blanche' as the impressive whiteness that painted the Queen's new 'virginity' is simply perfect in this powerful examination of the roots of power. "},{"Title":"Movie Makers & the Great Elizabethan Tampering Scandal","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What is a really good film could have been a masterpiece if it wasn't for the poetic licence used by the makers of this movie.Why on earth a movie studio wants to tamper with historical facts when the real story is perfectly fine and intriguing in its own right is beyond me. Take the assassination of Mary of Guise &#x96; there is no evidence that she was assassinated by Francis Walsingham. In fact by most accounts she died of natural causes. Walsingham was not an assassin or a murderer. He was the Queen's Protector or 'Spymaster' as he was known. In essence, the Elizabethan version of MI5. There is no account either of a 'poisoned dress' &#x96;security at court was very tight in such times and guards were constantly on the lookout for potential threats.The fact is that the story of Elizabeth I is so compelling without this embroidery &#x96; none of this salad dressing is really necessary. One of the best abuses of artistic licence is in the film U-571 &#x96; the Americans never captured an Enigma coding machine and yet the British captured two. What's the point in making the film then?The fact is that movie studios produce films for entertainment and think that historical works need to be embellished to make them more watchable. Yet this is nonsense &#x96; in Elizabeth's case the history is fascinating and with great actors such as Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Ecclestone and Sir Richard Attenborough, a true and accurate film about Elizabeth's reign would have been quite enough.Having said this, if you can ignore the multitude of historical inaccuracies and take the film on its own merits, the movie is well produced with great acting performances. Cate Blanchett is fabulous as Elizabeth and Joseph Fiennes is equally good as Dudley. Geoffrey Rush's portrayal as Francis Walsingham, however, is the stand out performance for me.The film is actually a doomed love story surrounding the friendship between Dudley and the Queen. This is quite true - in fact, the King of Spain was even quoted as saying that 'Elizabeth would never marry or will marry Robert Dudley because she loves him'. An interesting fact &#x96; Dudley played host to the Queen at Kenilworth Castle where, as part of the pomp, fireworks were used for the very first time in England.So to sum up, Elizabeth is a great film but chunks of it are not true. The sad part is that people watch films like this and believe everything they see. If historical inaccuracies bug you then this one may not be for you.Wake up movie makers - the truth is so much better than fiction. "}{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Elizabeth","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth was one of Cate Blanchett's earlier films that had propelled her to stardom given that it won her a couple of major acting awards in her role as the titular Queen who ushered in what was the Golden Age in English history. I had seen the sequel Elizabeth The Golden Age some three years ago also directed by Shekhar Kapur, and this film dealt with Elizabeth's rise to power and ascension to the throne, ending with her consolidating her influence and having that grip on her court and kingdom.Period films about the English monarchy has always been rich material for filmmakers to dwell into, such as Justin Chadwick with his The Other Boleyn Girl which featured one generation earlier with Elizabeth's mother Anne Boleyn. This film skips everything then and jumps in at the point where Queen Mary I decided to imprison her half sister Elizabeth into the Tower of London for treason and for her Protestant faith, before illness and a whole host of politicking that didn't succeed meant Elizabeth succeeded Mary as ruler of England when the latter passes away.Michael Hirst's story deals with the rise of Elizabeth to power, and how she develops from girly girl, into the powerful yet lonely woman at the apex of her kingdom. Cate Blanchett brings a sense of vulnerability in her performance early in the film as the girl thrust into the hot seat where her innocence makes her instant fodder for conspirators to pounce upon and usurp the throne for herself. Being ruler of the land means a certain steely determination required, and charm to ensure policies get pushed through, and the episodes selected and highlighted in the film goes about doing just that. Not only that, the film has this constant sense of fear going on, of not knowing what to do, and who exactly to trust, and Blanchett brings about this quality, and other qualities associated with the role in flawless terms.The pressures of course come from all quarters, where even allies consistently tells upon her to fulfill certain conditions for power consolidation, where as a woman she's quite expected to marry and to produce an heir under a political marriage either with the Spanish or the French, since she had inherited what's essentially a bankrupt country. Danger lurks primarily from the Catholics, who deem her position in the country inappropriate, calling her a heretic spreading heresy with her faith. Yes, there's this constant subtext and battle between religions here, with even Daniel Craig starring as a priest on the orders of the Pope at the Vatican to do what's necessary to rid England of her.Then there's always the danger from affairs of the heart, where her relationship with Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes) is out in the open and in a scene probably will raise some eyebrows since Elizabeth is much touted as the Virgin Queen. But hey, with every film biopic, artistic and dramatic license is always taken, and this serves but one angle of how the director wants to portray this concept. The main suitor comes in the form of Vincent Cassel's cross dressing Duc d'Anjou, who is quite the comical farce, in a relationship desired to be brokered by Monsieur de Foix played by Eric Cantona. You read that right, the football star in what's probably his earliest major film role in English.Unlike the sequel, there's no major action sequence here, not only because of the smaller budget. But that doesn't mean that it's less engaging, because what will hook you in is the political intrigue and conspiracy brewing at every corner of the Elizabeth rulership, where allies can become hidden enemies, and political survival is of the utmost concern. Both Richard Attenborough and Geoffrey Rush shine in their role as stoic advisors to the Queen, especially Rush's Sir Francis Walsingham who also commands the clandestine spy operations to ensure the eradication of the Queen's enemies. In some ways I thought the finale had resembled very closely to The Godfather's, with an opera soundtrack playing over a montage of assassinations being carried out simultaneously.If you, like me, have an insatiable appetite for period movies about Kings and Queens in their darkest days, then give Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth, probably the most definitive film out there, a go, and not to forget the sequel as well. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Thank God WE Met Lizzie!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" To start with, very few actresses could have successfully delivered such a performance as Cate Blanchett's as Elizabeth I and driven it with, at times, such charismatic playfulness and, conversely, such avid passion and cold seriousness. Blanchett makes for an excellent Queen Elizabeth I, with perhaps her most astonishing achievement being her ability to portray the unrelenting and often overwhelming insecurity that inundated the young ruler which, instead of becoming annoyingly dreary, hits the right note and makes the audience sympathetic towards her plight, justifying her nomination for Best Actress, the very first of many Oscar nods.Balanced against Blanchett is Geoffrey Rush as the mysterious and daring figure Walsingham, a somewhat villain that the audience instantly can get behind as the philosophical anti-hero, eventually arising to the esteemed position of the Queen's personal assassin and adviser. His pivotal role and performance is undermined by a severe lack of presence, though he does a damn good job with what he's given.Joseph Fiennes is charming and sexily poetic as Elizabeth's illegitimate lover Robert Dudley. Whether portraying the Queen's lover or playwright (as he did in the 1998 Best Picture Shakespeare In Love, also starring Geoffrey Rush oddly enough) Fiennes has a remarkable quality to make every line demand the viewer's attention simply because his words can cause the most rigid person to melt before him.Christopher Eccleston, a man perhaps best (or most vaguely) described as a subtler John Malkovich, has few true moments of his own, but his restraint and silently calculating demeanour produce a constantly scheming Duke of Norfolk. His many attempts to orchestrate Elizabeth's death for the entirety of the film ultimately result in his execution, due to the betrayal of his servant/lover. Eccleston has created such an airtight antagonist that, even at this, his most pitiable, the audience finds it impossible to pity him.Kathy Burke's unfortunately small interjection as the eerily desperate Mary I also deserved far more recognition than it received.Finally, silver-screen veteran Richard Attenborough as Sir William, one of Elizabeth's closest advisers, is gently touching as the under-appreciated voice of reason. In one scene, Elizabeth declares that she will now follow only her own opinion and rebukes William for stating that she is only a woman, saying that she has the heart of a man, she is her father's daughter and she is not afraid of anything. William asks contritely for forgiveness and assures Elizabeth that his advice has always been in her best interests, struggling with tears concurrently with the viewer. It is revitalizing to see that true icons never really lose the power to move their audiences in such a way.The script's course (which focuses heavily on the brutal conflict between the Catholics and Protestants in England, squabbles that seem ridiculous now but echo the current religious biases in the world to a tee) unfolds with the unraveling of a mass conspiracy against the titled hero, as well as her efforts to do what is necessary in order to reign as Queen discard her childish naivety and fear of the unknown and become a ruthless, impersonally merciless and dedicated woman. This route is defined and traveled quite comfortably with all the information of a documentary/biography and all the appeal of a splendid drama/epic tale.The score, composed by David Hirschfelder, is mostly a mixture of string-oriented melodies, fiddle and pipe jigs and church-choir accompaniments. The beauty of many of Hirschfelder's pieces is complemented by Alexandra Byrne's dedicated costumes and Remi Adefarasin's intimate scenery shots as photography director, though there is some clunky and irreverent editing on Jill Bilcock's behalf (witness Cate Blanchett's miraculous movement from the chair to the mirror, in mid-sentence, without taking a breath!)Director Shekhar Kapur has an apt eye for the continuation of scenes that sometimes are too long but remain of interest because of his considerate touch. If he has committed any true misstep in the making of Elizabeth, it is his constant focus on the affair between Elizabeth and Dudley, which seems adequate enough we realise that it's more fun to watch them quarrel. Still, Kapur has some especially triumphant moments in this film, from the immediately compelling opening, in which three Protestant martyrs are burned alive, to what is a moving, albeit brief, love scene between Elizabeth and Dudley, and of course the powerful 20 second homage to the entire film just before the conclusion.Elizabeth, while promising, is not a perfect film, which is a genuine shame as period pieces have become such common ground these days that it would be nice to find one that attains such status. It is worth noting that Michael Hirst's semi-faithful screenplay is, if you reduce Elizabeth's script down to its very base, often concerned with tedious yet necessary and, at times, uninteresting plot devices required to keep the film moving. While much of the dialog is crisp and well thought out, there are occasional instances when the film's momentum has slowed and all that is left are two people on screen speaking tired recycled lines, in particular the conversations between Dudley and Alvaro de la Quadra (James Frain), a Spanish ambassador, whom talk of nothing but Dudley's allegiance to England and love for Elizabeth twice for two full minutes when once for 20 seconds would have sufficed. Times like this make Elizabeth, a moderate 110 minutes, seem slightly overlong. Also, does anyone really follow Dudley's logic for ultimately betraying Elizabeth? Does he?!However, this is ultimately a sincerely masterful film, particularly its closing scenes, in which Elizabeth decides to take on the faade of the Virgin Queen, inspired by the likewise Mary, by cutting her hair to the length of a boys, adopting a wig, paling her face and sauntering proudly through her royal chambers claiming that she shall never marry or love again, as she is already to and with, respectfully, her great country of England and its people. Powerful stuff. "},{"Title":"Marginally Better Than The Golden Age","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I've watched the two Elizabeth movies out of order, having seen the sequel The Golden Age a couple of years ago, and only now the original Elizabeth. The Golden Age came across to me as too romanticized. This one was definitely (if only marginally) better. Beginning with the Roman Catholic Queen Mary (Elizabeth's half-sister) on the throne, and the Protestant Princess Elizabeth being a rallying point for English Protestants, the movie offers a very good portrayal of the religious fervour of the age, as we see Protestants being burned at the stake almost from the opening scene, and it accurately notes that Elizabeth was in many ways a moderate in the debate Protestant, but not too Protestant; quite willing to let Catholics (and also Protestant non-conformists) alone as long as they attended Church of England services as well as their own. There was a lot of intrigue portrayed as Elizabeth comes to power after Mary's death and as she begins to consolidate her hold on power, which was at first quite shaky and uncertain. There was also a lot of attention to a pre-eminent diplomatic issue of the day who should Elizabeth marry? There were candidates from both France and Spain (and England for that matter.) The issue of her marriage did lead to one of the funniest scenes in the movie, when Elizabeth walks in unexpectedly on one of her suitors (the French Duc d'Anjou) and discovers him - shall we say - dressed as a woman in the company of men at what appeared to be a rather raunchy party. All that was well done.The same weaknesses that held back The Golden Age in my view are still here, though. The flow was missing; the movie seemed to jump around too much, and the relationship between Elizabeth and Robert Dudley depicted more of the unsubstantiated gossip about how intimate their relationship was, when, in fact, many suspect that stories of their intimacy were quite exaggerated.Still, this is not a bad movie. It's a great period piece; authentically 16th century in look and feel, and Cate Blanchett is fantastic as Elizabeth - her appearance at the end of the movie is the spitting image of the typical Elizabethan portraits. "},{"Title":"The early years of the Virgin Queen.","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am my father's daughter. I am not afraid of anything.I'll admit that I enjoyed recent historical dramas like The Duchess and The Young Victoria. But sometimes, pardon my language, I want to see a historical drama with some balls. And I don't mean the kind with dancing and fancy dresses. Elizabeth fits that descriptor admirably.The movie opens with a chilling scene precluding the execution of some Protestant rebels, which does an effective job of setting the tone for one of the central conflicts of that time and the move; the conflict between the supporters of the Catholic church and the Protestants (of which Elizabeth was a steadfast member, to the dismay of many).Elizabeth covers the time period stretching from the early dangers she faced at the hands of her suspicious half-sister, Queen Mary I, to the political and personal successes and failures of the early part of her 44 year reign. We watch as she faces rebellion and betrayal, and gradually sheds her inexperience to become a forceful, capable, and independent ruler. Cate Blanchett is a fantastic actress. That should be a surprise to no one. And she certainly looks the part. She makes for a fine Queen Elizabeth. As for the rest of the cast (sans one person, in particular), I found them all to be suitable. Blanchett is clearly the focus of the movie, though, and the film works because it rests so well on her queenly shoulders. As for the settings, costumes, etc., they're less opulent than those that I've seen in some more recent movies of this type, but they serve their purpose within the story well. My only real problem with the movie (besides how comically evil some members of the Roman Catholic church were portrayed to be) was Robert Fiennes in the role of Lord Robert. His character seemed like he would be right at home in a bad romance novel, and I found myself rolling my eyes or losing interest nearly every time he was on screen. He was the wrong actor for the part, too much of the movie was unwisely (and unnecessarily) focused on him, and his interactions with Elizabeth were handled atrociously. Those were the only weak scenes in a very strong movie, but they did force me to drop my score. Other than that, though, I highly recommend Elizabeth. "},{"Title":"All Hail Queen Blanchett!","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 1998 was the year Hollywood made Elizabethan England sexy. Elizabeth was one of two (the other being Shakespeare in Love) films released that year to feature the famed Virgin Queen in a prominent role, and both actresses to play her (Cate Blanchett here and Judi Dench in Shakespeare) received Oscar nominations (and in Dench's case the win) for their efforts.Elizabeth is by far the more serious of the two, but take that for whatever it's worth. This historical rendering of the young Elizabeth's rise to power is full of enough heavy breathing, whispered intrigues and catty spats to fill hours of reality T.V. The film looks lovely, and director Shekar Kapur keeps things moving briskly (even if I did wish that he'd stop moving his camera around quite so much). This was the movie that made me fall in love with Blanchett, a love that has not abated to this day.Interestingly, and weirdly, Joseph Fiennes and Geoffrey Rush both appear in this film and Shakespeare in Love. Between Queen Elizabeth and World War II, what would Hollywood have used for material otherwise that year? Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Stunning historical drama","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Some movies will be remembered for their legacies. Elizabeth is such a film; it brought one of the finest modern day actresses to the world's attention. Inexplicably she didn't win an Oscar for her electrifying performance here, and time has shown that mistake to be one of the biggest blunders in the history of the Oscars (once again calling into question the dubious publicity campaigns of Harvey Weinstein...). Nevertheless, while the film is good enough in its own right, the lasting legacy of this film is the debut performance of Cate Blanchett.England, mid-1500s. Henry VIII is dead, his daughter Mary has no heir, and Protestants are being burned at the stake by the Catholics. However, the power of the Catholics comes to an end, however, with the crowning of Mary's Protestant half-sister, Elizabeth. Just because she is queen doesn't guarantee her safety, however.The film is a showcase of stellar acting and spectacular visuals. We are literally transported back to regal Europe and the journey is arresting. It wouldn't be possible without some stellar performances.Cate Blanchett is dynamite as the eponymous character. She is so good that even 12 years later, it is unthinkable that she lost the Oscar for her performance (to Shakespeare in Love? PLEASE!). She's a lightning rod, and sets herself up as a talent to match Meryl Streep, a challenge which she has continuously met again and again. It may have been her breakout performance, but she is so comfortable on the center stage that you'd never in a million years believe that it was her first shot at the big time.Blanchett is helped by a number of other stellar performances. Geoffrey Rush is delicious as the shadowy Walsingham. He's like a spider, spinning his web from the dark corners of the room, pulling his strings so that events are silently manipulated under his control. Christopher Eccelston is excellent as the unspeakably evil Duke of Norfolk. Cinema hasn't seen a villain this vicious in a long while. Joseph Fiennes surprised everyone into thinking he could act as Robert Dudley, Elizabeth's lover (history has proved this to be a fluke, rather than the rule). Richard Attenborough is solid as Elizabeth's desperate adviser, Sir William Cecil. Terence Rigby is frightening as Bishop Gardiner, the Catholic bishop who is calling for Elizabeth's assassination. Brief appearances by Fanny Ardant, Vincent Cassel (in an purposefully over-the-top performance), John Gielgud, Emily Mortimer, an unrecognizable James Frain, and Daniel Craig (who has one of the most frightening scenes in the history of film) are all solid.Director Shekhar Kapur has an eye for period detail and directing actors. His storytelling abilities, however, leave something to be desired. The machinations of the twisty plot can be confusing, although the film is never boring, and it always retains a generous level of coherence.Be warned about venturing into this movie, however. This is a very violent film, and the way it is made makes the bloodshed (of which there is plenty) shocking, brutal, and highly disturbing. I have never seen violence in a film that is more unsettling than in Elizabeth.Elizabeth is a good film, but it will always be remembered for introducing audiences to one of cinema's brightest stars.My Rating Rated R for Strong, Explicit Graphic Violence, Disturbing Images, and Some Brief Sexuality. "},{"Title":"Impressive performances in gritty political thriller","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 'Elizabeth' features some impressive performances all round, including a star-making turn by Cate Blanchett in the lead. Her performance alone makes the film well worth watching. The film is essentially a political thriller and there's lots of intrigue and double-crosses. The tone of the film is rather gritty and it is consistently absorbing, even if events seem a bit murky at times. Geoffrey Rush and Christopher Eccleston both excel. Joseph Fiennes is effective as Robert Dudley and his romance with Elizabeth is touching. The film is violent, and the conclusion feels a little rushed. Recommended.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of 1998's best Pictures","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" After seeing how bad Elizabeth The Golden Age was, I did not bother to see this movie. However, my cousin saw it and told me it was pretty good. Now that I have seen Elizabeth The Virgin Queen twice, I thoroughly enjoyed it.I was never much of a Cate Blanchett fan, in fact I find her to be very overrated, but her performance in this is absolutely mesmerizing. Throughout the film, she has four men in her life. Her lover (Fiennes). Her defender (Rush). Her adviser (Eccleston). And her guardian (Attenborough).Each plays their part well and ultimately changes her character from start to finish as a naive, innocent princess to a ruthless and determined leader. She not only has the appearance of Queen Elizabeth, but also delivers her lines with emotion and intelligence, gradually showing these changes. How she did not get the Oscar for this is beyond my understanding. Then again, she was an unknown in 1998 versus Paltrow (who won that year). Nevertheless, I will always remember this movie as her best work.The accomplishments of the costume designs make up, and art direction doesn't just make the time period of the 1500s look realistic, but it also adds to the creativity of the film as well as an unforgettable time in Europe. I also enjoyed Remi Adefarasin's sweeping cinematography and David Hirschfelder's haunting yet beautiful score.Shekhar Kapur's direction is breathtaking. One of the most amazing scenes in the film is in the beginning where three so-called heretics are burned. Rather than focusing it blatantly on the victims or on the shocked crowd, it shows the whole scene through an aerial view with slow 360 degree twirls. It may sound like it would make you dizzy but the camera is steady and captures the whole thing marvelously.The only thing I have against this movie is that some of the plots and conspiracies get confusing and hard to follow. Some of the character motives I felt were not broadened enough nor had enough time to be built up. Other than that, I really liked this prequel. 9/10I'm disappointed that this only got on Oscar in 1998, since this is one of two movies that were nominated for Picture I liked that year. "},{"Title":"A thing of beauty","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Besides the wonderful acting by all the leading players, what struck me about this film on a recent re-viewing was the director's love for space and architecture. There are many majestic shots filmed from high in cathedrals and castles that show the beauty of Gothic and Norman craftsmanship. Colorful costumes and set dressing make ELIZABETH a feast for the eye from start to finish.Also to note are the bookending shots of long red hair being cut off first of the female martyr, and finally of Elizabeth herself. A nice touch.Besides, I'll always support a queen who can defeat Dr. Who (Eccleston) and James Bond (Craig) in the same film. "},{"Title":"She ruled as Elizabeth the First, yet somehow Cate came in second (or worse) at Oscar time!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Things get off to quite a vicious and visceral start in this flavorful take on the early life of Queen Elizabeth I as three protestants are roughly shorn and then burned at the stake. It's a fairly unforgettable sequence that grabs the attention and, for the most part, the film continues to do so from then on, though nothing quite tops the opening for sheer savagery. Blanchett portrays the title future monarch who is in exile due to her claim to the British throne, currently occupied by her older half-sister Burke. When her time comes to ascend, she is faced with powerful enemies such as Eccleston and powerful allies such as Rush while the royal court is in a constant state of hubbub over her and her political decisions. One pressure she is under involves marrying and producing an heir, something she would like to do with her childhood love Fiennes, but which she can't due to his status. French nobleman Cassel is offered to her as an option, but proves unacceptable as well. Meanwhile, she is battling Scotland, which is under the rule of Ardant, yet another enemy. Blanchett manages to juggle the affairs of state and the affairs of the heart while assassins wait around every other corner. As most viewers know, she manages to succeed in most areas and proceeds to a long and mostly illustrious reign. Blanchett is striking and exceptional in this, one of her early film roles. She balances a whole range of emotions for a legendary personage without ever heading over the top. Rush lends perfect support. The two had worked together before in theatre and enjoyed a built-in rapport. Eccleston is appropriately exasperated and vengeful while Fiennes is endearingly loving and protective. Attenborough, frequently a hammy actor, displays some of that quality here, but not fatally so. Ardant, Cassel and Burke provide the right amount of zest in their scenes. Gielgud appears very briefly as an outraged Pope and Craig has an early role as one his brutal henchmen. The story plays fast and loose with some historical facts, though its visual attributes cannot be denied, nor can the star-making performance of its leading actress. In an ironic twist, both Rush and Fiennes starred in another 1998 film that had appearances from Elizabeth I (played by Dame Judi Dench) &#150; Shakespeare in Love. The leading lady of that film, Gwyneth Paltrow, was given the Oscar over Blanchett in a preposterous move by the Academy (thus also missing the chance to reward two actresses in two different films who were playing the same person as Dench won for Best Supporting Actress that year.) It's a vivid, captivating take on a fascinating subject though it isn't always easy for non-historians to figure out exactly what is taking place at any given moment. Fortunately, the strong performances and stylish direction keep the momentum going and some title cards at the beginning help set the stage for what comes after. Almost a decade later, Blanchett returned to the role for a sequel that details the events occurring in Elizabeth's reign after this film. "}{"Title":"An excellent film starring one of  history's greatest double acts.","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If only Mary Tudor (Bloody Mary) had signed Elizabeth's death warrant; England would had remained a cool northern outpost of ruthlessly catholic dominated Europe. No British Empire, no USA, Australia,... as we know it. Anyone's guess how the world would be now in the third millennium. If you like any one of the following history, costume drama, cut throat politics, double dealing, fornication, and bloody brutal murder, this film is for you! To make this film a 9/10, do some homework and study a short synopsis of the history and characters. Elizabeth and Walsingham were undoubtedly one of history's luckiest and most successful double acts; and yes there are the losers, the poor Earl of Leicester, one of history's many many sad (but ultimately likable) losers in love. "},{"Title":"The Virgin Queen&#133;Elizabeth","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" With outstanding performances, lush settings and costumes, as well as a well-crafted story, this film does exactly what is needed for a biography to succeed&#151;and it sticks to a specific period of a legend's life, without trying to tell eighty years in two hours. Hers is a tale that many know, at least a trifle bit, about. From our introduction, writer Michael Hirst tells us exactly what is necessary to gage all our principal players. Elizabeth is a Protestant, thus a heretic to those in power. Her being an illegitimate heir, daughter of Ann Boleyn, those with aspirations to the crown, the Duke of Norfolk at the forefront, look to do all they can in order to remove her. Elizabeth is at first a child in love, given an opportunity to rule yet without the strength needed to make decisions based on her own sound judgment rather than those around her. While she is a woman, and even those who call themselves friends and allies can't shake that fact, in order to rule, she must be sure her mind is ruling and not her heart. Thus, we are shown the rise of a woman, whom no one thought able to survive a day on the job, who would soon vault her nation to be the wealthiest and most powerful in the world.Shekhar Kapur is blessed with a script from Hirst that gets everything right. We are taken through the journey of betrayals with little doubt or vagueness. All crossovers of allegiances, all attempts at deception in order to use her as a pawn for more power, and each action that slowly shows her what it means to be human and how even the most trusted of her peers can be bought and sold, are portrayed to the point. Everything in the world was stacked against the Queen whether it politics, religion, or love. While the script is devoid of excess, it is the direction that flourishes with style and radiance. From the castle interiors to the period dress, the film is precise in its recreation of the time. The words are perfect and the plot fast paced and exciting, but without the artistry to deliver it as such, no one would be talking about the end result nearly as much as they do. A good story may be enough for me, but it is the spectacle that allows it to succeed across the board.Besides the visuals, the main driving force at play is the career-defining performance from Cate Blanchett. It is this role that will always be synonymous with her name. To be able to show off the smile of a young woman attempting to keep her life together while it is swept away in the storm of responsibility for a nation is an amazing feat. Her virtue and faith in her own beliefs showed early on during her subjection to treason charges and almost execution at the hands of her half-sister, but they only fully show themselves at the end when she has finally excepted her duty above any earthly gains she might have otherwise. Only by secluding herself from the temptations of the flesh, or the heart of a woman, as some characters here would say, can she be strong enough to survive and protect her ward of England. The power that exudes from her being during the final chapter is immense. Some may say she became cold-hearted, but if you watch her performance carefully, you'll see that it is her love and that alone which enables her to do the things she does. Only love and faith could allow her to acquiesce to the deeds she knows must occur for her land to be safe from harm. I can't wait to see this strength of character throughout an entire film, as I can only imagine Elizabeth The Golden Age will see her reign with that power prominently thrust forward.One can't stop with just Blanchett when speaking of the acting on display here. Geoffrey Rush is absolutely brilliant portraying the one man truly working on the Queen's side. It is his role as Sir Francis Walsingham that reminds Elizabeth of who she is. He speaks of what Princes must do to succeed and what dark deeds are necessary for the good of the whole. He treats the Queen as an intelligent being and not a woman in a man's job. Without his dedication and willingness to do the dirty work in order to propel her reputation as one to not take lightly, her reign would have been very short lived. Stoic throughout, besides a few gentle moments where the appearance of a smile can be seen, Rush is the epitome of a man taking his career seriously and the well being of those in his duty to protect ahead of any other.The rest of the cast is a who's who of European greats. Christopher Eccleston is spot-on as the villainous Norfolk just doing what he believes is best for his nation; Joseph Fiennes is good as Lord Robert, however at times seems a bit too theatric; Richard Attenborough brings a nice turn as the Queen's closest adviser, wrestling with his belief in her at the expense of his thoughts that she is just a woman; and then we have the numerous cameos from the likes of Emily Mortimer, Kelly MacDonald, Daniel Craig, James Frain (also starring in the Tudors), and a gem of comedy to lighten the mood from Vincent Cassel. It is these small roles that show the true strength of the film. By reining in the scope of a story about Elizabeth to that crucial time of her ascension to power, it allows for the filmmakers to make sure every detail is perfect. Credit to Hirst and Kapur for getting it all right. "},{"Title":"Ambitious biography","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Queen Elizabeth I, the Virgin Queen, was monarch at a pivotal time in England's history, and one of the longest reigning monarchs (over 40 years). This biopic studies her early years, starting in her teens at a time when her infamous father had decreed she should not be in the line of succession to the throne, through the years of court intrigue she endured, into her ascension to the throne, and the early years of her reign.The focus is on the struggles of the daughter of the ill-fated and disgraced Anne Boleyn to establish her birthright, and then to hold on to it once achieved. Although there are some aberrations to true historical fact, good insight into Elizabeth's challenges are given. One example of historical liberties taken is the portrayal of her half-sister Mary considering murdering her. Most historians agree the Mary and Elizabeth were very close sisters. Cate Blanchett resembles (paintings of) the long reigning queen, and her performance is of a strong and confident woman, a leader not just by blood line, but possessing the unique qualities that make for an effective leader.Of note is the superior cinematography and lighting tecniques to establish mood. Deep hues for troublesome times, bright exuberant colors for lighter moments. For example, Mary, depicted as evil and a danger to Elizabeth, was always shrouded in dark, poorly lit rooms.Successes and failures of Elizabeth's later years will be documented in the sequel coming out this year, while this first installment leaves off after the first few years of her reign. They were difficult years, to say the least. A cheating lover, traitors, despisers, pretenders to the throne, an oddball suitor, dangers from France and Spain, etc.A worth while film, which, in spite of some inaccuracies, brings the famous queen to life. "},{"Title":"Fully Deserves the Honors It Received","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Over the past several years, we've enjoyed a veritable avalanche of Elizabeths -- this one with Cate Blanchett, the HBO film with Helen Mirren and a PBS Masterpiece Theatre version with Anne-Marie Duff. While all three are splendid, each in its own way, this one has the strongest cast and Cate Blanchett is a beautiful and imposing Elizabeth. I have no doubt that it reached the widest audience and with such other players as Geoffrey Rush, Joseph Fiennes, John Gielgud and Richard Attenborough, it depended less than did the other two versions on the actress playing the queen. This is one is, by a considerable margin, the shortest of the three. It fully deserved the honors it received. But truth be told, I thought the other two versions superior the HBO film because Helen Mirren is unequalled (though Cate Blanchett may one day reach her level) and the PBS version because it does the best job of recreating the era and Anne-Marie Duff is quite good, though not as powerful in the role as Mirren and Blanchett. "},{"Title":"Good, but slightly confusing.","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It was good, but not great. The costumes, sets, and music were wonderful which (to me) is just as important as the acting and script in a movie. The actors were also wonderful. Cate Blanchett as Queen Elizabeth was perfect, and Geoffrey Rush as Walsingham was excellent. That being said, it's time for the negative.This movie is not for the person with a short attention span (like myself). If you miss a line, you'll be lost for sure. A lot of the dialog was quiet so it was also hard to hear. I was pretty confused at the end of the movie about what happened in a couple of events, and I had to go look up some information on Queen Elizabeth.If you're a fan of period films or any of the actors, see this movie. If you don't like history then, well, this probably isn't the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Good just one part eyes might need to be closed and maybe some age consideration about the sex.","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie does a great job trying to describe 16th century English life and fails only few things about historical accuracy. The sex dosen't go the further and involves no private parts. It will tell great things about the historical language and problems of the day in Queen Elizabeth I's time. The only part that would make the movie R is the scene where some plotters are hanged, drawn, beheaded and cut in four or described as hanging, drawing and quartering which all people under 17 should have their eyes closed as well as people who form the great majority who would be scared. The rest should be rated PG - 13 and maybe kids could see it if you talk about and the PG - 13 is because of sexual things that may be bad for viewers under 13.From Noah "},{"Title":"a film revisited - an ongoing love","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have seen this film again over the weekend on a German broadcast network.I must admit, I still loved it, even though that I definitely know more about history nowadays than I knew when it came up.It doesn't matter if it is 100 % historically accurate or not, but it follows the events rather closely, and there is no liberty in the script to make things look more dramatic than they actually were. Any good screen writer knows that the actual happenings, usually, were more dramatic than any inventions.The acting is flawless, maybe for the exception of J. Fiennes who exaggerates in my opinion quite a little, for let us face it, even if he loved Elizabeth, as later on Essex obviously did, it was all about influence and power etc. etc., but it does not change the overall good impression due to the other actors.Camera, Direction, etc. are great, an unimportant remark maybe about the camera moving up upon the barbecue of the heretics at the very start, which seems to me a little to modernistic for the rest of the camera's handling of the film.But still, a very interesting and very well played film, which, should anyone have children who do have to bother with that period, will make it much easier for them to understand what happened, rather than having to rely upon some dry history books.P.S. The Rating R - for sexuality and violence is just ridiculous "},{"Title":"I liked it but it is not historically accurate","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The writer took a lot of liberties when he wrote the screenplay for this movie. I liked it because generally it gave the overall feeling about how difficult Elizabeth I's reign was. Cate Blanchett was brilliant in this role - but the writer did leave some things unclear with no background touched upon. I could write 2 pages to right the wrongs stated as history but probably the best way to understand Elizabeth's reign is to read a really good book by Jane Dunn called Elizabeth and Mary, Rivals. Cousins, Queens. Jane Dunn has done a brilliant job of research through English State Papers (290 volumes worth) and other books historically correct. The writer made the movie work but really shouldn't have stated a time frame because he hardly ever stayed in it. This movie brought Elizabeth I to light for many people who now think they know about her, but really they don't. I hope no one quotes things that happened in this film as accurate because they will be laughed at by people who know the real story. Still all in all I enjoyed it for what it was. "},{"Title":"Decent historical film","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" SPOILERS In the history of these British Isles, there are few figures as well known and adored as the legendary Queen Elizabeth I. As Queen, Elizabeth took England from a self imploding nation to a major European superpower. Portraying herself as an untouchable figure of stone, Elizabeth began her reign much differently. In Shekhar Kapur's wonderful film Elizabeth we witness her ascension to the throne and the birth of the legend.In 1554, Mary I of England (Kathy Burke) is on the throne. Married to Philip of Spain, Mary is a staunch Catholic and is worried about Protestant ascension to the throne through Elizabeth. She therefore locks the young princess in the Tower of London with views to an execution. Elizabeth need not worry too much however as Mary is far from well.As a naturally beautiful redhead, Cate Blanchett is the perfect choice to play Queen Bess. Starting as a young girl, Blanchett's performance is powerful as the monarch grows through disappointments and early failures.Blanchett is also helped by some fine performances by actors such as Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Eccleston and Joseph Fiennes. Rush in particular as the cunning Sir Francis Walsingham is exemplary as he slowly gains the trust and respect of the young Queen.Kapur's film does at times feel like a BBC Sunday Night production. Reminiscent of the recent drama about Charles II, it is a lavish film full of a star studded cast. Ultimately though, feeling like one of these productions is not a bad thing. The film is detailed, powerful and wonderfully directed. It never stops moving and it teaches us throughout (although a slightly corrupt history). Historical dramas may not be suited to everyone, but those who do like this genre, will love this film. "},{"Title":"A movie standing on it's own was great, but historically...","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am a huge history freak. In fact that's why I saw this movie. In my sophomore year of high school in 2000, we were learning about the Prodescents vs. the Catholics. It was extremely interesting. We started watching Elizabeth to get an idea of what it was like for the war. We never finished, but the movie had been stuck in my head ever since. When I went to Blockbuster and saw the movie, I grabbed it remembering how interesting it was.The movie Elizabeth is very remarkable. The directing is perfection, the sets are imacculate, Cate is without a doubt very wonderful and capturing in her role, and the whole movie is very good. The supporting cast adds to the movie as well. Geoffrey Rush and Joesph Fiennes really add a lot to their roles. Even though their characters are quit typical, it seems that they are very typecast. Geoffrey Rush is kind of this bad British guy who is very controlling. Joesph is always the hopeless romantic. You know how it goes.The history however is... sorely inaccurate. I wasn't pleased on how they presented the history of Mary, the Protestants, the Catholics, Robert, and Elizabeth. The list could go on, but this is a movie comment, not a history essay.So as a movie, I will say that it was great.7/10 "}{"Title":"Quite interesting.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm glad I saw this film on DVD; I don't think it would be worth $6 to see it in the theater but nonetheless, it's a good film and any history buff should include it in his or her DVD collection.  Cate Blanchett shines as Elizabeth (she plays Galadriel in the Lord of the Rings series).  Some of the sexual content in the film made my stomach do some flip flops so I just covered my eyes (I was watching this in a class on early Modern European history...and I absolutely hate sex scenes).  Another two thumbs up go to Geoffrey Rush as Sir Walsingham.  My suggestion would be to see this film and read along with Susan Bridgen's New Worlds, Old Worlds.  Joseph Fiennes is also good as Elizabeth's (married) lover, Sir Robert Dudley. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a very stylefully shot, beautiful period piece directed by renowned Indian film maker Shekhar Kapur (also check out his Bandit Queen and Four Feathers). It is also slightly empty, however it gives a nice overview of England's teenaged warrior queen (I guess - don't ask me about historical factuality in regards to Elizabethan England).The story is pretty straightforward - a teenage girl must grow up superfast to survive a fiercely disputed crown and traitorous court. No one expects her to live long enough to become an effective monarch, but she still makes it through.Jeffrey Rush is pretty good as the coldblooded Sir Francis Walsingham. The movie makes it seem that without him, England would have been a Catholic country, which I guess is an interesting idea to contemplate.One favorite standout is French actress Fanny Ardant, showing that even at 49, she is HOT. Together with Monica Belluci's hubby Vincent Cassel, they make a very fine comical pair of wannabe pretenders to the throne of England.  "},{"Title":"Behold the glory that is Blanchett...","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  To those of you who have yet to realize what an amazing actress Cate Blanchett is, look no further than 'Elizabeth'.  The characters, the costumes, and the production designs are good enough to make this movie watchable, but it's Blanchett who breathes life into the film and makes it cinema storytelling at it's best.  The story revolves around the rise of the young Queen Elizabeth I (Blanchett) who would soon become one of England's most powerful rulers. Reviled as a heretic by the Catholic Church, surrounded in the midst of traitors, and caught up in a romance with a young Lord that could jeopardize her crown, Elizabeth is forced to learn that as a queen... she must become untouchable in order to maintain her throne. The supporting cast does an excellent job with special nods to the ever elegant Geoffrey Rush, but it's Blanchett who manages to steal each and every scene.  Her performance was more than Oscar worthy, and is surely one of her best.A must see for all.10/10 "},{"Title":"Great central performance","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett is fantastic as the Queen, which is necessary for this film to work at all; a star vehicle for someone who was not, at the time, a star.  The movie is fine, but has some annoying moments; a few too many of the old, 1960's vintage actor-shot-from-below-looking-into-the-distance-framed-by-a-cloudless-sky-backed-by-swelling-heroic-music for my taste, and the messages exchanged by a nod or a wink at several scenes in the movie seem out of place.But this movie will stand or fall on its central performance, and that central performance is great.  Also worthy of notice is Geoffrey Rush as the deep revolving Walsingham. "},{"Title":"I liked this","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Overall, I liked Elizabeth. The burning of the Protestants scene, though, was VERY disturbing and disgusting. Now, being a Tudor nut, I spotted many historical inaccuracies which miffed me, but I was still able to enjoy this film. Partly because it is really, really well-acted.Whenever Elizabeth comes on TV, I watch it. I never get sick of it. "},{"Title":"A mix of the old and the new","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've had this sat on the shelf waiting to be watched for months, and finally got around to it this evening.  It was one of those that just kept on getting put back down the list, in favour of a blockbuster.  How stupid I was.Some have compared this with Shakespeare in Love which includes two of the main leads from this film and was also released in the same year.  Both are good films, but whereas SIL plays generally for laughs, Elizabeth is a serious film that should be taken seriously.  There are historical plot holes - but these should not be used as a reason for slating the film.  In fact it seems that Hollywood encourages this type of approach these days.Blanchett and Rush - Aussies playing Brits !! - are excellent.    Likewise Ecclestone as Norfolk is a good cinema baddie.  Sadly Fiennes is Shakespeare playing Dudley.  He, and Dickie Attenborough, are the films biggest let down.The approach that Kapur has taken with this film is refreshing.  It makes a change to find a costume drama that isn't wrapped up in itself.  The camera work and editing are first rate and the whole effect kept me enthralled throughout.Definitely worth a look in my opinion. "},{"Title":"The Portrait of The Virgin Queen","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After seeing this film 1,000 times, I never get tired of watching it. Its an absolute triumph to see a intimate portrait of one of history's greatest rulers. Elizabeth Tutor is on the edge of death for treason, conspiracy, and unacceptable to be England's new monarch, but appears to be ambitious to restore England, capture the conspirators, and be viewed as the women that would alter the course of the Renaissance period. All in all, the virgin queen is a person worth knowing - 9 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Glorious visuals and characterisation, nonsense plot","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film gives the look and feel of Elizabethan England wonderfully the darkness of castles, the pageantry, etc. All this side was great.  The costumes are perfect. Cate Blanchett looked the part wonderfully. Much of the characterisation is convincing too. And the end comes to roughly the right conclusion for completely the wrong reasons. Though the casting of Attenborough as Cecil is ludicrous. Cecil would have been late 30s at the time. BUT the plotlines along the way are infuriatingly silly and historically rubbish...  Elizabeth knew Dudley was married she attended the wedding. It was the scandalous death of Amy - widely believed to be for the purpose of marrying the Queen - that ruled out any closer relationship. Elizabeth was never going to risk her crown for love.  The only time she and Dudley were anywhere near each other in Mary's reign was when both were imprisoned in the Tower. The Duke of Norfolk was protestant and his plot was to free Mary Queen of Scots twenty odd years later. ETC ETC "},{"Title":"A post-Medieval Queen Who Could Get Medieval","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Elizabeth is an excellent movie that pays tribute to Queen Elizabeth I, who is portrayed as a woman who advances from a somewhat timid, introverted lady to one who, as the ruling monarch, is credited for leading England to the Golden Age of its history.Upon succeeding the throne of her half-sister, Mary of Scots, Elizabeth is dealt with powerful opponents who are heading the Catholic church and are looking for an auto/theocrat who, as her immediate predecessor did, will continue to make Catholicism flourish and put those of other faiths at the burning stake. To make relations even more strained, Elizabeth seeks to loosen ties with Rome and instead of helping make Catholicism even more prominent, desires to establish a Church of England. In consequence, not only do these particular standpoints sit unfavorably with many of the local governing leaders, but in the eyes of several, the fact that she was not born into the Catholic faith discredits her from being a righteous heir to the throne.Throughout the movie, both enemies and concerned loyalists to Elizabeth mingle with leaders from France, Spain and Rome to undermine her authority as Queen of England. As a result of the social engagements that come about, Queen Elizabeth I is faced with the following ultimatum provided by her immediate advisors She can marry the ruler of either France or Spain and thus make England subordinate to her husband's country, or she can give up the throne and, in consequence, open a wide gateway for the oppressive, religious persecutions to continue.*****WARNINGPOTENTIAL SPOILER!!!!!******In reaction, Elizabeth decides to disregard her counsel. She desires to remain in power without the reliance of marriage, and upon foreseeing the troubles that might come about, she replaces her administrators and appoints a confidant whose political opinions and updates are those she trusts.Frequently throughout the picture, there is one among her supporters who questions her ability to take on her foes simply because of her gender. But as a response that sets the tone for the remainder of the movie, she looks at him straight in the eye and proclaims that she is her father's daughter and that, if necessary, she can have the heart of a man.After viewing this retort, an individual might think that perhaps Elizabeth wants to revive Henry VIII's reigning style and that coupled with the determination to have the heart of a man, she will summon the strength to triumph. In fact, one might assert that by themselves, both the affirmation that she is Henry VIII's daughter and her steely resolve will be the essential keys to victory. But I say that only the right person with these traits could possibly succeed, and with time, Elizabeth portrays herself with increasing charm, intelligence, and grace, all of which eventually help her to become immortalized as one of the greatest rulers of history.Along with the strong, personal attributes that eventually propel Elizabeth to victory, the actions of her once intimidating opponents add only fuel to the fire, which has by then become her increasing, but well-managed, ire. For after finding out that those who placed serious threats to her throne have also put their signatures on documents declaring that she is an illegitimate ruler who is to be put to death, she sees where things clearly stand and is motivated to face this hateful resistance with the unrelenting scorn of a genius woman who will do whatever it takes to maintain her authority. "},{"Title":"European History 101 was never so sexy!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Not being an Elizabethan scholar, I cannot particularly vouch for the historic accuracy of Shekhar Kapur's `Elizabeth.' After seeing his rendering of the subject, though, I am half tempted to change fields of emphasis as I continue pursuing my MA in history!SPOILERS AHEADCate Blanchett brings the legendary 16th century monarch to life. Only in the closing scene do we see the stoic, white-faced `virgin queen' of the history books. Blanchett takes Elizabeth from a relatively carefree teenage princess on a country estate, to the hardened sovereign, firmly in control of her country and her own fate. In between she displays a wide range of skills, portraying Elizabeth's coming of age in this period of treachery, tricky alliances and fear.While Kapur's Elizabeth later shows her legendary mettle, as well as the hardness of heart to lead a nation in such a time period, she is a real woman. Blanchett's disarming, yet provocative laugh, her brilliant and uncut red hair and her burning gaze bridge the cap between trepid paintings of the monarch and the reputation she had early in her reign as a beauty. Blanchett indeed brings sex appeal, as well as humanity to the role and one cannot help pulling for the nave, attractive teen to survive among the many perils waiting to ensnarl her.Always persuasive and quick on her feet - and in this case on her knees - Elizabeth is able to convince her half-sister, Queen Mary I (Kathy Burke) to spare her, when she is accused of heresy and treason. She also has a queenly dignity and commanding presence - even before assuming the throne, as when walking through the angry crowd of Catholic `wolves,' as Mary calls them. Her successful appearance before the English bishops early in her reign is wonderfully captured, as her dignity, poise, sense of humor and determination (along with half a dozen of the most ardent bishops being locked in a dungeon during the meeting, unknown to the queen) wins the day.Once she ascends to the throne, Elizabeth faces a whole new set of problems. Which advisors should she trust and what shall she do about her sizzling love affair with Lord Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes)? On one hand, venerable Sir William Cecil (Richard Attenborough) offers cautious advise, but is steadfastly loyal. The Duke of Norfolk (Christopher Eccleston) is another matter. The devious duke is courting both the Spanish and the French and covets the throne himself. Meanwhile, Sir Francis Walsingham returns from exile to essentially act as the queen's body guard. In the end, he becomes her most trusted advisor.Again, it is harder to judge the film, not having the background knowledge I would have on many historical subjects. It was certainly a time of palace intrigue, though, and it is doubtful that Kapur exaggerates the shadowy goings-on.The complicated plot line is also frustrating for someone not well-versed in Elizabethan lore - as is keeping some of the characters separate. It was my second viewing before I could fully discern between Walsingham and Norfolk. On the first viewing I thought it was the devious Norfolk who visited Mary of Guise (a.k.a. Mary, Queen of Scotts) - played most enticingly by Fanny Ardant. Instead it was Walsingham, apparently only pretending to be disloyal to Elizabeth, in order to poison Mary.Despite some confusion for the uninformed (like me), it was a most enjoyable movie. The spectacle of the English monarchy, the fear and anger of the period, the brutality and severity of both civil and religious leaders of the period, and the lushness of the English and Scottish countryside are all captured well by Kapur and cinematographer Remi Adefarasin. The film is rife with romance, passion, action and intrigue. The period dances and entertainment are also most interesting. This film has been well-honored and deservedly so. Its success is not surprising. It captures a number of  PC 21st century maxims, as Elizabeth spurns state control by religious leaders, demands her right to rule as an unmarried female, and stubbornly clings to her love - until she discovers her own reason to turn loose.The cast is marvelous from the enticing Blancett and Ardant, to Eccleston and Fiennes (probably equally enticing to female viewers), to boorish Duc d'Anjou (Vincent Cassel) who unsuccessfully tries to woo the queen. The costumes, settings and backdrops are also first-rate. This is a fine historical motion picture and a very entertaining one. I need to do some research on the period before I could call it my favorite historic drama ever. Assuming its facts stand up to scrutiny, though, Elizabeth is certainly a strong candidate for this title. It is a first rate film.  "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't been said before? Powerful story, excellent characters, superb acting. Geoffrey Rush is brilliant as Walsingham, conveying the character perfectly, and with just the right amount of menace. I think he gives one of the best performances in the film, alongside Cate Blanchett who is excellent as usual. And for those of us who expected Eric Cantona to be terrible.. I thought he was pretty good! Everyone in this film is great, full stop, and it's a film that looks fantastic too, but with substance. Cate Blanchett should have won best actress oscar for this, instead of Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare In Love, another great film but one that had a weaker performance from its leading lady. "},{"Title":"Not history but worth watching","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It amazes me that people continue to say this film is historically accurate.  You could count the real facts on the fingers of one hand!  Even the Goofs are wrong in this respect.  But who looks to Hollywood for an accurate history lesson?  The film is good fun though and suggests a valid reason for Elizabeth's adoption of the role of the Virgin Queen.  The costumes and sets are great too. "},{"Title":"The leading lady is a bit stiff, but still a good movie","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie makes for good entertainment, but personally I find it difficult to feel empathy for the stiff and overbearingly disciplined Elizabeth. Her antagonists - the conniving femme fatale Mary of Guise and the promiscuous Duc d'Anjou - are far more amusing, and I would have liked to see more of them throughout the movie. Six out of ten in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Very good, very well put together.","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An intriguing story and a somewhat original execution of the movie, ELIZABETH has many things going for it. The acting is superb. One distraction and you might miss important things! There are plenty of twists, all good ones, and some interesting camera angles as well. Altogether, ELIZABETH does not appear too bad.We see the life of Queen Elizabeth I, how her rise to the throne came about and the immediate problems that followed.ELIZABETH touches some bases of humanity, particularly love, betrayal and loyalty. all of them are put to the test, rather harshly as the queen slowly vents her frustration. Some parts are confusing, mainly the ending. Richard Attenborough, Cate Blanchett and Joseph Fiennes did a fine job for each of their roles respectively. ELIZABETH is a good, advanced character study for anyone curious about this Queen. "},{"Title":"An attempt at an classic movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Very few movies become classics, epics, or shining examples of film making. Films virtually never leap from the there-and-gone success of modern release to the status of being remembered without creating something truly unique, blending quality stories with top-flight work in every catagory.Which is something that, unfortunately, Elizabeth fails at. You can clearly see that the people behind this movie put a lot of effort into it, and they had the fertile storyground of Elizabeth's rise to power to use. So what went wrong?Simply put, it lacks that elemental ingredient usually referred to as 'magic'. In trying to blend elements of historical drama, romance, intrigue, and biography, it fails to give any of them a real chance. The film hops around between genres, leaving you feeling distracted, disaffected, and ultimately dissatisfied. "},{"Title":"the forces of light and darkness","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth deals with a turning point in English history; just after the reformation. It was a time when Religion had much more power &#150; the power to make or break a monarch.  The film opens with an horrific burning of three Protestant infidels, as the Catholic authorities punish them for heresy (under the orders of the queen, consequently known as &#145;bloody Mary' because of the large number of executions she ordered) .  This very much sets the tone of the film - predominantly orange (a colour of fire, violence, sunlight and also our lead's hair).The dualism of light and dark is explored to great effect in this film.  The foreign Catholicism, with its plotting violence and corruption is surrounded by darkness.  Queen Mary and her councillors wear black and blue, and skulk in the shadows of her grim bedchamber.  The duke of Norfolk (the leader of the Catholic resistance in England) is a swarthy, Mediterranean looking devil who's mistress likewise is a sensual dark haired type. Other types of corruption are surrounded by dark images.  Elizabeth's beau, sir Robert, who shamefully betrays her is of the same Italian looking stock as Norfolk.  As he gets tempted into corruption (by the Spanish ambassador) he is no longer depicted in the sunlit country scenes of his innocence, but revealed cowering in shadows among the castle vaults.Against all of these images of perversion and evil we have the fair haired, blue eyed Anglo Saxon angel and queen, Elizabeth.  She begins as a slightly timid woman who fidgets under the coronation crown and finds the idea of ultimate power over so many men's hearts titillating.  However, as she grows into her role she becomes more and more like her father before her, the notorious Henry V111.  This adds to the sense of Elizabeth as the rightful heir to the throne and the previous queen Mary as a sickly impostor.  Not only does she physically resemble him (with her pale skin and fair hair) but she has his stubborn forcefulness and superiority of command that can silence a crowd of disputants and cause them to humbly make way for her. With the help of the evil (and dark haired) Walsingham her rule becomes one that balances the poetic dignity of monarchical love with Machiavellian politics. She conquers an assembly of bishops by convincing them to sign and act of uniformity (creating a church of England) partly through her own force of persuasive rhetoric and partly through a move, orchestrated by Walsingham, that has eight of the most staunchly catholic bishops locked in a vestry during the vote. As she takes control of the reigns of government she becomes a heroic symbol of good governance, stoicism and self sacrifice.  This culminates in the final scene in which she turns herself into a symbol of the virgin Mary to give the people a substitute for their lost idol.  Elizabeth cuts off her golden hair replacing it with a wig, paints her skin white and glides into her courtroom with her hands folded in a statuesque pose.  A new reign has begun.  "},{"Title":"Requiem aeternam?","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Although I'm not a fan of historical films (because they are necessarily remitted to a dilemma between movie-dramatism and the epical shape of historic flow), I consider the cut made by this one interesting and well-reached. First, among the numerous films about the Queen it is the first that takes her EARLY years as a topic, constructing the 'strengthening' as a kind of 'death' of her own humanity - pretty didactic, but with a convincing application of Mozart's Requiem. The life that is supposed to be buried, instead, is painted with colourful pictures and with the help of magnificent actors, above all the amazing Cate Blanchett. Some features of the story seem to remain fragmentary, p.e. Walsingham's character (has this man any conviction? what is the relationship to his young servants? is the murder night also a kind of personal revenge? etc.), but this doesn't put in danger the effectivity of the drama. Apparently, we cannot let history just in peace and confer the characters the eternal rest they deserve. Well, who cares... "},{"Title":"Colombia","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was great, everything was wonderful in it, it deserved all the academy awards, but Shakespeare in love won them. Shakespeare in love is a great movie as well, Gwyneth Paltrow is an excellent actress as well as Cate Blanchett. Some people can say that Cate Blanchett is better than Gwyneth Paltrow or some other people can say it's the other way around. They're both great. Cate Blanchett should have been happy and proud of herself because she was an academy award nominee for best actress, even though she didn't win it it means she is a wonderful actress. Everything in this movie was brilliant from the beginning to the ending. The story had a very good plot, if you liked it you should see La reine Margot, this is very similar to it, and is wonderful as well.  "},{"Title":"Excellent performances","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is an ambitious film that relies mostly on the performances of a great cast. Though visually superb, it never quite reaches a satisfactory climax except for the emotionally strong final scenes. The standout actor in this fine cast is of course, Cate Blanchett who portrays Elizabeth with the suitable depth, vulnerability and subsequent strength without failing. She was robbed of the Oscar in a sense, not so much because she was the best but because Gwyneth Paltrow just didn't deserve it compared to her. The other excellent performance is delivered by the ever-great Geoffrey Rush as Elizabeth's cunning but loyal counselor. The final shot of him crying when he first sees the Virgin Queen proves what a range of emotions he can portray and how many dimensions he can bring to a character. Kathy Burke as Queen Mary and Christopher Eccleston as Norfolk are equally great, and Joseph Fiennes proves that he is much more than Ralph's brother with his subtle portrayal of a somewhat controversial and of uncertain integrity character. Shekhar Kapur's direction is certainly elegant but also repeats some motifs without adding anything new. Overall, it's an interesting and superbly acted British production. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Maybe I expected to much","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I really expected more from a film that was nominated for oscars.  While this film was not horrible, I find that I am wishing that the story had been told differently.  Sometimes there was no emotion in actors when there should have been and then other times there was overacting. There was no inbetween, which made boring in someways. I was really interested to see the movie after hearing how wonderful Cate Blanchett performance was, but I really did not find it that memorable. I have to say with in a week I think I will forget I rented and watched the movie. "}{"Title":"Splendid Film","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Being a little rusty on the British monarchy, I cannot vouch for the authenticity of this film, but perhaps that is irrelevant to the splendid presentation of the queendom's past. A very fine film, probably even better on the wide screen (I watched the video). Allow me to state, 'We' enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"legalize it!!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I know some people like to listen to pink floyd and watch 2001 space odysessy...while in a similar way i recommend listening to Ravi Shankar while watching this movie.  I was inclined to do the following things during the duration of this film 1.  Weave a (unicorn!) tapestry 2.  Play the sitar. 3.  Dance dance dance "},{"Title":"Beautifully done, but historically inaccurate","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchette was robbed of an Oscar for her performance as Elizabeth.. she was strong and compelling. HOWEVER, the liberties with which the writers and director of this film took on historical points was appalling.  Never, once, anywhere, have I read that she had sex with anyone!!!!!!  I'm so tired of Hollywood thinking that every film has to have a sex scene in it, even if learned minds already know that it is a lie to place it in the film.She lost her hair as a result of a fever as a young woman, not because she was going to present herself as a virgin queen...  she did not cut her hair off--it fell out.  Her skin was rendered with pock marks as a result of the fever--perhaps she contracted scarlet fever?  Therefore she used heavy white makeup base to hide the imperfections.Nonetheless, the historical inaccuracies are what kept this movie from being as monumental in its scope as Anne of the Thousand Days...  but no matter--Cate Blanchette should have won the Oscar for her portrayal--certainly not Gwenneth Paltrow and Judy Dench for a 6 minute blurb on screen.. yes, she may have turned in a powerful 6 minutes, but it's not enough in my mind, to blot out an hour plus movie on the same character. "},{"Title":"A little preliminary research will help in appreciating a fine film.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Despite being weirdly edited and directed, this film manages to give an accurate picture of the spirit and times of the era when Elizabeth I came to power. True, we mostly see the powerful people; the nobodies are usually seen being burned or beheaded, and that briefly. There are any number of unexplained actions, and characters are sometimes hard to identify, but the camera work, color, and scenic backgrounds are superb. Locations are all real, and the acting is uniformly convincing. If an initial viewing leaves you a tad confused, do a little reading on the period, see the film again, and enjoy it all the more. "},{"Title":"A stunning view of royalty","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett is the title character in this compelling dramaof the rises and falls of the English monarchy in the 17thcentury. The stunning medival locales are beautiful, and thecostumes are also remarkable, which almost completely resemblesthe types of clothing people at the time wore. Blanchett makesthe perfect Elizabeth, with her uncanny resemblence to the queenherself. The supporting cast also shines, especially JosephFiennes (brother of Ralph) and also Sir Richard Attenb "},{"Title":"Superbly done historical piece","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The basic plot  Queen Elizabeth  the Ist ascends throne amid complications of monarchy, religion and social power.The praise Cate blanchett is great as  the Queen in her younger days,and helped by a good supporting cast,including several British actors.The design is immaculate,with great cinematography,and the sets,costumes,lighting and hair are good as well.Very dramatic in it's interpretations and  the showing of  the complications of  court ,politics,society,power,sex,and  crime in tudor england. The flaws the plot gets lost in design  "},{"Title":"A woman's descent into power","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What struck me most about the film was the way Cate Blanchett goes from a girl dancing in the fields to Queen and the enormous toll that such a journey takes upon the soul of the person. I suppose that we are to be proud of her accomplishment in a very dangerous and fragile world and yet we wonder, was it worth it?We can easily contrast Mary Of Guise (Fanny Ardant- we need more of her in movies in America she is one of France's most enduring and talented actors) for whom the role of Queen is fitted like a glove, but Elizabeth wasn't supposed to be queen although she was a fast learner.Was this one of the greater films of all time? Perhaps, but it was definitely an acting tour de force for Blanchett who seemed to grow more regal and more distant in every scene. I especially liked the two dance scenes with Lord Robert. In the first she is still the girl being courted, in the second she is the queen on the edge of really beginning to lead her country. She is mature, she has been hurt and threatened and knows that the only person that she can truly trust is herself. In the end when she takes the throne it is a bittersweet victory, the woman is dead, long live the Queen. "},{"Title":"What was that..!!!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  My main thoughts as I watched this was, What was that, and Did I see that.  After you get through the weirdness, anyone who was anything to do with the French court, you see that this film has several strengths and weaknesses.  Strengths, the acting apart from Dudley (Joseph Fiennes), especially Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Daniel Craig and various conspirators, and the cinematographer who seemed to know what was going on when no one else did.Weaknesses, Dudley, who from this seems to be something of a soppy fool, and most of the scenes with him I wouldn't have minded being cut out, the plot which took us here there and yon without a small breather to let you say Yes I did see that.Special mention to Eric Cantona, I thought he would just be a bad cameo, but he is good, and you can feel for the French ambassador's desperate attempts to cope with the Duc of Anjou.A good film but not a mega great, could defintely do with a rewatch. "},{"Title":"A great looking film, an excellent lead, but history?","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD. The costuming and other period work are great. Cate Blanchett's performance is spectacular. It is a truly enjoyable film to watch. Just don't expect to learn any real history from it. Many of the historical characters have been altered in their relative ages and arrival on the scene. Walsingham was not around in her early reign, Cecil was in his thirties at the time of coronation and counseled Elizabeth for most of her reign. If she had gotten pregnant by Dudley in her early reign, when she had very little support, do you think she would have survived? Would she be so foolish to risk it? There was never any 'Godfather' quality to her reign, where on a given day numerous enemies were executed Don Corleone style. That is ridiculous. The Scottish French queen resembles her historical figure in name only. On the other hand, the film captures the brutal power-grabbing nature of European politics of the day, the degenerate state of religion. Her early years were treacherous and she almost lost her head. Her rise to power and real control surprised the hell out of a lot of people. Since that is the focus of the movie I can buy off the revisionist stuff and enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"an amazing look on Good Queen Bess","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"        This film was very good and probably the most accurate film on Elizabeth ever (minus the sex scene with Lord Bob Dudley). In Cate Blanchett, we can see the real Queen Elizabeth who banished by her father Henry VIII, suffered by the sad deaths of her brother Edward VI and cousin Lady Jane Grey, is a courageous and faithful Lutheran who did all she could to banish Catholocism started by her sister Mary the late Queen and restore Protestantism to England and Ireland and France (as Queen) of course. Sir Walsingham is her most trusted servant and advisor who did all he could to protect her and England.Bob Dudley is the lover that never was a lover. Mary,Queen of Scots is her rival and Mary's cousin is a man trying to marry Elizabeth. The monks and Pope (played by John Gielgud) team up with the Duke of Norfolk, Mary of Scots, and even the lover Dudley to overthrow Elizabeth and take over England. Until they are caught by Walsingham and are all executed. This was an excellent film of good qualitey, it was my favorite CHRISTmas present and I give it a 9 out of 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Oddly, this reminds me of Caligula.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Am I the only one?  When I recall the overblown Caligula, I was reminded of several oddly similar sequences in Elizabeth which I enjoyed immensely both films feature a sequence where the maids watch the regal couple make love, peeping through a voyeuristic wall to the royal bedchamber.  Both films have a dreamy sequence on a boat, where sexual proclivities are revealed.  Both films have a suitor with ambi- or at least homo- sexual inclinations. Of course, one film shows the ruler rising beyond initial stature and the other film shows what happens with corruption and absolute power.  You probably know which film is which! "},{"Title":"Elizabeth is dead, Long live History","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well, I've finally seen the much talked about Elizabeth. Cate Blanchett is quite a revelation indeed. Both Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush are nothing short of chameleons. Dazzled though I was by the performances by all concerned, there was a nagging feeling that the film as a whole could have been better. It was overall an interesting study of a queen and the political turmoil which surrounded the early part of her reign. But not a great film.Oh, it's not that I'm offended by the ahistorical enterprise. No one seriously believes that film makers are really that concerned with what actually happened. Oh no, it's not that at all. The problem seems to be that the makers are so caught up the sexiness of what might have been that what was probable about the woman herself became subverted. I don't for one moment naively believe nothing naughty occurred beneathe the veneer of religiousity However, no matter how beautifully it was all portrayed, one comes away dissatisfied that Elizabeth has had to fight for her place in life and in art.  "},{"Title":"Virgin on the great!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizebeth is a compelling if somewhat slow at times movie that has some superb acting and wonderfull costumes and scenery. It took me half an hour to get into but once i knew where everyone was coming from and who was stabbing who in the back i enjoyed it. I would not rate it as high as some people have on the comments pages but i would recomend it.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A great starting point for a little bit of Elizabethan intrigue.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Worth watching if you like historical dramas.  Even though the movie takes great license with timelines and historical characters, (glaring to those who know a little bit about it, and confusing to the rest of us...) it really sets the mood of the era.I've never much liked Elizabeth I before I saw Cate Blanchett's most sympathetic and convincing portrayal.  Joseph Fiennes is a little too sappy, making us wonder what Bess would have seen in him if he really was the love of her life. I imagine the real Robert Dudley was a much stronger character. Joseph never seems more than the moody, brooding, hapless boyfriend wannabe, but Cate more than carries him in her performance.Geoffrey Rush is perfect in the sinister foil of Walsingham to the pureness of Queen Bess. Fanny Ardant and Christopher Eccleston offer strong supporting roles, perfectly cast. Other greats are Kathy Burke, and the great Masters of English drama.The costumes are astonishing, and the sets are breathtaking. This movie really should have been a mini-series, giving us much more time to dealve into each character; we only seem to get little snatches before the director rushes onto the next scene. It may have been much more satisfying (and accurate) if made to be shown over a period of a few hours.But, overall, in this day of campy movie-making, a historical drama of this scale and with such fine acting overall is a breath of fresh air.  I suggest watching ELIZABETH, and then going to the library or internet to delve more into these larger-than-life figures of history.   "},{"Title":"Well-acted and colorfully, vibrantly told","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie presents her climactic stylization of herself(virtually severing her link with her own human self and becoming pure symbol, embodiment of the state, leader to her people) partly as a visceral reaction to her frustration at her missteps and partly as a shrewd calculation, and it's the relationship between the two that's most fascinating - the film manages to grapple with the complexity of her psychology and her situation quite elegantly and certainly entertainingly. Against that, the details of how events actually unfolded aren't as well presented - the movie consists largely of encounters within palace walls or between twos and threes - there's a constant slew of intelligence and things found out, but it gets to be almost abstract intrigue, with the talk of conspiracy and motivations and suchlike sounding like a bit of a macguffin. The whirl of plotting men renders Elizabeth's actions as isolated high spots and inspired moments of sound judgment rather than necessarily consistent leadership, but it's hard to tell how much that's a deliberate narrative strategy. The film is nevertheless well acted and colorfully, vibrantly told - forged in powerful, bold sympathetic instincts. "},{"Title":"One Virgin Replaces Another","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  `She had such power over men's hearts,' a young Elizabeth I tells her remaining true adviser, Sir Francis Walsingham, nodding toward a statue of the Virgin Mary at whose feet she kneels, and wondering aloud why her own heart has ceased to be touched. Though it is late in the movie `Elizabeth' with Cate Blanchett in the title role, it is early in what would be the monarch's long reign to come.`They have found nothing to replace her,' Walsingham (Geoffrey Rush) replies, nothing to connect their worldly hopes to the sphere of the divine since the English Reformation ended Catholicism as the dominant faith in the realm. Despite the success of a bloody Catholic reaction under Elizabeth's half-sister and predecessor as monarch, Mary Tudor, with hundreds of Protestants burned at the stake, Elizabeth in conscience will sever the whole Church of England from papal authority yet again. But what will take its place, not in canon or conscience, but in the depths of men's hearts?It is now when Elizabeth realizes it must be she. `I have become a virgin,' she announces not long after. She paints her face white and embarks on her long career as the icon an appreciative history would come to call the Virgin Queen.The movie, taking many liberties from the true text of history, chronicles Elizabeth's passage from the uncrowned, gamboling romantic who encouraged the repeated embraces of Lord Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes), to the severe, chaste monarch revered eternally by English people. During this period in her mid- to late twenties she authorizes much spillage of blood as she gathers authority to her and deals mercilessly with those who would dispute it. The dirty work is Walsingham's; the onus is hers.When it is done, she knows she will never marry for geopolitics, as at first she was pressed to do. More sadly, nor will she do so for love, for her heart is dead, ground away in the forward lurch of history. She will instead sit resignedly and heroically, proxy in heaven for the hearts of her folk.  "},{"Title":"Most impressive.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There are scenes in Elizabeth that strike you with the most beautiful imagery that has only been seen before in tapestries.  The coronation scene is absolutely stunning, with those high reaching walls and those massive arches.  Visually, Elizabeth is a triumph of art direction and costuming.  The story is quite good too.  Treachery, deceit, and plenty of scheming make for dangerous times in England.  As the young queen, Cate Blanchett runs a full course of emotions.  She is young and naieve, but once she ascends to the throne of England, she is thrust upon the world stage as a ruler of a soon to be great nation.  She must first deal with the machinations of her own court.  She then learns how to deal with her new found title, and she begins to take care of all of her enemies.  The climax of the film reminded me of The Godfather, as one by one, Elizabeth's enemies are dealt with.  Geoffrey Rush is scheming and devious as Elizabeth's main protector.  He's cunning, ruthless, and he knows how to play sides.  In the end, even he is floored by the transformation that Elizabeth takes upon herself.  She truly becomes The Virgin Queen. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Whenever a movie is hyped about, I do my best not to expect very much when I see it, so perhaps I'll go along with the hubbub without a problem. But unfortunately, that didn't work (and seeing The English Patient was a prime example of that). Despite being well done, Elizabeth R is a melodramatic soap opera which results to an overraught travesty.You don't need to be a history buff to see the inaccurancies What's with the miniature subplot involving transvestism? How could someone be poisoned by wearing a dress? Why did they show cheap editing of Blanchet looking in the mirror and talking to herself? I don't want to bore you with all the detail, because otherwise I'll give the movie away, but aside from all the colorful costumes, campy performances and severed heads, this movie had nothing to offer, except a good performance by Kate Blanchet portraying Elizabeth I.Luckily this only got mixed reviews, compared to hype on other over-produced period dramas. "},{"Title":"A thrilling movie","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie captured the time period wonderfully. The scenery and costumes were magnificent, as was Cate Blanchett's performance as Queen Elizabeth I. She wonderfully transformed Elizabeth from a naive, playful girl into the no-nonsense but fair queen who ruled England with an iron hand. Maybe this movie didn't use history all that well, but is certainly worth watching.  "},{"Title":"why no oscar????","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I didnt know much of England's history, but this movie attract me to read the earlier england's history. One thing i want to point is why the religious was so powerful in this period? It is really strange because it was never happened in Chinese's History. Also, i apprecate the actress- Queen Elizabeth. she does her best job. i think this movie is better than most of hollywood movie. "}{"Title":"definitely not Elizabeth R","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film makes a good attempt at portraying the Machiavellian intrigue and reign of terror that dominated so much of sixteenth English politics and religion, but in my opinion, it grossly oversimplifies the character of one of the most brilliant and complex women (or men either, for that matter) in English history.  The fault definitely does not lie with Cate Blanchett, whose portrayal of the young Elizabeth is just as memorable as that of Bette Davis as the older monarch.  Rather, I think that the problem lies with the attempt to depict such a confusingly dynamic historical period in a couple of hours. The BBC production of Elizabeth R (almost 30 years old now) did not suffer the same time restrictions, and did a much better job with considerably more historical accuracy. In my opinion, Glenda Jackson's Elizabeth R will long endure as the definitive portrayal of that greatest and most glorious of English monarchs. (Now is a good time for PBS to consider a re-airing of that venerable mini-series.) "},{"Title":"A purported historical movie that would earn a grade of F in school.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie ELIZABETH is a decent movie based on acting, direction, and cinematography (although too gory for my tastes). But it is a nearly complete failure as history--especially for a movie which claims to be historical. The writer takes a few undisputed facts a builds a wholly concocted story around them. He invents entirely false stories, distorts others, and even takes events that occurred 20 years later and attributes them to Elizabeth's first year. Along the way, he deflowers the virgin queen, and makes a traitor out of her one true love, Robert Dudley, who never would betray her. In short, for lovers of history like me, the movie is sanctimonious drivel. "},{"Title":"Biography of Britains most famous monarch","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  ELIZABETH ( rating, * * out of 5 )There are a collection of pompous drools out there who will insist to the very end that 'Elizabeth' is a good movie. There are even some deluded ink-wasters who resolutely believe that 'Elizabeth' is a great movie. All I can be bothered to say about this drawn out costume drama is that it's nothing more than a big-budget yawnfest - the contemporary genre Hollywood takes proud credit for.Writer Michael Hirst and director Shekhar Kapur deliver a goose egg that promises a lot and delivers nothing. Feminist inklings abound in this profile of the most famous of monarchs in British history - set in the 1500's, those days when Prince Charles may have been relevant and when royalty was taken seriously, even though they ponced, posed and postured in frilly underwear that made Adam Ant look conservative.The overrated cast are another baffling element in a series of baffling elements, considering the kudos and awards they received. Cate (I believe that going from anemic to vacant with absolute gusto is good acting) Blanchett, Geoffrey (now that I've won an Oscar I can underplay drama) Rush, Richard (present solely to offer credibility) Attenborough, Joseph (if anyone else says I look like Cary Elwes I'm going to just spit ) Fiennes, and John (I can do a wonderful impression of John Gielgud) Gielgud.What a tedious and long-winded film this is - 123 minutes that seemed to last longer than the bronze age - I've seen better film around my bath-tub. The question I have to ask here is, how did this motion picture receive such acclamation and the subsequent awards? Obviously, politics in the film industry is a delicate balance and if you play by the rules while groveling shamelessly, you'll be well and truly supported, defended and sustained.That may be the reality of cinema politics, but a film on its release to the public has very little to hide behind. If the final product is less than adequate, the studios will try to manipulate opinion with a barrage of publicity, plugging, PR, puffery and promotion. A hypnotic power-play designed to influence the not so profound amongst us.So what are the facts then? 'Elizabeth' is a pedestrian movie that doesn't deserve the status it was given. Another overvalued, overpriced and overestimated dull-athon where waking up in a pool of your own vomit would be more edifying. I make no apologies for being so forthright, and for those critics who can't see past the hype, well, you're just churning cogs in the wheels of movie machination.Let's for a brief moment consider this film's good points. The production design is impressive, the costumes are extraordinary and Geoffrey Rush grew up about 50 miles from where I live. Which goes to show that even the fibro dwellers of Queensland, if they work hard enough, can get a shot at the big time.Give this tedious nudnik a wide birth and spend some time with the family instead. I wish I had, and if you knew my family, you'd realise what a big statement that was. "},{"Title":"History with a twist.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you are a student of history and medieval England you'll cringe in discomfort at the liberties taken in portraying the times of Elizabeth I. The only good thing to be said about this film is the eye-catching gaudy period dress which itself is suspect as being a touch too elaborate. The strong anti-Catholic portrayals of Elizabeth's enemies may be a bit disturbing to present Catholic sensitivities but if understood from a protestant's propagandist viewpoint it passes as another skewed view of history. Mary Queen of Scots brief role leaves one wondering if this is the Mary of history or just who is this woman portrayed in this movie supposed to be? Period movies could be made interesting and even award winners if the responsible persons took the time to delve into the books and give the public a balanced but colorful portrayal of those past ages allowing for some freedom of artistic expression to enhance the times and characters.  "},{"Title":"Artsy Approach Plays Fast and Loose with Facts","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Moderately entertaining film recounts Elizabeth's consolidation on power. The factual errors are glaring but will not be noticed by most viewers.In addition, Elizabeth's crackdown which occurs late in the film borrows heavily from Coppola's, The Godfather. "},{"Title":"wow what a history lesson!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm doing A level hsitory and learned more during this film than in the past year of studying the tudors! I found it to be really interesting. I think Cate Blanchet was perfect as Elizabeth, Geoffrey rush was also good but I found Kathy Burke to be a rather strange casting descision as Mary. The film was visually stunning and the costumes were beautiful. By the end I felt hopelessly patriotic, could you imagine the present Queen saying that she is to be 'married to England'? No I can't either. It would have been nice if it got more at the oscars but the baftas made up for it though! "},{"Title":"Nice stage play, where's the movie?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented this movie because I thought it would be a good historical movie, but it looks more like a stage play than a movie. I won't comment about the historical facts, the emphasis on Elizabeth's sex and love life (bit weird when she is known as the Virgin Queen) but it baffles me that someone can make a movie that looks and feels like a stage plays in the last years of the Century and ignore 100 years of filmmaking and the powerful opportunities of storytelling that the medium provides.When film was a novelty cinematographers used to make films that were nothing more than filmed stage plays. After the medium matured directors started using the possibilities that film offered to do something more than a mere play. They started to shoot dramatic landscape scenes often involving hundreds of actors, have more than one or two locations and emphasize on action and visuals more than on words and gestures.In the later decades of this century stage play has begun to emulate film. When you go to a large production on Broadway or London's Westend you see lots of action, multiple scenes (thanks to very ingenious technology) and big scenes with many actors that resemble the movies more than the older stage plays. Seems that now the century is about to close at least one filmmaker is doing the reverse. "},{"Title":"Why no Oscar for Cate......","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this on video again yesterday and it was electrifying - in my personal top ten. From its terrifying opening showing the brutality of the age through Elizabeth's difficult accession to her final consolidation of power this was a political thriller of the first order.As with many such thrillers, it was about the ambition for and the pursuit, acquisition and retention of power, by Elizabeth and those who were for or against her. It reminded me of the Godfather movies at times with its trust no one mores. As the film progresses Elizabeth realises that even those closest to her cannot ultimately be trusted. She is seen becoming more and more alone and that to retain her grip she must become a friendless unmarried icon - the virgin Queen.There have been gripes about the historical accuracy, Lord Attenborough who is in his mid seventies playing Lord Burghley who in reality was only about ten years older than the queen and died just five years before her was the one that got me, but hell this was a thriller that just happened to have some historical basis.Cate Blanchett turns in a subtle, playful and powerful performance streets ahead of Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakesperare in Love. She is well aided by Geoffrey Rush as Walsingham, the head of the country's first secret service, and a portrayal said to be accurate of the man.There are a few dud performances, Fiennes looking constantly surprised save in the last scene with Elizabeth when he looks pathetic as she scorns him to the sound of Elgar's Nimrod. And what was footie star Cantona doing as a very wooden French Ambassador.Even so I could watch this again and again.  "},{"Title":"Not so hot historically","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film makes too much of Walsingham.  Anybody with even an elementary knowledge of the Elizabethan era knows that the man behind Elizabeth's success was Sir William Cecil, aka Lord Burghley.  Odd that he should have been played by Sir Richard Attenborough instead of a much younger actor, as Cecil was only in his late thirties when Elizabeth came to the throne. "},{"Title":"Good Historical Drama","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The opening scene is dark and horrific, and sets the tone for the remaining story.  That story is a behind-the-scenes look at the English monarchy during the final days of the Catholic and childless Queen Mary, and the ascendancy of the Protestant and unmarried Elizabeth.Dark and brooding with deep colors, smoke and shadow, Elizabeth is not a light Renaissance romp.  Bodies do pile up, and cross and double-cross abound as Elizabeth gropes her way to power. And that's about it as far as the story goes...Queen Mary's dying, the Earl of Norfolk and his friends try to kill Elizabeth and fail, Mary dies and Elizabeth becomes queen, Norfolk and friends try again and fail again, then its payback time for Elizabeth.One of my few complaints about the movie is the lack of character development outside of Elizabeth.  The motivations of the surrounding characters is only superficially addressed.  The movie's success rests on two pillars, Cate Blanchett's wonderful acting, and the beautiful cinematography and sets.  Blanchett (and Geoffrey Rush) carry the acting chores, and they are remarkable.  The remainder seem to go a little overboard, like they're doing a 1550s England bit for MTV.The movie certainly entertains and makes for a good viewing.  My only regret is that I saw it on the small screen, and wished I'd seen it in a theater. "}{"Title":"Bit of a doughnut","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought the middle section of the film was a let-down. The opening (Mary's death, Norfolk's attempts to have E killed) was strong, as was the closing third, but the entire who-shall-she-marry sub-plot was badly handled and slipped into farce. The costumes and scenery were terrific, and the acting (the leading parts) was excellent, but Cantona was out of his depth and Vincent Cassel as Anjou was a joke. Fanny Ardant as Marie de Guise was splendid and they should have made more of her role. "},{"Title":"Costume drama or political thriller? I don't know.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One part of this movie is really good while another part of it is rather boring and uninteresting.It looks like a typical British costume drama and as such it is very beautiful and equally boring. It seems as if the director was afraid to make a movie that might actually be exciting all the way through.During the parts of the movie where focus is on the political situation in Britain during Elizabeth's reign it gains a lot and becomes one of the best historical dramas of the nineties. During these sequences the film gains strength and tells us that political back stabbing is not a modern tool.The film's real gem is Cate Blanchett as Queen Elizabeth. Every time she enters the screen she owns it. Her acting is reason enough to see the film. And she is not the only one. Christopher Eccleston and Geoffrey Rush have supporting roles which bring something to the movie. Eccleston's character is a primary player in the political part of the movie. That is why I like it so much. Because the political battle is what makes this film interesting.  "},{"Title":"Beats the crap out of ordinary horror films.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In the same way the opening 26 minutes of Saving Private Ryan beats the shit out of conventional horror movies like I Know What You Did Last Summer for scaring the crap out of you, so the opening of Elizabeth is utterly terrifying, setting the tone for a dark, broody epic bursting with energy.Blanchett's sardonic Elizabeth sparkles, her relationship with Fiennes a fascinating study of forbidden love and Geoffrey Rush's turn as a sinister henchman is simply fantastic, if only because it provides so much contrast from his other high-profile roles. And, the French guy from L'Appartement turns up as a hilarious comedy trans-sexual prince.Top Draw. "},{"Title":"Seriously flawed direction,cinematography and sound mixing.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was disappointed in this production. The plot line at the beginning was confusing. Characters were not well established and events occurred which you had to try to figure out. Script problems and overall direction was flawed. The overhead angles were much overdone. I found the heavy-handed sound level of the music often made the dialogue hard to follow. Costumes and Ms. Blanchett saved this from being a complete disaster. Well intended, but the director must take the blame. "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought Blanchett's performance out did the film.  The actors were all truly amazing, but it is Cate Blanchett is the one who takes your breath away.With that said, I am glad it did not get nominated for best director and best original screenplay, simply because they weren't exceptionally strong.  This film makes my top ten of 98, but not my top five, and I probably wouldn't have nominated it for best picture.Blanchett should have won best actress, and it's a shame she didn't.  "},{"Title":"Why did this film get nominated for an Oscar???","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Even before this film was realised, I wanted to see it.  After it was nominated for the Oscar, I REALLY wanted to see it...then I saw it.... This film is one of the worse things I have ever seen.  I spent half of the movie trying to figure out who the characters were (such as who Sir Robert and Sir William were in real life) and then the rest of it trying to believe why the film got nomintated.  The acting was good, but this film to so many poetic liberties that it became horridly disgusting save for most of the acting.  The plot became confusing for even me, who, I have to add, has read up on this period.  I fail to see how this film did so well. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 1998","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth, in all its majestic splendor, is a brilliant masterpiece worthy of repeated viewings.  Each time I walk away with something different, something new.  The one constant, though, is the magnificent performance by the lovely Cate Blanchett.  (Gwyneth who?)  As Elizabeth, the Virgin Queen, Cate's delivery never once misses the mark.  This is the role that she will be remembered for, no matter what tomorrow brings.  And while the rest of the cast is in top form, especially Christopher Eccleston (the stud you'll love to hate, this man is FINE!), it is Blanchett's film from the get-go.To those who find fault and question the historic inaccuracies, I say this Get a life!  Pure and simple, this movie has it all love, death, romance, war, blood...(and did I mention how cute that Christopher Eccleston is?!)If you're one of those who wouldn't ordinarily check out a period piece, you owe it to yourself to give Elizabeth a try.  Unlike the Merchant-Ivory (haughty-snotty) flicks, you may just walk away with a new appreciation for fine art. "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a great film. It sets its tone early and never lets up. The film is well directed and well acted. The character I can't seem to forget however is Walsingham. Geoffery Rush portrays Walsingham as a quiet and menacing soul. I simply loved his performance, as well as Cate Blanchett. This film runs a little on the long side but you will never forget Rush's character. Great film. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth The Flawed Virgin Queen","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This biopic on Elizabeth of Tudor daughter of Henry VIII has the visual elegance of a fine film.  However, it is flawed with (at least the Home Video cut I saw) badly identified continuity sequences and characters in the earliest sections of the film.  Thus, the narrative, the telling of the story, may leave some viewers a bit discontented. The narrative takes us from the pre-recognition and coronation of Elizabeth, who does not know whether she is going to be put to death or made Queen, to the consolidation of her power through the assassination of her enemies.  At this writing, I have not checked the historical validity of the story (in particular since this is a freebie review written just to share my reaction on this Godsend Website).  The narrative screams for the handling of a more suitable filmmaker with far better grasp of story telling and cinematic reveal.  However, there are gifts a-plenty.  What the film offers is what appears to be authentic restoration pageantry, which is superb. Along with that is exceptional camera followed by fine editing.The music score is beguiling and beautiful. The purist would have loved to hear authentic period music where I recognized segments of Mozart's Requiem written some two centuries after the Elizabethan period.  In summary, the film is somewhat flawed, especially in its entry scenes, but certainly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wish I could have seen it again","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The first time I saw Elizabeth, I was so enraptured with the performance of Cate Blanchett that I couldn't easily tell if the movie was good or not...but the second time I saw it, I said, Ah...It is a good film!! Some of the best parts of the movie come not too far in and are comedic for a short while, as the French Prince comes to England to try to marry Elizabeth.  All of the performances were great in this movie...and, though he didn't get much credit for this or Shakespeare In Love, Joseph Feinnes did a wonderful job.  As did Geoffrey Rush and Sir Richard Attenborough. The costumes were also teriffic...there are scenes where I would just block out the sound and stare at the costumes for minutes...literally staring, at the sets, too.  They were absolutely beautiful.  Shekar Kapur definitely knew what he was doing with this one!!!  I'd also like to say that this movie was not very commercially successful, and people don't know what they were missing...Go out and rent it today!!!!! "}{"Title":"A flawless script but direction was a little heavy-handed","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Historical dramas tend towards exaggeration. This seems to have been fairly loyal to the historical record, at least at the royals characters. Acting was wonderful, especially Cate Blanchett. Costumes, equally, and the sets/locations were quite good. Direction was a tad heavy-handed, as though the director was still learning a lot about his craft -- a lot of imitation of other films -- and the lighting sometimes undermined the message by some heavy-handed effects more appropriate to teenagers' TV shows. But he used his players well, and got unifomly good performances out of them. A fine fine film. Top 10 for the year.  "},{"Title":" Blanchette makes a good historical film a great one","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Seeing the excellent film, Elizabeth, answered one question I had but left me with another. Elizabeth shows that a reasonably accurate historical dramatic film can be interesting and even exciting. This story in a way is a feminine contrast to Braveheart. Instead of blood and guts and nonsensical romantic situations, Elizabeth is always intelligent, subtle and clearly shows without distorting history that as a leader Queen Elizabeth was at least as capable as any man. I very much liked the director Shekhar Kapur's stylish use of having the camera look through gauze and scarves; an excellent metaphor (about people never being seen clearly for what they are) for the deception and conspiracy that surrounded the young Elizabeth. The sets, costumes and supporting cast are also top notch.My unanswered question is how could Cate Blanchette not have won the Academy Award for this role? This mystery about the Academy goes back a long time. For instance, have you ever seen a movie starring the actress Judy Holiday? I doubt it. Yet Ms. Holiday won the Academy Award in 1950 the same year as these two fantastic performances, Gloria Swanson (Sunset Boulevard) and Bette Davis (All About Eve). Incredible. Now, I have already praised Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love. Paltrow is developing her craft and may be a great actress someday but Blanchette is already there. Her acting in Elizabeth ranks with any female performance of an historical character on film.Simply, Blanchette makes a good movie a great one.  "},{"Title":"Cate should have won the Oscar for her incredible performance as Queen Elizabeth...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An incredible movie from start to finish. Cate Blanchett has become one of my favorite new actresses. I want to see more of her work. She gives an Oscar-winning performance as Virgin Queen, with an outstanding supporting cast. I have seen Shakespeare In Love, and Gwyneth had nothing on Cate, once again an Oscar overlooked. Fortunately, Cate has received many awards for this performance. Geoffrey Rush is wonderful as well, he too is very powerful. This is a movie and a performance that I will remember for a long time. Congratulations, Cate for an outstanding role and great work!!! "},{"Title":"Spellbound","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Today I went to see this film for the second time.  I first saw this film in the second week of December 1998, after reading a short article about it. Back then, I was anxious to see the film starring the then unknown (to most people) Cate Blanchett and Joseph Fiennes.  This time around, I was once again mesmerized by Cate Blanchett's performance as Elizabeth I, and I was enthralled by the film's stunning beauty (particularly its cinematography). The film itself seems somewhat flawed--I don't know why.  Yet, it's still an impressive and enjoyable film to watch.  The cinematography of this film is spectacular and unprecedented.  I love the use of bright light and of bold color in certain scenes  in the film.  My favorite scene in the movie is the moment when Elizabeth has just found out that her sister Mary has died, leaving Elizabeth to become the new queen.  That scene is probably the best example of the cinematographer's use of bright light and bold color...I love the look of the green color of the hills in that scene. But more importantly, this is Cate's film.  She's amazing in this, her star-making performance.  Her portrayal of Elizabeth I was brilliant.  I will always consider this to be one of the best performances ever. "},{"Title":"Don't believe this Historical Drama","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As evidenced by the other comments here on this film, movies can make people believe anything.  I anticipated this movie was great excitement, only to leave the theatre appalled beyond words.  Do NOT believe what you see in this banal attempt to entertain.  Grammercy has the nerve to bill this, what could have been an amazing film, as historical.  Nobles were not killed en masse, Norfolk did not have that kinds of power over the court, Walsingham did not play seductive games with Mary (de Guise no less!), etc.  Even much of the costuming was wrong! Cate Blanchett, Joseph Fiennes and Geoffrey Rush are all fine actors, I wish not to debate this.  But the facts are, history has enough excitement and fascinating stories, there is no need to embellish...or completely change...the facts. I beg people, pick up a book and learn the facts before praising this disappointment of a movie. "},{"Title":"The film lacked credibility.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film portrayed The Golden Age as I always thought it would be. It portrayed gorgeous music, gorgeous costumes, and an essentially unblemished world.  Still, Elizabeth lacked credibility. Where were the physical and mental handicaps so common during the period.  What happened to the filth, garbage and rats.  Why weren't the characters infested by fleas and lice?  And for goodness sakes, why didn't the characters display a single wart?  What, indeed, happened to the pox? "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought Elizabeth was so well done.  It made me want to go back and relearn my Elizabethan history.  I wish the movie could have gone on and on, I was sad when it ended.  It deserves Best Picture of 1998. "},{"Title":"The Best Film of the Year","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a perfect film. Some of the shots are the most well-blocked I've ever seen. A lot of my friends said that they didn't like the film's pace and that it has an anti-climactic ending. I disagree, but pieces of its plot structure were obviously borrowed ... from The Godfather -- another perfect film. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. (I hope that doesn't spoil it for anyone.)  "},{"Title":"Tonight we settle all the royal business","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm a fan of costume dramas, so I was only mildly disapointed with Elizabeth. I found the dark period candle/torch lighting to be pleasingly realistic (much more realistic than the historically innacurate plot). Generally, the acting was pretty competent, highlighted by the performances of Blanchet and especially Rush. Strangely, I found Joseph Fiennes a little miscast in his role, though I thought him superb in Shakespeare in Love. Without the benefit of reading the other comments on this site first, I was reminded a great deal of The Godfather during the scenes of rounding up and punishing the conspirators. As costume dramas go, I almost prefer Lady Jane, an equally historically inaccurate film that just seemed to come together a bit more cohesively and provide a bit more compelling story while being somewhat more entertaining. Still, I suppose it's a great deal better than most of the other dross on offer most of the time. "},{"Title":"Good fun, but not the way to learn history","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is not a history film, it is England in a parallel universe.  The film is enjoyable, and the motivation for Elizabeth's making herself a living icon of virginity is plausible.  But the true historical facts in the film could be listed on the fingers of one hand.One reviewer said that Walsingham was too Machiavellian to be real, but in fact he was like that, and more so.  He didn't kill Mary of Guise though.The real reason why Elizabeth never saw Robert Dudley alone was because he was implicated in the murder of his first wife.  He would never have betrayed her, and she loved him till his death.  The film took events from the whole of her life and crammed them into a short period.The costumes were good, the script nice and the backgrounds picturesque, but an Elizabeth like this would never have ruled a male dominated society for 45 years, as she did. "}{"Title":"What's all the fuss?","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The enormous support for this film in the press, Academy and other Awards is a further indication of how starved contemporary movie going audiences are.Don't get me wrong, I liked the film well enough, but was extremely disappointed nonetheless.There is little reading anymore and the quality of education is diminishing. It is my expectation that visual media like film and TV should take on substantial roles in providing historical information to those who might otherwise be ignorant.I knew little of Queen Elizabeth prior to my viewing this film, and knew only minimally more after I had finished. The production design and costuming, while interesting and possibly accurate (who really knows) left me not knowing who was whom and where was where. It is the responsibility of the filmmakers to keep us IN the story,  they failed miserably here. Had I an advanced degree in European history perhaps my reaction would be rabid, instead of  tepid.A few directions, some simple titles, narration,  or background exposition, would have helped immensely. Somehow I feel the filmmakers believed themselves to be above all that drivel, proud  to let us stumble along, continually uncertain as to who was whom, and which side was which. It's the arrogance of Kenneth Branagh-style filmmaking.Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth is good in the same way John Hurt was a good Elephant Man, again, who really knows?We certainly don't need another Kenneth Branagh, a man who pompously makes costume dramas without regard to any sort of audience involvement, preferring to throw his ideas and images at them, catch if catch can, like a rich man throws pennies to a beggar. Should the success of Elizabeth spurn growth of that type of filmmaking., then I am saddened even more.  "},{"Title":"This movie makes me really wish we had a kick butt queen like that.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Back in the days when royalty actually meant something in the political spectrum, this story unfolds. Enter a simple woman, a distant relative to the ill fated queen, yet next in line to her throne. She's a commoner that creates much concern amongst the politically ambitious and sets the stage for a story of lies, deceit, love and tragedy.The film stars the beautifully talented Cate Blanchette as Elizabeth. She must prove to England, the world, even herself, that Great Britain should be ruled not only by blood, but also by authority and compassion. The afore mentioned lacking and the latter in abundance.Look for the subtle yet striking performance of Geoffrey Rush. His character adds a strong scenes of mystery and intrigue to the story. We are unsure if he covets the life of a king or of a loyal servant.Although the love story dampens the legends of the Virgin Queen makes her vow of chastity almost laughable, I will still give this movie a better then average review because of its gorgeous production style, beautiful costumes and well researched locations and talent.6 bucks. out of 8. "},{"Title":"What an awful mess","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was a major disappointment.  I couldn't wait for this movie to be over and that's a rare, rare reaction to a movie I don't like.  It's the one movie in recent history that I almost felt I should get up and leave.  The only reason I didn't was the high price of admission and the fact I had made a special journey into New York (dragging a friend along with me) to see it on a big screen.Cate Blanchett is wonderful, but she is surrounded by a movie gone astray. I don't expect an historical film to adhere slavishly to historical accuracy, but this screenplay pays only lipservice.  Elizabeth's own story is filled with the most wonderful drama, intrigue and romance. This film treated it as overwrought soap opera. It never takes advantage of the real words and events of Elizabeth's life.The film tries to do too much and never finds a cohesive story line.  Your left floundering with characters dropping in and out with little explanation of their importance.  Major characters such as William Cecil and Robert Dudley are badly cast and played even worse.  They little resemble the fascinating and intriguing actual characters of history.What a waste of the opportunity to bring Elizabeth's story to the big screen and get Cate Blanchett to play her too!  Yes, I love the costumes and Bloody Queen Mary is played to perfection, but it's not enough.  I have no concept why this is nominated in the Best Picture catagory for the Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"A captivating story of the growth of Elizabeth from woman to queen.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Every once in a while a movie captivates me, even though I have some fundamental issues with it. Elizabeth is one such movie. It tells the story of Elizabeth I's coming to power, and her ensuing attempts to secure and consolidate her position.One of the first things you notice about this film is that medieval England was a very dark place. As the characters wander from room to room, the few candles (candles were very expensive and Elizabeth was broke) seem to create more shadows than light. If you ever visit a medieval castle or palace, you'll appreciate electricity and central heating like never before. Some of the scenes are reminiscent of old vampire movies, full of arches of blackness, and deep wells of shadow. The interior dark makes the few outside scenes, full of sunlight and green meadows, stand out in extreme contrast.Fortunately the cast bring their light with them. The performances are all very solid, and Blanchett is especially good. Dressed in dazzling costumes, the actors come across as real people rather than mannequins. The film's conflicts between Catholic and Protestant, and between various political factions, feel very real, very intense. The film has rightly been noted for borrowing liberally from The Godfather. The intrigues of the Pope are cast as the cutthroat maneuverings of a Mafia Don, complete with spies, assassinations, and paid informers. In this case, imitation is the highest form of flattery.The film also achieves a gritty realism in depicting medieval England. Heretics (non-Catholics) are burned at the stake; the castles seem dark and cold; and one gets the sense, as my friend put it, that it was a smelly place. This is not the sugar coated England of The Seahawk, that Errol Flynn classic, but the grubby, dirty world of Braveheart or Monty Python and the Holy Grail.The film's organizing theme is the relationship between Elizabeth and Robert Dudley. Dudley is Elizabeth's lover, and their romance, prior to her coming to power, is full of charm, affection, and love. Their relationship serves as the primary bellweather of Elizabeth's changing nature, as she assumes the role of Queen.The growth of Elizabeth's sense of power and independence comes gradually, and believably. By using many subtle clues, such as her hairstyle, and manner of treating her advisors, we see this young woman become a powerful and dominating person in her own right. Her hair, for example, starts out as long, loose red hair. Later it is piled on top of her head in the manner of the court. As Elizabeth harden, it is cropped short and tightly curled. The Elizabeth of the closing scenes, white-faced, girdled, and grim is a shocking vision compared to the charming young princess of the film's opening.My primary dissatisfaction with the film is that we never get much sense of Elizabeth the politician. By all accounts she was a strong and shrewd monarch, but Blanchett's Elizabeth seems more lucky than good. The Machiavellan maneuvers that secure her throne seem entirely the work of her advisor Walsingham. The one decision Elizabeth seems to make is to approve the purge of many of her opponents. While it is true that her supporters were loyal to her family and religion, rather than her person, she seems more of a tool, a passive head of a powerful political machine. "},{"Title":"Extremely impressive","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Having never seen Cate Blanchett in anything before, I was blown away by her performance as Elizabeth.  I thought this film was realistic and moving. There are not many non-fiction films that can affect an audience the way this film can.  Shekhar Kapur is to be commended!  I loved it.  "},{"Title":"An ethereal performance of sublime mastery by Blanchett","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Containing one of the most mesmerising female performances of recent times, Elizabeth stands head and shoulders above other films in depicting the early life of this most fascinating of British monarchs.The Australian actress, Cate Blanchett projects an ethereal aura as the young and feisty Queen.A further magical performance by Geoffrey Rush, Oscar winner for Shine as Walsingham, an influential courtier lifts this film to well above average. "},{"Title":"Best Picture nominee?","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was rather surprised to see this movie nominated for Best Picture.  Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad film, but I have a hard time believing that it was one of the five best movies of the year.  Or even close.  There was beautiful cinematography, and some fine performances, especially from Cate Blanchett, who probably deserves her nomination.  Joseph Fiennes was much better in Shakespeare in Love (a movie truly deserving of its nomination), but he is still adequate here.  The plot, though, suffers the same fate as many other historical dramas  There is no real dramatic arc.  When writing historical fiction, screenwriters should be more careful to ensure the story still contains the normal plot elements  climax, falling action, etc., especially when the facts are distorted as much as is the case with this movie.  I felt very unfulfilled at the end of the movie.  I think the ending, while it could have worked very nicely if it had been set up earlier, was uninspired and pretentious.  I give the movie as a whole 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film bound for the Acamdemy Awards","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a wonderful film.  Superb art direction along with stunning cinematography.  Even the soundtrack was uplifting and in tune with each scene respectively.  The acting was the greatest element considering Cate Blanchett's perfomance who will probably go on to receive an Academy Award as so many Golden Globe recipients do.  This film should most certainly win the Academy Award for Best Costume, since they put so much effort into that particular aspect.   "},{"Title":"Lessons to be learned","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There is something to be learned from this film.  I do not know if the director intended his film to be an exposition of the extremes of religious intolerance (still rife in India and other areas of fundamentalism as well as in Northern Ireland)but this film was a timely reminder that  our own history (I speak as an Englishmen) is littered with the corpses of those slain (sometimes horribly) because of their beliefs or those of their neighbours.  Kate Blanchett as Elizabeth was compelling, Geoffrey Rush was a chilling Walsingham (Peter Mandelson eat your heart out) and Joseph Fiennes was good as Leicester both cutting a dash and defeated at the end. Christopher Eccleston burned throughout the film as the driven but evil Norfolk and Amanda Ryan as Lettice Howard aka Lady Macbeth was also memorable in a relatively minor part.  See it. "},{"Title":". . . but a little slow.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Great performances. Great mood and feel -- creepy. Great evocation of the time. Super-duper performance by Blanchett. I'd pay seven bucks to watch her buff her nails. And wow, what a surprise to see the woman who played Magda on AbFAb as Mary Tudor. But it was a little slow and didn't come together for me as a whole.   "}{"Title":"Great mood, weak plot.  If you liked Elizabeth, check out 'Queen Margot.'","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I enjoyed 'Elizabeth' a great deal.  With these dark, violent and sex charged period pieces, I can ignore plot more than usual.  I loved the contrasts of dark and light. The sets and costumes were wonderful.  This is a very entertaining movie.The plot is fairly weak, particularly near the end.  Except for Walsingham and Dudley, I couldn't really connect emotionally with the characters. Elizabeth clearly invited sympathy, but as the plot worked towards it's climax, I found myself fairly distant.  There were too many themes, too may characters and too little time spent developing ideas.  What was the central issue?  Was it love?  Religion?  England? Survival?  I never could decide.Violence is an important element for 'Elizabeth,' but it is a bit too modern for my taste. At times, I felt the script writers had simply put 15th century clothes on a modern gangster plot and hoped no one would notice.I wish the movie had done a better job recreating the times.  Old fashioned period pieces seemed to focus on the way &#145;good manners' conquers all and I don't mind any movie that abandons that plot line.  On the other hand, I do respect movies that manage let us experience the past in a realistic way.For example, violence permeated every aspect of life during the Elizabethan era. The 'noble' leisure time activity for men was hunting down animals, with particular interest in dangerous varieties. It is hard for us to imagine, as moderns, just how important &#145;the kill' was to the 'noble' class. Hunting/killing skill was the key measure of success for a &#145;noble' male. They didn't watch TV or read good books in their free time.If you found 'Elizabeth' intriguing, I strongly advise checking out 'Queen Margot.' 'Queen Margot' does a better job of portraying the ups and downs of surviving Elizabethan times.'Queen Margot' is a mid 90s French movie that covers a famous royal wedding in the Louvre where the bride's side decided to massacre the groom's side during the reception. If you visit the Louvre, you can walk down the hallways where the murders were performed. The massacre was predicated upon religious fears and thus connects powerfully to 'Elizabeth.'  In fact, the story covers the activities of Duc d'Anjou after giving up his attempt to marry Elizabeth. If you liked Elizabeth and want to get a more coherent view of the times, rent &#145;Queen Margot.'  It is not for weak stomachs, though. "},{"Title":"Oscar winning performance by Blanchett","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Blanchett is worth the price of admission. The air of mystery reminded me of GODFATHER III.  Overally long and parts were just plain uninteresting BUT I am glad I went.  You don't often see a performance of that quality.  "},{"Title":"All together a very good film","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was only disappointed with the erratic editing sequence with Elizabeth prior to her addressing the bishops.  It's resemblance to Woody Allen film techniques was not very Victorian at all, and it was extremely jarring. Dissolves might have been better or even just voice-overs of broken attempts to formulate the sentences, while fluid motion on screen of her getting ready might have accomplished an underlying theme of the film.  It would have lent more to the idea of people in high authority positions, as Elizabeth was have a tremendous amount of conflict and confusion going on inside of them, but do not, or attempt to not let other people see them sweat.  Probably would've been more fitting.I really enjoyed the whole cleaning house sequence in the end of the film. Really reminded me of, but not near the caliber of the end of The Godfather, in which Michael Corleone rids himself of the obstacles, people though they may have been, that pose threats to his rule.  I say obstacles because their deaths were as cold as they come- with no room for negotiation; offers they couldn't refuse.The sequence at the end of the film with the whiteness, I saw as less of a virginity/purity thing and more as her emulation of a white male (the whiteness coupled with the cutting of the hair) so as to illicit the maximum amount of respect.  Perhaps this is way off, especially considering the working title of the film was The Virgin Queen, I just found it interesting that in cutting her hair, she looked less feminine and perhaps, in the eyes of Victorian England, more masculine, and appropriate to rule the country.All together a very good film, with solid acting performances from Geoffrey Rush and especially Cate Blanchette, who with her Golden Globe nod, probably (and I believe, rightfully) forged her way to the front of the pack for the Oscar race.  And finally, not to spend too much time on the apparent, the costume, set direction, and score were extremely well done. "},{"Title":"See this movie","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  You MUST see this movie on a big screen.  If you wait for video, you will be missing out on some of the best imagery to grace the theatre this year.  See this movie!  "},{"Title":"Violent and sexy historical costume drama","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Anglophiles who demand fact over good drama might blanch at the substantial creative license that littered Shekhar Kapur's Elizabeth with historical inaccuracies, but lovers of texture, tone and mood will undoubtedly champion the flick for its exciting depiction of political intrigue.  Cate Blanchett leads a great cast of noteworthy talents like Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Eccleston and Fanny Ardant (John Gielgud even shows up as The Pope) through a sumptuous depiction of 16th century life re-imagined through costume and production design with a decidedly Indian spin.  The transformation of Elizabeth into The Virgin Queen is a show-stopper which Kapur daringly swipes directly from the legendary baptism scene in The Godfather.   "},{"Title":"An important pc of history - unfolding in sumptuous colors.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I truly did love this film for the colors, costumes, dancing, & how the characters *moved*. It was close to the most beautiful film (in that sense. Literally) I've ever seen. Cate B is so very captivating. It was easy for me to see how she evolved into such a strong & intelligent force. I was unfamiliar with the actual history of the subject matter. The presentation of plot was just not A+ but the movie overall was a must-see. I can't wait to go again (and I'm not a repeat viewer-type).  M.B.  "},{"Title":"A great performance by the Cate Blanchett.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett rocked in the role of Elizabeth.  She had one of the most convincing and powerful presences I have ever seen on screen.  The film was pretty dark, which took a bit away from the overall experience.  I liked the scenes with her and Joseph Fiennes, of the magnificent Shakespeare In Love.  His eyes are so intense, he's a perfect match for her.  This is one of the best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"Melodramatic at the core","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I found this film wonderful in scope, costumes, music, editing and cinematography, however, at the core - was too melodramatic for me - with the exception of the very talented Geoffrey Rush.  I found the film too straight forward, and with no subplots and an annoying lead as Elizabeth, I was disappointed overall in the film. "},{"Title":"A stellar performance in the title role is only one of many reasons to see this fab film.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth, the story of the first stormy years of Elizabeth I's ultimately gloriously successful reign, is a masterpiece.  Without being too untrue to the period, it manages beauty, suspense and great dialogue.  Cate Blanchett is Elizabeth in a way that few actors manage to portray real people.  I was overwhelmed by the richness of the values and the intelligence and complexity of the story.  This is a movie for adults - go and see it right away. "},{"Title":"For lovers of good period dramas","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  God only knows how historically correct Elizabeth is, but I enjoyed it. The overall feeling was that a lot of effort was put into this movie. The actors were well chosen and they played their parts well. Many of the characters were intriguing and if it hadn't been for them, the movie wouldn't have been as interesting. I especially loved Geoffrey Rush as the Queen's special advisor. And Cate Blanchett was the perfect choice for the title role. I heard rumors about Oscar nominations for best female lead, but only time will time. My favorite part of the movie was the ending. It was just perfect following the preceding events.Lula "}{"Title":"I'm ashamed to admit...","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm almost ashamed to admit that I found Elizabeth murky, muddled, and a bit dreary.  So many people have praised the film so highly that I feel that there is something wrong with me for having left the theater utterly unmoved by what I'd just seen.  Are the sets, costumes, music, etc. stunning? Yes. Is Cate Blanchett luminous and bewitching?  Definitely.Elizabeth is certainly a good-LOOKING movie.  The trouble is, the script just doesn't present a cohesive storyline, and the characters fail to fully come alive.  There is no passion beneath the movie's surface.  I came away with no more insight into Elizabeth or her times then I had when I came in. The movie is simply a series of gorgeously-filmed events. "},{"Title":"Overwrought historical drama.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The plot was overly dramatic.  The graphic violence was not necessary.  Many plot details were not believable.  The acting and casting were excellent. Cate Blanchett shimmered in practically every scene.  The movie dragged at the end.    "},{"Title":"Take the time . . .","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Take the time to see this movie.  It is fascinating.  it is also easy to follow, even for one not familiar with British history. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately shallow depiction of characters","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Unfortunately the film depicts Elizabeth as someone to whom the crown descended as a surprise. Nothing in her characterization reveals the depth of her previous learning or that she was indeed schooled to become queen. She was not a country lass frolicking on the hillside. Likewise, William Cecil, Lord Burghley is depicted as little more than an errand boy to Elizabeth, whereas in reality he was a very powerful shaper and mover of events, with constant interaction between himself and other powerful lords.. Sir Francis Walsingham is at least revealed as the cunning, determined and decisive man that he was (as the originator of the British secret intelligence service); but his motives in promoting Elizabeth never appear. As a consequence of these hollownesses, the characters, clad in all the finery possible, remain shallow. On a more technical level, there are some cute and pointless camera tricks and blinding moments, such as when Elizabeth hears of her ascension or when she dances, that draw attention to themselves without advancing the story or the characters. The nice thing is that there will still be other opportunities to tell this story and do it better. "},{"Title":"This movie has both good and bad.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  THE BAD  It is not EVEN close to being historically accurate.  First off, the chronology is incorrect and some of the events depicted did not even occur until mid-way through her reign (like Norfolk's execution) and this movie only covered the beginning of her reign (but it's not very clear). Dudley was NOT her love at the time she ascended to the throne - Thomas Seymour was (and lost his life for his close proximity to her) and he never even got a mention! The threats against Elizabeth's life (i.e., poisoned dress, the darts on the boat) didn't occur.  In reality there were so many plots against Elizabeth, (and they were all as deadly and just as 'hollywood-exciting' as the two covered in this movie), so why weren't factual ones used instead?  Also, Elizabeth's 'transformation' into the virgin queen was a bit ridiculous.  The white paste make-up was simply the fashion of the day, NOT an attempt to turn herself into an earthbound-diety. And her virgin status was a political tool she used to connect herself with purity since half the known world at the time considered her a bastard and a heretic.  This movie could have been SO much better had anyone remotely connected with it taken the time to crack open a history book first! Elizabeth I was one of the most exciting monarchs to ever sit on a throne, let alone reign supremely and successfully in those turbulent times as she did for 45 years.THE GOOD  The casting is brilliant.  I got goosebumps during the coronoation scene - Cate Blanchette looks like every portrait I've ever seen of Elizabeth R's coronation.  The acting is wonderful.  And the costumes are glorious - eye candy for those of us fascinated by Elizabethan England.  The sets were beautiful, but a bit confusing.  Looked like most of it was filmed in a cathedral, however Tudor England is known for incredible woodwork craftsmanship (including walls, ceilings, furniture) and all we saw was stone gothic arches.  Where was Whitehall Palace, Hampton Court or Hatfield? I loved that when candles were lit, the entire room didn't 'magically' light up as in most period movies, so it really helped created a sense of those times.  The scenery was beautiful.  I want to know where that huge old tree is located (in the scene where Elizabeth is told that Mary is dead and she is now queen).  Even though I didn't enjoy the gross historical inaccuracies, I'd recommend the movie for these reasons alone (as long as you can suspend your knowledge of Elizabeth R's history). "},{"Title":"A good portrayal of Elizabeth's ascension to power.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was a good movie showing the historical setting and the political intrigue going on behind the scenes.   It was emotional on several levels. It is probably not a good movie for children to see.   I enjoyed seeing the character development of Elizabeth.    The R rating is well earned.  "},{"Title":"Elizabeth was a disappointment","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Although I am interested in history, especially in English history, I did not find Elizabeth a good movie. The action is confusing, the dialogue, at times, hard to understand, and the action carries a slow pace. During the two plus hours that lasts the film I tried to concentrate and find the good in it, always awaiting for the moment when it will turn really interesting, but when the abrupt end came it left me with a feeling of emptiness. Hector Bensimon bensimon@erols.com "},{"Title":"Protestant virginity","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Movie very interesting and well done. It shows the darkness and the violence at that time. At the end we discover that Elizabeth uses a Catholic dogma (the Virgin Mary) for the Protestant power . "},{"Title":"A beautiful film steeped in historical accuracy","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie was absolutely beautiful in every respect  costuming, setting, characterization, camera work, blocking, casting, directing.  Cate Blanchett was radiant as Elizabeth.  She needs more roles.  I was completely knocked out at the scene involving her transformation.  My only beef with this film would be that it wasn't long enough. "},{"Title":"Towering Blanchett Carries the Day!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth the First's ascension to the throne has been reinvented as a Gothic Romance.  There is no such thing as understatement here.  More is definitely MORE!!!  But it has a wonderful performance by Cate Blanchett, who grows and changes as we watch.  And some solid support from Rush, Eccleston, Ardant, etc.  Don't pay too much attention to total historical accuracy or the fuzzy script.  It is very entertaining and fast-paced.  And the production values, costumes, music (when not overwhelming the soundtrack) etc. are all quite good.   "}{"Title":"A history in a dramatic sense.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you approach Elizabeth looking for a more-or-less historically accurate account of the great Queen's reign, then I'm afraid you'll be in for a disappointment.  When I first saw the film I was turned against it by the outrageous sets (bare 11 century stone walls in a 16th century palace - I don't think so) and unlikely scenes (French transvestites in the vestry), but I thought the history believable, as I've never studied the period. Then I got home and to my dismay found that the history was greatly distorted, not least in chronology.Then I realised how to view this film - its not docudrama history like 'Private Ryan' or 'Platoon'.  This film is a history in the Shakespearean sense - a series of set pieces conveying the drama of the day, with sets and costume, situations and dialogue, all splendid but with little pretence of realism; as such, it's highly polished.Thumbs up for using the Greatest medieval building in the world too. "},{"Title":"Yeah, yeah, it's great and all that ...","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  History pix are impossible to get right 100% and they're subject to the director's and the time's interpretation.  So I won't go into the details here;  suffice to say this was a well-made movie.And well-acted.  It's a big break for Cate Blanchett but my concern is that she may have done this role only too well; i.e., that she ends up remembered only for this role -- worse yet, that she ends up in Elizabeth-esque roles (tough, regal, remote, &c.) the rest of her career.  Just look at 95% of Al Pacino's roles since The Godfather. "},{"Title":"The making of a strong monarch through adversity.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A beautifully designed film that tells a very human story of a girl that learns to be a strong Queen through loss and adversity.  Wonderful performances, especially from Rush and Blanchett, with fine support from many others.  Went in expecting a Masterpiece Theatre type of movie--historical and somewhat distant emotionally but found myself involved and intrigued all the way through. "},{"Title":"A must-see for Anglophiles","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A fine, rich, fascinating movie. Recommend it for the literate, history-inclined, those who are fascinated with the history of Protestant/Catholic politics. "},{"Title":"Wish there was more","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There is much to recommend this film, but when it ends, one has the feeling one wanted much more.  First, there is the gratuitous charge one character levels that Elizabeth is really a man.  That was an historical charge.  One would wish the producers had done something more than merely bring it up. Second, we are left wondering about Mary of Scotland.  That was certainly a dramatic time in Elizabeth's reign.  The catholic question was dealt with politically only.  There were people of faith who rebelled against Elizabeth's insistence on having only the Church of England be recognized. Yet the acting, sets, costumes and cinematography were excellent. "},{"Title":"A fascinating transformation","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth reminded me of what's really the best way, in my opinion, to watch a movie  don't analyze it too closely, but be sure and pay very close attention to the characters and the story.  Follow this advice and you will thoroughly enjoy this film.  It follows a young queen -- vibrantly portrayed by Cate Blanchett, who was so wonderful in Oscar and Lucinda -- as she matures from an impulsive young girl who wants to follow her heart into a strong, charismatic ruler with the courage to kill her enemies.  Joseph Fiennes smolders prettily as her only true love (don't all costume dramas require a good smolderer?); once she realizes that she can't have him, and that any other marriage she might undertake would only be for political gain, she chooses to reinvent herself as the Virgin Queen.  Lots of brutal executions, torture, battle scenes, and lots of palace intrigue, religious persecution, and debauchery... all in all, a most entertaining film centered around a riveting actress playing a fascinating woman.  Don't think too hard about whether the historical details or costumes or music are perfectly accurate... just pay attention to the story and you'll have a great time. "},{"Title":"Some Good Acting, Weak Script and Lovely Visuals","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The main reason I wanted to see this film was for Cate Blanchett, who blew me away with her performance in Oscar & Lucinda.  She acted well in this movie, depicting a vulnerable Queen who doesn't (at first) fully realize the dangers of her position, but Christopher Eccleston and Geoffrey Rush impressed me the most.Eccleston is extremely versatile; he is like a creature unrelated to his Jude from a few years ago.  Geoffrey Rush was strong and enigmatic as Walsingham, Elizabeth's protector. I half wish the movie had been more about HIM.  I am not familiar with the actual history; did either of these men exist?  I would have liked to have seen more about them; I liked the glimpses we were given into their dealings with others.  Fascinating characters.In any case, these were the major stand out performances.  John Gielgud (as the Pope) was not memorable because he was on screen for no more than a few minutes and his lines were hardly quotable.  Eric Cantona as the French Ambassador had an amazing sort of presence; I remember him quite clearly ... and I had no idea he was a soccer player til I read it here on IMDb.  Also, the woman who played Elizabeth's first handmaiden (or whatever they are called) was very expressive and is worth mentioning.Joseph Fiennes' character was irritating beyond belief.  I consider myself to be a person of reasonable intelligence, but I could not figure out whose side he was on or why by the time the end credits appeared. The writers (or editors) really screwed up with this character; a lot of his behavior was not clarified.  I believed him when he told Elizabeth that he loved her, but then ... why was he having sex with one of her maids?  What did he have to do with the poison dress?  Why did he seem shocked to see her writhing in agony if he knew nothing of the poisoned dress?  Why would he want to see Elizabeth assassinated if he loved her?  He made no sense to me.  Not to mention I could not understand why she adored him so much; he struck me as being a fop.  Leonardo DiCaprio would have been just as suitable for this role (probably more so, since he's played the type before) ... this character was listless, lolling, lazy, and a priss.  It lowered Elizabeth to even be attracted to this man.  I found myself wondering, Where is that fiercely handsome Duke of Norfolk? every time Lord Roberts showed up on screen with his puppydog eyes.On the positive side, the film is quite lush and colorful.  Visually, it's stunning and deserves some sort of award for that.  But, as others have mentioned, the use of music was atrocious.  The music didn't always match the mood of the scene, and sometimes it would actually detract from the scene.I think this movie is supposed to be about how a woman sacrifices her own happiness and personal convictions for the good of her people and the stability of her position.  Nice attempt, but it doesn't quite pan out.  In the end, Elizabeth comes off as a freak of nature - how exactly does caking your face with white powder make you like the Virgin Mary?  That was never explained.In any case, the music in the final scene was so obnoxious that I couldn't even reflect on the poor Queen's hideous transformation.  I just wanted to cut out of the auditorium as quickly as possible.I think I'll be checking out that Elizabeth R series that everyone keeps talking about. "},{"Title":"A Highly Watchable Historical Drama","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Pakistani Shekhar Kapur is perhaps the perfect director for Elizabeth, as he brings to the table an outsider's perspective on the 16th-century ascendancy of England's Queen Elizabeth I, the daughter of King Henry VIII and his sometimes-reviled second wife, Anne Boleyn.  This sumptuous historical drama stars Australian Cate Blanchett in the title role. Blanchett brings girlish fragility and abundant womanliness to a character who history too often portrays as the distant and unassailable Virgin Queen, who spent over forty years keeping a court of suitors and yes-men at bay by refusing to marry (and therefore align with) any of them.  `Elizabeth' focuses on the first years of the queen's reign, while she was consolidating her power, and when it seemed likely that she would marry, sending England into political disarray.The men and women orbiting Elizabeth's sun are well portrayed, too. Geoffrey Rush, the star of `Shine,' plays Sir Francis Walsingham with the same kind of Machiavellian cunning that Charlton Heston brought to the role of Cardinal Richelieu in Richard Lester's 1974 `The Four Musketeers.' Christopher Eccleston (Duke of Norfolk) and Joseph Fiennes (Robert Dudley) portray courtiers admirably.  And veterans Fanny Ardant (Mary of Guise), Richard Attenborough (Sir William Cecil), and John Gielgud (The Pope) round out a capable cast.  Kapur's lush direction and sharp pacing keep `Elizabeth' a highly watchable historical drama in a genre that is too often burdened by plodding, interminable storytelling. "},{"Title":"entertaining but not academically sound","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Brilliant costume, music and colour. One mustn't look for too much historical accuracies because IMO it's not a historical piece per se. "},{"Title":"Magnificent!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What a truly magnificent film! Cate Blanchett is absolutely mesmerising as the Virgin Queen who to the (alas - a slip I am sure) opening af Mozarts Requiem, written a few hundred years AFTER Elizabeth lived - I am pretty sure it WAS Mozarts Requiem - marries England.......However, the still very beautiful and sensual Fanny Ardant almost steals the show as Marie de Guise. "}{"Title":"Lovely fiction","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a lovely fictitious work about Queen Elizabeth.  Go see it, but don't believe any of it is historically correct.  Costumes are lovely, but also wrong, everything from 1700's to Victorian fashion.  The costumer should do research and not fantasize what she thought the fashion should be. And the writer should have at least opened a history book.  Only the names remained the same.  Time period wrong, events that never happened and are contra to established to facts are presented.Acting is superb, photography beautiful, interesting story, but don't think it is historically accurate.  "},{"Title":"Costumes on Parade.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Isn't it funny how filmmakers will go on and on about how historically accurate their costumes are, and they muck up history in the story so wildly?This film is all about costumes. If you don't already know the history (and how this film is wildly deviating from it), I can't imagine that this movie would make any sense whatsoever. These people are killed, these people are running around on a battlefield, these people are locked in jail... things happen in this movie with absolutely no explanation. It becomes just a succession of costumes and images, like a music video.The film is trying to focus on the psychological consequences of suddenly being made queen. Do you cave in, or do you rise to the occasion? I don't mind historical creativity when the filmmakers have a literary idea that they want to get across, but this movie can't do it well enough and it simply becomes a huge turgid mess.Performances are good, especially Cate Blanchett, and Richard Attenborough has the one scene in this fim which contains any real emotion. The guy who plays the French Ambassador is a burning white hot sizzling hunk of molten love and really worth the price of admission if you like 'em mean and swarthy.Other than that, this film has a kind of lurid obsession with violence... severed heads, slit throats, scars and scabs and boils all lovingly admired... I didn't like that.If you want to see a good version of this story watch the first two episodes of the BBC mini-series Elizabeth R with Glenda Jackson. Glenda ROCKS as Elizabeth... she seems brilliant and strong from the start, not a stray waif from a Gap ad who happens to be made queen, and she doesn't take ANY crap from ANYONE, the way this pushover Elizabeth does in this film. Plus the story makes sense, and is a very exciting and suspenseful one, not like the boring muck this movie became. Rent that, then see this if you need a laugh, and want to see that ambassador.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"World of Symbols","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Many words are said to particular historical inaccuracies.Well, I think Elizabeth never took boat trips like those in the film - But hey, that's not the point. It's not a documentation, it's an emotional picture with lots of ideas and allusions. Hmmm ... has anybody seen one or two of the large amount of symbols in this film? Not at all? Then let me explain, what I have seen. The film starts in the very first beginning with a view from above. And who is linked with such a view from above? Right. So at this very special moment you can see through His eyes on the scene. But not with pleasure, I suppose. So, the sky is almost coloured dark in the first 15 minutes. The nights seems to be longer then usual as well as the shadows. This symbolism is used throughout the film. At any time when the evil reigns - there rule darkness and thunder as well and the omnipotent rain maker sends conditions of meteorological exceptions to the island. On the other side white fade outs are used to emphasize Elizabeths greatest moments. I don't know why, but obviously Shekhar Kapur (director) gave the Queen (always?) a strong ally to her side.Everything in the film seems a bit too large. The cathedral of Durham, the flower decorated suit of Elizabeth (which she took off as Queen, symbolically for her separation from the nature) and at the end her virginity.Just look twice. In my humble opinion, this film is worth 9 out of 10 points. "},{"Title":"Generation X in Elizabethan England.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I am confused it seems that movie may be about time travel. The court of Elizabeth seemed to be crowded with hip extras from Priscilla in the Desert. Everybody seemed to be arrested whilst engaging in sexual intercourse or other private functions. With this stuff and assorted historical inaccuracies the interesting story of the early reign of the Virgin Queen has been trivialised. A poor movie. "},{"Title":"Good but Historically inaccurate","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, the acting was brilliant, the costume was rich, but I was a little confused. Henry VIII left a son to reign after him before Mary, but there was no mention of him.  Elizabeth's death warrant was signed while she was in the tower - but not by the Queen, this was not mentioned.Henry Darnley had a wife who 'fell' to her death, was this the wife that was mentioned in the film? or did they mean his second wife?  The death of his first wife was certainly not mentioned. The Duke of Alencon was a prospective husband for Elizabeth long after the Norfolk plots had been discovered.  The Duke of Norfolk plotted to marry Mary Queen of Scots, Mary of Guise her mother had been dead for some time, the historic inaccuracies go on.  It makes it very difficult to see how old Elizabeth is supposed to be.Also I don't like the way the film makes out Elizabeth to be very naive on her ascension to the throne, after surviving her brother's reign and her sister's reign, and being highly educated it's very probable that she was most apt and qualified to be a very succesful Queen, which is what she achieved. "},{"Title":"A solid portrayal of the period of her accession.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film concentrates on her life between the ages of 21 and 25, with commendable attention to the detail of the period. The most significant insight provided is the way in which the maintenance and consolidation of power necessitates the application of political ruthlessness. In a fine performance, Cate Blanchett conveys this poignantly, discarding compassion for the requirements of the survival of herself and the stability of her realm. "},{"Title":"an excellent film with terrific performances","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"   From the moment this film starts you know you are in for a treat. You can sense the director's total confidence in his work and this shines through from beginning to end.The performances are all outstanding and Cate Blanchett is brilliant as Elizabeth and is surely certain to get an Oscar nomination .  Geoffrey Rush is never less than totally captivating as the devious Sir Walsingham, and gives a quietly sinister performance which constantly keeps you guessing as to whose side he is really on. Kathy Burke is only on screen for a short time but creates a big impression as Queen Mary.For me though, the most enjoyable performance in the film is given by Vincent Cassel (La Haine) as a French duke. He only appears in a handful of scenes but his performance bursts with life and humour and had me laughing out loud. Probably the best line in the film is delivered by him, when he says to Elizabeth, What ! What ! Wha - t!  - you'll have to see the film to understand why this line is so funny. "},{"Title":"Send For The Aussies","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth It's telling I think that Channel Four in England has hired two colonials, Australians Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush, to play the leads in its latest historical drama Elizabeth.  Yet another example of the ol' dart realising that it sent the best of the best away to Aussie 200 years ago. They need us back it seems! Elizabeth is an historical drama about Elizabeth 1, the virgin queen, known as the most unwelcome royal daughter of English History; the bastard daughter of King Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn. Elizabeth came to the throne in 1533 on the death of Queen (Bloody) Mary. The tussle between the Protestants and the Catholics was in full swing. Elizabeth was a Protestant, was week politically and in experience and was enticed to marry into one of the nearby waring nations to consolidate the power of England. Elizabeth had seen her mother and her stepmother (Katherine Howard) murdered and was well in line for an early death herself. That she survived and went on to reign with some strength in England for 45 years, and that she never married, lends this royal as a worthy topic for bio pics! Elizabeth R, an excellent 6  part, 1971 TV mini-series has already introduced us to a ferociously strong performance as Elizabeth by Glenda Jackson and to just one version of what Elizabeth was really like. Australian Cate Blanchett has defined, with every bit as much force as the great Glenda Jackson, another fascinating and powerfully realised Elizabeth. Cate Blanchett is a product of the strong Sydney Belvoir Street Theatre and really stuns as Elizabeth. She's come to most notice on the screen before Elizabeth in Oscar And Lucinda and in Thank God He Met Lizzy. She has star quality written all over her. Toowoomba born Geoffrey Rush plays Sir Francis Walsingham, who imbues Elizabeth's chief spy with a subtlety that is breath taking. Rush has most notably to date won an Oscar for his portrayal of the adult David Helfgott in Shine and was also recently seen on screen in Les Miserables as Javert, in another very impressive performance. Elizabeth was directed by The Bandit Queen's Shekhar Kapur, a cross cultural choice that has produced a challenging production; a film that is full of both intrigue and mayhem as well as a mesmerising, almost distracting beauty. So we have the butchery that stood for politics in 16th century England displayed against beautifully lit interiors and all of the accoutrements of historical drama. It could be argued that these contradictions could lessen the effect of both of these elements but the power of Elizabeth briskly and effectively shrugs of any such argument. Elizabeth is complex, harrowing and beautiful all at once. Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush are stunning and so is Elizabeth "},{"Title":"Sex, private lives and public careers","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Since Shakespeare's time, and probably before, the English public have mythologised their past through drama. Shakespeare had no trouble putting bums on seats at the Globe with a series of historical dramas about English monarchs. Each was powered by the tension between the private feelings of the sovereign and the historical circumstances they had to deal with, some succeeding surfing the tide of history better than others, but all being portrayed as humans rather than gods.Shakespeare's formula, brilliant and simple, has been reworked by many others down through the years, and there have been many previous portrayals of Elizabeth R (reigned 1558-1603) on film. This one, for the 1990s, deals with her coming to power and the first 15 years of her reign. It is dark, sexy, a bit confusing, and ultimately gripping. Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth gives a riveting performance as she changes from high spirited young woman deeply in love with a slightly wet but half decent guy (Dudley) to ruthless professional virgin who must stay aloof to stay in power.The glories of the Elizabethan age were probably more the result of good wool prices that great government by Henry VIII's second daughter but she kept the peace domestically and managed (with the aid of the weather) to avoid foreign invasion. Like her great successor, Margaret Thatcher, she made some grievous errors but survived them all to die, alone, in bed in 1603.The other actors (I nearly said players) are all pretty good. Some are cast against type; compare Christopher Eccleston's full-on study in sex, power and religious fanatacism as the Duke of Norfolk with his feral accountant in Shallow Grave. Geoffery Rush as Walshingham is ruthless also, but disguises it with sunny charm. Joseph Fiennes is suitably pretty as Dudley. Even soccer star Eric Cantona (he who thumps disorderly fans) puts in a quite believable performance as the French Ambassador.Shekhar Kapur's direction is very visual in style and sometimes is at odds with the script, but he has made good use of a largish budget and the whole thing is very satisfying to watch. If the costume people don't get an Oscar, there's no justice in this world. As for Cate, she has to be a starter for best actress. She doesn't put a foot wrong, and after seeing her in this role I can't remember what Glenda Jackson and Bette Davis looked like.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but...","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth  traces the development of Queen Elizabeth I of England from a carefree and innocent princess fully enjoying the company of the handsome Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes brother of Ralph), to a ruthless monarch who is forced to renounce her lover and bury her sexuality under the image of the `Virgin Queen.' It raises some interesting questions about women holding power in male-dominated societies and the sacrifices of personality and sexuality, involved in retaining that power. This is particularly interesting in Britain which has something of a tradition of female rulers presiding over `glorious' (I use the word advisedly) periods in its history, e.g. Elizabeth, Victoria, Margaret Thatcher, all of whom were pretty sexless.The story of Elizabeth as a person is played out against the wider drama of the religious crisis gripping Europe as a result of the Reformation. The most horrific consequences of the conflict between Catholic and Protestant are graphically portrayed throughout the film starting right at the beginning with three Protestants agonisingly burning to death, but then we would expect nothing less from the director of Bandit Queen. Elizabeth's vain (and probably anachronistic) plea that religion shouldn't be an issue are eventually overwhelmed by the horrible realities created religious intolerance. And just as issues about women in power have contemporary echoes, so do those concerning religion.However, despite lovely photography and some great performances (particularly from Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth and Christopher Ecclestone as Norfolk), I was slightly disappointed. Despite all the gore and periodic melodrama, this seemed a very slow paced film with a rather confusing plot &#150; unfortunately often consequences of attempts to keep, however vaguely, to historical facts. Often, it ended up as just a series of tableaux of beautifully shot scenes in large churches, in this respect reminiscent of La Reine Margot (also a film about a queen in Renaissance Europe).And finally for any football fans out there &#150; Eric Cantona is surprisingly good as the French Ambassador.  "}{"Title":"a crisp picture about individuality and religion","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Very interesting how the Catholic church influence over the history of Medieval times is seen through the eyes of this director. Photography lends it's power along with the very impressive scenography and costumes to conveying the mind boggling powers which compressed the life of the most powerful in that primeval society. Usually we feel very distant from those times ... but is it really true that human nature and it's environment have changed in the last 1000 years ? ;-> PS As any decent human being I fell in love with the actress impersonating Elizabeth after the first 20 frames of the movie 8-> How sad that the only escape she found was becoming the Virgin Queen !!! "},{"Title":"The Godfather, Tudor Style","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Godfather, Tudor style, 22 July 2009 7/10 Author TrevorAclea from London, EnglandPartially reinventing the period movie, stylistically at least, almost as radically as Martin Scorsese reinvented the Biblical epic with his Last Temptation, Shekhur Kapur's account of the insecure early days of Elizabeth I's reign, Elizabeth, is a claustrophobic film set in a dark world of cold grey stone, alternating overhead shots with tight medium shots rather than stressing spectacle or glamour, more political thriller than costume epic. Indeed, with its bloody finale clearly inspired by The Godfather as Walsingham takes care of business for his Capo di tutti Capo, it's almost a mafia movie, with Cate Blanchett's star-making turn as Elizabeth filling in the Michael Corleone role as the heir apparent who must ruthlessly shed emotions and conscience to hold on to the throne. That journey from fresh-faced youth to impregnable white-faced icon gives the film a solid emotional arc that helps prevent it from becoming a simple series of confrontations and thwarted conspiracies, almost - but not quite - turning it into a tragedy of success rather than the usual tragedy of failure that is usually the lot of women in historical pictures (Anne of the Thousand Days, Mary Queen of Scots, Lady Jane, La Reine Margot, etc).It's handsomely cast Joseph Fiennes gives good shallow romanticism as Elizabeth's lover Dudley, Christopher Eccleston in his default misery guts mode makes a fine villain and there's a healthy cast that, if not bursting with A-listers, is at least filled with familiar faces, from Richard Attenborough, Fanny Ardant, Daniel Craig and Vincent Cassel in a dress to Edward Hardwicke, Kelly McDonald, James Frain, Emily Mortimer and Eric Cantona. Yet perhaps even more than Blanchett it's a magnificent Geoffrey Rush who often dominates the film from the sidelines as the Queen's loyal and utterly unscrupulous spymaster Sir Francis Walsingham, a man who can seem all things to all men and women but is loyal only to her. Even when he's simply observing from afar he's a powerful presence in all the right ways, emanating a callous intelligence that is truly frightening.It's strange that the sequel has been attacked by the Vatican as anti-Catholic when this first chapter probably occupies a high place on Ian Paisley's Ten Best List, what with Kathy Burke's psychotic Bloody Mary burning Protestants and threatening to do the same to her half-sister and John Gielgud's Pope (earning fifth billing for barely two minutes' screen time) despatching Daniel Craig's priest to assassinate the Protestant queen not merely with his blessing but his promises of a welcome in heaven for any who help in the task. Not entirely inaccurate considering the many attempts by Catholic kingdoms like France and Spain to topple or assassinate Elizabeth during her reign, but a little more historical context might have been helpful for viewers not so familiar with Tudor politics and the causes and effects of the Reformation. It doesn't help that Michael Hirst's screenplay refers to Marie de Guise (Ardant) as Mary, Queen of Scots, leading some to assume she's THE famous Mary, Queen of Scots rather than her mother, but then the problem of just how much historical information you can include before it gets in the way of the drama is always a difficult one in a period film too little and you don't know what's happening, too much and you feel like you should be taking notes in case there's a test later. Instead, this is content to follow Elizabeth's rise at the expense not just of her enemies but also some of her early friendships, keeping it personal even as Elizabeth has to shed her own personality to create an icon a divided nation can follow. It's certainly not flawless, but it's never dull and often impressive. "},{"Title":"The muddled monarchy","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There's a lot going on in this movie. Perhaps there's a bit too much going on. There's so much plotting and scheming that it's hard to keep track of who exactly is plotting with whom. The gist of it is that the newly crowned Queen Elizabeth finds her hold on the throne, and indeed her life, in rather constant danger. Who can she trust? Who is really on her side? Of all the men who vie for her affections is there one who actually loves her? Or is love out of the question, her potential marriage destined to be just part of the political game? A lot of questions and not all of them will be answered in satisfying fashion. The plot of this film is rather untidy and it never seems to quite tie itself together.As a 16th-century English drama this is a film which is obviously going to have a very specific look to it. And the filmmakers capture the period beautifully, the film really does look fantastic. Fabulous sets and costumes bring the period alive. Elizabeth's coronation stands out as one scene which looks particularly magnificent. Cate Blanchett's portrayal of Elizabeth is terrific but not everything which surrounds her works. There are some other excellent performances, most notably from Geoffrey Rush as a man who clearly is on Elizabeth's side and Christopher Eccleston as a man who clearly is not. While those important roles are performed well Joseph Fiennes never entirely convinces in playing Robert Dudley, the one man Elizabeth seems to truly love. And while many more characters, and potential conspirators, wander through the movie few make much of a positive impression and a couple of characters really don't work at all.The movie plays fast and loose with historical facts in an attempt to ratchet up the drama. But the story as presented has much of the drama drained from it by the end. Things get rather muddled and at times hard to follow. By the time the director tries to tidy things up with a Godfather homage (or Godfather ripoff if you're inclined to be less charitable) the film seems to have gotten away from him a bit. Elizabeth has so many potential enemies it's hard to keep track. As the film nears its end the key questions are who is ultimately conspiring with whom and why? As you watch the film you may have a hard time figuring those answers out. The film starts with great promise but as it moves towards its finale rather than building momentum the story seems to fizzle out. At its heart the movie has a wonderful, captivating performance from Blanchett. And the look of the film is wonderful. But there are problems with the story. While certainly intriguing the plot in the end becomes a little too involved for its own good. All in all it's a movie which definitely has some things going for it but which ultimately falls just a touch short of being completely satisfying. "},{"Title":"Very dull, uninteresting movie...","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this in History class about six months ago, i don't remember much about the film except for the fact that i was bored out of my mind watching it. It wasn't exciting, it wasn't interesting, it definitely wasn't fun and i definitely wouldn't recommend it!!!It's about the life of Elizabeth I, and if her life was as boring as this movie, i feel for her, i really do (There's not much else to say, it was so bad that i couldn't really be bothered paying attention to it, it's not worth a rent for a Saturday night in, it could be your last.Hopefully this review wasn't as much of a torture as the movie was.5/10 "},{"Title":"Another mostly hollow production","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Nearly every bit the overblown soap opera as its sequel of ten years later, Cate Blanchett's first turn as the Queen of England already finds her impressive talent buried underneath lavish production.Shekhar Kapur is a good fit for directing the historical intrigue but too often finds himself swept up into the production values inherent in this rich period piece at the behest of filming actual character-based content.So mildly dull and partially melodramatic the entire proceedings feel, that Vincent Cassel nearly steals the show amongst this extremely classy cast by flaunting his dress-wearing zaniness for merely a few minutes. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw quite a few clips of this film on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, where the leading actress was number 37, and I'm quite glad I gave it a go. Basically Britain is being divided by faith, Protestant vs. Catholic, and the current Queen Mary Tudor (an unusual choice in Kathy Burke) has no heir, and the only person that could take over, her half-sister Elizabeth (BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Cate Blanchett) is arrested, but not long after Mary has died of a tumour (which they thought was a pregnancy), without signing her death warrant, Elizabeth is chosen to take over, obviously becoming Elizabeth I. Her first few years are shaky, mostly because she rules from the heart, not the head, there is also concern, particularly from her adviser Sir William Cecil (Lord Sir Richard Attenborough) that she should marry. But she refuses to do so, even with seeing many suitors, most likely because she has a short (sexless) relationship with Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester (Joseph Fiennes). It is towards the end, with help from Sir Francis Walsingham (BAFTA winning Geoffrey Rush) that she has killed all enemies, and recreates herself, with the white make up and new robes as The Virgin Queen. Also starring John Gielgud as The Pope, Fanny Ardant as Mary of Guise, Terence Rigby as Bishop Gardiner, Christopher Eccleston as Duke of Norfolk, Amanda Ryan as Lettice Howard, James Frain as Alvaro De La Quadra, Jamie Foreman as Earl of Sussex, Edward Hardwicke as Earl of Arundel, Trainspotting's Kelly Macdonald as Isabel Knollys, Wayne Sleep as Dance Tutor, Emily Mortimer as Kat Ashley, Angus Deayton as Woad, Chancellor of the Eschequer, Eric Cantona as Monsieur De Foix, Vincent Cassel as Duc d'Anjou, Casino Royale's Daniel Craig as John Ballard and pop star Lily Allen as a Lady in Waiting. It was pretty dark in places, particularly at the beginning, and it is a good film with some good performances. It won the Oscar for Best Makeup, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Music for David Hirschfelder and Best Picture, it won the BAFTA Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film, the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, Best Cinematography and Best Make Up/Hair, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design, Best Editing, Best Production Design, Best Original Screenplay, the David Lean Award for Direction for Shekhar Kepur and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama. It was number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Films. Good! "},{"Title":"The Virgin Queen","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A film by a director from India staring an actress from Australia in a story about one of Britain's most well-known monarchs. But hey, it works. This is a lavish costume drama of a semi-historical account of the Ascension to the thrown and the early years of the reign of Elizabeth I. Henry VIII is the second Tudor king and after his death his son the Protestant Edward VI becomes a boy king but dies as a teenager. Edward's cousin, the Catholic Jane Grey becomes the regent queen for nine days and is executed and the Catholic Mary I who is the daughter of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon becomes Queen. Mary in the five years of her reign earns the title of Bloody Mary for executing more people than had been executed in the previous century and a half. Childless, she dies of ovarian cancer and her half sister, the Protestant Elizabeth who is the daughter of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, becomes Queen Elizabeth I also known as Gloriana, Good Queen Bess and the Virgin Queen. Elizabeth is also the sixth and last Tudor monarch. This film is filled with castle intrigue, the fight for power, and the religious clash between Protestants and Catholics in a post Henry VIII and post Reformation world. Cate Blanchette who had only appeared in a handful of films won acclaim for her staring role in the film Oscar & Lucinda is cast in the title role of Elizabeth which earned her her first Academy Award nomination. This film has a great ensemble cast. Joseph Fiennes is Robert Dudley the Earl of Leicester and Eliabeth's true love interest. Geoffry Rush is Sir Francis Walsingham, Elizabeth's spy master and adviser. Christopher Eccleston is Thomas Howard, the Duke of Norfolk, one of the most powerful men in England. Richard Attenborough is Sir William Cecil, Scretary of State and Elizabeth's chief adviser. Fanny Ardant is Mary of Guise the Queen Consort of Scotland who also seeks the throne of England. Vincent Cassel is Duc d'Anjou who is being considered as a possible husband for Elizabeth. Kathy Burke is Queen Mary Tudor who hates her half sister Elizabeth and once had Elizabeth imprisoned in the Tower. John Gielgud, in his final film, has a very brief on screen role as The Pope. The film can be a little confusing as it takes a dramatic license with history and tries to fit too much into a two hour run time. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Actress, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Original Score, Best Art Direction and Best Makeup winning only the Oscar for makeup. Shekhar Kapur directs a script by Michael Hirst with beautiful cinematography by Remi Adelfarasin. John Myhre and Peter Howitt create stunning sets in art and set decoration and Alexandra Byrne designs elaborate period piece costumes. Jenny Shircore wins the film's only Oscar for makeup but had this not been up against some other particularly strong films for 1998 it would have won more. Director Kapur, cinematographer Adelfarasin and writer Michael Hirst have reunited for the sequel The Golden Age with Blanchette reprising her role as Elizabeth and Rush back as Walsingham. I would give this an 8.0 out of 10 and will look forward to it's sequel in which Sir Walter Raliegh will be a principal character. "},{"Title":"great performances, picture","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" 'Elizabeth' is a historical documentary film about Queen Elizabeth I's early years on the throne. This is a story of the queen coping with relationships among a lover, the religious groups, and countries (France and Spain). This film combines excellent acting performances, cinematography, and an interesting story that can appeal to a wide audience.The acting performances were done well throughout the film, and this was especially an important aspect because this is a film about people. Blanchett played an excellent queen, humanising her in her relationships and weaknesses as well as creating a strong-willed and determined leader at the same time.The cinematography also played an important part in this historical film; much care is given to detail. Although most of the film takes part in the palace, colour is used to provide a sense of the times in flashy costumes and events. The contrast helps to portray the historical significance of the film in that throughout the dark times, the Elizabethans loved their entertainment.The story was focused primarily on Elizabeth and her relationships, and it kept the focus on these aspects and did not get too detailed in the overall picture. The story was interesting with a variety of different scenes, and it did not get too involved with fancy dialogue. There was also a sense of humor in the film through the foreign suitor character who was flashy in his emotions and who enjoyed dressing up in a dress. This showed that although the film was a historical one, it was able to find some humor with the characters that is believable and that did not spoil the serious essence of the film.Overall, this is a great film and I'd recommend it. Students in history classes must watch this film but realise that it is only a small aspect of Elizabeth I's life. However, it is a good documentary of the queen and the general historical time. "},{"Title":"My friend and I discussed a joke version.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cate Blanchett had only recently entered our vocabulary when Elizabeth came out, but she did a good job playing the Virgin Queen and showing her various struggles (as it was, this was all pretty new to me) and the vicissitudes of ruling a country. Most people probably never would have imagined an East Indian person directing a movie about an English monarch, but he did a good job too. Still, I have to wonder how many movies there can be about European monarchs. The obvious surprising thing is that co-stars Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes starred in Shakespeare in Love, for which Judi Dench won an Oscar for playing Queen Elizabeth. The things that we see in life. Also starring Christopher Eccleston, Richard Attenborough and John Gielgud (in his final role).My friend and I once discussed a joke version. As an example of how silly it would be Dan Aykroyd, Jim Carrey, Mike Myers and Will Smith would play the bishops; Whoopi Goldberg would play the maid; and the credits would feature Jackie Chan yelling Wah-tah! "},{"Title":"the head that wears the crown","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth is, as the name promises, the story of the Queen Elizabeth, but with one difference - it is the psychological story of Elizabeth. I saw this movie for a piece of history, and as anyone who has even a passing acquaintance with the era would be, I was curious about one of the primary forces behind it. Well, I got something else. I got a little psychological tale set inside the head of a major political figure.The film can possibly be analysed and revealed to have several layers and sub-texts, but I found it to be essentially the story of a woman coming to terms with being Queen. A tad obvious as analyses go, I know, but really that's what this movie is. And it is terrific just for that.Cate Blanchett romps through this film. She seems to go under the skin of the character and come out on the other side, as she oscillates from vulnerable maiden to monarch, from soft beauty to ice maiden, from girl to monarch, from uncertain to ruthless. It's pretty much a blast watching her as she slowly but steadily comes to terms with the nasty little job she has inherited.And no, it's not that she is in any way uncertain about wanting the job. That's what I loved about the movie - Elizabeth clearly loves her job, she wants it, and is never coy about that. But she must pay the required price and she does in terms of the life she eventually has to live. She inherits her power but eventually also earns it. She probably succeeded as a Queen because she was a real pro about it.Shekhar Kapur does a good job - his style is a sort of invisible one. He is almost not there, he seems to have put it all together and then nimbly jumped off the set. Half his work is done in his casting decisions as it should be in a 'dramatic' film - the biggest one of all being Blanchett. What's more he doesn't seem loathe to add a little extra drama to the film, and that really works. The acting, the camera work and the staging of the movie have just a bit of an excessive quality about, but it never goes wrong a) because, this is after all a story about royalty, about powerful people taking decisions that affect entire nations, and these are after all very grave matters and b) because of the stellar cast involved.-----Possible spoilers ahead---- The settings and costumes also help, of course, and the camera work seems to have a fly on the wall quality about it as it wanders through the somehow forbidden private world of England's royalty. But this film is finally about the performances. Geoffrey Rush is subtle, classy and slimy all at the same time. Joseph Fiennes is the nice lover to the point where you start hating him for his 'niceness', and his character is always an echo of what Elizabeth feels for him at that particular point in time, and an echo too, of the love she must give up to be strong enough to rule. Richard Attenborough I loved in the scene when the power game comes full circle. Norfolk is all huff and yes a little dramatic but he's a great foil to Elizabeth herself and one somehow tends to see his point of view at times, which is a terrific thing. And not one of the supporting cast is wasted - every face is brilliantly lit, and intensely shot. And Cate Blanchett is a goddess and the film simply belongs to her.Initially two things rankled. One was the lack of English scenery - what did the people of England at the time do, how did they live, what was life like in England at that time? But Elizabeth is a psychological drama, it is about power and about the rarified atmosphere that monarchs, kings and even modern day rulers must live in. In that sense the director's choice to rarify the world of this movie makes complete sense, as does the quick pacing - something you'd expect more from a thriller than a historical.The other was the fact that Elizabeth seems to depend a lot on the help of Walsingham in her success. I debated this for a while thinking 'Doesn't it undermine her as a woman?' and came to the conclusion that it doesn't. My rationale was this If Elizabeth was a man, we would never have, in any way, seen her need for help as a sign of weakness, after all no seat of power (even in a small office with a hundred people I assure you) is won and retained without genuine support from the middle ranks. The only possible reason we could see Elizabeth as weak is perhaps because of our own conditioning making us believe that if a woman needs help, it must be 'because she is a woman'. Hell, everyone needs help, and I have a strong feeling anyway that by the time Elizabeth got good at being Queen, she needed absolutely no help from anyone. By then she was a great Queen and a brilliant pro, and not a conflicted soul (as the film admittedly 'hypothesises')&#133; in fact she was probably so good a queen, she was probably boring as a 'character'. "}{"Title":"Only for fans of the genre","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Costume drama about queen Elizabeth, who reigned England for a period of over 40 years. We follow her during her first years in power as she is supposed to marry, but ultimately doesn't, giving her the 'title' The Virgin Queen.Two stories are in the central. First of all, it's the Queens (a part by Cate Blanchett) lovelife. Three parties desperately want to marry her the royal families of France and Spain and long time friend and lover Lord Robert (a great Joseph Fiennes, who also starred in (the much better (IMO)) Shakespeare In Love).Then there's the issue of religion. At the time Elizabeth comes to power England is a catholic country, but Elizabeth is protestant. Both sides 'meet' each other in what apparently became the Anglican church. That's a thing I didn't know yet. You see, you *can* learn things from the movies.The acting is impecable and it all looks great, but like other costume drama's it just won't stick with me. At the time of the last (great!) scene I was a bit bored ... is it just me?Strong performances make it a 5/10, but I'm sure fans of the genre (that includes the members of the Academy) will strongly disagree with me. "},{"Title":"An interesting, sometimes intense movie.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I had been wanting to see the movie Elizabeth for quite awhile. I had heard such good things about it, from friends and reviews on here. I had that chance recently, and have to admit it was a pretty good movie. Cate Blanchett plays a wonderful Elizabeth, the character development is rich and interesting to watch. This movie has a somewhat long running time but the time passes quickly and that's a plus. Your also drawn in from the beginning, to the duplicity, deception and numerous motivations of the many around her. One thing Elizabeth certainly isn't is boring.If one has always been fascinated by royalty, this movie is just about the perfect choice. I was and am,one who does have a strong interest in that, growing up I read many a book about kings and queens etc etc. Elizabeth creates the feeling of the royal court wonderfully. And I mustn't forget to mention the cinematography either which is wonderful.Elizabeth is a movie I liked a whole lot while never actually loving. I think that's because of the Amount of characters and the ambiguity of virtually all of them. So many characters are introduced, many peoples' motives are never revealed fully, it's absolutely,a movie, where if your distracted for a second or two you lose a great deal. While the character development for Elizabeth is darn near perfect it's not there as much in anybody else. Still, The story of Elizabeth is a fascinating one and this is an absorbing and good movie. My vote is 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Overrated, fictional","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Why do filmmakers take such care to reproduce locations and costumes and then completely distort the truth? So many things are incorrect in this movie. This is such a pity because the real story of Elizabeth's rise to power is much more compelling. Make no mistake, Elizabeth understood realpolitik from childhood, she did not have to learn on the job. Sometimes it is more stupid than inaccurate. There is no way English courtiers would argue with their monarch in front of the French Ambassador. I would be prepared to forgive some of this, if the movie were not so long and confused but after two hours I really was not sure when it would end. The main saving grace is the performance of Geoffrey Rush as the scheming Walsingham.Read a history book instead.  "},{"Title":"Good story and acting, but the plot is spacey","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you have to watch at least twice.  The movie jumps right into the plot, with all it's intricate characters plotting and scheming, and it's hard to figure out who has what agenda at first.In a way, I felt it's potential wasn't realized.  So much of the real action happenes behind the scenes, and we, the audience, are just shown the result. I'm not sure if this was deliberate, or if the makers were simply challenged with showing the interaction between so many characters in a 2 hour film.Vaguely speaking, the situations and characters aren't really directly explained(in a traditional fashion), but the audience is left to sort out who everyone is.  Anyway, it's a very unique movie and spawns great interest in the story. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but highly inaccurate","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If you are looking to watch an interesting, fairly watchable movie, than give this film a try because it can be entertaining in some areas.However, if you are a serious history buff, or are wanting to learn more about Queen Elizabeth I, than stay away from this. Not only are the setting and story-line almost fictional, but the character portrayals are 100% abominable.I hated the way Elizabeth was portrayed in this film. Cate Blanchett's Elizabeth is weak-willed, insecure, pathetic, hopelessly in love and with no idea how to rule. This portrayal is nothing like the real Elizabeth, who is revered as being one of the greatest of English rulers, in spite of being a woman.Most of all, the film fails to deal with the REAL problems faced by Elizabeth both before and after her succession and the way in which she solved them. The real Elizabeth was far more admirable than the one shown in this film, and her story in reality is far more interesting. If you want to see a good television adaptation of Elizabeth's life, watch 'Elizabeth R', it's far superior to this film. "},{"Title":"She Deserved MUCH better","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Blanchett resembles what we know of Elizabeth Tudor's looks. The costumes are very good, too. Everything else in this production fails as a movie and doubly fails as one purporting to tell a real story. Blanchett's character in no way reflects what we know of Elizabeth's own, and we know a lot. Scene after scene is filled with fantastic and untrue scenarios e.g., the assassination attempt; the ridiculous arrival of the French suitor and the more preposterous notion that the Duc d'Anjou (I assume this was meant to be him; as he never came to England, one can't be sure) would have a cross-dressing orgy as a guest of the queen he sought political marriage with, in a court riddled, as he would well know, with English spies; and the downright laughable end, wherein the queen consciously adopts a white mask to set herself up as a Protestant icon of virginity. Fifteen years before she entertained the most serious marriage proposal of her life. The real disgrace here is that Elizabeth's life and reign were rife with authentic, highly dramatic incidents which would have made for gripping story-telling. Shame on all concerned for presenting the public with such a travesty.  "},{"Title":"The Oscar Bar Is Lowered Again","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  So so.  I gave this film a 5, just because it dealt with something other than blowing something up, high school and aliens.   Seems to me that Roberts little secret should've been brought to light a little more. The acting was good, Blanchetts performance okay. (I'm still waiting for one of these new actresses to outact Liz Taylor in Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf! That's pretty much the standard for me.) Rush turns in another great performance, this time by underacting. Fiennes...well, he's who he is.  A brother to a great actor. But, I now know why England is not the power the United States is today, we don't put little teenage girls in anything but school. Running a country??    "},{"Title":"An acting triumph","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is an excellent movie if you are into period pieces, granted that the discrepancies between the movie and the historical facts are ignored by the viewer.It moves well, there is never a dull moment; interesting storyline, intrigue, romance, etc etc...Mr. Kapur put it all together well,and the movie contains spectacular costume and production designs. But most important of all, it totally belongs to the new acting godess, Cate Blanchett. (Finally there is a replacement for the grand-dame of acting, Meryl Streep. I would give anything to see those two in a movie together.) Ms. Blanchett embodies the Virgin Queen and creates a marvellous performance. Just watch the scene where she rehearses her upcoming address to the religious leaders of England; that scene and the subsequent one alone should have nailed her the academy award, had it been a fair world. She is a virtuoso actress and her transformation from an innocent passive scared sideliner into a shrewd leader and decision maker proves her range. She is also surrounded by some other marvellous performers. Kathy Burke is excellent as her ever suffering step sister, Geoffrey Rush holds his scenes well, and Joseph Fiennes, not only good to look at, but gives a sensitively rich performance... Do not miss this movie... "},{"Title":"A wonderful historical drama that should make a star of Cate Blanchett","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Intrigue and treachery guide this lush film of the crowning and political maturity of England's virgin queen, Elizabeth I. An outcast of her own family, an independent thinker, and perhaps the worst of her sins-a non-Catholic, Elizabeth is saved from a life in the dungeons by virtue of the fact that she is a woman and can thus bear children. Her sister's untimely death before producing a proper male heir is her saving grace.Elizabeth's teenage life is quite simple and serene, with nothing to challenge her obviously high intellect more than innocent children's games, her studies of the arts, and the pure joys of young love as personified in the supple form of a lusty Joseph Fiennes. Suddenly Elizabeth is thrust into the role of Queen, on the very day her sister dies, and the transformation as played by Cate Blanchett is revealing of a knowledge of the strength in this legendary figure that is remarkable for an actor of any age or experience. Blanchett presents a child-woman who is aware of the multifaceted dangers awaiting her ascendance to the throne. "},{"Title":"Pretty silly take on history...","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Great sets, terrific costumes, but the acting is out of a second rate self-indulgent parking lot slacker blabfest. The direction is just plain weird. Oh well, every age must have its Elizabeth I guess. Better to read Christopher Hibbert any day of the week. "}{"Title":"Pretty, but not historically accurate","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've read a couple different biographies of Elizabeth I, and I'm pretty sure a lot of this stuff never happened. I thought a more focused and interesting movie could have been made solely of the years after Mary took the throne and her death. Christopher Eccleston is the best thing in it. "},{"Title":"Endlessly pretentious, dull, dull, dull","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I can only think that Ben Walsh saw a different film to the one I endured last night. Certainly the costumes were magnificent but the script labored on and on without giving us details essential to understand what it was all about, and the direction was pretentiously self-conscious. I recall a film when I was a teenager - ELIZABETH AND ESSEX - with Bette Davis playing the Virgin Queen which was light years ahead of this attempt, and that was made fifty years ago.  I'm slowly coming to the conclusion that contemporary film making sucks, and ELIZABETH in particular is an exercise in tedium. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"*.5,1.5 out of 5 stars,the campy braveheartish story of Elizabeth 1st(the virgin queen)","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kinda odd on how the queen here could be called a virgin even though she & that lord robert guy had a really really romantic time in bed. to start off it was incredibly campy (even though it didn't go down as campy as film's like The Swan Princess) the film is also a basic mix of a campy medieval romance film & the campy & stupidly gory braveheart. the film had an R rating for violence (which was basically a milder amount than braveheart),& sensuality(even though I don't really care all that much about that content part fans of this will feel a little jipped because the romance scene between Elizabeth & Robert was really brief & the only part that would satisfy the fans of this content is the sensual scene of a foreign royal official & one of Elizabeths lady-in-waitings),although what positive's thing I'll say is that it had some nice music & that little 3rd wife crack made during the Bishop meeting was rather funny. so mainly a rather overrated-odd plotted film but mostly the good part was the nice music,makes me wonder if shakespeare in love is a worthy look. "},{"Title":"Nice costumes, weak plot","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed after watching Elizabeth. Guess I expected some action in it, from what the trailers showed.The film's plot almost didn't exist, basically it seemed to be based on the Encyclopaedia Brittanica section for Queen Elizabeth and as I have read that section and other historical books I already knew what was going to happen all throughout the film. It's sad that the film is clinically free from surprises and thrills, actually I think it's quite predictable even for those who don't know anything about the plot.So, if you're not into fancy costume movies, avoid this simplified pop-culture historical love-drama and stay at home reading a good book and drink a cup of tea! "},{"Title":"Beautiful film, historical accuracy questionable","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a student of Tudor-Stuart history, I was most anxious to see this film, and was able to do so in New York at Christmas, since it was not playing locally until recently.Elizabeth Tudor was one of the most fascinating and pivotal characters in the 16th century.  Her life was fraught with danger from the day of her birth until her death in 1603.  It needed no embroidery, no fabrication, no Hollywood excesses, but the screenwriters unfortunately seemed to feel that poetic license was required to lend interest.I felt that the treatment of Elizabeth was lacking  here was a woman fluent in six languages, a student of the sciences of the day, mathematics, and extremely well read for a man - amazingly so for a woman.  Yet she was portrayed as vacillating, unsure, and somewhat flighty, rather than the strong opinionated woman she in fact was.  Being in the shadow of the axe for the majority of her life had taught her to trust no one, and to rely on her own counsel.The love scenes with Robert Dudley were almost blasphemous.   Dudley was already married, the son and grandson of beheaded traitors, and NOT a candidate for the royal hand.I objected to the portrayal of Cecil as rather insignificant.  His guidance was essential to Elizabeth, both before and during her reign.  To religate this character to a minor role is a grave injustice.The suggestion of any English participation in the death of Mary of Guise is bizarre.Notwithstanding my concerns for the historical inaccuracies or liberties taken, I thoroughly enjoyed the visual spectacle of this movie.  The film was beautifully costumed and the cinematography was outstanding.  The dark tenor of the film was expressive of the period, and the depiction of the various palaces and royal houses was credible.  The acting was excellent, notwithstanding the weak character development by the screenwriters, and praises go to all the actors.I only wish that the writing staff had chosen to portray Elizabeth in a truer way, without embellishment and imaginary assassination attempts.  "},{"Title":"Remarkable...but leave the history books at home","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I know only enough of the history of this particular period of English History to be dangerous to myself when trying to sound intelligent about it, but I am fairly certain of my conviction that the film isn't terribly accurate in a historical sense. In that way I imagine that, for lack of a better education in English History, I would have to agree with many of the previous remarks about the historical innaccuracies of this film. I bow to the superior period knowledge of others.But I am very certain of something else this movie isn't ABOUT history, not really, and to focus on the historical innaccuracies is to rob yourself of a marvelous experience. This film is about the remarkable transformation of a remarkable woman who was in so many ways vastly and incredibly ahead of her time.Elizabeth is first introduced to us as a playful idealistic young girl, naive in the realities of religious persecution and the remarkable fragility of the office she ascends to after the death of her half sister Queen Mary. Her idealism and, dare I say it, feminism (I don't see the need of a Husband at all she says after her coronation) make her a target in a sense she only barely comprehends. Through the very act of survival, she becomes a cunning and ruthless ruler who overcomes, overtakes, and finally leads an England that is not yet the world power it is to become by the end of her Reign.Cate Blanchette's remarkable on-screen transformation leads us from a giggly, free-spirited lover to a terrified new queen to a resigned and betrayed leader (Must I make Stone of myself? she asks Francis Walsingham, very aptly played by Geoffrey Rush) to a rock of regality (to rule absolutely, yes replies Walsingham). It is easy to understand why many do not fear her when she first ascends to the throne, and easy to understand why, in the last scene of the film, even her long time lover falls to his knees in astonishment and subjection to the Virgin Queen. She is, indeed, Married to England.For a time I thought I may be a bit offended by the graphic-ness of the film...it is quite surprisingly sexual and bloody. But not in an exploitative way. Much as Saving Private Ryan suggested (or rather, shouted) that to portray war in any less than it's ultimate and final gore and violent reality is to pay less than complete and faithful homage to the participants, the portrayal of sex and violence in Elizabeth is to flesh out the era's people in their full, honest and genuine reality, which is ultimately the only way to be faithful to the characters of the film and to the period itself. To omit those details is to be less than honest.It simply cannot be said that Cate Blanchette's performance is anything less than Oscar-caliber, and I have my favorite in that particular category come early next year (assuming I stay awake long enough to root her on...and too bad she's got a boyfriend, from what I understand..oh well). "},{"Title":"Dull and lifeless, bastardization of a truly wonderful story","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This will win awards for cinematography and costume and that's about all. Whatever lines Jeffrey Rush was given he delivered well, Kate Blanchett looked very good, but the whole script lacked anything of substance in the biggest way. Very convoluted, portraying Elizabeth in the early years of her reign up until about when she dropped Dudley - I don't know the time  line (as it got skewed in this horrible script) but maybe the first 5-10 years of her reign, at that. She was portrayed at times as a nin-com-poop which is stupid and false as far as I'm concerned. She's a very important British Royal and I've read several biographies on her and this film is such a horrible portrayal of one of the most powerful monarchies in history - it does nothing to exemplify her political prowess (as she could have put Machiavelli to shame) which if there were more dialogue, more history and less romance and long glances, this movie may have had a chance.So, if your into innuendo, bastardization of history, strong women portrayed as idiots mostly, good scenery, doleful eyes, no story line (even though IMO it's one of the greatest stories/historical periods) then go see it. Otherwise, save your $8 bucks.Usually on opening nights the audience will have an opinion. I was not the only one booing at the end nor the only one looking at my watch - first waiting for the story to begin, then waiting for it to end. Two hours and twenty minutes worth. Blech.To have such fine actors (Geoffrey Rush, Cate Blanchett, Christopher Eccleston, Joseph Fiennes, Richard Attenborough, Sir John Gielgud, et. al.) stuck with such a reprehensible script is blasphemous.Marcella "},{"Title":"grossly inaccurate","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Grossly inaccurate. Her dealings with Anjou were from 1577 onwards after she had reigned for 20 years and was 20 years older than the Frenchman. Thus Mary of Guise, aunt of Anjou, mother of Mary Queen of Scots, was long dead (1560) before it happened and the courtship was thus not a condition of an anglo scots armistice. William Cecil was not a much older man, he was also a loyal servant, her spirit (she was fond of nicknames)who served her until the 1590's. Norfolk rebelled circa 1572, not in the first 5 years of her reign. The pope excommunicated her in 1570 after she had reigned 12 years, not within months of her coronation. Thus events in the movie did not happen in the first five years of her reign. And as for the claim that the Queen invented her virginity as an image, a false one, only a generation as sex crazed as ours could find lifetime chastity unthinkable. This is projection on a past age of modern sensibilities. Moreover Kat Ashley was her nurse, a grown woman when Elizabeth was a baby, and therefore not one of her young ladiesI am incensed with the laziness and arrogance of script writers who will NOT do some research AND GET IT RIGHT. This work is a historical fantasy, and little more "},{"Title":"We follow the bastard-child Elizabeth on her way to become the Virgin Queen.","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a great film! Cate Blancett is one of my favorites on the screen. She gives Elizabeth a soul. I was really mad when Cate didn't get an Oscar for her performance. It was interesting to get a glimps of the queen's life. Her fears, her strenght, her fight for her believes. How the men try'd to control her and how she fought back. How she got her heart broken and became the Virgin Queen. The cast of the movie is good. They have found a group of people who complimate each other in a good way. Geoffrey Rush plays Walsingham to the fullest, Christopher Eccleston is great as Norfolk and you get a few laughter from Vincent Cassel. Shekhar Kapur get all my love for making this movie. And I'm glad his going to make one more. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchette is wonderful in this historical drama.  the only actress to play a better Queen Elizabeth I, is Bette Davis in The Virgin Queen. Blanchette breathes life into the roll of Queen Elizabeth I, showing her poise and grace during difficult times in her life.  Spoilers ahead.We see her go from a spoiled (?) niave young girl to a savy queen who can stand up to any man in a male dominated world.  It's full of intrigue, and betrayal.The costumes are lush and luscious, the scenery is fantastic and the supporting cast are brilliant.  "}{"Title":"Cate fails","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After reading a lot of positive reviews, I was disappointed by this movie. The  costumes and scenography are well done, most of the cast is good and Geoffrey  Rush (from Shine) is great as the queen's ruthless adviser.But Cate Blanchett simply is not up to it. She is supposed to portray a sweet girl  who grows into a merciless queen, but she just walks around looking like she's  having a toothache.  The Elizabeth character should have been played bysomeone with better acting skills and greater screen presence (EmmaThompson, maybe?).  Some scenes are too long and parts of the film areboring.  "},{"Title":"Her Majesty the Queen","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A lush, textured biopic which brings to life Elizabeth's inexorable conversion from a bohemian, art-loving girl to an implacable icon who brought England from obscurity into the age of Enlightment.Shemar Kapur elevates ELIZABETH from what could have been yet the umpteenth Masterpiece Theater production full of lush costumes, elaborate set pieces, verbose speeches, and by-the-numbers story. His vision of the England at the cusp of Elizabeth's ascent to the throne is striking, dark, and menacing -- this is a country without a leader, being sold to the highest bidder. You feel the dangers at every corner. There is no guarantee that Elizabeth the Queen will survive her first years as such, unscathed. There is too much anger and hatred against her as in the way Kapur introduces every male character who in seeing her natural power recoil from it as if they had received a slap square in the face. Even when we know the eventual outcome and Kapur doesn't always present the events as they actually occurred (as when Walsingham kills Marie de Guise after a night of pleasure), Kapur is excellent in establishing a sense of wonder at just how Elizabeth opens up like a flower and outshines her competition. In having Cate Blanchett portray her in a very regal yet modern way we cease to look at Elizabeth as a painting. Watch her practice her speech in a rapid succession of scenes this is a vulnerable woman thrown in a den of lions having to prove herself. And to think this woman, who would have preferred dancing and living a life of artistic pleasures, turned England into a powerful monarchy.A wonderful supporting cast of who's-who in British television and film, ELIZABETH the movie which brought Blanchett's talents to the forefront and established her power as an actress of her generation. "},{"Title":"Bad/laughable history; bad/laughable script; bad/laughable casting; bad/laughable acting; Cosmo does history; lamentable that so many rated it highly.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Bad/laughable history; bad/laughable script; bad/laughable casting; bad/laughable acting; Cosmo does history; lamentable that so many rated it highly.  There are many fine historical dramas, but this is not one of them. The pitiable thing is that the real history and characters were much more interesting. "},{"Title":"Historically shaky, visually stunning","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Having heard a lot of negative comments about this film, I went along purely on the strength of the largely British cast and what I knew of their previous work.  I wasn't disappointed.  Kapur's direction is a little irritating at times (a few too many overhead shots), but the film looks fantastic and the music, although perhaps not always from the right period, fits the visuals perfectly.  Cate Blanchett is a stunning Elizabeth, although I feel the insistence of the film to focus on the early part of her reign is a little disappointing.  And why no mention of Essex, Drake, or even Mary Queen of Scots, except in passing?  Best performances come from Chris Eccleston, Geoffrey Rush, and Richard Attenborough, but everyone has their moments and no one lets the cast down.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Bad, Bad Film","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film is an outrageous waste of time. Everything about it sickened me - the plot, the direction, the music, the acting. How anybody sees any merit in this Bollywood extravaganza eludes me completely. Gentle reader, if you have not already suffered this steaming turd of a movie, and you are wondering if you should, be warned! "},{"Title":"Pretty But Inaccurate","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a visually pleasing movie that also includes some nice acting and memorable scenes. If one is interested in History, however, it sadly leaves a lot to be desired. I speak not of whether or not Queen Elizabeth was a virgin - we will never know for sure. What is egregious is the moving up of the execution of the Duke of Norfolk by several decades, and Elizabeth's dismissal of Cecil early in her reign, when in fact he served as her principal advisor until his dying day about 40 years later. I guess the movies simply won't make a historically accurate film. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Makes an extremely interesting story dull and pretentious. Rent the mini-series Elizabeth R with Glenda Jackson instead. "},{"Title":"amazingly bad history ...","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am still wondering why they called the film Elizabeth. Would it not have been better to have called it Fictional Elizabeth? Absolutely nothing in this film bears any resemblance to the real Elizabeth.Then I realized the director was just angry that someone had made the film he wanted to make La Reine Margot. Now that was an excellent film about French history which depicted the real events of the time in a wonderful way. Damn, thought poor Shekar Kapur, what to do? Well, this film is made for the Americans, and they know nothing about English history, and come to think of it, neither do most English people. I shall simply take the story (well, the bloody bits; don't want to get caught with plagiarism problems) and dump it in England. Now Elizabeth's reign was wonderful and exciting but there were not a lot of massacres and assassinations going on Ah, who cares? Let's have lots of blood and gore. Hmm, and while I am at it, would it not be brilliant if Elizabeth resides in 11th century Durham Cathedral (bit draughty but lovely columns!) instead of in a comfortable 16th century palace? Throw in a few reference to the Virgin Mary and hey presto, film with lots of action and philosophy and I only need wait for the plaudits. Phew, that was easier than I thought! I just hope nobody asks me why I called the film Elizabeth? Hope nobody knows anything about her reign; if they do, they're in for a shock .... "},{"Title":"Not a history lesson, but a good story","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I think everyone can agree that the filming of the movie is beautiful.  Acting performances, although overrated, are solid as well.  As for the story....you're mistaken if you're looking for a history lesson, at least an -accurate- history lesson.  However, I don't think that is the purpose of this movie.  The story of this movie is about the transformation of a free-spirited girl into cold and ruthless yet capable monarch.  So, in that sense, it is more a history of Queen Elizabeth's emotional state and development and tells a solid tale.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Truly fantastic performance","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This type of subject matter never really interests me in film, but to my surprise, the film works so well as a thriller. It has a palpable energy and tone, one where you feel the heightened tension consuming everyone and can feel all of the dangers and everything at stake. This is primarily about Elizabeth's transformation, and at that it succeeds quite well. However, it never becomes anything more than solid. There's nothing extraordinary here, aside from maybe Blanchett's performance (although her best is I'm Not There). Still, definitely better than it had any right to, and definitely solid work boosted by some great performances from the cast. "}{"Title":"it was okay...","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It really didn't get anything horribly wrong as a history movie, which is always a plus.But it was very slow moving as a film, and you never really got the passions of the characters and sometimes you had to work to figure out who was who. The BBC miniseries was far better.Funny moment. Christopher Eccelston (Doctor Who#9) plays the 4th Duke of Norfolk , grandson of the 3rd Duke of Norfolk, who was played by Patrick Troughton (Dr. Who #2) in the BBC's Six Wives of Henry VIII. I guess two things you are going to end up doing as a British Actor. Period costume pieces and Doctor Who. I guess he regenerated! Anyway, back to passions. You never get any here. There's this big fight over whether England is going to be Protestant or Catholic, but you never get the impression it's something anyone cares about, other than which team they are on.The performances are serviceable. But there's nothing really memorable about this film, and if you know the history, there isn't a real lot of suspense. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" i'm not a big English history buff which is probably why I don't understand half this movie. It seems to be catering to that crowd.A character may be introduced once, his significance hinted at but that character never really does or say anything of importance - unless it's 'hinted' at.take the Spanish guy with the goatee who gets to hang around court all the time. What was the deal with him? Sneaking around, talking to Joe Fienees about what? they never really say anything.and then Joe Fiennes - who is somehow guilty of treason for being addressed in a letter from the pope - gets no real punishment whatsoever? The only reason I gave this 4/10 is the acting by Cate Blanchet and the costumes and some interesting directing choices. That's about it. Had to struggle to watch for 2 hrs. "},{"Title":"A magnificent retelling of the early reign of a Magnificent Monarch","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is simply superb, and Cate Blanchette is truly both vulnerable and formidable as the virgin queen. With an outstanding supporting cast including Geoffrey Rush, John Gielgud and Edward Hardwicke among others this film shines as both pageant and as pure drama. In a period of uncertainty, after the death of her brother Edward VI and the coming to the throne of her much older and vindictive Catholic sister Mary, the young princess's life hangs in a precarious balance. After Mary;s death Elizabeth becomes the target of numerous plots by the Catholic forces in England and from abroad including the Pope(Guielgud). Weathering them all she proves to England and the World that she is her father's daughter. If you are at all interested in history, this is one not to miss! "},{"Title":"Thrilling and intense with a stunning cast.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cate Blanchett is stunning as the Virgin Queen Elizabeth the first daughter of Henry the 8th and Anne Bolyn.She comes to power after her sister Queen Mary dies.Elizabeth has the advantage of having Sir Frances Walshingham( the wonderful Geoffrey Rush) as her bodyguard and spy master.He is feared by Englands enemies and is respected by many people, he is intelligent and cunning and as time progresses deeply loyal to the Queen and he comes to both admire like and respect her and the hard choices she has to make he becomes almost a father figure to her and is always lurking in the background watching whats going on. The rest of the cast is great Edward Hardwicke, Joseph Fiennes, Christopher Eccelston( playing the evil duke of Norfolk) and John Gielgud as the pope. The atmosphere is tense and as she is threatened from all sides Norfolk seeks to overthrow her in England and there are plots forming abroad. A very well made film which now has a sequel The Golden Age coming out later this year. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film! A Must-See!","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I had been reading other comments that others made and many people did not seem impressed with this film at all. However, I thought it was brilliant! Many people are saying that what upset them is that it was not historically accurate. In the special features on the DVD, the director expresses that it was not meant to be a completely accurate portrayal of Elizabeth's early life. It was supposed to be one person's take on her life.Another thing that I found interesting was that many people have been saying that there was poor acting in this film. I would definitely have to disagree. Before seeing this film, I had only ever seen Cate Blanchett in one film (Notes on a Scandal) and I had thought she was fantastic in it. I love Shakespeare in Love and I love Gwyneth Paltrow and everything, but I think Cate Blanchett should have won best actress in the Academy Awards for 1998 because her role was very complex and difficult and she appeared to master it. Geoffrey Rush was amazing (as usual). There were moments where I couldn't help but picture Captain Barbosa from Pirates of the Caribbeam while he was speaking. One of the things that shocked me was how many people have been saying Joseph Fiennes was not good in the movie. I thought he was absolutely perfect. I saw Shakespeare in Love and was amazed by him and then heard about Elizabeth from a friend and decided to watch it. Before watching the film, I came on here and was reading comments about Elizabeth and was a little skeptical when I started watching it. I was afraid that my good opinion of Joseph Fiennes' acting would be dampened. However, it was quite the opposite. I thought his portrayal of Lord Robert Dudley was amazing and no one could have done it better. Fiennes does not receive the credit he deserves for the role he plays. I thought his portrayal in this movie was absolutely heartbreaking (considering what his character went through). It was an all-around great film and I believe it is a must-see! "},{"Title":"Lonely at the Top.","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth starts out as a gay young girl and winds up alone on a throne, painted like a corpse, omnipotent, friendless, full of tragic grandeur like Al Pacino at the end of The Godfather II. The Godmother? No -- hardly that.This is the most complex of the few movies I've seen that deal with the reign of Elizabeth I. John Ford's Mary of Scotland was really about Mary and its message was simple-minded the Catholics were good and the Calvinists bad. In The Sea Hawk, we learned that it was an almighty good thing for Flora Robson to have Errol Flynn on her side. Vanessa Redgrave, in Mary, Queen of Scots, taught us that the queen who leads with her head and not with her heart wins.Elizabeth doesn't have such an easily stated message. It's an expensive costume romantic drama that has dozens of characters and at least twice that many intrigues.As for the religious part of the conflict, the Catholics come off the worst, although the Protestants don't exactly shine either. A priest comes from France, murders people, and tries more than once to assassinate Elizabeth -- once by poisoning her dress. (How do you do that?) And it's amazing, really, how many of the people Elizabeth has known all her life turn out to be secret Catholic traitors, hiding in holes and whatnot. The headsman is kept busy and the climax contrasts the executions and the lopped-off heads with the ritual purity of Elizabeth's coronation, again vide The Godfather. Thinking it over, I'm not sure there is a moral behind this epic at all. Maybe, like The Godfather, it is meant to show us that it's powerful lonely at the top. It also twigs us to the fact that when Elizabeth is referred to as a virgin queen, the term is used figuratively. I think, if I had been her counselor, I'd have had the answer to all the religious troubles and the competition with France, Scotland, and Spain and all that dreary stuff.I'd have made sure she married the incestuous, foolish Duc d'Anjou. Okay, he was a cross-dressing pouf, but so what? Elizabeth already spoke French, so the language wouldn't have been a problem. The Duc could have handled the money, and he would know where the best restaurants were hidden. And besides, in addition to getting an amusing sometime-lover, she would have had access to a region that cultivates fine pears and produces a respectable ros.Pshaw, you say. The marriage wouldn't have worked out. I reply how many marriages do you know that DO work out? And there is always divorce, isn't there? After all, Elizabeth's Old Man invented it. Oh -- and another thing. If we're all going to conspire against one another and go about chopping off heads because of religious differences, let's get rid of religions. We could all become serious Pantheists. That would satisfy everybody, from the rabid Evangelicals to the Green Party.Some advice After watching this movie, for a good tickle, go to some of the news boards and read all the venomous comments about how the Moslems keep fighting each other.But, all seriousness aside, the movie's worth seeing. The locations and production design are splendid. The music opulent. The acting just fine on everyone's part, including John Gielgud in a tiny unsympathetic role as the Pope. Cate Blanchett is luminously beautiful but not in a typical Hollywood way. She has a pale elongated face and an anole's eyes that are expressive slits. At its best, the film is an elaborate panorama and at it's least, an amuse-bouche. "},{"Title":"Queen Elizabeth - one of a kind.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Enough is enough! One day Hollywood will drop this propensity for focusing on the personal quirks of historical figures and actually focus on what they DID. The story of Elizabeth the First is way more than who she had affairs with, but what she accomplished as Queen. When decisions had to made, decisions on which the survival of her country depended, she made these decisions ... and her decisions were RIGHT! Elizabeth was never prepared or trained to rule a country. But she did the job and did it so well that to this day her name has become synonymous with leadership, accomplishment and service. Queen Elizabeth was a hero; Queen Elizabeth was great. Under her outstanding leadership Britain defeated the Spanish Armada, then the biggest naval force ever assembled. That alone warrants a movie. Elizabeth was emotional and tempestuous. That she suppresses those traits and transforms herself into the Virgin Queen is fantastic. This movie is about that transformation. If you're interested in the life of Elizabeth the First, then watch this movie. But remember, it's what Elizabeth DID which is what counts. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth the Great -- pity about the story","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Contains minor spoiler(s) Cate Blanchett is wonderful in this film. The title is simply Elizabeth, she IS Elizabeth and she carries the whole thing with great assurance and skill. It is very believable that Elizabeth was like this.The Elizabethan era is a fascinating one, with wonderful stories and also great visual appeal. What I can't understand is why the film makers cast all that aside -- seemingly in the belief that they could do better.Visually, the film seems to be set in the deepest Middle Ages and not in Tudor Times. Tudor aristocrats did not live among bare stone walls, or in Queen Mary's case, what looks rather like the Batcave. I suppose Tudor colourfulness had been 'done' too often before, and the urge to be original and different took over.It's a shame that the story is mainly nonsense and events and personalities from Elizabeth's long reign are just jumbled together and scandalously travestied in some cases. There would be plenty to go on in the real events, e.g. the mysterious death of Dudley's wife (whom Elizabeth knew about all along, having been a guest at the wedding).It's true there was plenty of fornication in Tudor times, but this particular fornication is more than doubtful. It seems quite likely that Elizabeth really was the Virgin Queen. However, this would never do for a modern version, where sex scenes are a must. The Zeitgeist of the 1990s was clearly far more powerful in the film makers' imaginations than the 16th century. Pity. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Much is commented on due to the movie's historical inaccuracy, and while these comments are correct for the most part, as a work of cinema, the movie is excellent on all counts. The cinematography, sets and costuming are wonderful, and the performances of the leads, especially Cate Blanchett are excellent. There some supporting players that deserve special recognition. Two stand out for me.English actress Kathy Burke (probably best known to Americans as Patsy's hyper-yuppie magazine editor on Absolutely Fabulous) is terrific as Queen Mary. Burke could have played her as history dictates, dour, stiff and unfeeling. Burke instead portrays her as manic, highly emotional and slightly psychotic, which is probably more accurate. She makes the most of her short time on screen, and if anyone ever decided to make a movie on Bloody Mary, I'd hope they would give Burke first shot at the role.French actress Fanny Ardant is major fun as Mary of Guise, who ruled Scotland during the minority of her daughter, Mary Queen of Scots. Ardant is a radiant presence (that smile!) and it should be lamented she wasn't on screen in this film more often. She imbued her character with sexiness and playfulness, and she truly lit up the screen in her all too short scenes. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic film from start to finish","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is by far the most excellent film about the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. Cate Blanchett shines in her performance as Queen Elizabeth I. She manages to portray at the beginning of the film as sense of vulnerability and by the end, totally ruthless. Every since the film came out on DVD I became a huge Cate Blanchett fan. Some very powerful scenes and very good performances from Christopher Eccleston,Geoffey Rush and Sir Richard Attenbough. A film which covers real depth and emotion of her Reign and the struggle for power. Cate Blsnchett doesn't just manage to act Elizabeth, she is Elizabeth!!It should have won an Oscar for best film and also for best Actress in a leading roleA must see film! "}{"Title":"This is no biography - but a decent flick","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Put basically, this is by no stretch to be interpreted as a biography of Elizabeth Tudor. This film in not a faithful portrayal of the characters or historical events.The irony is that Elizabeth's character and life are far more compelling and film-worthy than this movie.It is a good film as a piece of fiction, but remember that is imposes 21st century ideologies and mores to create a story far removed from historical reality.The costuming and set design are stellar, and fine performances are acted from the leading cast. The ambiance of the time, where intrigue and danger are integral to court culture, is well represented.I recommend that those actually interested in Elizabeth I either watch the BBC's Elizabeth R or read popular, reputable historians Starkey, Weir, or Fraser, and perhaps watch this film for fun. "},{"Title":"A fabulous achievement...","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is amazing. It craftily becomes more than the average costume drama and ascends into a fabulous conspiracy thriller (well... sort of) and drama like you've never seen before. Whether you are familiar with Queen Elizabeth I or not, it is definitely worth your while.Cate Blanchett's performance is riveting! I believed that she was Elizabeth every step of the way.I was very surprised that Geoffrey Rush was nominated for the Oscar for his ordinary performance in Shakespeare in Love instead of his amazing and cunning performance it this film.The mystery, drama, love, and passion of this film leave you begging for more. Sheker Kapur directs flawlessly and the music and cinematography are inspired as well. Costumes by Alexandra Byrne (The Phantom of the Opera), Academy Award winning makeup by Jenny Shircore (The Phantom of the Opera) and Anita Burger (Vanity Fair and Alexander), production design by John Myhre (Chicago), art direction by Lucy Richardson (Chocolat), and set decoration by Peter Howitt (The Four Feathers) make for a beautiful film to be eternally loved. "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett is perfect","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" when i saw this film for the first time i was blown away by the quality of acting. Cate Blanchett was stunning as Elizabeth, and Walsingham was played brilliantly by Geoffrey Rush. i cannot believe that Cate was robbed of the Oscar, instead given to Gwyneth Paltrow! i also thought that the score was great as well as the cinematography and art direction. the screenplay and story were well written and the direction by Shekhar Kapur should have been nominated. i really thought that Elizabeth should have won more Oscars, this is one of the best films i have ever seen and i urge all of you who have not watched it to do so! Cate Blanchett completely steals the show and in my opinion i think that it is one of the best parts ever acted. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth the Great","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Brilliant performance by Cate makes the movie, but Geoffery Rush and Joseph Fiennes provide nice supporting roles. Too bad it's really historically inaccurate, but it is still brilliant! Wonderful cinematography and costumes. The score is a bit overwrought, some of the songs are way to heavy and don't really fit, but overall the music supports the film. Joseph and Cate have wonderful on screen chemistry, and they really help convey the great love between Elizabeth and Robert Dudley. Film is highly recommended for those who love Elizabeth I and the Tudor period. Even better that this film is the Glenda Jackson,BBC series Elizabeth R. "},{"Title":"Quite an ending...  SPOILERS","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The ending to Elizabeth is shocking and brilliantly ambiguous The queen (Cate Blanchett), who has been so loving and passionate, is now stone cold (with her face colored white), prepared to rule England with icy force. The scene at first feels tragic, with the new Elizabeth, while the film cuts rapidly to flashbacks of the younger Elizabeth. Then, however, we are then told that for the next forty years she ruled and that England had its Golden Age at that time. So, while the imagery is sad, the outcome is good, and the music is so unbearably annoying that it distracts us as to whether the moment is meant to be glorious or tragic. It's quite a scene. The problem is that if you were to take Elizabeth's icy face, drag her jaw downward, have her pupils point upward, and have her head rotate in circular motion, you would have some idea of the way I looked watching this movie up until the final scene. One can easily see, in retrospect, that the film does in fact believe that Elizabeth's transformation was for the best. How else can one explain why director Shekhar Kapur filmed with film in such an icy, impassionate manner? The film is about as sincere as all of those robotic bows to Queen Elizabeth. Kapur is at his best when he tries to make Elizabeth into a thriller, and I do believe that it might have been better if it were a 90-minute horror show about a queen in turmoil. But Kapur eventually gives up on the film's thriller routes and blindly follows the path of all the other epic directors before him (Richard Attenborough is in the movie!). What do big epic filmmakers get out of their careers? Are we really to believe that they have any blood pumping through their veins? How could anyone ever have gotten any joy out of making this movie? If there is one thing that I can say on the film's behalf, it is that Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Rich Attenbourough, and Joseph Fiennes all do great Oscar-grubbing-excuse me-acting. "},{"Title":"The woman,the crown and her path to power...","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth, the first English feature from Shekar Kapur who would later do The Four Feathers, shows the ascension to the throne of Elizabeth after the reign of Queen Mary. Religious tension as well as gender tension made this transition hazardous for her and this movie does an excellently job of combining the major events of her early life into a concise film. While it may not be 100% accurate, I'm sure length and drama were the cause. Cate Blanchett in the film that launched her career especially after the Golden Globe win is excellent as Elizabeth and other actors in the film are equally good such as Geoffrey Rush, Christopher Ecclesson, and others. The scenery and color of the film are the standouts and this film although being a period piece is never boring. The DVD has plenty of extras including two featurettes and a director's commentary. Overall this is a high quality film that is scheduled to have a sequel in 2006. A good rental or buy.Grade A  "},{"Title":"Good costume drama with good cast","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I am not a huge fan of historical dramas but I had to watch this for an college exam and I was impressed. The direction by Kapur is commendable but the best thing is Cate Blanchett's oscar nominated performance which is amazing. The rest of the cast is also great.The pace is sometimes a little slow and the historic elements may be a little inaccurate but other than that I thought it was a well made film. I found this film to be very similar to 'Shakespeare in  Love' but 'Elizabeth' is much more darker and violent. I highly recommend this film if only to see Blanchett's brilliant performance. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't expect anything when I went to see this movie and was positively surprised, very! It is a brilliant movie. The actors are very good, the directing and camera work brilliant as well and the historical setting seems to be realistic and correct. Definately one of the best movies, I have seen. Shekhar Kapur showed himself as a very good director, but then disappointed with the recent Four Feathers, which is everything, that Elizabeth is not, and that is full of poor acting, bad storyline and bad directing! Watch Elizabeth, but avoid Four Feathers. "},{"Title":"where is Ms. Blanchett's academy award?","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett truly deserved to be on that stage accepting the Academy Award as opposed to Gwyneth Paltrow.  The way Blanchett and crew were able to chronicle Queen Elizabeth's journey from naive heir to the throne to a wise and cunning ruler was remarkable. (My favourite scene is where the new queen is painstakingly rehearsing a speech she is going to give to a group of ministers) The viewer never forgets the fact that Queen Elizabeth was a real woman with real human emotions.  All too often, powerful characters are portrayed in a robotic, unidimensional fashion.  Here, one sees that even the most powerful people have great moments of self-doubt and re-awakening.Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of Walsingham, the queens most trusted advisor, was equally good.  Even the minor characters were well crafted and brought in at pivotal points in the film.  Much kudos to Shekhar Kapur for creating this work.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant Historical Film","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A truly engaging historical film that not only teaches you about this period of English history, but also serves up some extremely juicy drama. Galvanized by a star-making performance from Cate Blanchett as the young Queen, and interesting direction from Kapur, who seems to be channeling The Godfather trilogy more so than any Masterpiece Theater or Merchant-Ivory production. Elizabeth's transformation from naive princess to threatened and inexperienced monarch to absolute power is exquisitely handled by Blanchett. The only story arch that falls flat is the love story between Blanchett's Elizabeth and Joseph Fiennes' weaselly nobleman. The ending sequence of Blanchett commanding the throne and taking her vow of virginity and marriage to England itself in full Elizabethean regalia is one of the most classic scenes of recent times. A terrific production all around (it won an Oscar for costume design). "}{"Title":"So happy to see anything modern","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I started reading about E about 5 years ago and have consumes many books, including fictional bio to auto-bio to factual. The books never gave me a picture of what it was really like.  The movie was very realistic in the scenery and scale of things, but it was so much to have to fit into two hours, and such a short span on her life shown.  Robin was perfect, and I would trust NO ONE ELSE other that Cate to play E.  LOVED THE MOVIE "},{"Title":"Very good historical drama","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  First I want to say I know this film slightly deviates from or speculates upon actual historical events, but it nonetheless stays close enough to the historical record so as not to offend sensibility. On the filmmaking aspect, Elizabeth is a triumph. Outstanding location shooting, costumes, and cinematography are evident. Director Kapur is blessed with a fantastic cast and he utilizes each of its members wonderfully. In my opinion, Cate Blanchett should definitely won the Oscar over Gwenyth Paltrow for her portrayal of Elizabeth. A great film, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Colorful and entertaining but short on accuracy","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The 1998 film Elizabeth by Shekhar Kapur depicts the early years in the reign of Queen Elizabeth I known as The Virgin Queen. This is not some stuffy Masterpiece Theater presentation but a rousing piece of entertainment that is colorful and involving. The film is greatly assisted by excellent performances from Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth and Joseph Fiennes as her lover Robert Dudley. Cate Blanchett makes Elizabeth come alive as a real woman facing an uphill battle to establish her rule. Her faithful protector William Cecil (Richard Attenborough) and the cunning Francis Walsingham (Geoffrey Rush) support Elizabeth in her struggles with potential usurpers. The other characters, however, are little more than stereotypes the noble protector, the wily servant, the arch villain, the usurper, and so forth. If you do not care about fully developed characters or historical accuracy and are interested in period melodrama with plots, romance, some nice Elizabethan music, and lots of intrigue, Elizabeth is for you. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is not a factual movie. For example, the Spanish ambassador at the time was De Feria and not De Quadra. However, I think that the movie is an accurate portrayal of the character of Elizabeth. She was a strong woman, but as likely to make mistakes because of her youth and relative inexperience with statecraft. The movie captures this perfectly and her character is brought brilliantly to light by Cate Blanchett, who was robbed of the 1998 Oscar. Geoffrey Rush and Richard Attneborough bring a seasoned hand to the production and Joseph Fiennes and James Frain offer new talents in the English acting world. I also enjoyed the use of music especially the anachronistic use of Elgar and Mozart, mainly because I think that the pieces are a perfect fit. This isn't a movie for everyone, but if you love history, intrigue, romance, or just good movie this is an excellent choice.  "},{"Title":"Very watchable movie","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth takes audience right in the middle of the 16th century with a believable, impressive and elegant way. Acting is very stylish and successful. Cate Blanchett makes a fabulous performance in the leading role as the Queen herself and Joseph Fiennes is very good, very good indeed, as the Earl of Leicester. Geoffrey Rush makes a remarkable role and so does Sir Richard Attenborough - he's quite excellent as Lord Burghley. Nevertheless one of the greatest and most memorable characters was played by Vincent Cassel. His part is definitely among his finest performances ever, alongside with roles in the movies like Dobermann and Les Rivires pourpres. Elizabeth had enough stratagem, sex, blood and murders to keep thing interesting for two hours so I guess I would have to call this a nice movie. Biggest and nicest surprise for me personally, however, was when I read the end credits and found out that the bloke who looked almost exactly like the retired football legend Eric Cantona, well, actually was the man. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Drama!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a very great film. Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush, Joseph Fiennes, Richard Attenborough, and Christopher Eccelston were all great and beliavable, as well as the rest of the cast was. This film had a strange ending, but was very, very good. If you haven't seen Elizabeth yet, see it. I give Elizabeth a 9 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  While obviously not completely historically accurate (and after all what is none of us was there so we have no clue)... this film is a brilliant depiction of the rise of a girl to a queen.  My mother loved this movie, and she is a major history buff (who hates any reference to Richard the Lionheart cause in reality he never visited England and couldn't speak a word of English).  Anyhoo, Cate Blanchett is a revelation in the role of Elizabeth...beautiful, believable, and solidly cast.  I agree with many other reviewers here that she was robbed of the Oscar when it was given to Hollywood's little girl Paltrow (not that she didn't do a good job but compared to Blanchett puhlease.)  The remainder of the cast were equally perfect, and I am a little unsure as to why the criticism of Joseph (why does everyone keep referring to him as Ralph's brother?)... as Dudley... I thought he was perfect.   I have not lived in England for 11 years and therefore was totally unaware that the French Ambassador was being played by a football player, personally I thought he did a nice understated job of the role.  Of course Rush, Geilgud and Attenborough are utterly brilliant as usual and are a joy to watch. The supporting cast were equally stellar and fleshed out the entire movie and made every second worth watching... (especially Norfolk's wife female her expressions and inflections were wonderful).  While I have to admit that a couple of the camera tricks had my head in a mess, the overall look of the film was rich and voluptuous...  I adored every minute and the final scene where Elizabeth announces that she is married to England is perfect.  My husband (not one for costume dramas unless there is a great deal of killing ie Braveheart...) absolutely loved this film and demanded that we buy it.  One of the reviewers further down made a comment (and I paraphrase)  this is why the United States became a greater power than England we know better than to put teenage girl anywhere other than high school ruling a country? (or something like that).   For that reviewer I have two comments 1) where the hell do you think that all the people that made the United States great came from? (answer Europe) b) sorry we disturbed your viewing of Buffy the Vampire Slayer....     "},{"Title":"Excellent. The best movie based on Queen Elizabeth I've ever seen.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is breathtaking. I loved this movie, for the reason that it is based on all the facts. It is visually stunning, too. There couldn't have been a better choice for Elizabeth than the amazing Cate Blanchett. She shines on screen, and you see how she matures in the movie as well. Joseph Fiennes provides a great Lord Robert. I highly recommend this movie. ****/**** "},{"Title":"The best historical drama ever made!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is, I guess, the best historical drama ever made. What I judge the most in all watched movies are the actors, and here I have no comments but two thumbs up for everybody. The movie is a diamond for an aesthete as well - I tell you this as an amateur artist. In few words, Elizabeth is a necessity to watch for everybody who is fond of beauty, talent and romance! "},{"Title":"Well-acted but too too stylized","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The acting was good (Blanchett) to wonderful (Rush), but I felt the presentation was too artsy; too many heavenly choirs in the background, fuzzy-focus scenes, eerie music, and other indicators that the filmmakers thought they had to underline every point in case we didn't get it. Just a straight telling of the story would have been better. "}{"Title":"Cate is captivating","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There are a number of laudable performances in this movie, but Cate Blanchett's is truly outstanding.  It is worth viewing just to have her captivate your attention through Queen Elizabeth's story.One of the most interesting things I found about this film is how a woman in that time period was able to attain, and ultimately succeed using the kind of power that would never be connected with a woman.  Elizabeth's struggles, betrayals, and conquests are elegantly shown through poignant direction, and tender execution by Ms. Blanchett.This is a satisfying, powerful film that is enjoyable to experience (even more than once!). "},{"Title":"The best historical movie I've ever seen!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great movie!  Anyone who doesn't give it at least a 7 is crazy!  This film very adequately chronicles the life of Queen Elizabeth I, and is performed so brilliantly by Cate Blanchett.  This film doesn't get the attention it deserves.  First of all, Cate Blanchett should have one the Best Actress Oscar, but the academy cheated her by giving it to Gwenyth Paltrow.  It also should have won best picture but also lost that to Shakesppeare in Love.  It also should have won best costume design and best art direction, but no, Shakesppeare in Love had to have those too!  This film is one of my favorites of 1998, along with Halloween H20, the faculty, Saving Private Ryan, and Primary Colors. "},{"Title":"Stunning Cate Blanchett","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I resisted to watch this film for nearly two years. Altough the scenes that I had watched particularly between Rush and Blanchett struck me as really good. My descision to not watch the film was based in my truly dislike of the costume film genre, wich I find 98% of the movies boring and uninteristing, disguised by costumes and set decorations as true art. But I shall also comment that I have seen very good period films like Quills to mention a recent example, that have a story and are interesting in all their aspects wether they are based on historical facts or fictional,so I always try to leave a tiny door open to see some period films.I recently saw Cate Blanchett in The Gift and was amazed at her performance. I saw her before in supporting roles in Talented Mr. Ripleyand Pushing Tin, and tought she was great. So I decided to rent some of her other films to look at her work. I rent An Ideal Husband and this film,the oscar nominee Elizabeth. Blanchett was robbed the academy award for her performance. She is a delight, a powerful force. Even if she is not in the screen, you FEEL her presence She has the demanding task of portraying Elizabeth I through her many changes, from a young naive girl learning to be a queen to a secure woman in total charge of a country. Through all of the changes Blanchett is completely believable. Apart from her perfect english accent(she is australian)and body language, she uses in her performance something that is almost dissapeared in film acting today. Her face, through her face she conveys so many emotions from sweetness to anguish and really express the feelings of Elizabeth. There is a point in her performance that only by seeing her face, you KNEW what Elizabeth, the Virgin Queen was feeling at that moment. In a year that also saw nominations to Emily Watson and Fernanda Montenegro for their powerful performances. Is was Blanchett who should have taken the statuette insetead of Gwyneth Paltrow for her insipid performance (but she was the only hollywood actress of the lot,so the academy again kept the award between their own comunnity)Geoffrey Rush was nominated in supporting actor category for Shakespeare in Love but is in Elizabeth that he shines as  Elizabeths slightly malicious principal advisor. Joseph Fiennes, the lead man in Shakespeareis also better here as Robert Dudley, Elizabeths lover Apart from those performances the movie is really, really good. Shekar Kapur did a great directing job, using close ups and monologues to explore more the internal lives of the caracters, the cinematography is a very interesting palette of dark and bright colors. The story does take some historic liberties, but in compensation reveals the internal battles and conflicts of its principal character more profoundly that any historic film will do. But the film becomes weak in its last half hour. It seems like Kapur and crew became tired in the making of the film and decided to give it a rapid ending without any construction and even coherence. Kapuer direction, so interesting and distinctive in the first hour and half becomes conventional and melodramatic and nearly ruins the picture.On the other hand that unconventional half of the picture may have been why Elizabeth lost all the 7 academy awards nomination it had,deserving much of them (certainly along with The Thin Red Line it was the best picture in that years best picture race)and going instead with the conventional costume picture that Shakespeare was, however the only unforgivable thing about the academy and Elizabeth is Paltrow winning over Blanchett (I would keep repeating that, im offended!!)  Is for that weakness in the conclusion of the film that I rate Elizabetha 9, if the movie would have kept its style, It would had become one of my favorite costume films of all time. Still I strongly reccomend it for the first 90 minutes and the stunning work of Blanchett. "},{"Title":"A stand-out","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett, Geoffrey Rush and Richard Attenborough stand out in this amazing spectacle about the rise to power and early reign of England's Queen Elizabeth I. Though this has the potential to be overly violent (the only fault with BRAVEHEART), the director did not let the it slip below acceptable levels. Nominated for numerous Oscars, it deserved all of them (especially Best Actress, though I won't dwell on that) The story moves along at a pace which is neither too fast nor too slow, and the result is a well-acted, understandable yet subtle film about one of the most dramatic periods in world history. "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett was superb","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"      I would like to know that I am concerned with historical accuracy when it comes to actual names of royalty, such as Elizabeth the First. However, the fact that I may have been slightly more ignorant of England's history during this time than perhaps other reviewers was overshadowed by the fact that I actually *felt* as though I learned more from this film of the particular time era.   Cate Blanchett was unarguably superb as far as protagonists and lead actors go. Everyone seems to mention the weirdness of the direction...I guess I should watch it again to take notice.   However historically flawed this film *MAY* be, let it also be considered that Elizabeth's persona in this film is flawless; she epitomizes the upper-class, yet unwanted daughter of Henry VIII, who, as a child, had to take responsibility of Queen of England. Yes, she did look like an innocent child before she was crowned, and that's because she was! Although her stern political views came later, this movie is special because it depicts this Elizabeth's process in *becoming* the leader, the legend, the inspiration of a country. It studies the consequences that shaped the views she would have for the rest of her life.    This film helped me recognize Cate Blanchett as one of the most promising future actresses of our generation(I hate using superlatives...but I feel I owe one to Cate!)         The problem is, people are looking for a climax on a big shiny tablespoon, but there isn't one. There are several. Look for them!-Sep "},{"Title":"Triumphant historical drama with superb camera work","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This historical drama of 16th century England &#150; directed by Shekhar Kapur &#150; is a triumph. Script, sets, costumes and music are all well-crafted. With the exceptions of the inappropriate casting of Angus Deayton and Eric Cantona, the acting is uniformly excellent, with particularly fine performances from the Australians Cate Blanchett, as the eponymous &#145;virgin' queen, and Geoffrey Rush, as the trusted but callous Walsingham. On second viewing especially, I was struck by the superb camera work shots from above, rotating shots, framed shots through arches and doors, and obscured shots through curtains or grills. This is a royal court full of shadows and whispers and the final, bloody consolidation of power is reminiscent of the conclusion of `The Godfather'. "},{"Title":"Wonderful historical drama","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed this historical drama. My lack of knowledge of English history was both a curse and a blessing. While I was at times a bit lost, I was also on the edge of my seat wondering at every moment when Queen Elizabeth would be killed and determining which character was trustworthy and which wasn't. Cate Blanchett gave a perfect performance in her transition from young Queen to a ruler of steel. Richard Attenborough and Geoffrey Rush were also splendid. Joseph Fiennes lit up the screen lusciously. The costumes were exquisite. This is NOT a boring movie, as the suspense was interspersed with light moments and comic relief. Overall, my expectations were surpassed. Buy this movie! "},{"Title":"Murky and unintelligible","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Nothing is clear, and the avoidence of close-ups makes the plot nearly opaque.  The use of a continually moving camera is overly arty and distracting.  The dialog is hard to hear and the character inter-relationships obscure "},{"Title":"In a word Excellent!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great movie. Cate Blanchette is awesome and Joseph Fiennes is great! I think this movie is great and it gets 5 stars from me. The acting, directing, and everything is just great. I really enjoy this movie. This movie is an interesting portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I. "},{"Title":"The performance by Cate Blanchett was remarkable","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth was one of the best movies of 1998. From the first scene to the last this is one of the most memorable movies ever made. Cate Blanchett is astonishing as Queen Elizabeth the first. There are many performances that are considered great, but hers was the best performance given by a woman in a movie released in the 90's. The scene where she talks to the parliament is one of the best of the 1990's. She's smart, she's assertive, she's manipulative and when the scene nearly ends her impassioned plea on behalf of the bill she has sent to them is  extraordinary. Almost every scene with her is worth mentioning.Besides Blanchett's performance there are others that are very good. Fanny Ardant is brilliant as Mary of Guise. The scene where she comes upon the very young injured English soldier is mesmerising. She looks at him with pity and hate at the same time. Her other scene near the end of the movie in which she complains about her nephew evokes the scene in The Godfather where Marlon Brando complains about Sonny. Kathy Burke is stunning as Mary I. The scene with her and Princess Elizabeth (Blanchett) is astounding. Burke is excellent in her role. Both Ardant and Burke deserved oscar nominations for best supporting actress. Both Geoffrey Rush and Richard Attenborough are amazing in their roles as well. I think that Rush should have been nominated for his role in this rather than for Shakespeare in Love. The script was one of the best of 1998. Elizabeth was written by Michael Hirst, a catholic historian! Besides the performances and the script the technical aspects of this movie are phenomenal. The direction by Shekhar Kapur was amazing. He deserved to be nominated for best director, but amazingly wasn't. The costumes were the best of 1998 as was the stunning cinematography. The scene where Elizabeth gets the Queens ring is one of the best looking scenes ever shot. The editing by Jill Bilcock is astounding. Everything about this movie is superlative. It may be one of the best historical dramas ever filmed.  "}{"Title":"Why I don't like Shakespeare in Love","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"    When I saw this movie, I realized why I didn't like Shakespeare in Love as much as most people do.  First of all, the entire cast here is much more brilliant than anything in Shakespeare in Love.  Yes, Fiennes and Rush were in both movies, but in Elizabeth, they come to life (though Fiennes' role is one dimensional).  And when comparing Cate Blanchett's stunning transformation from the lusty princess to the Virgin queen to Gwenyth Paltrow's romantic theatre lover, there really is no comparison.  Cate Blanchett's role was much more difficult to pull off, and her performance was much more daring.  Christopher Eccleston gave what I believe to be a brilliant, yet surprisingly underrated performance.  Many of my friends who don't like costume dramas/historical epics liked this film because it's not structured like a typical costume drama, but as a thriller.  One watches as the conspiracy unfolds, in wicked appreciation of Shekar Kapur's direction as the story unfolds (he deserved a nomination over John Madden).  Michael Hirst's screenplay does play around with history, but I don't understand why that bothers people.  Mind you, I'm not an expert on Elizabeth, so I don't know what exactly Hirst removed/added/changed, but the final product is so juicy and thrilling, that I don't think I would mind much.  After seeing this, Shakespeare in Love seemed predictable, mundane, and well... rather boring.  My number three if 1998 (behind Saving Private Ryan and A Simple Plan) "},{"Title":"Fascinating interpretation","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Warning to critics please don't put 'historically accurate/inaccurate' and 'film' in the same sentence. They belong together like fish and bicycles (thanks to Gloria Steinem). Elizabeth is a great costume drama and a fascinating interpretation of one of history's most admired and ambiguous figures. But please don't say the film was 'inaccurate' or 'not historically correct.' Were you there? History is rewritten the moment it first appears on the page, or is told orally. It's not relevant to film as a medium, or to storytelling in general.I thought Cate Blanchett was inspirational and played the role like she was born to it. Her strength and ruthlessness was learned, not present at birth. She had to grow and find her way in the dangerous times she lived in. This is a version of how she may have done it. Her character is very complex and gives an insight of what it meant to be a woman in a powerful position during those times.Costuming and cinematography are fabulous, although I wish at times they had bowed to modern lighting techniques so we could see more in those dim corridors. Joseph Fiennes is gorgeous and just sulky enough to make you think he got what he deserved. I loved Richard Attenborough as Cecil and even Eric Cantona got it right in the right places. Good casting, solid acting and wonderful photography and a touching and thought-provoking script. What more can you ask?One of the best. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant, a must-see","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Fans of the epic genre should love this film, but it's definitely not an art-house-only flick and should appeal to a wide audience (like the equally brilliant film from the same year, Shakespeare in Love.).  Any other historical fanatics like myself will pick up historical inaccuracies here, there, and everywhere, but once you forgive that flaw, it's wonderful. Cate Blanchett is stunning as Elizabeth I.  In this film Elizabeth goes through a breathtaking transition--an innocent girl to monarch, and the way Blanchett portrays the transition is extraordinary.  If there was any year Best Actress should have been a tie at the Oscars, 1998 was it--Paltrow and Blanchett were both deserving and more for the award.  In this same year, there was also buzz on the snub of Joseph Fiennes for Shakespeare in Love, though I much prefer his performance in Elizabeth. The glimpses of his performance are wonderful, and if his character had more screen-time it certainly would have been absolutely heart-breaking.  Geoffrey Rush adds yet another entertaining performance in this film, as well. Has the usual brilliant costuming and cinematography that one should expect from an epic.  10/10. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and Wonderful!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I have to admit that I'm not a big fan of English period movies but this would have to be THE BEST English period movie that I have ever seen.  I don't know how historically accurate the movie was or, attempted to be.  The first thing that a movie should do is entertain, and from the opening credits with the chilling opera? music to the closing, Elizabeth had me.  The costumes, lighting, sound, script, acting---all were perfect!  A certain part of me had wanted to see this movie because of the hype and it did not disappoint!  Rating= 10 of 10 stars.  The kind of movie that, like a fine meal, will make you appreciate it long after it is over.    "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I must say that such an outstanding film as this has taken a while to be churned out. It combines, with excellence, the atmosphere of Elizabethan England (especially the religious troubles). Lord Walsingham's part is excellent and the actor who played him must be commended. "},{"Title":"You must not miss this film!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I liked Elizabeth much better than Shakespeare in Love. The characters are more powerful, the passions are more real. I especially like Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth. She is an excellent actress. I hope to see her in other movies too. I read somewhere that this film is like Braveheart by a women but I do not agree. This is better thanks to the Virgin Queen&#133; "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett is mesmerizing","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  See this movie for no other reason but for the brilliant portrayal by Blanchett - one of the best in recent movie history. The movie spans the years of the Virgin Queen's days. from a frail maiden up to her reign as the iron-faced monarch Blanchett's abilities as an actress make the transition convincing and flawless. "},{"Title":"A beautifully filmed tale of treachery, deceit and religion.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This adaptation of the life and times of Elizabeth I is a tale of a woman who one day decides she can't take anymore of the nonsense all the men in her life have been dishing out.  And so, she does something about it!Director Shekhar Kapur's film focuses on one of history's most important leaders.  Queen Elizabeth made her mark for several reasons, not the least of which was for firmly establishing the Church of England.  In this film, Elizabeth is portrayed as a complicated woman, bitter, passionate, and politically charged.The story unfolds with Queen Mary Tudor on the throne.  She thinks she is pregnant, yet in fact she is dying (she has a tumor in her stomach).  She despises her half sister, Elizabeth, and as Queen, Mary has restored the Catholic church in England.  Upon her death, Elizabeth is charged with taking on the throne.  She is the natural successor, but still a controversial choice, in light of the fact that she, herself has converted to the protestant religion.  Elizabeth's new empire is crawling with bishops and priests, lords and dukes, all desperate to keep their power, which is tied firmly to the Catholic faith. Cate Blanchett is fabulous as Elizabeth I.  The character is portrayed in a passionate light.  Blanchett is a natural beauty, with strong looks that compliment this bold character.  Through Blanchett we are allowed to see a vulnerable side to this remarkable woman, without feeling that she is also weak.  I am not an expert on this subject, however I wonder if this film did take some liberties with the character.  Throughout the film she seems to be the only proponent of peace.  When her court urges her to bear arms against Mary of Guise, Elizabeth would prefer to talk it out.  Elizabeth is sympathetic to the little people, even to those who may have betrayed her.  She is passionate and playful with the man she loves, Robert Dudley, played by Joseph Fiennes.  We are used to seeing a stoic, iron-clad monarch in film portrayals of this character.  This new, 90's kind of gal, is at times a bit hard to believe, if not merely unique(?).Geoffrey Rush offers a standout performance playing Sir Francis Walsingham.  He was nominated in 1998 for Shakespeare in Love, a film which he was also great in, however I do think that this was a better role.  Walsingham is the cool, calculating right hand man to Elizabeth.  He takes on the nasty deeds that her character dare not even think.  In his opening scene he chastises a young man who attempts to slash his throat.  When the man finally sees reason, Walsingham calmly turns the razor on the young man.Elizabeth is a beautiful film to watch.  The sets are magnificent.  Castles, battlegrounds and thrones all come to life.  The costumes are also great.  There are scenes where Elizabeth is being dressed by her ladies-in-waiting and I, for one, could not wait to see what they were going to outfit her with next.  Hands down! this was defineatly the best film of 1998.  I found the storyline to be mesmerizing.  Well drawn out characters, proper pacing and enchanting scenery, made this a film that I could not take my eyes off of. Kapur's film captures well, an interesting time in history, and brings to new life, one of history's favorite Queens.  I recommend this as a companion piece to A Man for All Seasons.  Watch that film to fully understand why Elizabeth's reign began in such turmoil. "},{"Title":"A tour de force in filmmaking","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is excellent in every way.  Such a well-made film.  Everything about it is great direction, script, performances, cinematography, art direction, costumes, makeup, and music.This film was made to demonstrate how Princess Elizabeth went from being a trusting and love-struck young girl and developed into a queen who devoted herself entirely to her country. This movie was NOT made to focus on specific acts she did during her reign--that would've taken endless hours.  Furthermore, would anyone really care about those specific acts?  Most people wouldn't.  This film gives viewers a general idea of what was required of Elizabeth as a woman in order to rule with absolute power for the sake of her country.A very clever touch in this film was that early in the film, you see Elizabeth behind curtains, or behind a window, or even behind bars....you don't get to see a clear picture of her, something which parallels the way that her life was at that time, considering that she had an uncertain future.What is perhaps the most remarkable thing about this movie is the way that Elizabeth undergoes a transformation.  She comes to realize that she can't trust anyone.Cate Blanchett gives an excellent performance as the woman who would become known as England's greatest monarch.  The supporting cast is also terrific, especially Christopher Eccleston and Geoffrey Rush.  I also like the fact that some of the lines in this film are quite memorable. What I consider to be the most memorable scene in this movie is the ending--a truly amazing ending, and Cate Blanchett's final line in this film sums it all up best. Elizabeth is a tour de force in filmmaking, and a period piece for the nineties.  Much better than the overrated atrocity Shakespeare in Love. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth, really great, but some mistakes","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I really liked Elizabeth.Good acting,  good camera work. I especially like Kate Blanchett as the Virgin Queen, Fiennes as Robert Dudley, the actor who played Walsingham and let's not forget Kathy Burke as Mary.I don't understand why some people didn't like the film. I think you have to like it or not.There are people here who liked it very much and there are people who hated it.Elizabeth and the Tudors began to interest me when I was 13 and it still fascinates me. I read the books of Jean Plaidy, they are pretty old, but very good.he wrote three books about Henry V111 and his six wives and one about Elizabeth.They are really nice.I did some research and I discovered some mistakes in the film. For example  Elizabeth always knew that Robert Dudley was married and the film says not. 2.The book says that Elizabeth was in the tower when Mary was still alive and Lord Dudley was there too, before she was there. 3.She had a special room in the Tower and no cold and dirty room.Just a couple of examples, I think the director could do this better. is there any better movie about Elizabeth and still available in Holland(subtitled) ? "}{"Title":"Brilliance!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  To be critical of the brilliant film making that went in to this movie is to show that one is a stereotypical filmwatcher and not a film lover. Blanchett was FABULOUS!  The dazzleing filmmaking and music and shots are what is missing out of films today.  Why waste money on I KNow What You Did Last Whenever and crap like GO when you can make something as brilliant as Elizabeth!!  ONWARD HOLLYWOOD!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that will stay in your mind for a long time","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is beautiful, entertaining, and inviting.  It has some of the best performances and the most astonishing visuals in a film. Geoffrey Rush was awesome as the machiavellian Sir Francis Walsingham, and so was Kathy Burke as Bloody Mary. But it is Cate Blanchett's performance as Elizabeth that is the most spectacular thing about this movie. I guess all of these historical scholars do not watch very many historical movies. Can you name any one movie that has been historically accurate to a tee? A lot of historical movies come close to being very accurate, but the fact remains that movies are made with the purpose of entertaining the viewing public. I think that the Indian director of this film, Shekar Kapur, did an excellent job making this film. His purpose in making this film was to entertain, not to give a history lesson - he would've made a documentary instead. Usually films that are made with the intention of educating the public are of Masterpiece Theater-like quality (i.e., boring beyond belief). Some people here have recommended watching Elizabeth R instead. May I point out that Elizabeth R is a MINI-SERIES, meaning that unless you have priorities in your life and don't have the time, you'll have to sit through six episodes on the life of this one woman. One thing I admire about Elizabeth is that, like many historical movies that have been made in recent years, its emphasis on details is very REALISTIC. Older historical movies were much more theatrical. For example, you would see a nordic-looking actor playing a famous historical figure in a movie, when that figure was actually a dark type in real life. The reality is that, as is the case with most films, most people who have seen and will see this film will only be interested in the movie itself (the acting, the story, the look of the film, etc).To clarify one point that was brought up, she's a virgin because she DECIDES TO BECOME ONE. Near the ending of the film, she decides to model herself after the Virgin Mary because she wants people to look upon her similarly to the way that people look upon the Virgin Mary. That's why she chops all her hair off and says, God, I have become a virgin, and has her skin painted completely white (to represent her purity). I think Shekar Kapur added an interesting twist to this movie by demonstrating that virginity is a state of mind.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant--a movie worthy of a great woman!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a history buff who has been studying Elizabeth I since I was in elementary school, it was such a thrill to learn that a movie on her life--or even part of it was being made. And although this movie has compressed numerous events of her life into a few short years, and some liberties have been taken, this film is more akin to The Godfather saga than an episode of Masterpiece Theater. Cate Blanchett-who should have won the Best Actress Oscar-is incredible as the woman I consider the Woman of the Millennium intelligent, brilliant, sometimes uncertain, and offering herself as sacrifice to her nation. Geoffrey Rush is outstanding as Francis Walsingham, one of her ministers, who will offer life and limb to protect his Queen. And the underrated Joseph Fiennes again wins us over as Elizabeth's lover, Robert Dudley, who loves her in his own peculiar way, but nearly does a Judas on her. If you didn't love English history before, you will after seeing this. It's only hoped that one day, Elizabeth's great father, Henry VIII, will receive a movie as deserving. "},{"Title":"Enraptured","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a story that has fascinated bards, writers, and historians alike for centuries, this movie had a lot of potential to fail if done poorly. However, as it turns out it completely captures the soul of a young woman, forced into a position of power through enemies, confidants, lovers and pride, unfolding into maturity and how she faces the adversities to become one of the most beloved monarchs in British history.  Fantastic filmography, acting, plot lines, and insights, this movie will be on my 'to buy and watch repeatedly' list!  "},{"Title":"Not your mother's costume drama","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is not your mother's costume drama.  From the very beginning, when the opening titles run over a psychedelic montage of religious iconography, you know that something different is happening here.and it isn't Masterpiece Theater.  Dark and brutal, lurid and violent, this film unfolds like bloody flower.  Religious intrigue, political machinations, sexual scheming--it's like an Umberto Eco novel.  Cate Blanchett is an astonishing actress, a truly startling screen presence.  She inhabits the body, mind and soul of the Virgin Queen with an ethereal grace underlain by steely resolve.  Her portrayal of Elizabeth's inevitable transformation from a clear-eyed, idealistic girl with love in her heart to a coldly practical monarch who will be married always and only to England is heart-breaking--all the more so as the practicality is born only out of absolute necessity.  Joseph Fiennes is dark and brooding, smolderingly sexual as the poor, sincere, doomed Lord Robert, who does all the wrong things for the right reason his love for a girl who has become a woman.  But that love is returned to him by a woman who has become a queen, and, as Robert himself says, That love could corrupt the soul of any man.  In the end, Robert's corrupted soul undoes them all. "},{"Title":"Realistic","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film portrayed Elizabeth I in a very realistic way. Most if not all of its content are based on true facts of history. It gives the people a different aspect of politics in the 1500s by using actual quotes like the one Elizabeth I said when she heard of her succession and the vividness and powerful image of the characters. This film should have won best picture at the Oscars. It is politics, conspiracy and intrigue at its best.  "},{"Title":"History taken differently","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  At first  take Carl Theodor Dreyers movie La passion de Jeanne d'Arc (1928). Then take  La Reine Margot. Put both by the side of Elizabeth. They all in spite of different origin talk about heroines in the same excellent (or maybe just the only right) way.  Elizabeth especially. We cut down the richness of  styling and we have a pleasure to peek into the big dilemma of women in the mens world.  We can understand the difference between the human being as a public figure (a symbol of divinity) and human being as a person. There is no room for love, personal wishes, anxiety when one is responsible for so many huge goals.  "},{"Title":"Worthy of the Praise!!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie took my breathe away.Elizabeth is a grandiose movie, made the way all historical pictures should be.  It has a great gothic feel to it, which only serves to height it over-all impact.  The opening scene is very powerful, as is all the visual links with religion to Elizabeth, like when she is first imprisoned and she is shown through the crossed window with her ladies-in-waiting.  I have been told that a number of other actresses were asked to play this role, but I do not think anyone of them could have pulled this role off as well as Cate Blanchett, with exception being Kate Winslet.I applaud the Academy for giving a nomination to Elizabeth, but I find it rather unsettling that the director received no nomination of his own.The one big problem I did find with this movie is that it plays out, especially towards the end, like a bit of a Mafia film or a Godfather movie, with all the evil enemies of England being killed for the safety of the monarch.  Walsingham seems to me to be a bit too Machiavellian in his methods as does the last half hour of the film.I did enjoy this film thoroughly as a experience in the way I would want to view a film, but I do not see the reason for all the historical license the filmmakers took.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"Oscars should go all around","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a fantastic film. Historically accurate, no, but a fantastic piece of filmmaking nonetheless.  Cate Blanchett is amazing as Elizabeth Tudor, as is Geoffrey Rush as Walsingham. Several scenes sent chills down my spine, especially when Elizabeth is told that she is Queen, and when Mary of Guise sends a message back to Elizabeth from a Scottish battlefield.  One of the few films I've seen that deserves their awards nominations. If it's playing in your area, do yourself a favor and see it.  "},{"Title":"A Strong Woman Way Ahead Of Her Time","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This story intrigues year after year.  I have seen every version of this story that has ever been filmed yet this was the best.  Joseph Finnes was more beautiful here even than in Shakespeare In Love.Elizabeth herself was cast to perfection.  The fabrics were sumptuous.  The castles were mysterious and monumental.  The scenes of sex were among the most lovely I have ever witnessed on screen.Although there were some grizzled scenes of torture and beheading, the scenes of beauty and monarchy were far more lasting in my mind.The story is confusing and the more one studies the actual history the more confusing the story becomes.  The Earl Of Leicester seems to have been the perfect cad/charmer.  Elizabeth had his number but still could not resist him.  In the end she could listen only to herself and that seems to have been enough.  "}{"Title":"A tour de force","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A brilliant, rich, intelligent film and a tour de force for Cate Blanchett. I was a bit distracted by the constantly-moving cameras at first, though the many aerial shots are quite stylish.  Within a few minutes, however, I was so pulled in by the story and the whole set-up that I completely lost track of time, and no longer noticed the swirling cameras.  I reckon this is the best film I've seen this year.  Two thumbs up.Oh yes, and having recently seen Ever After, I was struck by the contrast between fairy tale and reality.  In a fairy tale the girl gets the guy and the throne and she's happy about it.  In reality she trades her youthful freedom and innocence to hold the throne, and loses the guy to fulfill her responsibilities as a just ruler.  I suppose that's obvious, but I was still struck by it.  "},{"Title":"Does something happen to the human race when it crosses the Atlantic that prevents a woman from governing?","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I guess there can be good government by women. In the modern day, it seems terribly strange to have all those queens ruling supreme battling each other. One wonders, if there had been countries on this side of the Atlantic would there have been female presidents governing here back then? Does something happen to the human race, when in crosses the Atlantic that precludes women from ruling?This movie is as good as any of its kind, as you'll find. Never having been a history buff, and preferring almost any other topic for a film, I was completely involved. Although the plot is simple, the film does keep one's attention with an excellent pace and breathtaking shots. The acting is excellent. Queen is outstanding. The costumes and scenery are fine. In a word, an excellent movie!Fanny Ardant, is good as the other queen and makes Elizabeth's queen look like the virgin queen.  "},{"Title":"I wish I could buy this on video now!  Too bad the scale only goes up to ten.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I chose tonight, Tuesday, to see this movie, simply because I had been too busy lately.  It has turned out to be one of the best Tuesday nights of my life.  This movie is elegantly filmed, beautifully acted and historically accurate.  It is dark when the mood is dark, and light and lively when it is supposed to be such.Cate Blanchette is a new actress to me, but I am certain that she will be a household name in short measure.  Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes are equally enchanting, as are all of the other supporting actors.  Remarkably, both Fiennes and Rush are featured in another Academy nominated best picture.  Rush is nominated for his supporting role in Shakespeare in Love.  How did the academy choose which one for which to nominate him?The real Elizabeth was a domineering woman.  This we know from history.  But this film accurately portrays how she became that; both by her wise choice of advisors and her own strong will.  Had it not been for Elizabeth, England may not have become the world power that it was and is.  And this movie shows why that fact exists.The movie concentrates on history, drama and charm.  It does not need blatant sexual scenes (although there is brief nudity and suggested sex) to enhance its beauty and marvel that is accomplished through the directing, acting and cinematography.  I cast my vote now for Elizabeth as best picture for 1999  Bravo!!!    "},{"Title":"Great actress highlight of great movie","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I knew Cate Blanchett had talent after OSCAR AND LUCINDA, but even I was blown away by her performance here.  Only Billy Bob Thornton in A SIMPLE PLAN, Gwyneth Paltrow in SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, and Tom Hanks in SAVING PRIVATE RYAN come close.  She captures the heart, drive, intelligence, vulnerability, and ruthlessness of the Virgin Queen.  I think my favorite scene is early on when she is summoned by her sister, leaves, and is afraid she's going to be executed by the soldiers around her, but instead bluffs her way past, overhears Norfolk chewing the soldiers out for letting her bluff her way through, and then laughs.  She deserved the Golden Globe, and I hope she wins the Oscar.The rest of the film is excellent as well.  I think some people were looking for a stuffy costume drama, but I liked how modern the technique was; all those dark rooms and moving camera shots added to the intrigue.  Geoffrey Rush may get a nomination for SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, but he's much better here, trully Machieavellian as her closest and most ruthless ally.  I wasn't a fan of Kapur's THE BANDIT QUEEN, but this is excellent filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"Gripping Historical Film","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a gripping historical film.The makers should be commented.Intelligent script, fine acting, dark atmospheric cinematography and art direction all add up to memorable film experience.The movie also has the pacing of a thriller and assassinations at the end was a great ode to Coppola's Godfather saga. "},{"Title":"Worth watching despite historical errors.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth captured my attention--and my thoughts for weeks afterward--as no other movie has since Shine.  Although the movie takes liberties with history, those liberties were guided by the hand of an able dramatist, one who tried to capture the spirit of a 45-year reign in two hours.The timing is compressed and rearranged, but only to reinforce the film's major themes  a woman's maturity as monarch, the political chaos of Renaissance Europe,  and the religious fervor that fueled such chaos.Only one oversight bothered me a bit  While Elizabeth is portrayed as an able diplomat, she had many more intellectual talents and accomplishments than the film suggests, and it was this stunning combination of gifts--not just her courage (heart) and marital independence--that allowed her to rule successfully.Aside from the script, the movie was visually rich; I appreciated the use of lighting and music to establish the tone and texture of each scene.The acting was also superb, although I believe Lord Burleigh was a bit more fierce than was indicated by Attenborough's gentle portrayal.  Cate Blanchett was riveting, as was Kathy Burke (in a pathetic way, of course). And Christopher Eccleston showed me, for the first time, how viscerally magnetic and sensual a powerful,  ambitious man can be. (Is this how Clinton affected Monica?  Yikes!)I do think Elizabeth fared better with viewers who already knew something of the characters involved.  More effort could have been made to clarify the story line and its participants' roles for those who didn't.But back to accuracy.  As with the movie Amadeus, I simply don't expect a good movie to be historically perfect.  That's the job of a documentary. What I do expect is that the movie be faithful to events in general and be written and produced well enough to interest viewers in the subject. Ideally, they would do exactly what two of my friends did after they saw Elizabeth  they hit the nearest bookstore and learned more about this incredible woman and her times.As for me, I'm taking my husband to the next Saturday matinee.  It will be his first viewing and my fourth.  I expect to be completely enthralled all over again. "},{"Title":"Richly produced drama","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In this offering of the early years of the reign of Elizabeth I the emphases are on early suitors for her hand in marriage and on the struggle between the two factions of the Protestant and Catholic clergy. Although the film was completely a masterpiece of film art, it misses the mark slightly with it's obvious anti-catholic bias and it's habit of ignoring historical fact. Although many films such as this do use a good deal of artistic license, it would be just as interesting - perhaps more so, to portray the events that shaped a future world accurately.If one remembers the makers have played havoc with history, it surpasses mere entertainment. It is a joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When I saw the trailer I already knew that this was going to be BIG! And my expectations were not disappointed. Elizabeth is a breathtaking, well-paced movie - bloody, charming, terrifying - all at once. Cate Blanchett gives an outstanding performance as the Queen, so does Geoffrey Rush as Walsingham. Don't be surprised if the Academy nominates them, in fact they deserve it. I think we found a new talented director also Shekhar Kapur knows his job, combines love story and thriller to an exciting movie. Not to forget the great score by David Hirschfelder, choirs and screams together with crying horns. It's just terrific, an altogether satisfying movie adventure! You won't regret or forget it! "},{"Title":"Her father's daughter.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Yes, this is historical DRAMA.  Mr. Hirst has shown us how a young girl, in a world where women were considered the property of their husbands (and not existing in a legal sense otherwise), came into her own and changed the world.Important point to remember England was broke when Elizabeth came to power, and was the richest nation in the world at her death.The story of Elizabeth surviving an overwhelming sense of powerlessness to become absolute in her power was brilliantly portrayed.  Most of the time people remember great opening lines.  This movie has one of the greatest closing lines.  Was Elizabeth the first type-A personality to set on the throne?  Ms. Blanchett's portrayal was certainly among the best, maybe the best since Bette Davies. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this film on the back end of a sneak preview, and I have to say that I liked this one much better.  It was so fascinating -- the intrigue, backstabbing, and unholy alliances were just so interesting.  I know my American history, but not too much about European history, so I was not only entertained, but I learned something in the process.I wasn't looking forward to this one, because it was long and featured a lot of actors who I never heard of, but I was impressed.  "}{"Title":"OUTSTANDING MOVIE!!!!!!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When I went to see ELIZABETH this past weekend, it was because a friend of mine desperately wanted to see it.  Frankly, I am not a history buff and expected to be completely bored.  Boy, was I wrong.  The movie was tremendously engaging and the time flew by.  In fact it reminded me of how TITANIC didn't seem to be 3 hours and 15 minutes because of the action. Well ELIZABETH didn't seem like a two hour movie, and I was truly disappointed when it ended. And on top of that, I learned something about history in the process.  GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!  "},{"Title":"If you think it's bad in Washington, DC, go see this movie.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  ELIZABETHHi, my name is Slim and I just saw a movie about religious men scheming to get rid of the head of state and powerful men are also involved and an advisor of the head of state is involved in skullduggery and intrigue and meanwhile the head of state and some young shapely thing is making like a two-backed beast. Meanwhile, the country is falling apart and the head of state is going to war with some wacko who is tucked away in some far-off land.I'm talking about Elizabeth, which takes place some time around the 1550's in merry olde England. The way I figure, Henry VIII has died, and he had this daughter with one of his many wives, but he wanted a son so he chopped off the wife's head. Well, another one of his daughters has taken the crown, but then she dies and the other daughter becomes Queen. Except she's Protestant and the Catholics really don't like that, so they decide to off her. Well, at first she's in a tizzy and can't figure out what's going on because she's in heat and runting about with this Lord. But luckily there's this advisor who is dialed into all the scheming, and he tells the Queen and well, a lot of guys end up with their head on a pole. We got dark, dank scenes of some tower and castles in England, we got lords a leaping and lasses a skipping, we got all sorts of fancy dressed pompous asses strutting about, we got the Queen being a wench, we got some guy being readied for a Burger King commercial, and finally we got a bunch of religious guys going to find out if there really is a heaven. Also, we got all these scenes jumping and bopping about and I sure do wish all these producers and directors would stop watching so much MTV.Two and three-quarters stars. Go check it out if you think Washington, DC is really bad and couldn't get any worse.El Monte Slim "},{"Title":"Visually Spectacular, Superbly Performed","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was visually spectacular and was performed by some of the greatest actors of our time.  For someone who isn't bothered by the lack of explanation of the intricacies of the underlying politics which surrounded Elizabeth both in England and worldwide at the time, this film is very satisfying.However, as a British history major, I was somewhat disappointed with the lack of world political and historical perspective.  But then again how much can one film cover?The casting, costumes, acting and cinematography were amazing.I highly recommend it to anyone.  However, I suggest a quick brush-up on early Elizabethan history before viewing.    "},{"Title":"Royal art unfolds before our eyes!!","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw Elizabeth and I enjoyed every bit of this royal masterpiece.  The riveting cinematography and the acting in it was outstanding.  Cate Blanchett who delivered probably the performance to beat for the Oscars for best actress was so mesmerizing as the Virgin Queen.  Blanchett showed how a blind and carefree young woman and grow up to be a strong and fearless leader of England.  There were excellent performances also by Geoffery Rush, Joseph Fiennes, and Sir John Gielgud, This movie was excellent and I hope that Cate Blanchett walks home with the gold for it!! "},{"Title":"My favourite film of the year","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A film that opens with Protestant heretics being burnt at the stake and makes you feel like you're there too. Elizabeth combines the best of historical drama with the passion and colour of Bollywood. Why is it the best film of 1998? For everything acting, costumes, cinematography, script. The performances of Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush are particularly outstanding. "},{"Title":"historical film at its best","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I don't know enough about sixteenth century English history to know that the film is totally accurate, but can say that the film left me wanting more.  Again like so many good films I wish it could have gone longer. It is relativly short only about two hours and covers only the initial years of Elizabeth's reign where she is consolidat- ing power against the will of the Pope and his followers. The characters from the lead, Ms. Blanchett, to Mr. Rush (Walsing- ham), her ruthless advisor, to Mr. Eccleston (Norfolk), her court adversary, to Mr. Fiennes (her lover), to Mr.Cassel (her roy al suitor), to Mr. de la Quadro (the Spani sh ambassador, to Ms. Burke (Mary, her sister) were all excellent playing well written interesting characters.  The film sets the Medieval mood well with great cin ematography and costuming but we feel a certain connection to all the characters----good and bad.  Could it be that human nature has not changed much in the last four centuries, although I would like to think that we are less ruthless? The movie has love, passion, hate, fear, loyalty, deceit, and laughter.  The story although I'm sure embellished, is essential ly true, told in an appealing way, filmed well, and presented by an excellent cast. What more could you possibly ask except perhaps another hour of film.  Many thanks to all involved.  A strong three and half stars.   "},{"Title":"One of the year's top three","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is one of the years top three films.  It surpasses in many ways both Saving Private Ryan and The Truman Show.  This is not only one of the best dramas of the year, but also, it is the best thriller, the best romance, and it harbors some of the year's best performances.Cate Blanchet leads this stellar cast with an Oscar worthy performance.  She is elegant, fragile, sophisticated, and transparent--she produces the best performance by a lead actress this year.  Geoffrey Rush and Chistopher Ecleston are excellent supporting characters and deserve nods of their own.Appart from the acting the best thing Elizabeth does for the audience is create a horrifying sense of fear, danger, and solitude.  With enormous empty rooms, assassination attempts, blood red costuming, and characters ducking in and out of the shadows, the audience is treated to the feeling of the violent uncertainty so appropiate to the time.Many critics and viewers have disagreed with my consensus, but nevertheless, this is a film worth seeing twice.  It is biting at the heels of the exhalted Saving Private Ryan and surpasses the likes of The Truman Show.  Indeed this is one of the year's best pictures, and certainly one of the year's best performances. See Elizabeth, even if you hate costume dramas, this isn't your ordinary period piece.  This is an exciting, suspenseful (you can forget Psycho), sexy, heart-tearing film. Elizabeth will not disappoint you.My grade A "},{"Title":"Amazing Insight","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought the film was excellent, the costumes fantastic, and both Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush amazing in their performances. My favorite aspect was the reality of the castles and the darkness in which the people lived in the time of Tudor. Historically accurate, well directed (loved the art house flair) and a definite thumbs up in my book. "},{"Title":"An excellent conspiracy thriller","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth has just the right running time for a film of this genre. When Compared to Nixon, JFK and other reasonably historically based conspiracy films, Elizabeth emerges as easily the most watchable, in one sitting. Clever use of editing during the scene in which Elizabeth is working out how to address parliament, alludes to a Taxi Driver style insight into another's mind.The whole story draws interesting parallels with The Godfather, Part II, as a ruler wanting to emulate his/her father's successes, slowly destroys all those around him/her. The film concludes showing how lonely such an achievement can be in reality, leaving Elizabeth as the Virgin Queen and Don Michael Corleone isolated from the remainder of his family, sitting on his throne, by Lake Tahoe. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, Moving Historical Drama - Very Captivating","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Who can forget Bette Davis as the King in Petticoats Queen Elizabeth the First- Until one sees how Cate Blanchette tackles the same difficult subject.I had never heard of Cate Blanchette until she was perfectly cast as Galadriel in Lord of The Rings, but after that I cannot get enough of her, she always raises the quality level of any film she is in.As a character actress she rivals the greats like Paul Muni - A chameleon, you never know as what next she will appear.I had wanted to see this film from the time that Elizabeth The Golden Age was released, I did not want to see that film until I had seen this one.This film has great performances by Joseph Fiennes, Edward Hardwicke -Son of Sir Cedric Hardwicke and looks just like him, Geoffrey Rush, and the most striking woman, Amanda Ryan ans the fictional Lettice Howard as the lover of The Earl of Norfolk. Other standouts are Fanny Ardant as Mary of Guise. Finally, Richard Attenborogh as Sir Cecil. and that rounded out a great cast.Visually this film uses very little CGI except in establishing shots, and it is done well. The choice of locations give the proper impression of antiquity.Although this film takes some liberties with the history of Queen Elizabeth I, it shows us how it may have been for this remarkable woman Imprisoned Princess to Queen to Virgin Queen. "}{"Title":"History of England","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A movie is a tale. Strong, soft, ugly, great, insignificant, but a tale. Elizabeth is a special tale about power and sacrifice. About an era and about his symbol. The biographic film must have a slice of truth. The inspiration of director, the cast, the sound or the lights, the sound or the script are relevant but never enough. Or the importance of this film consist in a special art to discover the essence of a world with respect and precision. And Cate Blanchette, a great actress, with a powerful art, knows to discover the force of a victim and the vulnerability of a queen, the sign of lie and politics in a life who exist only like part of his country's destiny. A rare case in which the nationality of director is relevant. Why? Because this movie reflect the history of England in his precious beauty, in his real fear. "},{"Title":"One mistress and no masters","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is not to be confused with a historical essay any more than the height of the English Renaissance is to be confused with The Middle Ages.This is a tour de force portrayal of one of the greatest leaders in history by a brilliant actress who has the ability to get right inside the material and the period. It doesn't matter if the Acts of Supremacy, Unformity, the 39 Articles and the Book of Common prayer get all mixed up. The historical texture is authentically Tudor. Blanchett's portrayal of a ruler trying to swim against the tide and create a modern political state is outstanding.Sure it's quirky. Casting is idiosyncratic at times. But there's hardly been anything to equal the sheer, naked power of Blanchett's Elizabeth since Orson Welles was a lad. England entered Elizabeth's reign amid religious bloodshed and chaos, then emerged, albeit with a slightly shaky Stewart on the throne, as Europe's most stable and best managed economy, aware that religious tolerance, skillful diplomacy and timely intelligence were just as important to security as military might.Watching Cate Blanchett in Elizabeth, even if it's not always sure-footed about how, will give you a good indication of why. "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This must be one of the most untrue historic films ever made I was just mad spending almost 2 hours at the TV A mystery how the film could receive a lot of Oscar nomination boring, boring, boring "},{"Title":"A Theatrical Masterpiece","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is one of those rare movies which lure you into every second of the film. This is mostly credited to Cate Blanchett's spectacular performance in her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth 1. Cate does a notable job creating how we picture the image of the Virgin Queen, strong but weak, innocent but not to be overlooked. Also, the spectacular setting and costume designs aid to Elizabeth as being one of the greatest movies of all time. This movie was overlooked by the Academy Awards but was truly deserving of winning every award, but we won't get in to that! Elizabeth is a movie in it's own class, and you will be drawn into every moment of this epic tale.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Interpretaton of the beginning of British Mass Murder","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Okay, who are thr 84 schmucks (as of 8/4/2000) who gave his film a 1?  Brilliant  work by the director and by Cate Blanchett.  Wonderful ensemble work, and had the werid distinction of having two actors who were also in  Shakspeare in  Love (which also featued Elizabeth I Geroffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes.  A highly enjoyable  film.  "},{"Title":"Liz Tudor Meets Madonna Music Video","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film ignores history in favor of 20th Century Music Video effects. The use of music by Mozart (uncredited) and Sir Edward Elgar is so outrageous an anachronism as to spoil any visual pleasure the film offers. Cate Blanchett looks mostly coy or sour. Joseph Fiennes looks mostly constipated. Both have more acting ability than seen here. The director should stick to known material. "},{"Title":"Please...no more chick flicks!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's hard to take these films seriously, because they are so patronizing to both women and men.  Give her a brewski, put her in a Hummer, and be done with it.  I don't ask for historical accuracy, but I don't ask to be set up with an un-believable premise. "},{"Title":"A startlingly realistic portrayal of the hardships that the great Queen Elizabeth struggled through in the early days of her reign.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's too bad that they don't make more period films, because of they did, Joseph Fiennes might find more work. Joseph Fiennes was probably asked to play William Shakespeare in Shakespeare in Love because of his excellent performance in Elizabeth, and he was only one among a great many actors who gave incredible performances in this spectacular historical drama, in which the 16th century is flawlessly created and presented. There are many things that make Elizabeth a great film. For example, not only is it amazingly realistic, but it also portrays a very accurate depiction of the Queen. The difficult early part of her reign is not as well known as the stunning success that she later achieved as a leader, and her potent and strong-willed personality is captured very well in this film. She suffers through countless hardships during this part of her life, and the circumstances leading to her crowning of herself as The Virgin Queen are what make up the story of this excellent film. The visuals, particularly the breathtaking interiors of the tremendous castles in which much of the film takes place, are some of the most amazing things about this movie. This is an epic drama crafted with amazing skill, excellent performances, and stunning photography. See it. "},{"Title":"She's pale. She's dead.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  D'ya like freaky, boring, weird movies? If so, then you'll enjoy this movie alot more than I did. I thought this movie entirely SUCKED and am totally surprised to find it on the Internet Movie Database's Top 250 list. The only reason I'm writing this comment is to correct a grave injustice. Otherwise I'd be trying to forget I ever saw this movie straight from the commode. Elizabeth. She's pale. She's dead. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Frustrating and Tedious.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Well, we can definitely say this isn't a film for Tudor buffs. Of course, as with any historical drama, liberties may have to be taken occasionally with the facts for clarity and the necessity to fit the film into it's allotted running time. Sadly it seems there was no attempt to portray any kind of realism or accuracy at all - in fact, in this case, history has been butchered, but to what end? High tension drama? Bodice-ripping romance? On every level this film failed to deliver, but what's worse is that I am not clear as to what the film makers were trying to deliver in the first place. We are all here because we appreciate film and have a longing to be entertained. Nobody expects to spend two hours plus of their lives to end up feeling bored and frustrated which is how I feel right now. A tedious and bland portrayal of one of our greatest monarchs and an ill-befitting testament to one of the most exciting periods of English history. "}{"Title":"Biased","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" First things first I'm not Spanish, I'm French. I thought the acting in this movie was second to none (I'm a massive fan of Cate Blanchett anyway), the costumes, dialogues etc.. were great.. Nevertheless, Historically speaking what a load of nonsense (to be polite. First of all the way the Spanish were portrayed was ridiculous ..and stupidity really..especially considering that Spain was THE most powerful Nation of its time..so portraying the King of Spain as a pale feeble little weird man was frankly laughable..anyway.. Besides this, I'd like to stress that the only reason why Spain did not manage to invade Britain had more to do with pure luck frankly and to the fact that the winds were blowing so hard at the time that they destroyed half of the Spanish Fleet (Armada)..In fact, had it not been for said winds (and for the fact that the Spanish Armada had already been weakened/tired from fighting with the French) Spain would have surely succeeded, Queen Elizabeth or not!!I was actually discussing this with an English colleague of mine ( I live in the UK) who totally agreed with me! So even if the English do.... Anyhow, can't really expect much from a movie made for and by Anglos Saxons can we? I guess their vision had to be pretty bias.. Good entertainment though..if you don't look into too much, lol! o) "},{"Title":"ELIZABETH reigns high.","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" My Take Less a biopic and more of a daring GODFATHER-styled story elevated by Cate Blanchett's unforgettable performance.The year 1554. Faith has been divided into two Christianity and Protestant. The zealous Queen Mary of Scots rules England, but has no heir to take over her reign, since she bares no son. The only one next in line for the throne is her sister, Elizabeth, a protestant. When she fails the attempt to execute her for treason, Mary closely falls to her deathbed, and Elizabeth, closer to sit in her throne and rule over England. All these and later events are portrayed perfectly in ELIZABETH, a bold, daring and visually stunning excursion into a dark realm of history and the life of the known Virgin Queen.Firstly, the stunning look of ELIZABETH is clearly worth mentioning. The sets and especially the costumes by Alexander Byrne are spectacular. Credit also goes to director Shekhar Kapur. A brilliant visionary, Kapur fills the screen with inspired beauty, easily seen in the film's design and stunning elaborate use of color. The shots of the palace and dungeons are dark and gloomy, as are the scenes showing great battle and fear. While the depressing scenes show real grief, scenes of joy, and most especially are scenes with Elizabeth (played by Cate Blanchett) are always associated with bright light. Director Kapur thinks the character specifically needs the brightness to associate with her radiance. He was most precise and correct.But the film isn't all style, it's also good with the actors and the script. The best performance, and perhaps the best thing about the film, is the stunning performance by Cate Blanchett as the Virgin Queen herself. Perhaps, when accepting the role of the Queen, Ms. Blanchett didn't just read the script, she must have also gotten herself in the character, saying I can do this!, and she does, most deserving of her Oscar nomination. In fact, I'll go as far as to say she would have won it. Supporting performances by Geoffrey Rush (as Sir Francis Walsingham), Richard Attenborough (as Sir William Cecil), Joseph Fiennes (as Sir Robert Dudley) and Christopher Eccleston (as the Duke of Norfolk) are all superb.Joined with the superb cinematography, brilliant score and excellent screen play written by Michael Hirst, giving breath of beauty and courage especially to the title character, all add up to the overall magnificence of this dark and stunning thriller. ELIZABETH is terrific entertainment.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"She was meant to be queen!","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth (1998), directed by Shekhar Kapur, was the film that made Cate Blanchett a star. Elizabeth I has been portrayed by many fine actors, and, of course, Blanchett has portrayed her again in a newly released film. Whether Blanchett is or isn't the best movie Elizabeth is not the point. The point is that she fully inhabits the character, so that it requires no suspension of disbelief to accept Blanchett as the young queen, fighting for her crown and fighting for her life. I can't pretend to know whether the costumes and sets are accurate reflections of Elizabethan England. However, they certainly appear realistic, as do the (very unpleasant) scenes of martyrdom and torture. Unlike Shakespeare in Love, this movie doesn't give us endless glimpses of dogs, pigs, street entertainers, etc. (In our family, we say Cue the jugglers.) The film deals with nobility, and their lives were lived in their castles or at the royal court, not on the streets.The supporting actors are outstanding--especially Fanny Ardant as Mary of Guise, the mother of Mary, Queen of Scots, Christopher Eccleston as the powerful and ambitious Duke of Norfolk, and Geoffrey Rush as Sir Francis Walsingham, who will stop at nothing to serve his queen. I was less impressed by Joseph Fiennes as Elizabeth's love interest, Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester. I don't know how the historical Dudley looked and acted, but Fiennes looked both hostile and tentative throughout the film.The core of the drama is, of course, Elizabeth, and Cate Blanchett performs the role to perfection. We can believe her as a frivolous adolescent, as a ruler finding her way, and as the more mature historical Elizabeth, who created a role and then played that role for the rest of her reign. Even if you don't like historical dramas, it's worth seeing this film just to watch Cate Blanchett act. You can ignore Leicester, Norfolk, and the Duke of Anjou. Just look at Elizabeth! "},{"Title":"rather odious","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" At first I thought this was a fairly entertaining movie. But now we have seen Elizabeth from the BBC on our TV screens, starring Helen Mirren and Jeremy Irons, and oh, what a difference in quality. Many actresses have tackled the role of good Queen Bess but none can even come close to Mirren's superb portrayal. I must say as an Englishman it displeases me to see two Australians cast in leading roles in a truly English story, added to which French football player Eric Cantona was thrown in the pot. I hope all involved in the Blanchett film take time to study Mirren's performance and the rest of the cast as a lesson in superb acting. "},{"Title":"Modern Classic!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is such a wonderful film in all respects. It is visually exciting, well-directed, and exceptionally well-acted. Cate Blanchett was astounding. Geoffrey Rush is such a great actor and did a superlative job in this film. I can't believe he wasn't even nominated for an Oscar. Consider the total opposite performance he gave in Shakespeare in Love. Also notable was Christopher Eccleston as the bombastic, arrogant and ambitious Norfolk, who covets Elizabeth's throne.I know people have questioned its veracity but to tell you the truth, I can't say I know enough about Britain's monarchs to give an opinion.I can watch this film over and over and it is still fresh. I can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Simply Awe-Inspiring!!!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I totally agree with what smig1 said and will not repeat it again, for it is exactly how I feel and what I would have written. When the Oscars aired and Gwyneth Paltrow won for best actress I was just stunned and so mad for Kate Blanchett! Because I live in NYC and see stars on a somewhat regular basis, I have said to all of my friends that if I see two actors on the street I would walk up to them and tell them that if I had an Academy Award I would give it to them because they were robbed the first is Cate for this movie (I just love how she has mastered her craft that I might have to give her two!) and Joaquin Phoenix for Gladiator (You just got to love the scene where he sticks out his tongue during one of the fight scenes). Finally, I will add that the final minutes of this movie were just magnificently done! "},{"Title":"A truly great film","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I am biased but the fact that Elizabeth lost out Oscar-wise to Shakespeare in Love is one of the greatest Academy Award travesties of recent years. I'm pretty sure that Shakespeare himself would have voted for this film! It's greatness first is in the performances of Blanchett, Eccleston, Rush, Fiennes, Ardant... the list goes on. But just as importantly it shows that atmosphere and dramatic tension are far more effective than special effects in transporting an audience. And then, like a Shakespeare tragedy, historical verisimilitude rightly takes a back seat to the investigation of eternal themes - love, jealousy, hunger for power, weakness, mercy - and perhaps most relevantly how - in politics - appearance counts more than reality. This universality is brilliantly revealed in the choice of music - Elgar and Mozart seamlessly heighten the drama. And the script is wonderful - effortlessly turning what in less sure hands would be trite asides into profundity. OK, I'm gushing, but (but for my money at least) with Elizabeth, director Kapoor shows that cinema can be truly dramatic. It's definitely in my top ten and I don't see its position being threatened any time soon. "},{"Title":"What would you give up?","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I tend to like period movies and I think this one captured, Elizabeth quite well. Being queen was not always living the life of the rich and famous. Like any leader there are things you would have to give up, choosing to remain unwed, was her's. Many might give up a job,house, car for the person you love, but, for the well being of her country she gave up her love, how many of us could do that today? Not only give up her love, she never really knew who she could trust and turn to for support. Living a carefree life as a child/teen and then thrust into the front as she was, she not only prevail, but also managed to make her mark in history like no-one else. England should be proud of her, and how this movie portrayed her. I think the actors did a very good job. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Marvelous...","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I was enthralled by this film. It is the beginning of Elizabeth's reign as Queen as we have not seen before. The journey takes her from young, seductive adolescence to becoming the all powerful Queen of England. The lessons she quickly learns from the male dominated court assist her in becoming their equal and then their superior. The fear that she may be assassinated at any moment follows her throughout the film. That is until the end sequence, that is reminiscent of the end of the first Godfather film, when her enemies are systematically killed and the power is undeniably hers for life.Cate Blanchett was MARVELOUS. She causes you to feel her pain, her love, and her confusion. When she makes the about face in the end she likens to a butterfly emerging from its cocoon. Geoffrey Rush as her absolute protector was admirable and loyal. Joseph Fiennes as her lover, Robert, was weak physically and emotionally. The remainder of the cast was quite good, but did not shine the way Cate did.It is true, she deserved the Academy Award that year, but that rarely happens. Politics... "},{"Title":"Fantastic thriller","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a great film. OK, it does not stick to the history and how it really happened but that's not an issue here. It does give a astonishing portrait of a young woman being confronted with responsibility of running an empire.The film hasn't got one boring or over-blown moment. There are so many classic lines in this film delivered with such a power that it touches you as if you were involved yourself. The fantastic cinematography is complementing amazing costumes and abeautiful English landscape and original locations. I have it on video and see it every couple of months to give myself that great experience of  being in the Golden Age England once again.  "}{"Title":"Cate vs. Gwyneth","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie is great despite all inconsistencies with historical facts. A masterpiece and a brilliant find for beginning actors.  A mastery with which the director succeded to immense you in the Elizabethan atmosphere is amazing. Cate is superb and unrivalled compared to others nominated that year. I think the reputation of the Academy was considerably undermined due to Gwyneth's winning. I doubt the acting skills of Gwyneth - watching her in the movies - I do not believe her images. Gwyneth's acting leaves much to be desired - I guess she was more natural and organic when crying at the ceremony rather than in her movies. I would personally have boycotted the stupidiest ceremony of all times. Those of my acquaintances who watched both Shakespeare in Love and Elizabeth would agree with me - Cate is one of the greatest actress and a living example for hundreds of mediocre hollywood babes. "},{"Title":"Richly produced drama","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Originally written 20 January 1999; account movedIn this offering of the early years of the reign of Elizabeth I the emphases are on early suitors for her hand in marriage and on the struggle between the two factions of the Protestant and Catholic clergy. Although the film was completely a masterpiece of film art, it misses the mark slightly with it's obvious anti-catholic bias and it's habit of ignoring historical fact. Although many films such as this do use a good deal of artistic license, it would be just as interesting - perhaps more so, to portray the events that shaped a future world accurately.If one remembers the makers have played havoc with history, it surpasses mere entertainment. It is a joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"the best picture of 98 10/10","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Elizabeth is a perversely dark film that is impossible to ignore -- or forget.  The film, clearly the best picture of 1998, is a unique epic of its kind.  It's not overlong, nor is it presumptuous.  The film has a wonderfully dark atmosphere that is rarely seen in this kind of picture.  Although the film is dark, you never get the idea that it is trying too hard -- like a Tim Burton film would.Cate Blanchett is unforgettable as Elizabeth, but the real treat of the film is the marvelous Geoffrey Rush -- as her evil man servant who will do anything to protect her.A truly great film -- one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Frozen Concentrated Acting Talent","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A plethora of breathtakingly well judged performances raise Elizabeth from the ranks of the good to the great.  Even the comedy actress Cathy Burke as the mad Queen Mary is not as out of place as she first appears; this is a part that is supposed to be unexpected, jarring and uncomfortable.What can be said about Cate Blanchett's acting ability?  She is quite simply a revelation.  Contrast the conviction and range of Cate with her contemporary Gwyneth Paltrow, who steadfastly plays one part regardless of the film, scene or script.But one great actress does not make for a great film.  Fortunately, the support in Elizabeth is also top notch.  Every performance is believable and engaging.  Geoffrey Rush is particularly engrossing, but the revelation of the piece has to be Eric Cantona.  Eric is best known in the UK and Europe as a mercurial French soccer player given to bouts of obscure poetic commentary; however In Elizabeth, he gives an impressive and truly  dignified performance as the embarrased French Ambassador.  It was a courageous decision to cast him, but Elizabeth is a film that was clearly made with the courage of its convictions. "},{"Title":"One of the most magnificent films I've seen","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  From cinematography (every scene a painting) to directing to acting, this is one of those films that shows just how powerful storytelling can be. Don't be alone when you watch it - you need someone to gasp with and cry with and rave with. For anyone who thinks history is boring - have them watch this movie and they'll understand the depth of man's pettiness and depravity as well ability to rise to imitate the divine. Not to mention, the story will have you on the edge of your seat. Read up on Henry VIII a little bit first though, if you don't know about him. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, film, fabulous acting","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Cate Blanchett is stunning in this film about the early years of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I.  She truly becomes the Virgin Queen, and carries the viewer along as she faces the difficulties of ruling, the heart-breaking decisions she must make, and as she becomes a truly regal woman, every inch a Queen.  Cate was, in my opinion, truly the more deserving candidate for the Best Actress Oscar.All of the cast of this film make it a sweeping, engrossing tale, the cinematography and costumes are beautiful.  Anyone with an interest in this time period will love this film, and even those who have never been much interested in historical films will be drawn in by Cate's flawless performance. "},{"Title":"Cate Blanchett was robbed!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In an incredible performance, Cate Blanchett presents Queen Elizabeth to us as her supporting cast also performs brilliantly.  I cannot believe this movie was so overlooked at the Oscars for the big-money movie Shakespeare in Love, which incidentally, I also liked, but I don't think it compares to this epic.  I am not usually a big fan of historical epics, but this was such a compelling story I absolutely ADORED it.   "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I don't know about anyone else but I reckon Elizabeth should of won Best Film in 1999. I know - Shakespeare In Love is a cool movie, but Elizabeth has that little spark that makes it alot better. Elizabeth has an excellent cast including Cate Blanchett, Joseph Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush, Richard Attenborough and Christopher Eccleston. Cate Blanchett is amazing, Joseph Fiennes is excellent and Richard Attenborough is good as always. Elizabeth is definitely a must-see for people who haven't seen it, and if you haven't, you should go and rent it a.s.a.p.My no. 14 movie. My rating  10/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant - Cate Blanchett should have won the Oscar","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This account of the Virgin Queen's ascension to power is masterful. Shekhar Kapur's vision and his cast all meld together to bring out the best of a historical account, which, although not 100% truthful, has the gist of who Elizabeth I was.  Cate is absolutely magnificent in this movie, and the rest of the actors are superb. "},{"Title":"Oscar Worthy in Every Sense","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is absolutely amazing!  Cate Blanchett portrays an intense battle of a young woman struggling with the new role of Queen, an old lover she can't live with or without and an entourage of men waiting to entrap her. The passion each actor displays in their role makes this movie much more than words being acted out, but a transport in time to what this situation could actually have been like had we all been a fly on the treason stricken walls.  The lack of Shakespearean verse prevents the audience from getting tripped up or bored with the dialogue.  In every aspect of the film, from the exceptional acting to the phenomenal soundtrack, this movie is Oscar worthy in every way.   "}{"Title":"An extraordinary masterpiece of work by Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role nominee, Cate Blanchett.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was nominated for 7 Academy Awards that says it all. It is such a great look at the life of Queen Elizabeth I that it is unreal. This film is certainly one of the best films of 1998. It is a certain classic in the making. I give it 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Ooh Ahh 9 and a half stars","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Whilst the performances of the leads are worthy of the garlands with which they were bestowed, and the director shows a very sure touch bringing new life and intrigue to a well known subject, one performer towered over all. Eric Cantona is majestic as the French Ambassador who, without the aid of pyrimidal mounds of Ferraro Rocher, really spoils the viewer with a magnetic performance. Criminally overlooked when the Oscars were doled out to the water carriers, his day will come. Half star off for no football "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A definite must for any film lover! Everything is perfect, from the script to the cast. Cate Blanchett is such a talent, she IS Elizabeth. Such a performance did deserve an Oscar, but what can you do when you're not a Hollywood sweetheart...   "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)I wonder if the feminists have discovered this movie and if so, what they think of it. How could they not discover it since it has won a number of awards, including seven Academy Award nominations? Yet, I wonder, because the movie is deeper than might be thought on first blush, and it reverberates, but not with any simplistic sexist answers to the human struggle, but with uncomfortable questions, disturbing allegations.Allegation number one a woman can rule and be the equal of a man, but she must suppress her feminine instincts. Uncomfortable question number one are women as vicious and murderous as our demonic males?What makes Elizabeth such a wonderful movie is the uncompromising portrait it presents of a woman in a life or death struggle while in a position of power. Notice that she does NOT become a man, nor take on bogus or pseudo masculine traits to achieve her ends. She remains a woman to the core, yet acts with the kind of aggressive, decisive, brutal intelligence usually assigned to men.Next question Is this good to know?A great work of art should be content to ask the great questions, not presume to answer them.Cate Blanchett is superb in the title role and wonderfully supported by Geoffrey Rush and Joseph Fiennes. Shekhar Kapur's direction is without a hint of cant or even the slightest pandering to a mass audience, and is psychologically true and without any presumption to moral or spiritual wisdom. There is no preaching or taking sides. The script is a work of scholarship fused with the most compelling dramatic development, climax and resolution. The editing is almost invisible yet we can see that exactly enough was cut away while the essence was preserved; viz., it is remarkable how we are led to experience the political growth of the young queen and see her take on the attributes of her father, as necessary, and then see her seek refuge in the church and a kind of piety as the Virgin Queen in such a short period of elapsed screen time. THAT is film making of the highest quality.Not enough can be said about the subtle, charming, expansive, vivid and veracious performance of Blanchett, yet Joseph Fiennes is to be commended for achieving success in a difficult and unsympathetic role. Geoffrey Rush's restraint and control in a part that could have easily been overplayed was highly admirable and contributed strongly to the success of the film.This is not to say that the film is without flaws. The scene where Elizabeth discovers the French duke's homosexuality is unlikely as staged, and her risqu behavior with Leicester not in character. Better, I think, would have been to keep him frustrated and allow him only to play at love; however, today's audiences seem to demand coitus always. Leicester's dalliance with one of her ladies was extremely stupid, but in character. The co-incidence of her wearing the acid dress as she betrayed her queen was a delicious if implausible irony. Further it was not made clear how the queen's commands through Walsingham are made viable so that they must be carried out; indeed the under struggle among the ministers was glossed over, although her dismissal of the no longer effective Sir William Cecil was aptly done.(Of course I can presume to answer my queries.) I think allegation number one, that a woman as a ruler must abandon her normal sexual drive is true, but the argument is too long for this space. Are women as vicious as men? They don't take the foolish chances that men take, since they can be reproductively rewarded only by staying alive and securing a stable future, whereas men can reproduce prodigiously for a while and then die successfully. But when necessary, women can be as brutal as Genghis Khan, as Elizabeth demonstrates.Is it good to know that women are also vicious animals, when all the time we would prefer to think of them as fairy tale princesses? Well, something's lost and something's gained in growing up; but, yes, it's important to always keep that in mind when out there in the big world. I might add that it is sobering to realize that women as reproductive animals was not even addressed in this film. Therein lies another dimension of femininity that needs exploration... "},{"Title":"A stunner which gets better the second time around","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  When I saw this film upon release , it seemed vaguely familiar. Looking at it again today I picked up why...it was The Godfather set in the sixteenth century with Blanchett as Michael Corleone in drag and Geoffrey Rush as an impassive Tom Hagen. The final bloodbaths seemed to have been written by the same scriptwriter. Notwithstanding that, the film is a beauty and it belabours the emotions right to the end. All of the main characters are magnificent and the wonder of it all is that, in 1999, the Academy showed that politics mean more than art  when they can award the Oscar to such a lightweight as Shakespeare in Love while almost ignoring the quality of Elizabeth and, dare I say it, Saving Private Ryan. "},{"Title":"Introducing Cate Blanchett","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Bless this film for introducing audiences to Cate Blanchett. This is one amazing actress, she was robbed of the Oscar.Oh, yes ... this film is also a great history lesson, and a brilliant peek behind the scenes of royal politics. Definitely a keeper! "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Now I have finally seen Elizabeth and in many ways it was better than I had expected. It has gotten pretty good reviews everywhere, but I had nevertheless expected a rather boring film. It was not boring at all, even if Elizabeth is so well-known that I knew what was going to happen (and *not* happen) most of the time. So, okay, that means it wasn't that suspenseful for me, but I still enjoyed it. Cate Blanchett was great as Elizabeth. While Joseph Fiennes has enough charisma for a hundred men, I still think that he could have done a better job. This is the second time that he has disappointed me since I don't think he was all that great as Shakespeare in Shakespeare in Love. He wasn't *bad* in Elizabeth, though, I have to say, just not good enough.If you liked this,  I recommend the French film La Reine Margot/Queen Margot which is a very similar film only better. It's also based upon historical facts and portrays a very violent time in French history. "},{"Title":"The female version of The Godfather","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Great Movie.  Strong central character starts out hesitant/ innocent, and slowly over the course of the movie becomes The Godfather of England.Complete with the ceremonial termination of all enemies and the complete emotional shutout of all who were close and dear to the main character.  "},{"Title":"The Godmother","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm a sucker for any historic drama.  This one is  better than most, thanks mainly to the acting of  Cate Blanchett, who seems to have perfected her  'tude by watching Glenda Jackson in the old  Elizabeth R TV series.  French cinebabe Fanny  Ardant is hot in a brief appearance as Mary of  Guise.  The over-all atmosphere and the final  scenes of this movie are cribbed straight from  Godfather I, however.  I almost expected to see Fat Clemenza show up and plug Norfolk in his bed. "},{"Title":"Dark","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I thought Elizabeth was rather a dark film, the cinematography and visual effects was cruel and heartless. The torture scene could have been avoided, but I guess it was needed for this 19th centry movie. Cate Blanchett was quite powerful as the Virgin Queen. I would give it a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm no historian so I couldn't care less about any inaccuracies in this film.  All I have to say is that it was boring, and contrary to what some may think, it did not deserve to even be NOMINATED as best picture.  Oh, it wasn't horrible.  Cate Blanchett was good as the young queen who suddenly finds herself under a lot of pressure, but that's it.  Had this movie been a mini-series on PBS, I probably would've liked it more.  But since it was a film released in theaters it has to live up to certain criteria, which it didn't.The only cool scene is where one of Elizabeth's maids or something puts on one of her dresses which happens to be laced with poison.  "},{"Title":"Almost Bollywood.","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Why this movie should have had nominations escapes me.Let me tell you where I am coming from. I have just finished watching the full day-and-a-half series The Tudors on DVD - which ends as Bloody Mary becomes queen. So it was logical to watch Elizabeth on DVD as a follow-on.Others have commented on the historical inaccuracies (which were also evident to some extent in The Tudors) so I won't labour the point. It does, however, make me just a little leery when films use history as narrative as opposed to merely a period backdrop and present scenes of historical significance as fact. I can accept liberties taken with unimportant scenes but there's enough drama in the known facts to make a gripping movie without embellishment.Now to the film. There is some fine acting here, especially Rush. Queen Anne is in my opinion miscast. Ms Winslet, although looking the part, just doesn't cut it though she projects as if she is on a West End stage production. Much more subtlety needed.My biggest criticism lies with the director, Kapur. There are one or two visually stunning sequences - the water party comes to mind. The cinematography is excellent throughout, the sound better than seems to be the norm nowadays (with the exception of using Elgar in one sequence, at funereal speed) and the sets and locations believable. But unfortunately the whole is spoiled by the director's constant infusion of Art with a capital A.Fades to overexposed white. Soft focus. Incessant slow pans and zooms. Very few of these cinematic tricks are necessary in such a story, and neither are many of the dancing scenes. The overall effect, for me, is of a Bollywood extravaganza transposed into a 16th Century setting. It is almost comical, and reminiscent of those TV take-offs of blockbuster movies, with everything exaggerated to extremes.One particular sequence, with Ms Winslet overacting her way through a staccato series of practices of her forthcoming speech, made me check that the DVD hadn't inadvertently switched to the Out-takes extra.Shame a period of English history that perhaps more than any other shaped the path to modern society could, and should, have been better presented. Not as documentary, but certainly less as a director's statement. "},{"Title":"Drier than oatbran","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story of Queen Elizabeth I is one as mired in controversy and speculation as President Dubya's terms. Some say that she was the best thing to ever happen to England. Others say that she was a manic warmonger devoted only to causing bloodshed. Indeed, the mentality of everyone living in England or Europe at this time is apparently quite bizarre, but then, so too is that of the director of this film.The story of anyone involved with government in the Middle Ages is a goldmine for entertaining material. It is therefore a real mystery how Shekhar Kapur and Michael Hirst managed to make something so dull. Each scene seems so flat and underacted that it tends to resemble a daytime television show. Maybe it is just my flat affect talking, but moments when characters are meant to be at each others' throats simply failed to register for me.Indeed, it is a sad indictment upon this exercise in the pedestrian that one starts to wish that Miranda Richardson, arguably the best actor to ever impersonate Queen Elizabeth I, had been cast instead. Her little First I'm going to have a little drinky... and then I'm going to execute the whole bally lot of you speech would have worked wonders here. Elizabeth I was, like her predecessors, a violent tyrant who would not think twice about removing her own daughter's head if it meant protecting her position of power.One big problem here is that the film tries to cover almost the entire reign of Queen Elizabeth. Such a subject simply cannot be compressed into two hours and remain interesting. Indeed, one constantly asks themselves who she is meant to be fighting and avoiding from one scene to the next. There is little transition from moment to moment. Characters with little or no introduction are killed off in montage scenes that make their deaths seem of little importance or consequence. Given that these are members of Elizabeth's court, I don't think Kapur meant this to be a commentary on people's places within the Kingdom.I gave this dull and monotonous film a two out of ten. I wasn't even going to give it the satisfaction of a one. Only films that are so bad they're amusing deserve a one, and Elizabeth is so dry and by the numbers that amusement is virtually impossible during its running time. "},{"Title":"silly","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is tripe. It is silly, boring and badly written. It disrespects the viewer and that is unforgivable. It is rife with historical inaccuracies, none of which are in the service of good story-telling. There is no excuse for this type of shallow film-making. There is an audience for good and faithful historical drama. The real events are certainly much more interesting and dramatic than this made up drivel. This is film-making at its weakest. If you're looking to learn something, avoid this film. If you're looking for fun, avoid this film. There's just nothing redeeming about it. The Helen Mirren TV movie is much better. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie got completely buried under all of the Saving Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love hype, but every person who I know who has seen all 3 films has agrees with me that this film is the best of all the rest. Cate Blanchett hauntingly portrays The Virgin Queen who is attacked by men from every part of her life and conquers them all with the aid of the evil but powerful Geoffrey Rush. Joseph Fiennes finest scene is at the very end when Elizabeth confronts him and makes him an example of her growing power. The script is wonderfully written, showing Elizabeth as a flawed woman who loves and is rebuked and gains all of her strength.When she is shoved into a corner she comes out fighting and you want her to succeed. Blanchett was completely robbed of the Academy Award,as much as I like Shakespeare in love and Gwyneth Paltrow it is not even half as wonderful and artistic as this movie. Watch and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Easily the best costume drama I've seen.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I've seen Elizabeth twice and intend to see it many more times in the future.  I cannot vouch for the veracity of the story line in all its details but of the history that I do know I believe that it is accurate, varying only in slight creative manipulations.  In my opinion, beyond the wonderful work of Blanchett and Rush, the extraordinary visual pallet of the Director, Shekhar Kapur, puts Elizabeth into another realm of movie enjoyment.  People should see the film just to see the directorial brilliance of the way in which Kapur literally paints the screen, allowing the main characters to move within a visual richness that is truly a feast for the eye of the soul.   "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  From the comments here, I was initially afraid this film was going to be like 2001 A Space Odyssey where an overwhelming review is positive with very few negative citing that it was boring.  I'm glad to say ELIZABETH was a great film.  Cate Blanchett and Geoffrey Rush turn in outstanding performances.I think you have to watch at the right mood though.  If you're tired and you watch this you might not like it.  Watch it when you have a lot of energy and listen to the dialogue carefully.The verdict 5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Official propaganda movie","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Elizabeth reserves its longest, most tedious and elaborately produced scene for the Coronation, which betrays the picture as thinly-veiled official propaganda. The history it deploys belongs in the fascistic Arthur Bryant schoolboy textbooks of the early 20th century. What was really happening during her reign was less the internecine plotting over the succession than the birth of brutal capitalism, corporate plunder and enslavement, all with royal court's approval. Elizabeth was the bastard daughter of Henry VIII, who saw her innocent mother beheaded before her eyes on the orders of her deranged father. The virgin queen promotion that has endured for four and a half centuries, probably stems from Elizabeth Tudor-Boleyn inheriting syphilis from her mad father and infected mother, and refusing male relations because of the fear of infecting her own child. You may be sure such a story would never come out, particularly after such a long reign enabled its complete suppression. On the other hand, the Queen's letters record the incredibly detailed care she took over her own and other aristocrats' courts and retainers. Well educated, she seems to have been a person of outstanding qualities trapped in a historic maelstrom. This puerile film only scratches the surface of what was going on in our UK past and is little more than a chocolate box version of history. "}]