[{"Title":"powerful realism","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most disturbing, pessimistic, and overall depressing films I've ever seen -- naturally I loved it.  It affected me powerfully. The camera work/artistic shot set-ups, along with the dark color quality set the tone for the whole movie.  Not at all like the unappetizing Kids, director Larry Clark's first feature, this movie is constantly shocking, but not just for the sake of shock value.  It's unashamedly graphic in a way that most contemporary films avoid, making it cuttingly real.  It also stands apart from most big heist movies, because it is character- rather than plot-driven.James Woods is fantastic as always, and even Melanie Griffith (not one of my faves) is very well cast.  The young Vincent Kartheiser, however, as a teen runaway turned junkie/petty criminal, steals the show.  The camera loves him, and his adolescent volatility is painfully believable.  I wasn't as much of a fan of Natasha Gregson Wagner, as Kartheiser's girlfriend, but even she surprised me with her dramatic final sequence.WARNING this movie is not for the faint of heart.  I am personally a fan of anything that breaks new ground, or that defies convention.  This film does both.  But it is extremely graphic. "},{"Title":"A work of distinction - not for all tastes","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While vastly superior to Larry Clark's other films, Another Day in Paradise shares with them a brazen directness which makes it uneasy viewing, particular the many scenes picturing graphic violence. However it's a powerful and moving film with some exceptional acting talent on display.Clark's obsession with teenagers of the wilder variety is prevalent as always but is balanced by the older surrogate parent couple played by James Woods and Melanie Griffith. Woods once again brings his famed intensity in a well rounded portrayal in which he's not only called upon to play a hardened, ruthless criminal, but also to reveal the more human qualities albeit buried very deep within.Melanie Griffith is surprisingly effective as Wood's partner in crime. Clark's interest in them as people first and then as criminals, places this movie in a category well above the usual criminals on the run fare.The younger criminal counterparts are played excellently by Natasha Gregson Wagner and Vincent Kartheiser. There is an almost documentary sense of authenticity to their acting. Oddly enough neither seemed to have as yet progressed to roles of much importance. Kartheiser in particular is an actor to watch out for. (He was superb in the somewhat flawed The Unsaid).The complexity of the relationship between the older childless couple and the teenage couple, while not overtly examined, is explored with subtlety which allows the viewer to make his own evaluation. With large doses of drugs and violence this is clearly not a movie for all tastes. It is however a work of distinction. "},{"Title":"Junkies on the Run - DRUGSTORE COWBOY Style...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another film of the drug/gangster sub-genre, ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE is upper echelon material as far as these pictures go.  It is also a sibling to DRUGSTORE COWBOY unintentionally.  There are so many similarities because it is impossible to make this type of movie nowadays without being repetitive. No matter.  Director Larry Clarke (KIDS, ew!) and main booster James Woods himself dive into that disgusting and sometimes frantically hilarious world of sex, drugs, and driving around.  The film works because there are some good characterizations here and people who actually show some concern for each other throughout the haze of it all.Melanie Griffith plays Sid, James Woods' girlfriend in the story and delivers some of the finest moments of her career.  Not since WORKING GIRL have I seen such a likeable and ballsy portrayal from Griffith, who is a junkie with a knack for mothering the 2 teen runaways and a potent trigger finger when one is needed.  The runaways are the children Woods and Griffith parent vicariously through in the most unusual of ways.  The kids (Vincent Kartheiser, Natasha Wagner) are a version of Bonnie and Clyde, while the adults resemble a warped Ozzie and Harriett.  It all adds up to a group of 4 remembering DRUGSTORE COWBOY.  This crew needs drugs and they get them by stealing from pharmacists just as Matt Dillon's crew did.The setting is the early 1970's I guess, and the music reflects the period well.  Funk and blues reign over the film's violent and illegal activities while adding a sense of romance to it.  You get that feeling in your heart that it won't last (a la BONNIE AND CLYDE, DRUGSTORE COWBOY).   Woods character starts out cynical and wise to the life, but turns ugly as you figure him to do.  The young kids who looked up to him throughout grow tired naturally, but his reluctance to grow old possesses him to keep them around. This is where Melanie Griffith is able to shine.  She is a sweet, attractive woman who happens to stick needles in her neck.  Nobody's perfect.James Woods was born to play the creep.  He has some great lines in ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE.  His stories are funny, his trademarks are constant (booyah!), and his fits are worth the price of admission.  He is so good at coming across initially confident, eventually desperate and evil.  Woods must have had much faith in director Clarke's abilities and the casting of Natalie Wood's daughter, Natasha is a nice, offbeat touch.  This is low-budget, nasty fare, a descendant of the countless druggie flicks of the 70's, 80's and PULP FICTION.  It is sometimes amazing to see how low actors will go to capture this wild world of fun and drugs in the dark.RATING  ***  "},{"Title":"Familiar but worth a look","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Larry Clark's (KIDS) second film, ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE features an explosive performance by James Woods as a professional thief/junkie, who along with his girlfriend (a well cast Melanie Griffith) adopt two young lovers (Vincent Kartheiser and Natasha Gregson Wagner) and hit the road in search of drugs and money. Mel (Woods) and Sid (Griffith), who see Rosie (Wagner) and Bobbie (Kartheiser) as  younger versions of themselves, teach them the ropes of criminal life.It is a familiar story, and there is no doubt the characters' vision of paradise shown in the beginning of the film, with its endless supply of drugs and feeling of family, is quickly going to deteriorate into violence and death.  I am reminded of the superior DRUGSTORE COWBOY,  which also follows a family of junkies who rob to pay for their habits, but fine performances by the four leads, especially Woods, make PARADISE worth a look.Clark's cinema vérité style of  direction (a la KIDS) supplies the feeling of uneasiness throughout the film and heightens the impact of the jarring violence.  The soundtrack of great soul tunes effectively mirrors the contradictory feelings of despair and hope that plague the characters. The film is not without flaws but recommended to fans of the road/lovers on the lam movies like BADLANDS, TRUE ROMANCE etc.  "},{"Title":"Unflinching","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I started watching this film rather late at night thinking I would unwind for a few minutes and then retire for the day. As I sat watching this film it's intensity began to build and draw me in. The story itself is nothing new. It was the performers that kept me involved. It was no surprise to me that James Woods would be his excellent self. The pleasant surprise was Melanie Griffith. She displayed some range I had'nt witnessed from her before. As the young street couple Vincent Kartheiser and Natasha Gregson Wagner show great promise as young actors.Kartheiser in particular. Execution is raw and at times it's hard to witness whats going on. Recommended. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Nicely done","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This one worked for me.  The superb acting and fine camera work made this very believable.  The scenes are some of the most realistic I've seen. Particularly noteworthy are the scenes involving extreme tension.Throughout the picture I felt an urging to like these characters, sensing that they were, deep down, decent people who somehow got wrapped up in this type of life.I'm not generally a fan of Griffith, but this role suits her well and her acting is top-notch.  Woods is almost always exceptional, and his work here is no exception.  The younger stars also perform quite well with this challenging, emotional material.  And I thought the acting of the minor characters was excellent, suggesting the director had his act together on this one.You have to acclimate to the language and level of tension early on or the movie will drive you nuts.  But if you do, it begins to involve you deeply in the characters' situations and lives. "},{"Title":"Extremely well executed drama...","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 12/26/2009 &#x96; 8 out of 10(Dir-Larry Clark) Extremely well executed drama about a couple of older drug-using thieves who take a younger couple under their wings as they survive in this rough un-forgiving chaotic world. The movie begins as the younger couple is introduced and the male character(played by Vincent Kartheiser) robs a community college's snack room of it's vending machine change and gets ferociously beat up by a security guard but then kills him. Uncle Mel(played by James Woods) then invites the kids to tag along with him and his girl and they graduate to bigger thefts with bigger consequences. The older couple(who can't have kids) kind of take on a tutoring and parenting role to the younger couple and they start developing a good friendship as well. It's obvious there are needs being fulfilled both ways in a companionship perspective as they both have many losses in their personal lives. Mistakes start being made after it's determined the younger girl is pregnant and the younger couple start evaluating whether this life is for them. This causes friction in the characters in this no-holds barred insane lifestyle movie where the characters just want to make good for themselves and this vulnerability brings the audience to like the characters. Melanie Griffith is un-expectedly excellent as the older woman and the overall acting and direction is very well done. You believe this story and that keeps you interested and involved until the end. The movie itself is not for the faint-at-heart but it is a definite un-heralded gem in the independent film-making world and should be viewed. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you people?","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Almost everybody who wrote a review for this movie seem to say that the movie sucked, I disagree. Larry Clark has a real knack for showing society unflinching, raw and vital. The acting is superior and doesn't pull any punches. James Woods deserves some sort of award, he hasn't been better in any other movie. The music is perfect, the cinematography is lush, poetic. See the movie, you won't be disappointed, unless you're one of those wussies with a weak stomach. Look fast for Leo Fitzpatrick (Telly from KIDS) as the guard at the Reverend's house. "},{"Title":"Superior crime story. One of James Woods best performances.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Kids' director Larry Clark really comes up trumps with this fine story of crime, addiction and surrogate families. Relative unknown Vincent Kartheiser, and the up and coming Natasha Gregson Wagner ('Lost Highway', 'Two Girls and a Guy') are fine as the young wanna be thieves, but the real stars of the show are their mentors' played by James Woods and Melanie Griffith. Griffith is often ridiculed for her flakiness, but should be applauded for taking riskier, more challenging material such as this and John Waters' 'Cecil B. DeMented'. Woods is a ridiculously underrated actor, and along with the equally underestimated James Caan, is rivaling the much more celebrated De Niro and Pacino as best American actors of their generation in my opinion. Woods is simply sensational as the motor mouth Mel, a complex and unpredictable character. His performance here ranks with 'Videodrome', 'Cop' and 'The Boost' as one of his most memorable.Forget the spurious 'Kalifornia', 'Drugstore Cowboy' and 'True Romance' comparisons. They are all great movies, but this is no rehash or rip off. It's a fantastic movie in its own right. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"A gritty, moving film with terrific performances","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read in a screenwriting book that the first thing a screenwriter should remind him/herself is don't think up an idea and then say to yourself, It's been done before.  Because no matter how many times that idea was used before, there's always a different approach you can take towards it.  This movie clarifies that statement.  It takes your standard premise of drug-addicted hustlers on the lam and transforms it brilliantly into this moving, thought-provoking piece of work.  Larry Clark made his debut with the thoroughly disappointing--at least to me--urban drama Kids.  That was a film with no intention, characters you couldn't give a damn about and was just all over the map.  Clark definitely showed he has an eye for gritty realism, but put it to bad use with that horrendous and profane motion picture.Now, Another Day in Paradise had its share of four-letter words, in fact I think it had more, but that didn't matter to me.  Because the characters, no matter how much drugs they use and no matter how dishonest their lives are, were people you can care for and feel their every emotion and just know that they're really good human beings who happen to be geared in the wrong direction, from their upbringing and society they grew up in. The performances were groundbreaking.  This is one of James Woods' best performances.  This is the kind of role he was born to play.  I can't imagine a single actor doing a better job.  The supporting cast was great, too.  This is the kind of film that catches your eye from start to finish.  It starts out with a great shot, with Vincent Kartheiser waking up and lighting up a cigarette while 70's soul music fills the soundtrack.  Speaking of great music, Clarence Carter performs his great hit I'm Looking For a Fox in one scene.  The soundtrack is absolutely wonderful, with the kind of songs I love singing along to. I highly recommend this movie.  However, it is a pretty disturbing film, so be careful what mood you're in when you decide to rent it. "}{"Title":"This is Larry Clarks best.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Once again Larry Clark has made a film that is mesmerizing, gut wrenching, and shocking. This movie is about two junkies(James Woods and Melanie Griffith) who adopt two young lovers (Vincent Kartheiser and Natasha Gregson Wagner) into their world of Crime and Drugs. Yeah its a old theme, but the great casting and flawless acting made this movie incredibly touching and different, standout performances by Vincent Kartheiser and James Woods made this movie so belivable. Throughout the entire film I felt as if these characters were so real and I was merely watching a documentary. This movie is very explicit and it is not for anybody that can't handle seeing plenty of sex, drugs, and violence. "},{"Title":"Okay?  So you get in there and buy us a f*ing shovel.","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Melanie Griffith is excellent; how many times do you get to say that? She hasn't been this good since SOMETHING WILD. In fact all the acting is outstanding - Natasha Gregson Wagner and Vincent Kartheiser are scary real; James Woods rarely gets his own movie, and this proves again that when you want to cast a scumbag's scumbag, you call this man and you ask nicely.The whole thing is better than it oughtta be by a significant factor. This is how you make a no-budget crime movie. Every scene moves the story, every line explains character, every shot reveals and compels. The music lends texture to a thinly designed world. And the locations are so gritty you will want to watch it with your shoes on.The story's nothing new to the crime couples-on-the-run genre. You got the obligatory drug deal gone bad, you got your ever-popular motel o.d. girl in underwear, you got another batch of criminals who think they're about seventy percent smoother than they actually are.But the dialog's sharp and the scenes are directed with the immediacy of vintage Friedkin or Grosbard. The kids having sex, the hideous claustrophobic gunfight, the kids arguing after she shoots up - sure, it's hard to take. But it's undeniably arresting. I haven't seen Larry Clark's other stuff on purpose, and I had to be talked into seeing this. Unpleasant as this world is, I'm glad I visited if only to enjoy a tale well told. "},{"Title":"Fine flick, violent but what isn't? But high praise all around.","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, I am curious about the lack of credit for Lou Diamond Phillips as Jewel. I am wondering what the back-story was or is. I thought he did fine and was a bit more interesting as Jewel than in other films. At least he was trashy and trashy is good.I read with interest in the plot summary, about the scene in the woods between Bobbie and Mel and reviewing it I didn't think it was the 'piece of resistance' that was implied...I personally see the actor Kartheiser being surprised not Bobbie, shocked and a bit amused by the improv by Woods who is very much Mel at the moment. But it registers to me as only that an actor response. Without being too critical I hope, a more mature actor might have stayed with it, but this fellow was young and inexperienced and it shows in that scene. Woods is tremendous in his role.Griffiths I was surprised, I don't mean to sound mean...was really interesting to watch. I thought she was just perfect thru much of the film.Clark's films always leave me a bit depressed overall, but often grateful for having seen it and that my life ain't as much of a mess as the characters portrayed.Kudos all the way around overall. "},{"Title":"surprising...","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie I was unsure about, having not really liked Kids and not being too much of a James Woods or Melanie Griffith fan.But from the first scene to the very last, I have only praise for all concerned.The writing is both funny and intelligent, the direction sure and the performances stunning.The relatively unknown Vincent Kartheiser and Natasha Gregson Wagner have their characters well nailed and promise much for future roles. James Woods is his usual intense self, though with real comic flair. But its Melanie Griffith who shines, revealing hitherto unknown depths and subtlety in her acting ability.There is much in the way of drugs, sex and violence which may be offputting to many. In Kids I found Clark treading dangerously between authenticity and exploitation. Another Day in Paraidise despite the harsh mileau remains ultimately a moving experience.  "},{"Title":"The great acting is what highlights this film.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a movie for prudes or wusses.  It's very powerful --and not very pretty.  Gross, actually, in many cases (just the smoking of cigarettes in practically every scene makes you want to wash your clothes).  And the needle jab to the neck -- yikes! -- be prepared!   But the acting is OUTSTANDING -- especially Melanie Griffith and James Woods playing two of the biggest dopers on celluloid.  I hope they both get Oscar nominations for their roles -- they deserve it. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs, & Rhythm N' Blues","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Read it here http//squeerelist.blogspot.com/2013/06/another-day-in- paradise-1998.htmlThis Larry Clark drama dives you into the miserable life of junkie Bobbie. After a minor vending-machine robbery gone bad, Bobbie gets fixed up by the infamous thief Mel. The latter decides to hire the kid to nail one last deal that should set them up for life. Mel and his girlfriend Sid become the mentors of Bobbie and his girlfriend Rosie. Neither the characters nor the audience escape unhurt from this funky adventure. Another Day In Paradise is an ironic title for a movie fueled with violence, abuse, and misery. The frantic angles and camera movements used by Clark perfectly depict this atmosphere. The somewhat cheerful R'n'B soundtrack sweetens the painful road trip of our 'heroes' and contrasts with the pitiful path they've chosen. I follow those basket cases taking desperate measures with a certain sorrow but never do I root for them as they've buried themselves in this mess of a situation. This film is an efficient tale on how drugs can make you reach a point of no return and how everything from there is a downhill race to a filthy abyss. Another Day in Paradise seems so real, it makes me feel uneasy and almost sick. I would not recommend it if you don't feel alright because it will mess you up. Vincent Kartheiser in the lead role faultlessly pierces the screen with such a seedy and sore character. The sordid sexuality of our teenagers is only matched by the destructive relationship between James Woods (Mel) and Melanie Griffith (Sid). Woods as the manifest unstable and alcoholic crime king delivers an irreproachable interpretation. Another Day In Paradise is one of these movies that makes you feel glad your only drug consumption is your daily 3-cup-o'-joe intake and your occasional carbs overload.1 reason to watch it makes you feel good about yourself . It also makes you want to never do drugs. And never have sex again (this one might not be a valuable reason). "},{"Title":"Is James Woods The Greatest Film Actor Ever?","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While Watching 'Another Day In Paradise', I was Stunned, Mesmerized & Awed by it's Lead Actor James Woods. Woods, One Of My All-Time Favorite Actors, Delivers an Outstanding Performance over-here. He actually left me Stunned, Mesmerized & Awed with his Performance. Woods, has had a thriving film-career, he has delivered remarkable performances all through his journey & 'Another Day In Paradise' is among his milestone works. 'Another Day in Paradise' Synopsis In the hope of a big score, two junkie couples team up to commit various drug robberies which go disastrously wrong leading to dissent, violence and murder.'As a film, 'Another Day In Paradise' appealed to me in parts, not in totality. The Screenplay is a bit erratic here, but at times, it's definitely arresting. The Characters, in particular, I thought, were nicely defined. Larry Clark Directs This Drama with command. Cinematography is perfect. Editing & Art Design are fair.Performance-Wise It's Woods All The Way. He's Outstanding in his portrayal of a junkie who wants to make it big. It's a pleasure to watch an actor perform with such precision & such style. Melanie Griffith does well. Vincent Kartheiser gives his best shot. Natasha Gregson Wagner is adequate, while James Otis is decent. On the whole, 'Another Day In Paradise' works prominently due to Woods's performance. An Actor Par Excellence! "},{"Title":"solid","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a very interesting, character-driven crime story with some exceptional performances from a diverse cast. At first the violence and drug use might seem a bit excessive or unrealistic, but I think this is a story with some real emotions and some real heart to it, superior to most modern efforts in this genre.Bobby (Vincent Kartheiser) is a young junkie in the Mid-West who gets badly beaten during a petty robbery attempt. He recuperates in the apartment of his girlfriend Rosie (Natasha Gregson Wagner), with the help of an older and more experienced criminal named Mel (James Woods). Mel recruits Bobby to help with a high-profile robbery, and they head out of town in Mel's sedan with Rosie and Mel's girl Sid (Melanie Griffith) in tow.The direction is exceptional here in this film, both in terms of how the actors are handled and in terms of the economy of the film-making and the pacing of the action. Even though in many ways Mel is a contradictory character (sometimes he respects Sid, other times he becomes abusive, and at the drop of a hat he adopts mannerisms of whoever he is with), he becomes a kind of mentor for Bobby. Likewise Sid takes Rosie shopping and tries to introduce her to shooting heroin with a needle instead of snorting it. It's pretty impressive how the director (Larry Clark) was able to get performances of pretty much equal intensity and depth from both the youngsters and the veterans, and I think it's significant also in the context of the film's content and message.It wouldn't be right to comment on the film without mentioning an excellent but brief character turn by Lou Diamond Phillips (as a homosexual fence). His character would belong in any self-respecting film noir, as he truly feels like a denizen of the abandoned places of America.The story loses a bit of steam towards the end, when the couples spend time recuperating from a botched deal at the house of The Reverend (James Otis), who seems like an interesting character but is not developed, leaving the audience wondering if he was a red herring or was simply trimmed during editing. But overall the film's pace is excellent and I was never tempted past the first few minutes to turn it off, so that is a recommendation in and of itself from this reviewer, who doesn't usually warm up to new noir too often. "},{"Title":"A gritty look at the criminal life","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It wasn't until quite awhile after I read the novel by Eddie Little that I realized there was a film adaptation. I'm usually skeptical of adaptations, but I'm glad I saw this movie. It takes an unflinching look at the lives of lowlife criminals, living only for the next big score. James Woods and Melanie Griffith are great as Mel and Sid, the unconventional and unintentional parent figures to lovers Bobbie and Rosie (played by Vincent Kartheiser and Natasha Gregson Wagner), and all of them are junkies. These four people come together to form a strange kind of family, but a family that is doomed to fall apart. A great film with an ending that is both hopeful and sad. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST movies i've seen in a long time","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge Vincent Kartheiser fan thanks to Angel so while looking for other things he's been in I came across Another Day In Paradise. I watched the preview for it on Kids about twenty times before my friend bought it for me for Christmas. It can't be rented here thanks to too many people renting Kids for actual kids. I watched the director's cut and the commentary and I just couldn't get enough. It's now in my top five movie list. Everyone seems to think it sucked but it's more than worth renting, it's worth owning. I now have two different copies. Yes it is very graphic but it makes the film that much more realistic. I've seen worse things than they show on this film in other movies that aren't nearly this well done. "}{"Title":"Great acting, not only amateur courage","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Since Kids, Larry Clark has been famous for his drastic depiction of violence and blood and his obvious interest in juveniles `losing their innocence', that is having sex and being involved in drug offences.In Another Day in Paradise, there is a lot of bloodshed and injecting of heroin to be seen, so people like my mother had better look away once or twice. This shows us that Clark hasn't lost his talent to shock.But Clark is no longer satisfied with watching a couple of rotten kids. In addition to that, he introduces a forty-year old couple (James Woods and Melanie Griffith) and a story-line, which is rather confusing this time but at least keeps people's interest awake. Amazing acting performances can be admired here, not only the courage of young people to perform risky scenes in front of the camera (that too).Another Day in Paradise meant a positive surprise for me. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good effort","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love movies that do not compromise too much for the mainstream and this is one of those non mainstream films that will push your nerve buttons to the tip of your toes.Nothing original or groundbreaking here but stlll you get what you expect in a fairly entertaining way.Woods was great but the director allowed him to over act sometimes.Griffith was just cruising along for this film but she did nothing bad for the film.The two under age actors were splendid and whatever faults in their performances there were was due to the director giving the actors too much acting freedom on top of poor editing.The story and cinematography was average.The acting was above average,and the screenplay and script were below average.The editing was poorly done.Good moral/life lesson to be learned here and recomended for Griffith fans,realism fans and the other main actors fans as well for their good performances......    "},{"Title":"A little uneven, but a tough movie and well worth the rental.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  James Woods is great in the role of Mel, a junkie/alcoholic conman/thief who begins as a mentor but unconsciously becomes a surrogate father to Bobbie, a young junky. Melanie Griffith is stellar as Mel's junkie/codependent partner, who easily takes on the role of sister and surrogate mother for Rosie, Bobbie's codependent partner.True to form for junkies and alcoholics, Woods and Griffith become the cruel and thoughtless people that drove their teenage partners to the streets in the first place. Bobbie and Rosie were the most uneven elements in the movie for me. I started to think that Bobbie (Vincent Kartheiser) was playing Holden Caulfield instead of a teenage junkie, and Rosie (Natasha Wagner) was usually just too perky to be believable -- but she is very easy to take in the role, and her dramatic performance near the end of the movie is well done.Much violence -- verbal as well as physical -- keep the tension high, and twists like a gay crew keep some of the more traditional elements of the genre fresh.I actually learned about the movie because I bought the Soundtrack (for Boogaloo Down Broadway by the Fanastic Johnny C). The soundtrack is great, and I'm glad it steered me to the film. "},{"Title":"Griffith's Comeback!!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had the privillege of getting to see Another Day in Paradise at the Toronto Film Festival this past September and have to tell you that it is AMAZING.The film stars James Woods, Melanie Griffith, Vincent Kartheiser, Natasha Gregson - Wagner and Lou Diamond Phillips. Woods and Griffith play a glammed up junkie couple who take in two street kids (Kartheiser and Wagner) and teach them to appreciate the good life which includes a lot of sex, a lot of alcohol and a lot of heroine. They teach their young apprentices to achieve big drug heists and the art of wheeling and dealing. The foursome develop a deranged sort of family until things get out of hand and it doesn't take long.The film is set in the 1970's and Phillips plays a kick *** eccentric homosexual named Jewel. Picture the The Cleavers meet Bonnie and Clyde meet Pulp Fiction and then you get a sort of feel of the movie. James Woods as always gives a brilliant performance, but (believe it or not) it is Melanie Griffith who steals the show who is nurturing when she wants to be and in an instant she could give Linda Hamilton's character from Terminator 2, a run for her money. Vincent Kartheiser could be the next big thing and in a small role Lou Diamond Phillips is great too. The only role that I did not truly appreciate was Wagner's role, however she plays the most tragic part in the film. Reviews have been amazing and Trimark Pictures who distributes the film was robbed at the recent Oscars, however, the film is gaining cult status with avid film lovers, and has helped rectified Melanie Griffith's career.Critics are also predicting that Another Day in Paradise will do for Melanie Griffith what Casino did for Sharon Stone. As a fan of the book by the same name by author Eddie Little, I was truly a fan of the movie and cannot wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"Great movie for an excellent book","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie may not be as ground breaking as Larry Clark's first feature film, KIDS, but is still a great one.  Sure it's an overdone story, but it was done well and provided a new kind of style.  The natural lighting and hand held camera really add to its ugly atmosphere.  And this movie is full of ugliness, but it has its really beautiful moments too, like when the family goes to a blues bar to dance and get drunk.  The only real flaw in the film is its running time; I wanted more!  Also check out the novel by Eddie Little; its one of the best crime thrillers of the 90s'. "},{"Title":"This Larry Clark film deserves far more credit","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this film is one of his best.  James Woods eats up the screen. I recently brought the director's cut version on dvd and found it very interesting to listen to the director's commentary.  Many of the scenes involving all four actors were improvised and on the spot.  James Woods and Larry Calrk rarely agreed on anything and a few scenes are included which were banned in the cinema version.This and bully are my favourite Larry Clark films.  This has a raw feeling to it and the acting is very credible.  Melanie Griffith deserves a mention as well, as I not usually enjoy watching her in films, but I think this part was made for her.A very under-rated film to say the least.4/5 "},{"Title":"hip, gritty","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the first review, and disagreed so much I had to write.  This movie was not a best picture nominee by any stretch, but was exciting, thought provoking and intense.  Woods, as always was excellent, and Melanie Griffith played her role to a tee.  This movie invokes musings about our own role models, and the true rewards of living a morally corrupt lifestyle.  The camera work was intended to be shaky - it adds to the confusion of the characters involved in a world they really don't understand.  Learn something about filmmaking before you attempt to write another review.  "},{"Title":"worth the neo-noir ride","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a dark start. Then rougher even.  Wagner is neat. Direction is tight, fast and colorful. MG in bed with kid even before Demi Moore did.  Good for ugly flick night.  No need to get wasted since this will get you there.  Given that it didn't date itself, I suspect that over time this will wear even better. Meaning it will hold up. Critics might have ignored this given Woods and MG doing low life scene, but time will tell.      "},{"Title":"An okay flick but pointless.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another Day in Paradise is another pointless flick about crime, drugs, and people headed for the dumpster. The film offers solid performances, a good cast, and journeyman production which doesn't work in any genre save drama. An orgy of gratuitous and pointless wantonness, the only possible dramatic redemption comes from a thin story layer which tells of the quasi-family relationship materializing between the older and younger druggie couples. A good watch for those who enjoy flicks about violent loser-types. Others might want to pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Another Day in Paradise (1998)","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Obviously this film was not advertised during its release. I didn't have much of an interest based on such a pedestrian film title. Little did I know it was going to be as compelling as it is. I have seen this film several times and even though I feel like I connected with it then, I feel somewhat connected to it differently now. I am drawn to the youthfulness of the young Vincent Kartheiser, who plays Bobbie. James Woods is magnetic as Mel. It's an absorbing tale. He and Melanie Griffith play an older criminal couple who take Kartheiser and his girlfriend underneath their wings. I like it a lot but I would not flat-out recommend it to a wide array of people. Before going in, you must know it is directed by Larry Clark. He has quite a reputation, at least for his films. If anything he has done catches your eye, I'd say give this one a go. One of the best scenes in this film comes near the end when Mel rages at Bobbie after a situation goes bad. Mel freaks out in the backseat of their car as he says to Bobbie, You really f****d it up good this time didn't you, Bobbie? and from there he goes into one of the best rants in movie history. Absolutely stunning this is. "}{"Title":"an acquired taste","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another Day in Paradise wasn't nearly as easy to come across as Larry Clark's mainstream debut Kids (1995). True to his work, Larry follows a group of ordinary people under not so ordinary circumstances. It is neither extraordinarily good nor utterly bad movie about a group of characters living on the margins of society. And this is where my issues with this movie started.The characters we've been following were small time criminals. Not sure whether they were supposed to be ordinary men or rebels against the society or whatever, but i only saw a bunch of lazy individuals that have chosen life of crime of their own free will. We didn't see any harsh circumstances leading them to it. And after a certain age, i judge human drama not only by the ability to survive, but also by choices we make. And i rate higher decent earned small change by anonymous individuals than a fortune by thieves glorified in any way. "},{"Title":"New focus, same writer-director","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bobbie (Vincent Kartheiser) is a young, petty thief with little going for him by himself. If he continues to act alone, he's going to get nothing but screwed in the long run. However, he decides to team up with the charismatic junkie and thief Mel (James Woods), who is prepared to take the kid under his wing and make a true, big-time crook out of him. Bobbie brings along his girlfriend Rosie (Natasha Gregson Wagner) to work in unison with Mel and his longtime girlfriend Sid (Melanie Griffith) with plans to conduct a large drug heist that will provide them with another cash for life. The challenge at hand now is to assimilate Bobbie and Rosie to the cut-throat lifestyle of the drug life, and to get them in a position where they'll be able to survive.Another Day in Paradise comes from the uncompromisingly honest and brutal mind of Larry Clark, who answered with this film after his unbridled masterpiece Kids made waves of controversy a few years beforehand. Clark's subjects in that particular film were young, impressionable teenage boys and girls, running around New York unsupervised swearing, robbing, and having unprotected sex. Clark now sets his sights on a group of people who are slightly older but possess a similar, youthful, impulsive mentality about the world.Consider Mel, who constantly acts with animal-like dominance whenever he is challenged, mainly by Bobbie. You never mess with a man's money, you never mess with a man's dope, and you never mess with a man's p****, Mel tells Bobbie when Bobbie remarks how attractive Sid is. This sort of animalistic protection over what Mel thinks is his carries over throughout the picture.Because Clark, who was already in his fifties making this film, has his reckless background and definitely has his checkered past, Another Day in Paradise feels authentic and real, mainly because we could see these series of events having their place in Clark's life. Whether or not the film is partially autobiographical is up for debate, but with every Clark effort comes shockingly natural and believable scenes involving teenagers or troubled subjects feels as if it could've been extracted from real-life circumstances. If not Clark's dizzying, completely fascinating style, the film needs to be seen for a terrifically over-the-top performance by James Woods, effectively stealing nearly every scene he finds himself in. Kartheiser and Wagner work well with what they have, in addition, and Melanie Griffith begins with her string of rebellious performances, continuing on with John Waters' Cecil B. Demented in 2001. Immediately, Another Day in Paradise finds itself sandwiched between Clark's exceptional directorial effort Kids and Clark's future directorial effort Bully, both of which I find to be more complete pictures with a smoother, more original focuses. This particular picture feels a bit sloppier, a bit more ordinary in its focus, and bears a style which can only be viewed as Clark being something he isn't, between the imperfect camera shots, dazed-and-confused style shooting, and the seventies-infused soundtrack. However, the film emphasizes what I love about Clark, which is do what you want, how you want, and let your age be your justification for experience and knowledge.Starring Vincent Kartheiser, Natasha Gregson Wagner, James Woods, and Melanie Griffith. Directed by Larry Clark. "},{"Title":"A solid follow-up to Kids.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although the rest of the film doesn't live up to the visceral and exciting opening, this is a good crime film by the controversial Larry Clark. Basically, in most crime films, everything goes wrong by the end, and that's no different here, so it treads familiar ground and doesn't really have anything new to say regarding juvenile delinquents, but Clark should be appreciated for his characterizations here. Every line of dialogue feels natural coming from each character's mouth, so the writing is very consistent, and the conversations that occur throughout the film are snappy and amusing for the most part. The critics were right about James Woods stealing the show, but the other three leads held their own well, and I was particularly impressed by the character transformation from Vincent Kartheiser.The Reverend character was pointless though, and his introductory scene is just an unnatural way of getting the guns in the main characters' hands. He could've been cut out altogether, especially since his dialogue wasn't very well written or as funny as the writers may have thought. I liked the music used, especially in the club scene and the ending, and the cinematography was better than I expected. It looked especially good in the finale. There's a single gunfight that takes place in the film, which is directed so well and realistically that I wanted to see more, but this isn't an action movie as much as it is a character study, so it was a smart move to keep the action to a bare minimum. I get a real kick out of crime films with non-linear structures, and this is one of them. There's a plot, but the movie doesn't take a straightforward approach to get through it.This film definitely isn't for everyone though, and I was a bit worried as it went one because it started to become tedious and lose my interest, but it manages to drastically pick up at the end as tragedy rears its ugly head. This isn't a film for anyone who's squeamish when it comes to vivid violence though, as well as people poking needles in their skin, but this is a Larry Clark film, so what else do you expect? He doesn't give a damn about his characters here, he's showing how pathetic and miserable their lifestyles are, and thus, one shouldn't expect to feel any sympathy for them even though the actors bring some added personality to the table. This isn't as bad as his other films in terms of what is shown, so I guess one could call it his most accessible film, and most are likely to think it's his most entertaining effort. "},{"Title":"This is not the story of your life","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another Day in Paradise is not the story of your life, it is not the story of my life. It is the story of Bonnie and Clyde at their early forties&#133; They are junkies by now and they can't have children so they adopt a young fresh couple and they give them a place in their life. They become family&#133; Things go wrong, of course... I loved the moment when this Clyde / Mel guy punches his Bonnie / Sid in the face for a reason&#133;This film is an excellent choice for a rainy Sunday evening at home&#133; "},{"Title":"Great story about how it is in the hand's of a bad director.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie as great imagined through the eyes of the writer and badly made by the director.The story is great.Dialog,beginning,ending it's all great but i think that the director missed a style of making this movie.For first the camera sucked.It is really badly shooted movie.Fogy picture and shaking camera was supposed to give reality to this movie but it actually took it away.Director tried to do something like what Steven Soderbergh did in traffic but he failed.He also made a bad character development through the movie.James Wood's was great as Mel but his character didn't have much back story in it.At the beginning we see a guy that jump's to help a bunch of junkies,then he gives them drog's and then he becomes a complete moron who don't gives a damn about anybody.It may sound good when i write it but it wasn't.It all happened to suddenly.Even though James Wood's was great actor for this role but his character didn't deserve him in this movie. Melanie Griffith was great too.Except her character is the only one in this movie that i found complete.She was what she is through the whole movie and she still wasn't boaring. The actor's were all good actually but her character is the only one that don't misses a back up story.Through the movie you slowly find out what kind of person she is even though no one sais anything about her.This film has a hard and realistic story and dialog so i would of recommended to anyone that loves good movies about how it is today.Even it was badly directed it still has a large amount of fun in it.And the lesson is good.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"It's only a matter of time","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Caveat Graphic violence and lots of vulgar language in this one, in case you're the delicate type. Just as violent as Pulp Fiction, this one is not full of dark wit and funky style. It is an intense look at doomed people existing in a world of drugs, crime, no vision beyond their noses, and little self-restraint. It's similar to Kalifornia. James Woods, Vincent Kartheiser, and Natasha Gregson Wagner are great, and Melanie Griffith is okay. A young couple, junkies and petty thieves, are taken under the smelly wing of an older couple, who have decided to teach (use) them in the ways of upper level crime. The first five minutes tells you what you need to know about the kids. Now it's only a matter of time... "},{"Title":"good, but not new ground","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the name of the movie to the not too ambiguous ending, we're in Hollywood. The premise is pretty familiar if you've ever seen more than 5 movies that are rated 'R'. It's a shoot-em-up (lots of heroin and guns) with the familiar sexy antihero couple roaming around the American southwest playing a high stakes game and dealing with character issues (though in this movie we get a new twist because there are two couples instead of one and one of them is old, so you can watch it with your parents).That said, the cinematography is really easy on the eye and the acting is excellent. James Woods gives a great performance even though he plays the same character he plays in other movies he's been in (casino, once upon a time in America, the onion field). Many of the reviews of this film include some comparison to Lary Clark's other big film, kids. To me, it's hard to compare these movies because the intentions are so different. Which one you like better depends upon, well, what kind of movies you like (you probably would't like them both equally). I'm more of a 'kids' type of guy.Over all, a pretty decent flick. There's a lot of art and subtlety to the acting and there are some pretty powerful scenes. It could have used to loose some of the stanky Hollywood chiche's (how many brains have you seen get blown out in the movies in your lifetime?), but they can be fun I suppose. Maybe VH1 should have a 'top 100 brains getting blown out scenes' show. "},{"Title":"Wood at it's best in a well-directed movie","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a very enjoyable movie, with good acting all around, including the two kids, Kartheiser and Gregson Wagner. The story of smalltime criminals that want to make it big, the story about drugs and violence, is perhaps not very new, but the way it's narrated in Another Day in Paradise makes it really worthwhile to watch the movie. What is, to some extent, new or different in this story is the theme of growing up, an issue that the two young protagonists are facing with fear and resentment.So I think this is a movie that is fun to watch and shouldn't disappoint any kind of viewer, and has a high re-watchability factor. In the scale from 1 to 10, I give it a solid 7.  "},{"Title":"One of Clarks Best","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the way Larry Clark shoots his movies and this is the best of the three movies he has made. In Another Day in Paradise, Clark shows you the naked truth in people, the down and dirty, the sickness inside all of us that only comes to life in some.Melanie Griffith is her usual self, nothing special. I'd would've casted someone else myself. The couple that play the young kids do a good job. However, the main reason why this movie works though is because of James Woods. He was meant to play the lead. Superb.See this movie if you like reality. Don't see it if you like sugar coated fantasy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Real","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the best I have ever seen. Maybe I have been in the dark for God knows how long, but I've never heard of James Wood! I just got HBO 1 2 and 3, along with other movie channels (Showtime, Cinemax, ect.) and this movie was on, so I watched it. It's AMAZING. This movie shows more than just the standard drug movies, not concentrating on jail-time, prostitution and killing cops, but more on their fears, dreams, the actual PEOPLE. Once you begin to see that they are real people, who are afraid of things, want things,ect., you begin to feel compassion and empathy for them. Watch this movie.   "}{"Title":"Refreshingly Real","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the best I have ever seen. Maybe I have been in the dark for God knows how long, but I've never heard of James Wood! I just got HBO 1 2 and 3, along with other movie channels (Showtime, Cinemax, ect.) and this movie was on, so I watched it. It's AMAZING. This movie shows more than just the standard drug movies, not concentrating on jail-time, prostitution and killing cops, but more on their fears, dreams, the actual PEOPLE. Once you begin to see that they are real people, who are afraid of things, want things,ect., you begin to feel compassion and empathy for them. Watch this movie.   "},{"Title":"nothing like Kalifornia!  And that's a good thing.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't understand for a minute why anyone would write a bad review of this film.  I read complaints that it was unoriginal, and even saw comparisons to Kalifornia, no film deserves that!  So blood and violence and realism are out are they?  If this film was made in the early '90s it would be hailed as groundbreaking stuff, but just because a few films similar, but nowhere near as good were made before it, it's unoriginal.  Truly great films transcend what's in, and this film is one.  The acting is superb and the photography is great.  I'd just like to end by saying I hated kids, so I'm not just a weirdo Larry Clark freak. "},{"Title":"James Woods is Over the Top and Melanie Griffith is Tops, but That Doesn't Save This Film","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let's just say that this film is almost as far from paradise as one can get.  Not exactly an original premise and overtones of Kalifornia, are evident throughout the film, this film doesn't even come close to being a Kalifornia film.Four heroin addicts set out on a road trip to do a big job that will not only make them flush with cash, but with enough heroin to last a good long time.Griffith and Woods are the high notes of the film and it's probably the strongest of all of Melanie Griffith's roles.  James Woods is terrific and the film isn't afraid to show the depths of depravity caused by incessant and increasing heroin use/abuse.  "},{"Title":"Another Day in Paradise","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent performances highlight this 90's version of Bonnie and Clyde,with Woods and Griffith leading the pack as two outlaws who adopt two teenagers into their world and into their way of life. Woods is especially brilliant as the alcohol driven leader, whose thirst for a big score consumes him. The stakes get too high and lives become in danger. Tautly directed by Clark, based on the book by Eddie Little.  "},{"Title":"No-one Plays a Sleaze Better Than James Woods","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Especially when the movie takes place in the 70's (see Casino also) and he's all tricked out in those greasy retro seventies duds. I suspected this before, but having seen this movie I have decided no other actor in the business can come close to him when it comes to playing a sleazy hustler-type. Or just a sleaze. Anyway, he and the rest of the cast in the movie are great. Melanie Griffith, not a favorite of mine, does her best performance I've yet to see as Sid, Mel's junkie girlfriend with the heart of gold, a woman who can shoot smack directly into her neck without flinching but who can also sing a sweet lullaby to soothe Natasha Wagner's character. I especially like the way the movie does not glamorize drug use--the characters all look like crap, and Wagner's character has spotty skin and thinning hair. I was really expecting throughout the movie that all the 4 main characters will end up dead, probably from killing one another, but this didn't happen--the people left alive at the end were not the ones that I thought would be. All the actors did the movie for scale and from what I understand Woods even ended up funding most of the movie when the production ran out of money at one point. Lots of good black humor, and Woods is always great in everything, but best when cast in really nasty roles like this, which was probably written for him. Completely disgusting, but still somehow likeable, and always hilarious. Some of the clothes are to die for (though they look more late 60's than 70's if you wanna get picky, but who cares?) One of those drug movies such as Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas where, if you had any temptation at all to do drugs, that urge will definitely be gone by the end of the movie. I didn't even feel like ever drinking a frikkin' glass of wine again after I saw this. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie lover's movie","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am very critical of films, and I must say this movie passed with flying colors. James Woods is a charismatic jerk father figure to the watchable Vincent Kartheiser and sexy, talented Natasha Gregson Wagner.This film is directed by Larry Clark who directed the documentary style film 'Kids', and his 'real life' style of filming comes across in 'Another Day In Paradise', making for a voyeuristic peek into the daily lives of this misfit crew of junkie criminals.Melanie Griffith and Lou Diamond Phillips also play great parts, and I guarantee you won't be disappointed in this film. "},{"Title":"a good job","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Realistic director of Kids meets mainstream actors and screenplay... Turns out to be a rather satisfying experience with great acting (Melanie Griffith has to be mentioned) and gripping moments. A good job really. "},{"Title":"interesting Melanie and more...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this film although it is quite graphic and somewhat disjointed. The violence (and a lot of it) is believable and the situations realistic.Mr. Woods turns in a rather passive, understated performance (yes, I was shocked but if you consider what Woods as played in the past).  Melanie Griffith is excellent as his girlfriend.  Natasha Wagner is also good as the lost teenager in the middle.  Vincent Kartheiser as the wanna-be gangster is the shinning star in this film and I will look forward to future work. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but powerful and distinctive","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Larry Clark's version of Another Day in Paradise is very different from the book it was based on, and he did a lousy job directing and scripting his interpretation of the story, but it still is a powerful and distinctive film about the seamy side of drug abuse and crime.  None of the individuals, outside of the four main characters, are given more than cursory attention. They show up, fumble their way through a short sequence and disappear.  The scene where Rosie and Mel's nephew Danny help the injured Bobby appears to have been totally adlibbed.  Clark has said that he knew exactly what he wanted but that his cast did not.  Unfortunately, the lack of structure left a strong but incoherent final cut.There are so many laughable scenes that the strong performances by the principal actors are almost lost. The dialog appeared to be a pastiche of juvenile sex jokes, plot explanations thinly masked as conversation, and snippets from Eddie Little's book.  Mel is supposed to be a professional thief, but there is no evidence of this in the film.  The plot careens from one chaotic escapade to another interrupted by Mel blaming everyone else for his problems.  Nonetheless, Woods, Griffith, and Kartheiser provide emotionally intense and complex performances.  Natasha Wagner's version of Nadine in Drugstore Cowboy is more appealing than the original, but there is not much for her to work with.  James Woods takes over every scene he has with the other actors.  By default, the picture hangs on the quality and depth of his performance.  Melanie Griffith does a better job playing off him than Vincent Kartheiser, but both do an excellent job within the limitations of the script.Ultimately, Clark does succeed in providing a gritty drama about drug abuse and crime, because nothing is glamorized or hidden.  There is no grand denouement and no one comes through the film redeemed in any way.  The violence is real and unchoreographed,   the private cheap and vulgar actions of the characters are displayed,  and the only nobility present is fleeting and generally ineffectual.  Even with Clark's leering excesses, he still provides a more honest picture of this life than most of his contemporaries. There are certainly better films about addiction and abuse (Nil by Mouth for one) and Clark completely gutted a first-class book in order to tell his story rather than Eddie Little's, but the main performances and Clark's unsparing camera make Another Day in Paradise worth a trip to the theater.  "},{"Title":"I'm no role model. I'm a junkie and a thief.","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Melanie Griffith does a bang up job in this raw Indy film about drug dealers and junkies. Seeing her shoot up gave me the jitters - I really didn't like that part.Starring James Woods (Ghosts of Mississippi, Salvador) and Griffith (Working Girl), and supported by Vincent Kartheiser (Alaska) and Natasha Gregson Wagner (Vampires Los Muertos), this film was enjoyable and captivating to see the two youngsters sucked into a world of pain.James Otis is also featured as a creepy reverend, and Lou Diamond Phillips appears in an uncredited role.Worth a watch. "}{"Title":"shocking, but amazing movie","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Soo... I'm a Vincent Kartheiser fan. And I like James Woods... sometimes. I was shocked by the first few minutes where Bobbie (Vincent Kartheiser) gets beaten up and such. I decided not to watch it at night time as I usually do with movies. The whole movie is shocking, with lots of swearing, drugs, alcohol... (and smoking, but I smoke so I am not complaining about that) But I think it's well played by Vincent Kartheiser and that girl, and I've seen better of James Woods and Melanie Griffith. It's a surprising movie. and well, I'm going to see it again! Sure, the camera work looks like it's done by an amateur... But it has a great story and nice environment.  "},{"Title":"A Marvelous Crime Movie,very Realistic.","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best crime movies I have ever seen.It has everything a crime film needs,realistic action and violence,sex and drugs,and a smashing classic sound track.The acting is great, and so is the photography. Its also very realistic, and entertaining to watch from start to finish. Vincent Kartheiser`s performance of a juvenile delinquent is marvelous,in this film he can really prove his a good actor.The story is explosive and done with a lot of heart.A beautifully made crime movie! One of the best Larry Clark films,for now. "},{"Title":"Actors with flesh and blood make the story rise","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's really not much of a story. Young small crooks meet older, slightly bigger crooks, they get into trouble, there's a lot of blood. But it grabbed me, through the performance of the actors. They made their characters come alive, to the point where I felt I could reach out and touch them - if I dared.This is accomplished with a devoted way of acting, which can accurately be called naked. Vincent Kartheiser, playing the young crook, is indeed naked a lot in the film. With his slightly androgynous looks of, say, a Prince Valiant, nobody minds. But naked acting is more than that - and much more difficult than dropping one's pants.James Woods repeatedly impresses me by participating in movies, which seem destined to devastate a movie star's career. He has a presence, a nerve, a rudeness free of compromises, making it impossible to separate the actor from the character - and that's exactly what naked acting is about.The extremely gifted Melanie Griffith is doing the same, to at least the same degree. She has a nicer role to play in the movie, which is more difficult for an actor, and usually more boring, too. But she fills her character with so much, I feel like I've known her all my life. She can say her lines just right - and in between, her face, her eyes, say much more.With his clothes on or off, Vincent Kartheiser has the same acting quality about him, although not as highly developed as with his seniors. Some scenes call for him to act out very basic emotions, and do it like a volcano. That's not easy, if doing it with more than heavy breathing and jumping about. He manages surprisingly well, even in a traumatic scene near the end of the movie, where he seems to be left to improvise, although there is so much turmoil inside his character, firm direction is really the only way out.The director Larry Clark reassures us that he aims to stay in the borderland to what's taboo - maybe even cross it. I am glad. That's where art needs to be. Needs to.Here, he sometimes uses a hand camera technique in half-chaotic shots, reminding of the Danish credo of film making called Dogma. It doesn't work that well here, though, because he has not stuck to it. The few scenes of Dogma style shooting, become little more than confusing.On the other hand, he has told this story with compassion, with a commitment to the characters portrayed and a genuine care for their fate. In that way, he has also done his job naked.He should be praised also, for daring to end the movie the way he did. I will not spoil it here, but I found the ending the only possible one - rising high above what conventional films of this kind would come up with. "},{"Title":"So bad it is amazing","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had to make an IMDb account just to review this movie. The fact that it has a score over 6 is simply astounding!As a moralizing Hollywood story about how bad people really are bad this is simply a below average movie, worthy of a 3 or a 4. James Woods is not up to his usual standard, Malanie G is somewhat disinterested and the script is clichéd and awful.As an adaptation of the novel by Eddie Little, this film is not even worthy of 1 star. The book is literally raped by this movie. The moral ambiguity of those living on the edge of society explored by the book is turned into a trite movie of the week. This is quite literally the worst movie adaptation in history. I can only imagine those who thought to bring the book to the big screen, weeping in horror when they saw what they had created.Do not watch this movie if you have read the book as it will actually destroy a small part of your soul, as you realise just how badly commercialism can destroy art! "},{"Title":"Unflinching and Underrated","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" James Woods is an intense Actor and Larry Clark is an intense Director. Here they combine their intensity into a Mainstream Story through an underground lens. Although Woods is the nucleus in this radiating Movie he is not without the support of the other three Leads spinning around His sometimes over exposed explosive Performance.The Director also flourishes here with some Artful restraint (as in the drug deal gone bad) as its realism connects with the Style of the Film. This is a slick looking Movie despite the Director's intentions. It also has a downbeat rhythm that is enticing in its exposure of low-life druggies and assorted other dregs.This is an underrated Film that holds up fine and is a disturbing but engrossing look-see at those other People that inhabit the underbelly of our Streets. It is a hard watch at times, but you asked for it and you get it with an uncompromising and Guilty Pleasure ambiance. After all, if Audiences weren't interested in this sort of uncomfortable, gritty, diversion, there wouldn't be so much of it. "},{"Title":"a road/crime picture with strengths and flaws almost equal","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Larry Clark's follow-up to Kids combines the themes of a crime gone awry and the would-be father/son bonding with a style that is unquestionably indie. Would it be too much to ponder over hand-held even when not entirely necessary? It's not an extreme annoyance, and it does serve some purposes of tense vibes when James Woods chides out his mentee or during one of the said gone-bad crime scenes. It's only when it doesn't serve a purpose that really suits the material that you want Clark and his DP to get back to the steady-cam and tracking shots- which he does do from time to time- as opposed to say, for example, the overlong jittery shots of Bobbie (Kartheiser) running through a field. In fact if there is any one glaring flaw on Another Day in Paraidse it's not knowing how to quite get a scene completely together properly, on the technical fronts. One of the scenes that should be the most powerful emotionally, involving the death of one of the principle characters, is shot and edited shabbily, as if an anything goes approach will be just fine, as a good but inappropriate blues song plays over the scene and then into the next small scene until it finishes. Scorsese Clark is definitely not when it comes to timing with the soundtrack.On the other hand, it is what Clark does get right as a director that does make this violent and foul-mouthed effort a look some ten years later. The blues songs, for example, are mostly very good and placed in nicely in some scenes, specifically towards the beginning as Bobbie runs away from a botched robbery and during a hot and heavy sex scene (a live performance of Looking for a Fox also is 100 times better off of the cover done in Blues Brothers 2000). The casting of Woods, who also served as producer, was a sharp move as well, because it provides him ample time to go for small subtle moments of authority (the what are you doing bit in the diner), and really BIG scenes (emphasis on capitals) as he yells and kicks and screams and yells the F bomb every other word. It's not entirely a great performance, but it works for what his character is a washed up old crook of a drug dealer who looks for scores when he cans but puts on an air of seeming to be in control and smart, which he isn't.It's good to see someone like Griffith in the matriarch (or would-be one) role, and Gregson-Wagner, who maybe is the least effective of the lot of the actors, is still up to the challenge of playing the sort of tag-along of the four. They all go for realism, which works pretty well with all things considered; those being that the script veers into predictability after the first half hour, and the dialog, while about as sharp as can be under the circumstances (Clark is, more often than not, at his best when he has Harmony Korine writing for him), does go into the fold of not being as revelatory as potentially allowable as the characters go further into downward spiral territory. Save for some bits of pretension and a couple of botched techniques, it is a solid film, with one of the more shocking gun fights from the late 90s. "},{"Title":"Improvement","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   In his second directorial feature, Larry Clark once again puts us on the hindsight of a group of substandard human beings, which, like his first movie (KIDS), refuses to accentuate plot insomuch as it does character.Opening, a teen tries to steal money for drugs in a locked up vending machine room. When a vicious guard corners and beats him with a baton he commits his second offense for the night, murder. We see a duo flashback of the guard and another man harming him, which was most likely his dad/step dad or whoever raised him before the current `mother' and `father' figure - a con `couple' (James Woods/Melanie Griffiths). Under this dismal scenario is another commonplace crime family movie, which is only improved by the tacked on happy ending and the strength of the characters. Vincent Kartheiser makes a very good impression as an incredibility pathetic young man. Natasha Gregson Wagner as his girlfriend will probably only be remembered INO as the daughter of the late Natalie Wood. James Woods never has a problem portraying anti-social lowlives and there were no deficits in that ability here. And Melanie Griffith was so-so (as usual) as Woods' junkie mistress.   "},{"Title":"America's Secret Weapon","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing three of Larry Clark's movies,I've come to the conclusion that he just may be America's secret weapon against crime.I think the only reason he opens all his films with a couple of teen-agers getting laid is because he wants his target audience to think they're about to see another Hollywood film that glorifies sex and violence.But Mr. Clark has something else in mind entirely.Once he's got his audience ensnared he wastes no time in letting everybody know just how stupid and immoral criminal acts are.Everybody reaps what they sow in a Larry Clark film.Nobody gets away with anything.If this film has any fault with it at all,it's that it telegraphs what's going to happen to everyone,which is something the actors and the script itself can share equal blame for.Some of the camera work is a bit choppy,but that's to be expected in a film that uses as much steadi-cam footage as this one does.Whereas Bonnie and Clyde made robbing banks look like fun,this film's message is just the opposite.Robbing and killing isn't fun at all.It's stupid and ugly,and all that money won't buy you a ticket to Paradise.You won't even get close. "},{"Title":"Mommy, what's another word for bad?","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie and still wanted to walk out.  I watched it last night with a buddy of mine who, while very knowledgeable about films and quite intelligent - seldom agrees with my perceptions of film.  Well, it was nice to finally agree on something - this one is a true stinker.  I am so vocal about it for one main reason - this film had promise!  Let me just say that James Woods is marvelous throughout and a joyride to watch, but he alone cannot save this sinking ship.  Speaking of sinking ships, Vincent Kartheiser, the latest in a line of Leo DiCaprio knockoffs, does for acting what Jonestown did for Kool Aid.  He ambles through this film with no real connection to the events around him and just shriekingly emotes like a kid with a chemical imbalance.  Natasha Gregson Wagner, is true to form and this performance maintains the same standards she has set in her other roles, this one sucks too - except here she has the junkie thing to blame the freakish stupidity on.  And Melanie Griffith, while not as bad as even I expected her to be - can't stand toe to toe with Woods and the kids are in a different movie altogether, so the Working Girl founders.  There are some dazzling camera effects, testimony to Clark's photographer's eye and great locations, even an entertaining campy cameo by Lou Diamond Philips as a slinky, freaky, dangerous gay diva - but the overall film, combined with a tedious, repetitive, uninspiring soundtrack (think Motown only bad and obscure OVER AND OVER AGAIN) and having to watch the dopey eyed V. Kartheiser have a love affair with himself (figurative) in every frame as he goes over the top...made me think one thing...if this is another day in paradise, what could hell possibly be like? "},{"Title":"Should've rented it first","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didnt bother to rent this before i saw it.  I saw several rave reviews on here so i just went and bought it.  Had i rented it first, i doubt i would've spent $14 on it.  the movie and the story are really not that bad. Contrary to what other reviews said, i didnt think it was slow at all.  There were several scenes i think the movie could have done without.  It starts off with Vincent Kartheiser's character lying fully naked in bed.  I saw this and almost shut it off there.  We're forced to look at his mostly naked skinny body a few other times as well.  basically james woods and melanie griffith take two teenagers with them to aid in a little drug deal.  of course the deal goes bad and everyone ends up turning against everyone else.    the acting in this movie was really not that great. james woods seemed to overplay his character a little at times.  He does play a good bad guy at times though. there is one scene where melanie griffith is quite excited about something and showing it, and he calmly looks at her and says, what the hell are you doing? and instantly takes the wind out of her sails, definitely my favorite part of the movie.  i would recommend this movie to rent, if you like it from there, then buy it. "}{"Title":"What's with Melanie Griffith's top lip?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok this was a pretty good road picture. The cast was very good and the two young leads really pulled off a couple of difficult portrayals.  James Woods was excellent as always.  I gave it a seven, but now the burning question. Is Melanie Griffiths' plastic surgeon the same guy that did Goldie Hawn's collagen job in First Wives Club? And what is with that stuff anyway? Man it really is awful looking when it's done wrong as it often is.  I long for the Melanie Griffiths of years past.  Anyone remember the Drowning Pool. Conclusion- Rent this mainly to look at a really ugly lip. "},{"Title":"Do you like realistic graphic depiction of alternative lifestyles?","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to react to the review which called this movie amateur night. Most Hollywood movies today are way over lit.  Director Larry Clark refused to light Melanie Griffin to make her look like a movie star.  He is the only director of a major motion picture I am aware of who used natural light in car scenes.  The result is, those scenes, and this movie looks real and as interesting as real life.  A life so alien, to most of us, that it's better than any science fiction film and scarier than any horror film because it looks so real. "},{"Title":"A crime movie written by a criminal is highly realistic (I think)!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't remember why I rented this DVD.  It is a well-done movie, based on a book by a real addict and ex-con.  But it is packed with violence, graphic sex, and cursing.  So, it is not for those who avoid those types.  Had I known what all it was, I doubt that I would have rented the movie.James Woods and Melanie Griffith are very good in this.  As entertaining as it is at some points, mostly it is depressing to know that there are real people out there like the characters in this movie.  6 of 10 for what it is... "},{"Title":"Offensively Brutal And Brutally Offensive","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Let me begin with a personal note as a film and television buff, more on the enjoyment side of life I love what James Woods can do and has done, and I always love Melanie Griffith, and Natasha Wagner was very good in this awful, miserable, stinking true crime essay.Whoever really wrote this film apparently never spent any time talking to real criminals with real criminal talents yes, some thieves are junkies but they have very short careers as thieves. Truly successful thieves are seldom caught because they don't do junk or any drugs before going on a score ( job ).The James Woods character was true to this paradigm in the beginning of this film, and then the script fell apart completely. He turns into a raging, alcoholic lunatic .... nice work for a high-strung guy like Woods, maybe, but not in the least bit believable.Most criminals are lazy. If they wanted to work they would work.These people in this film are beautiful, self-indulgent, drug-addled narcissistic losers. They couldn't pull off a real score in the real world, the real world where a big and beefy security guard who beats the living hell out of a skinny kid ( as happens in the early scenes of this DOG ), keeps him beat down and doesn't let him up. Ever.How many ways did I find to hate this film ? Many. Even totally vulgar people -- like most sneak thieves and junkies -- have a larger vocabulary than these cretins. And the 'rip-off' scenes with the neo-Nazi bikers ? Puhlease. All rednecks ain't neo-Nazis and those who are neo-Nazi speed dealers just ain't that dumb !!This film earned a two because Natasha Wagner was extremely good in her role as Rose and because Melanie Griffith still has 'that something special,' or at least she had it for this brutal and offensively stupid film. I'm not one to sing praises of real criminals for any reason, but the reality of these criminal types in this horrible film is that they'd all be dead or in jail by Act 2, Scene 1. Watching a lousy Zombie movie would be time better spent than this .... thing ... and I hate zombies. "},{"Title":"Contrived .","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw a trailer for this movie I saw the story was unoriginal and  knew this would make it tough to turn into a good movie. As much as I was hoping to prove myself wrong, I'm sorry to say that this film didn't offer much. The one bright spot is the manic energy of James Woods. He dives into this predatory-criminal-mentor-junkie type character with a lot of relish, as he usually does with most roles. The rest of the movie just never materializes. The remaining cast is totally wrong for this type of film and once that credibility is lost the entire appeal of film is lost as well. As a sidenote, the soundtrack is amazing! "},{"Title":"Crime STILL Doesn't Pay","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you're looking for some new twist on the petty thief-junkie on the lam flick, look elsewhere.  Better yet, screen Kalifornia.  This pic's premise is good (mentor gangsters?) but doesn't go anywhere new.  Performances are all around fine but beware of annoyingly omnipresent blues soundtrack wanting to be a hit in record stores.  At least this bleak pic has a slightly hopeful conclusion. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited when I learned that Larry Clark had made his second movie. After watching Kids more times that I can count, I really needed something new, but what a disappointment. Another Day in Paradise didn't have the same amount of energy, and surprises, as Kids, and basically just turns into a slow moving plot, that tries to be shocking, but fails.  "},{"Title":"the end of the ad-lib","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Can we please place a permanent injunction on improvisation in films? This movie, an incomprehensible hash of bored, shocking casual drugs-and-sex-and-violence and limp criminals-as-surrogate-family themes carelessly thrown Pollock-style across the screen, almost nudges The Daytrippers and (the worst offender) Blue in the Face as the most irritating example of shameful, self-indulgent cinematic improv.  Keitel and De Niro's sublimely playful guy-banter in Mean Streets has given way to a steady stream of desperately babbling pretty faces trying to fill silences with big emotion.  Of course, it isn't such a terrible problem if you have great actors, tight direction, and a strong story, which you don't here. Yes, James Woods is electric as always (though his mid-film transformation from role model to abusive dad is as annoying as it is baffling) and heck, I'll pay 8 bucks to look at natascha gregson wagner for 2 hours.  But as a movie, it's a joke. "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing having read the book","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have probably read the original book of this  6 or 7 times and touted it with all my friends...it is fabulous (Eddie Little wrote it who is himself a heavy hitting ex con).Unfortunately, some of the casting for me seemed quite removed from my imagery of the book and I really hated how they changed some major parts of the story around, almost a third of the book was missing, they changed the whole dynamic of the story with SPOILER the double cross at the end and the fact James Woods (who plays Mel and Mel was black in the book) gets more and more psycho throughout the movie.If I hadn't read the book and loved it so much I would have enjoyed it more I guess, the performances were great but I just regret that they didn't stay truer to the original story.  The actor who played Bobby was just too young and wet for my liking, the kid who played John Connor in Terminator II would have been better, especially since he has a real life drugs problem and could probably have pulled it off better.   Melanie Griffiths was just appalling but James Woods gave his usual manic virtuoso performance.  Samuel L Jackson would have been a great choice to play Mel as would Denzel Washington (especially given his role in Training Day).  Would love to see a remake done the right way. "},{"Title":"Very far from the edge","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We have definitely seen it before!This film is a great disappointment for anyone who has seen Kids. Kids was not a fantastic film, but it was on the edge, constantly provoking. Another day in paradise is a film you start make phone calls while watching. You have seen everything before and it is not even well done. The film lacks feeling of presence, which was Clark's strength in Kids. Stranger than paradise is quite embarrassing actually.Nils "}{"Title":"when are they gonna stop?!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Is anyone else getting sick of these predictable indie films that bring nothing original to the crime genre? Junkies, violence, blood, we've seen it all before, and here it's not done with any kind of style or humour. The film is saved by a great performance from the always excellent James Woods (though I preferred him in that Simpsons episode ;-) and Melanie Griffith in 'Shock! Quite good perfomance horror!'. So, once again, it's ok to go around shooting people as long as you've got sensitivity behind it - and I am no prude - but if you're going to go for it, why not go all-out excessive, and not try and justify it with fake sensitivity? Ever seen 'Kalifornia'? Got a feeling Larry Clarke watched it a few times. ADIP is not the worst movie in the world, and I don't want to be too mean about it, but seriously, it's one of the most forgettable films of the year. "},{"Title":"Sick, profane, and dreary","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sick, profane, and dreary can best summarize this movie, which pointlessly rehashes the lovers on the lam formula for the umpteenth time.  James Woods is excellent as always, but even his talent can't save this mess.  The 'F' word  pervades every character's vocabulary, and film is also loaded with stomach-churning drug abuse.  Do yourself a gigantic favor and skip this trash. "},{"Title":"If this is paradise...","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Do you remember the scene in Boogie Nights where they try to rob the drug dealer and it goes bad and everyone is shooting, yelling, cursing and running?  Another Day in Paradise is two hours of that.  This is a very tough, gritty movie about low-life thieves in the early 1970s Midwest, who get high, get drunk, commit crimes, fight, get shot, bleed a lot and scream the f-word at each other about a thousand times.  The acting is good, with James Woods and Melanie Griffith as an older couple who become surrogate parents in crime to a teenage pair.  Lou Diamond Phillips has a very flamboyant supporting role.  But midway through this one you'll want to duck under your seat for cover from the non-stop brutality and despair. "},{"Title":"Too Depressing Even For A Woods Fan","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I looked forward to seeing this because it starred James Woods , an actor who`s as underrated as he is impressive ( Check out his performance in ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA where he outshines De Niro , and this was when De Niro was still an acting god ) and who`s always been great at playing intense anti-heroes . I`d actually pay good money to see Woods read out his shopping list so when the satillite TV station issued a warning about  The following film contains scenes of violence  ( Warnings about violence is unprecedented at 1 am on a satillite TV station ) I thought I`d be seeing a real tour de force acting class by Woods but as the credits started the words  A film by Larry Clark  came up . I`ve never seen a film by Clark but knew of his reputation and ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE plays very much like how a Clark film is supposed to play  drug abuse , explicit teenage sex , drug dealing in a violent low concept plot with totally amoral characters on a fast track to hell . This is a really bleak , nihilistic , gritty film with some really cruel violence . It should be praised for showing how utterly pornographic violence is , but it`s also a film you won`t want to watch more than once no matter how much you love James Woods acting style   "},{"Title":"Another dreary movie about drug abusers and the trouble they get into.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another dreary movie about drug abusers and the trouble they get into. It's not that I don't like any movies about druggies.  Drugstore Cowboy is one of my favorites, and I thought Jackie Brown was excellent.But I'm not much of a fan of movies about drugs and violence apparently for its own sake.  And that seemed to be the case here with a pointless story about an older junkie/criminal couple who takes a younger (soon-to-be) junkie/criminal with them as apprentices-of-sorts.  It takes the predictable downward spiral with little in the way of interest or originality.Melanie Griffith stood out with her performance though.  She's miscast in most movies I've seen her in, but she's excellent here as the tender hearted junkie girlfriend.  It wasn't enough to save the movie though. "},{"Title":"Lousy","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone out there who has written a screenplay but is not convinced it is good enough, there's hope.  Your screenplay has got to be better than this one, so send it to the producers of Another day in paradise while they're still drunk or high.Think of stuff that make a good movie nowadays Fast pace, conflict, character development, interesting dialogue, a main character with a distinctive agenda, a movie with a purpose.  All of these elements are foreign to the makers of this film.  The story is slower than molasses in January.  The characters smoke in every single scene (no kidding!).  Half way through the movie I thought they were going to die of lung cancer. There doesn't seem to be any other life threatening presence in the movie until the very bitter and long end.  Meanwhile you can take a little nap as you bear through the dialogue which is about as riveting as an episode of Sesame Street.You can watch this movie, but for God's sake, WHY?  "},{"Title":"Shameful","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone involved in this movie, except James Woods, should be ashamed of themselves.  There are some scenes that are so bad, it's like amateur night. And, this includes the performances of the three principals besides Mr. Woods.  In fact, if it weren't for Mr. Woods stellar performance, this film should have never been release.Actually, even with Mr. Woods performance, this film should have never been made.  What was Mark Amin thinking when he green-lit this picture (if he was the one)? "},{"Title":"Trash Belongs In the Garbage, Not On the Big Screen","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What is it with people thinking that Larry Clark is actually talented? I saw two of his movies this week and this guy sucks. His movies go nowhere, have violence in them just for violence sake and if he made his movies any darker, you wouldn't be able to see what the hell was going on. Maybe that would be for the best.Why James Woods and Melanie Griffith would agree to be in this movie couldn't have been anything more than a venue to line their pockets.This movie wasn't as bad as Kids (1995) regarding the nudity that was needless but the violence made up for it. Anything I see with Clark's name on it at the video store will remain on the shelf as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"Stinker","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Do not waste money on this film.  I finished watching it to the bitter end and am sorry I wasted the time doing so.  An awful film due to the poor screenplay, flimsy characters, and amateur acting (aside from James Woods, who unfortunately is still annoying because he is playing an annoying role.) "}]