[{"Title":"2000's hidden gem is also its Crown Jewel","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"43 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Never mind `Traffic'. Forget `Gladiator'. To find 2000's finest, most nail-on-the-head perfect film, you'll need to look a little deeper. A small film that only enjoyed limited release in theaters and isn't getting much attention on DVD either, is Keith Gordon's latest, `Waking the Dead'. Back in 1992, there was another under-appreciated independent film called `A Midnight Clear' that had the misfortune of being released alongside the likes of `Unforgiven' and `Last of the Mohicans'. For reasons I can't fathom, this brilliant film seemingly did nothing to help Gordon's career. His budgets stayed small, but he continued looking for the most daring and fascinating material. In 1996,  he released `Mother Night', another war-themed film, only this time set in the aftermath of WWII.With `Waking the Dead', Gordon outdoes himself. He casts Billy Crudup as Fielding Pierce, an ambitious Coast Guard officer who'd like to be president--and he means it. His world is turned upside-down when he meets Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly), who just wants to feel like she `lives on the planet'. Fielding and Sarah could not be more different, yet they cannot live without each other. Each is the antithesis of the other, which dooms their relationship and intensifies their love at the same time. The film begins with the announcement of Sarah's death, and continues pulling you back and forth in time. Employing this storytelling technique and maintaining the momentum of the story is a difficult task. While we see Fielding wrestle with her memory, we're shown the powerful connection these two had during her life. What's more, Fielding begins to see visions of her. Some of these visions are so real, he begins to believe she's alive. The hauntings come just as he begins campaigning for the U.S. House. It begins to affect his life and threatens his campaign. The question of whether Sarah is really alive is the dramatic carrot Gordon dangles in front of us. It's then we realize that she was his conscience in life and remains so in death.   Gordon pours it on right until the very last frame. He gets the best performance of Connelly's career out of her, plus a jaw-dropping performance out of Crudup that's worthy of an Oscar. Whoever was in charge of plugging this film for awards nominations must have fallen asleep at the wheel (though I see it did win an Independent Spirit award for its script).That this film or others in the same situation get no recognition is definitely for the best. The more popular a film becomes, the more idiots that come out of the woodwork to second-guess it. So best to leave it to be discovered by those willing to seek it out. It is 2000's crown jewel.Grade A (but only because there isn't a higher grade) "},{"Title":"A picture of true beauty","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I cannot recommend this film strongly enough.  This story celebrates the timelessness of love without cynicism or irony.  It portrays a relationship in all its many forms moments of joy, frustration, passion, tenderness, tragedy, and even a bit of insanity.  Fielding Pierce and Sarah Williams are the two politically-minded lovers. While they share very similar political goals, their means of achieving those goals are vastly different.  Fielding is the ambitious golden boy, campaigning through the political machine in an effort to affect change by working within the established system.  Sarah is the rebel outsider, who believes real change will never be accomplished within a corrupt system, leaving political revolution as the only alternative.  The film never passes judgement on which is the nobler or the more effective method.  Rather, it chooses to portray Fielding and Sarah as two people whose love for what they believe in is second only to the love they have for each other. "},{"Title":"Genius Performance......","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Currently showing on cable this movie is sensational. A young want to be politician apparently loses the love of his life, and the film centres on that love and his grief. Rarely can such emotions have been more compellingly and brilliantly portrayed on film.It is thought provoking and often scary too. There is a superb screenplay and all the performers are excellent. Anyone who has every loved another will know that you see that love wherever you go; and the lead actor's portrayal of that emotion is at genius level.The most emotionally charged scene is at the restaurant of the election results are known, and I for one cannot recall any movie where a particular scene is so intensely sensitive or almost uncomfortably realistic.For quiet and justifiably restrained but wonderful adult entertainment, this is the best film I have seen in years. 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Another truly great character study from Keith Gordon","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Following in the big footsteps of The Chocolate War, A Midnight Clear and Mother Night, Waking the Dead is perhaps the most cohesive and satisfying film by Keith Gordon to date. This is a film composed of two parts. The first part is a love story which takes place in America but focuses on the violent overthrow of the Salvador Allende republic in Chile. Fielding Pierce, the protagonist, is an idealistic naval officer from a working class family. He meets Sarah (played by the always lovely Jennifer Connelly), a free-thinking social activist, and they begin a whirlwind romance. Soon, though, she leaves for Chile, where she is murdered during the coup d'etat staged by Pinochet. Fielding, of course is devastated, and it leaves a scar on him which still hasn't healed when the film flashes forward to the eighties, when he has gotten into politics. Attached now to an important politico's daughter, Fielding has to make some important decisions regarding the ideals he holds so important while coping with a tremendous loss he never really came to grips with. Many critics have panned this film for being contrived and unbelievable, mostly because of the ghost sequences and the chronological flashback vignette structure which Gordon uses to paint the story. I found it refreshing after so many Pulp Fiction wannabe timeline films having been made in the last 10 years. Also, isn't it a bit wonderful to see a film that equates personal emotional turmoil with personal idealistic/political turmoil. In the midst of dealing with the loss/reincarnation of Sarah, Fielding is forced into making hard choices about what kind of man he is going to be; a member of the political machine or a true servant of the people. A rare treat. "},{"Title":"'Waking The Dead' Polarizes Critical Opinion","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The ability of 'Waking The Dead' to polarize critical opinion is the best indication of how powerful this film really is.  In short, you either love it or hate it. I LOVED IT!Yes, the story of an up and coming politician falling in love with a beautiful, left-wing activist is a bit trite but no more so than the 70's in which they shared their life together were naive, idealistic and a necessary part of the evolution of American social conscience.I thought the performance by Jennifer Connelly as 'Sara' was astounding. Her ability to convey the sentiment of her beliefs in anger and love is nothing short of inspiring.  If you're not in love with Sara by the end of this movie, you should check into the Emergency ward of your local hospital because there's no heart in your chest or warm blood flowing in your veins.Billy Crudup's performance as 'Fielding' could be interpreted as flat only to those who would say that life imitates art and not the other way around. I found Crudup's acting highly believable for the character he was portraying.  I know lots of extremely intense people who hide behind a facade of calm out of necessity.  Where he needed to be good, he was exceptional.  Case in point, during his celebration dinner with family after winning the election, his declaration of his burgeoning insanity is extremely convincing and frightful.Aside of great individual performances, the overall chemistry between Sara and Fielding was tangible, necessary and believable, as this is a story about love and why true love is endless.  The editing, jumping between the present and the past, helped to make the point that we all have the power to change the world through the people we come into contact with and in this way we're all eternal, all powerful. To top it off, the haunting presence that was Sara after she was presumably killed, lends an element of mystery and hope in a metaphysical and real way, to a movie that could have been just another, too sweet love story in the hands of lesser director.Though Waking The Dead has its flaws, they're too few to dwell on.  I've watched it now three times and every time I appreciate it more than the last. I suggest its detractors do the same before making hasty negative assessments. "},{"Title":"Moving film about first love and ambition","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What made this film so hauntingly beautiful was that fact that the ghost being chased wasn't just Sarah - it was who they both were in their youth, and the overwhelming emotion and honesty that is first love. Was Fielding really seeking Sarah or who he once was - what he once stood for when he loved her? Sometimes when we grow up we let our well-meant integrity, even our simplest dreams, die under the 'reality' of who we end up becoming. I thought this film did an excellent job at showing someone mourning his youth, his wild ideas - and his truest love. I thought Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly both did amazing jobs - the intensity of their performances is what really drove the story. Beautiful acting, beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Politics Vs. Activism","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" You'll have to choose sides in 'Waking The Dead'. Are you going to be an obedient politician or a liberal activist? Those opposing viewpoints cause a tug-of-war, with eternal love playing the ever-tightening knot in the middle. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly are Fielding and Sarah; he the idealistic politician and she the faithful revolutionary. We know from the start that she dies via car bomb while raging against the machine. The movie's chronology is all over the place (which is occasionally confusing) and we see them when they're blissfully happy and otherwise. But after she's gone, the upstanding young man fears for his marbles after he starts to see & hear his dead lover everywhere. Is she actually alive or is he just too insane for public office?Seeing ghosts is tricky. It can turn into unintentional humour without the proper direction. Director Keith Gordon doesn't pull it off as well as he should, but at least the heat between them seems real. Crudup and Connelly make a great romantic match. She's sandpaper to his block of wood, but she's also his conscience. The phrase Jiminy Cricket is actually used, and he succeeds politically only as he's failing emotionally. He clearly needs her whispering in his ear, even if he wouldn't agree with what she would have to say. It's clear that she wouldn't approve of what he's become and he knows it. So I guess that makes her the ghost of Jiminy Cricket too.The movie would be a turd without strong performances. While no one in the supporting cast has lingered in my memory, the talented leads have. They're both good in almost everything they do, so I expected them to be an excellent duo here too. Connelly has since won an Oscar and Crudup probably will too. Some of Gordon's directorial choices undercut what his actors are doing. His style of editing and use of too many arty shots don't work. When the actors are already front row centre, the director should get out of their way.What grabbed me about 'Waking The Dead' was that both Fielding and Sarah are trying to make the world a better giant rock. She's counterculture and he's as mainstream as it gets. Since the story boils down to politics versus religion, it's no wonder the film didn't find an audience. Most people have opinions on those matters, yet political correctness demands you not share them. But you ARE allowed to discuss love. The movie knows how to get that right...the ache, the irritation, the yearning, and the loss of true love. "},{"Title":"Excellent acting work by Billy Cudrup","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was truly surprised to see a young actor really passing on to the audience,his feelings as to his feebleness as a human being when confronted with a priceless loss. Most of us that have been through similar experiences , always expect to identify ourselves with characters in motion pictures but in most cases, we kind of feel frustrated that movie plots don't generally allow the performer to go all the way, cutting their role immersions short Billy Cudrup didn't let that happen and this time we fared better. The same can be said about Jennifer Connelly whose acting talent can only be matched with her beauty.It is my honest opinion that both actors should have been given leading parts in major productions which unfortunately much to my disappointment or lack of information, did not happen. Keep up the excellent work, Billy and Jennifer. "},{"Title":"Waking the Dead- Kept me awake!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I very much enjoyed this movie. This is one of the few movies that you can actually see the chemistry develop between the two main characters. They were both passionate people, even if some of their passion was a bit different.I kept thinking was Sarah really there at the end or was it just Fielding's imagination. I think that she probably wasn't there, but then he did answer the phone and it was her. Then we see Fielding running after her in the snow. Although in the beginning we see sarah's face as the person who was killed in the bombing. Does anyone know for sure if she was really dead or was alive at the end? Jon Black "},{"Title":"I will keep this review short","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that you watch and contemplate later in your life. As far as losing someone you love, and how that effects every major decision you will ever make for the rest of your life, this film is the most realistic portrayal I have ever seen. Billy Crudup was meant to play Fielding in this movie. This movie is haunting and is just one of those little movies that falls through the cracks but is never forgotten. A stunning movie directing by none other than the director of A Midnight Clear, another terrific film. If you are reading this you should seek out this movie or just buy it online. I give Waking the Dead 9/10. "}{"Title":"Absorbing, but slow moving","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Fielding Pierce (Billy Crudup) has one ambition to be President of the United States.  His entire life is planned out to reach that goal.  Only he didn't plan on Sarah (Jennifer Connelly).  Sarah is a free spirited, radical human rights advocate.  We meet them on the day she dies and then flash back to the inception of their relationship in 1972.  He is The Establishment personified.  She is an iconoclast.  Two philosophies more incompatible could not possibly exist, but despite everything, they fall in love. The story then fast-forwards to Fielding's campaign for the House of Representatives ten years after Sarah's death.  It is at this time that Fielding becomes obsessed with Sarah's ghost.  He believes he is seeing her everywhere and that he is surely losing his mind.  He begins to question his own philosophies and begins to lose his will to win the election.The film is an engrossing character study of two very fascinating people cut of completely different cloth.  The non-linear approach used by Director Keith Gordon was both a blessing and a curse.  Sometimes it provided important character development and motivation and at others, it jumped back and forth for no good reason.  This often made the film seem disjointed and hard to follow.  Gordon's direction was only fair, though he delivered accurate period renderings especially of the 1970's.  There were too many instances of unnecessary stylizing.  For instance, there was excessive use of monologue jump cuts, where he cut from the speaker saying one thing to the same speaker in the same spot saying something else.  He used it so often that it looked like bad editing.  In addition, Gordon tended to focus on the schmaltzy romantic angle and downplayed the far more interesting philosophical tension.  He did give us some dialectic, but generally cut away when the philosophical fireworks were just getting started.  He also kept treading over the same ground in different ways.  This made the story drag.The acting by both leads was terrific.  This film brings Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly together again, both having appeared in `Inventing the Abbotts'.  Crudup was extremely impressive as the tormented politician.  This was an exquisitely complex character and Crudup flexed the role to the max.  Connelly was a bit more uneven in her role, sometimes playing the role with great force, but at others with a mousy self-consciousness that was inconsistent with the character.  Still, she gave Sarah great depth as both a lover and a crusader, and a convincing passion for her beliefs.This is an absorbing but slow moving romance that is a bit heavy handed, but nonetheless interesting.  I rated it a 7/10.  It showcases good performances by two young actors we will surely hear from again.  Not recommended for impatient viewers. "},{"Title":"An excellent and beautiful story.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, Waking the Dead will not win any awards in today's computer-driven special effect and in your face story-lines, this is a simple and beautiful love story that most the general public will find slow. The plot sounds boringly simplistic an up-and-coming politician begins seeing his thought-to-be-dead girlfriend everywhere he goes.  What we find, however, is a story about what it means to love someone devoutly, what it means to believe in yourself despite disappointing the ones you love and why as humans, we refuse to give up hope.  Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly provide amazing central performances, with an excellent supporting actress performance by Janet McTeer.  The music is excellent, and both the photography and directing are impeccable.  A somber film, but you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Strange and interesting movie...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 5/19/2001 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Keith Gorden) Strange and interesting movie that in the end really is about having character in whatever you do.  It takes a while for the movie to get there and that's ok for the most part.  The only downside to the movie in my opinion is the romance because it tries to overshadow what is the bigger topic(which I mentioned in my first sentence).  This is all disguised in what could have been a Ghost ripoff because the basic storyline involves a couple that falls in love, one person dies and then haunts the other person, but this movie is much deeper and just kind of carries the romance with it.  Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connely are the main attractions in this story and they both do an excellent job from beginning to end. Basically, Billy's character follows a political career path and Jennifer's heart is more into helping people(no matter if the'yre on the right side or the wrong side according to society.)  This causes a conflict in their relationship and Jennifer leaves Billy, but Billy still loves her and sees visions of her as he continues upward in his career.  Billy becomes hard-hearted and career driven which seems to make his visions increase until he finally comes to a breaking point and faces the part of Jennifer's character that is still inside of him.  I won't give away the ending, but it is obvious that in the way the filmmakers finished the movie that the romance was not the issue.  This is a unique and well-done piece of storymaking that deserved more attention(which I hope to give it with a 2nd viewing sometime soon hopefully).  "},{"Title":"Upending Your Initial Expectations, A Thoughtful Film About The Nature Of Love","Date":"26 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Based on initial assumptions, this could easily be taken for the usual chick-flick weeper, and dismissed for that reason and because it does not follow the usual rules of narrative, but jumps before and after the key romance but don't be fooled--while not intellectually complex, this is a film of some suspense and a good deal of character development, a film about how love could upend our expectations and about our reactions to sudden and permanent loss.Waking The Dead is so crammed with genuine performances from the ensemble that if you allow yourself an immersion in Billy Crudup's confusion, you cannot help but think about those who perhaps you have lost and what they mean to you now; both Crudup and Connelly exude dedication, and one key scene stands out as an exemplar of acting technique coupled with intuitive choices; in his director's commentary, Keith Gordon reveals himself to be the sort of guy you'd like to know, not only for his direct honesty, but simply because he's fun to listen to "},{"Title":"Confusing at first.","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I'd been watching a ton of cheap $1 DVD's for a bit just to get used to movies I'd been putting off. This was the first one I finally got to. I thought it was really well made. I do think it takes awhile to understand, but I got the hang of it. We never really find out if she's real or dead. We'll leave that up to the imagination, but I wouldn't call this a depressing movie. I'd gone for years without watching thinking it would be. But it's more uplifting really. Lets us into a possible area of politicians when they are younger. The music is slow, but the movie runs that way. A lot of music in this movie and loved the Peter Gabriel song at the end. Not sure if I'd watch this all the time, but it's a good movie that gets you thinking.9/10 Quality 10/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"Best film i've ever seen","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The film tells the story of Fielding Pearce as he is plagued by memories of his former girlfriend, Sarah Williams, who died 10 years ago. This forces Fielding to self destruct while running for political office in New York. Billy Crudup is fascinating to watch in the lead role of Fielding. In the opening scene we see his reaction to the death of his girlfriend and the pain is right there in his eyes, nothings hidden, it's just a raw reaction to the worst moment in the characters life. The chemistry between Crudup and the equally talented Jennifer Connelly, who plays Sarah is tangible. They ARE a couple, these 2 actors appear so comfortable with each other you totally believe in the relationship. I first watched Waking the dead about 4 years ago, and it left me stunned that a film with such emotional depth and superb performances went unnoticed (atleast in the UK),I was a film student at the time and not even my class mates had heard of it! But they had heard of junk like the Planet of the apes remake! I love this film so much and its as close to perfect as can be...Keith Gordon is one of the most underrated directors working (watch A midnight clear for further proof)...Billy Crudup should be in way more movies...Everyone should watch Waking the dead as soon as they can. "},{"Title":"'I can only say, keep fighting. God be with you. I love you.'","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" 1982; Fielding Pierce (Billy Crudup, 'Big Fish') is a young man who is striving to become a Senator, but he begins seeing and hearing the love of his life, Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly, 'A Beautiful Mind'), who died in 1974 in a terrorist bombing, along with two Chilean political refugees... or did she? Fielding begins to relive his love story with her (which we see in flashbacks) and at the same time wonders if it had been right to sacrifice a part of himself, of his idealism, his hopes, his dreams, to reach his goal...It's never clear if Sarah is actually alive or if she only 'lives inside him', as one Priest states, though the woman tends to act as a personification of Fielding's conscience, and this makes the film even more precious, the haunting tale of a love that goes beyond death, and of the courage it can give to a man.I have had the pleasure of buying it on VHS, since it never opened in theaters where I live, and seeing the church/politics conflict in it I can probably understand why (not that I have to like it, though), and I really loved it. In the hands of a lesser director and cast, it could have become a 'chick flick' (sparkling bright example of this is 'You've Got Mail'), but with Keith Gordon ('A Midnight Clear', 'Mother Night') at the helm and the aforementioned Crudup (especially him, because he carries the whole movie) and Connelly (who manages to be an ethereal beauty without glamorizing Sarah in any way), with also the sparkling Sandra Oh (who sadly has way too few screen time) in a small supporting role, this movie manages to cross borders and tell an enrapturing tale, and put hope in the people who see it. "},{"Title":"A really fine movie that too few will see.","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a love story involving two people who in many ways are worlds apart in how they approach life. Billy Crudup is Fielding Pierce, a serious, intelligent young man destined for great things. He is a young attorney and is being groomed for a life in politics.Jennifer Connelly is Sarah Williams, a new clerical hire in Fielding's brother's business. While visiting, Fielding is instantly smitten with Sarah. When they have lunch, and Fielding tells Sarah he wants to be President, she smiles. He asks why, and she answers, Because you really believe it. Set in the early 1970s, while Fielding is making back room deals with older politicians, setting his course for future aspirations, Sarah is protesting the war, and helping combat injustice in various parts of the world. This creates tension, but they are deeply in love.SPOILERS. Sarah is with some South American political refugees, in the USA, when their vehicle is bombed, and the news reports that Sarah is killed. They have a funeral. Fielding is devastated, he begins to hear Sarah's voice, he begins to see her in various places, but when he pursues her, can never find her. He comes to suspect it is all in his head, he is going crazy. Then, at the end, we see Sarah show up in his apartment, they have an evening together, she explains that her involvements are too dangerous for him, she needs to remain hidden, and they can never see each other again. The next morning Fielding realizes that he has achieved closure, he can get on with his life and try to do good. At the same time, he and we, the audience, don't know if it was really Sarah there, or just another vision. I suspect it was another vision. "},{"Title":"I just want to be good.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Fielding Pierce is perhaps one of the greatest fictional characters ever created. I have read the novel on which this movie is based and can safely say that I would name my kid Fielding if the name wasn't so pretentious sounding. Fielding Pierce is passionate, intelligent, and honest. He possesses a sense of integrity that, unfortunately, is not very common in a world that becomes more apathetic with each day that passes. I relate to Fielding because, like him, I stand poised and ready to enter a career that I love, but at the same time resent and hate for much of what it represents. Billy Crudup proves himself to be in the same category as Edward Norton, Joaquin Phoenix and Leonardo Dicaprio as one of the greatest actors of his generation. Every time I watch Waking the Dead, I find myself more moved by Crudup's passionate performance. I didn't think anyone could honestly portray Scott Spencer's amazing character, but Crudup embodies Fielding, heart and soul.      "},{"Title":"a great movie for those who understand what it means to have noble ends","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have never commented on a movie before but after reading some of the reviews i feel obliged to say something.anyone who disparages this movie simply doesn't get it and the reason they don't get it is because they don't understand what it means to have both noble aspirations for oneself and love for another based on respect for that person's character; in other words, they are unable to relate to the main characters.  this movie strikes such a deep chord (for some of us) because it recognizes and speaks about the two single most important things in life - what we devote our lives to and who we devote our lives to.  it is so emotionally powerful because it examines a case when these two passions come into conflict and must battle each other for supremacy.  i can scarcely put my feelings for this movie into words because does a sublime job taking on the weightiest of subjects - fraught with emotional and moral complexities that most people simply cannot relate to.if your reaction to this review is 'this guy is such an arrogant f*ck,' then skip this movie.  otherwise prepare to make room on your top-5-movies-ever list.  "}{"Title":"Cannot recommend this enough. Simply stunning.","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of Keith Gordon's Waking The Dead before tonight. After watching it just now, I am emotionally exhausted, and my mind is in overdrive analyzing every perfect piece of this well thought out puzzle, and reeling trying to process and deal with the raw sadness and electric, haunting nature of the mystery that encases the story like a chilling road map of the two main characters emotions. I am so affected by this one that I'm scared I'll screw this review up with my rambling adjectives and poetic mumbling that's become my trademark. There are a lot of films I like, some I love, but it takes a true gem to make it into my pantheon of all time favourites. This made it with one viewing. What can I say. Billy Crudup, who I've never been blown away by (although he's solid in Big Fish) gives an award worthy turn here as Fielding Pierce, an ambitious coast guard operative who climbs the ladder of politics and aspires to be a congressman. He is concise, democratic, and has a by the numbers view of the world. He meets Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly), who couldn't be more different than him. She's an activist, focused on helping the world one rally, one church, one ounce of compassion at a time, as opposed to institution and organized parties. Despite these differences, they fall deeply, hopelessly, eternally in love. Connelly is a touching wonder as Sarah, expelling warmth and fiery concern with her performance. The two of them together make the most convincing on screen couple I've seen in a while, and I couldn't take my eyes off any scene with them. Now.. the film's opening scene is Fielding watching a news report of her death, a car bombing in Chile. It then time jumps between scenes of their budding relationship in the 70's, to Fielding in the early 80's, on a career upswing. Only problem, he suddenly begins to be haunted by waking visions of Sarah, her voice in his head, her figure in the streets calling to him, memories of her flooding his perception and causing him to see her everywhere. Is she still alive somewhere? Is he losing it? The film makes a very brave choice and decides never to give us one answer, even at the end. Crudup owns the part, especially in the scenes with Connolly, they are absolutely sensational together. The script goes from intriguing mystery to thoughtful treatise on how we may lose what we love and want, but that it may be in service of what we are meant for. Hard stuff for anyone with a heart to swallow, and indeed some scenes later had me just drowning in tears, but a theme that I can't say will leave my consciousness soon. Hal Holbrook is there as Pierce's mentor, Janet Mcteer as his no nonsense sister, Stanley Anderson is touching as his father, and Paul Hipp agonizing in one particular scene as his black sheep brother. The film entrances from beginning to end. The soundtrack is perfect, with contributions from Joni Mitchell and Peter Gabriel fitting the ethereal tone, and an incredulous original score. The atmosphere captures Fielding's confusion and heartbreak sensationally, and some camera work from expert cinematographer Tom Richmond provides some shots that look like they're out of a dream, specifically a scene in a subway tunnel where he sees her everywhere. The story flows perfectly with the beautiful music, aching romance and otherworldly mystery to weave a flowing tapestry of pure creation. I'm always amazed when all the elements of a piece flow harmoniously together. How this was not one one most talked about film of 2000 just kills me. I can't say how it will affect you, but it left me sitting on the couch in awe of what I had just seen, on the verge of breaking down, devastated by what Had just unfolded. Maybe you'll get that out of it too. Maybe not. Just don't come to me later and say you couldn't enjoy it as much as you wanted to because I hyped it up too much. I hate when people do that, and you know who you are. Nevertheless, this film.. Deep, ponderous, an old school tearjerker, without pandering melodrama, it gives a purpose to its two star crossed lovers, and the fact that they're so removed from one another in their respective lives and outlooks only adds to the captivating nature of their unbroken love. I'll stop gushing..for now. "},{"Title":"# 58  Another team-up Jen/Watchmen but this one is a failure (web)","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After Nite Owl, Rorsarsch, here Jen works with Dr. Manhattan ! If her character is engaging as a human right activist, all things around suck  Her watchmen boyfriend is just totally despicable he seems to pursue more personal interest than the common one. The flow of the movie is exploded by the constant flashbacks as there are actually 3 time-lines to follow (before the accident, after the accident, now), it's painful to grasp the storyline. The paranormal aspect of the movie is laughable and i have seen better X-files episodes about a ghost ! The 70s/80s fashion and way of life are interesting but at the end, this movie was just a disappointment that I won't repeat ! "},{"Title":"Larger than life","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is the reason why I give unknown movies a try-- they sometimes simply end up surprising me! Waking the Dead is a strong and dramatic romance, which shows everything a man passes through when he loses the one he really loves. The main character is apparently a common guy, but once his girlfriend dies (or not), everything goes downhill. He inadvertently sees her everywhere, with voices and images in his mind. There is a point in the movie we don't know if Pierce is insane or if her girlfriend isn't dead at all-- an Elvis Presley resemblance maybe. In the first half hour of the movie it seems it will never engage, but once she calls him on the phone (or not), the story becomes emotional and leaves the spectator out of breath. Also there were some moments this picture reminded me of Ghost and Titanic, two unforgettable Hollywood romances, but there isn't a moment that it tries to copy those movies. In the end, even thought we don't find out what happened in fact, the movie gives a good time and surprises the spectator, which wasn't expected by anybody, I guess. Love is eternal. Great movie! "},{"Title":"a book","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" with many pages, touching drawings, delicate colors, letters as borders and chapters as Matroshka dolls. a love story but little more. because, for me, it remains occasion to discover, again, sad old memories in so measure than it seems be reflection of my story. so, it is difficult to write a review about this film. only my desire - see it. because it is scene for beautiful acting and special trip to yourself. because it is smart, honest and realistic. because it becomes, scene by scene, a mirror for feelings present inside us. for a meeting and for thin line between worlds. for its message and for the silence. and, sure, for actors. or crumbs about sense of existence. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It starts as a simple romantic movie between Fielding Pierce ( Billy Crudup ) and Sarah Williams ( Jennifer Connelly ) then moves on smoothly into the complexities of politics ( domestic and international ).. the strength of honesty against power of incumbency.. the pain of loss of a dear one is reflected in a very authentic way..the direction is mature .. Jennifer Connelly is as beautiful as ever.. she expresses the conviction of Sarah in a very natural way.. Above all it is Billy Crudup..I am surprised that he got no recognition for the movie, though I found his acting in this movie one of the best I have seen by any actor.. he has done justice to the various roles he had to play in the movie--- the lover boy, the man in love, the family man, a good son, a good brother ( both to his brother and to his sister ), the confident Naval Office to the aspiring politician, from a near-nervous wreck to making an awe- inspiring short speech, a winner one moment and the man who bares his heart completely to his family members in the next moment... The forwards and rewinds in the time-line is bit too frequent, but all the same it is an excellent movie.. "},{"Title":"Decent, mainly due to the two leads.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A film about a couple whose love for one another combats strongly with their political beliefs and future plans that focuses too much on the politics and too little on the romance. We get very brief introductions to the characters and then out of nowhere they go on a date and are madly in love. The intimate scenes only succeed so well due to the beautiful chemistry of Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly who both deliver some powerhouse performances. The political aspect of the film is dull and drags quite a bit, but every time Jennifer is re-introduced into Crudup's life it draws you back in. The finale is thought-provoking and sentimental, but the strength of the scenes with Crudup and Connelly alone together only weakens the quality of the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Giving up the ghost","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have seldom seen a film that has moved me so and stayed within me long after I have seen it as Waking the Dead. Keith Gordon was a good actor, but it is as director that he has really developed his talent. This excellent drama is the best proof of that. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly are marvelously matched as the tragic couple who are divided by their political views and also religion. Crudup plays Fielding, a Protestant middle-class boy who is a naval officer and has political aspirations. Connelly is Sarah, a Catholic girl who is a radical leftist activist. Her unabashed anti-conservative views clash with those of Fielding and his associates and threaten to destroy their relationship. Still it survives, because their love is too strong to be destroyed. It all comes to a sudden end when Sarah is killed by a car bomb while in Chile, trying to help the imprisoned anti-Pinochet activists. Fielding is devastated by his loss and buries himself in his political career.The ending is open to several interpretations. Is it Sarah's ghost that he sees or has she somehow gone unharmed and come back in flesh? This is what makes this film so good. It is a roller-coaster of emotions, an emotional odyssey that Fielding goes through. And I think it raises one important question-can one go back to his old self even after so many things have changed? It is as much about inner confrontation as a love story that transcends time. Billy Crudup is outstanding here and he makes this film work. This film would be wasted with a weaker actor in the leading role, I believe. Same goes for Jennifer Connelly and her role. They have an awesome chemistry which makes them so believable as a love couple. Ed Harris also makes an appearance here, although it is very short unfortunately. Other actors make a fine supporting cast and I especially enjoyed Fielding's interaction with his father, it was important for the whole story and the film.This is about giving up the ghost, accepting the truth that the one you loved is gone from your life and can never return. This is what the ending is about really. That and keeping that love inside you. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I Just want to say that this movie touched me deeply. I was so impressed with the kind of love that the two main characters have for each other. So pure and powerful. Thank you for making a movie that show such unconditional love in a wonderful way.Great script. I will watch this movie again just to hear them and learn from them. The movie surely gives something for the viewers to think about.Excellent performance from Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly. I think everyone who has seen this film will agree with that.Overall, I recommend this movie to those who has a deep yearning to feel the touch of unconditional love,those who have great ambitions about doing good to society, and anyone...anyone at all who like to watch a movie that is not shallow.Oh, by the way, love the song at the end of the film. (Snow Come Down) It sums up everything. When you really really love someone, you just want to love him.That's all. You just want to sit and watch the snow come down with him. That's all. Because love itself is enough. No need to ask for anything else. "},{"Title":"One of the best love films ever made!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Being human is difficult with all the differences to the others; even to the the ones you love most. Love is a most precious thing, it's found so hard, it's caressed so hard; still if you find it, the rest is gone, vanished. That's the story, and it's told in such a humane way.As a piece of art, the film is so strong. It cannot be realized at first sight, but in time the beauty, the gentleness of the film blossoms in your mind. It rises as a memory of one's own, as a moment of shared humaneness.The acting is superb; actors remain anonymous, as there's no acting at all. Yet when you try to tell about the film to your friends, everything is there, pictured in your mind the looks, the quotes, the events...I love this film. I can watch it over and over through the years, and I'm sure I'll still find new things in it. That's the greatness of love, and someone (director, actors, crew...) has told it to us very well indeed. "},{"Title":"wow. i was really gripped by this movie.","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  that's all i can say. i thought the plot was great, and i was in tears at various parts of the movie. wow wow wow. the best part about it is how the viewers have to decide, for themselves, whether sarah really did come back, or if fielding is just imagining it.i don't know what it was about this movie. i was amazing. the chemistry between crudup and connelly was beyond great. the plot was so mellow, it was great. the love between the twomain characters really makes you stop and htink about things. this movie was great. just thinking about it gives me a good feeling. "}{"Title":"A special movie--","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you can appreciate a combination of political idealism, spirituality, and love, this movie is for you.  That unusual mix is why it couldn't find a large audience. It's also not for the literal-minded, or for people who can't understand political commitment. A beautiful sleeper for those who are open to its themes and emotions. It is also for you if you liked this director's Mother Night and, especially, Midnight Clear--one of the best antiwar movies ever made IMHO.   "},{"Title":"Outstanding film.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Waking the Dead and loved it. It´s a great film.Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly were terrific.  I don´t usually see this type of movies, I´m more of an action movie person, but this one has something that you just can´t stop watching it. It captivates from beginning to end.   "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Drama","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Waking the Dead is a unique love story in that the end is not necessarily a happy one, yet you feel a real sense of satisfaction and closure. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly have a chemistry that is truly one-of-a-kind. Crudup gives a heart-wrenching performance as a man who struggles with the fact that the love he thought he lost seems to have reappeared. Waking the Dead never made much of a dent in the mainstream box office, but it represents the best elements of what a drama should have. "},{"Title":"Will haunt your heart","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Although I have only watched this film twice, once when it came out and just recently(2 days ago) I cannot help but consider it as one of my favorites. I must admit I am a sucker for small movies, because they really bring out the best in the makers and performers.Waking the Dead is a tale of the spirit, hidden behind the issues of politics and love. The story takes place in the early 70' and early 80's jumping into flashbacks throughout the film.Fielding(Crudup)is an ambitious young man destined to be on the top America's political system. His view on life is that to change a system you first have to get in, risking becoming part of it. He falls in love with Sarah(Connelly)who is a radical activist, believing that the system must be changed from outside, not within. They seem to be a couple who, despite their difference of opinion, are madly in love with each other. Two years later she dies in a car explosion and he continues his career up the political ladder.Ten years later, about to jump into the senatorial elections, Fielding finds himself feeling that Sarah might be alive, but is she really? Or is it a product of his heart?The movie point is taking you through a journey of a man's soul, a person who wants to change the world he live in, to do good, to help. After Sarah's death he becomes cold, ambitious, merciless, becoming just like the system he once wanted to change. Sarah's presence in his life was the light of his life, his fighting spirit, and when she died, it died with her. Now that he senses her, or thinks he does, will that re-kindle his old ambitions, his hope of actually doing good and helping people?Waking the dead has left me with a haunted feeling for days after each viewing. Crudup and Connelly have great chemistry together. The emptiness and painful which he lives during the 80's is well portrayed by the music and atmosphere which Gordon creates.He also masters the difficult and tricky art of using flashbacks. In a high standard of filmmaking I give this movie a 10(out of 10).  "},{"Title":"Haunting Love Story/Better Character Study","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie spoke to me on so many levels.  There's a fascinating philosophical discussion regarding politics, within the formal political system and beyond.  While interesting, personally, I found the political discussion to be the background for a beautiful love story.  And as intrigued as I was by the love story, the true gem of this movie was the nervous breakdown suffered by Fielding Pierce.  Billy Crudup played the role beautifully, actually sending chills down my spine as I saw him slipping away from reality and questioning his own existence.I just want to be good, Fielding tells his dad as he's on the verge of tears.  Fielding's ambition, pureness, and especially his lost love (Jennifer Connelly was near perfect as Sarah Williams) make him such a loveable character, that his breakdown really has an effect on the viewer. Keith Spencer (novel), Robert Dillon (screen play), and Keith Gordon (director) really suck you in by first making you fall in love with the characters, and then only after they know that you've become attached, they start toying with your emotions.Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Emotional and convincing proof that love does not conquer all","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm not to big on drama, especially not love drama's.  The fact that Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connoly star in this movie made me decide to give this one a fair chance though.  That was a good decision...Waking the Dead is a subtle and quite intelligent film on the inner struggle between idealism and ambition.  Moreover it's about lost love.  When Sarah has died Fielding works on his ambition to become a politician.  But Sarah's idealism and unconditional love for people remains with him and takes a run with his mind when he is close to the congressional elections.  Fielding starts seeing Sarah at places, almost driving him to the edge.I started taking Sarah's part here as a metaphor for his true human side, surpressed by politics, easy to corrupt a sincere mind.  The viewer can feel relieved by the fact that Sarah's images make Fielding aware of his environment and the fakeness of politics and the appearances of the people involved in them, like his new wife, cousin of his patron. The years of Sarah and Fielding still together in 1972/73 follow up 1982, the year of the elections, in shape of flashbacks.  I was quite taken in by their relationship.  This was done well and convincing.  Their personality differences show, it also shows how hard they make their love sometimes.  On the other hand we feel how strong they feel for each other, the sex scenes actually enhancing this.  At one point their love making is acted beautifully, seeing only their facial expressions.The only thing that disappointed me was the ending.  I don't want to spoil it for you, so if you don't want to read this don't.  The film slips into something cheesy like Ghost, which it managed to avoid during the rest of the film.  Next thing we see Fielding helping people who send him letters, as if he were some patronizing generous King in the Middle Ages.  In other words, he is still trapped in a system of lies, deceit and self interest, so in order to soothe his conscience (in the shape of Sarah's ghost) he uses his power (which earlier he wouldn't even do for his own brother) to help a few individuals, out of the millions still suffering from the system.  I don't know but that seemed pretty weak to me. "},{"Title":"A movie so beautiful it hurts you.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's the story of one successful man who has never been able to  recover from the loss of his love. It will touch you deeply, if you have at least a bit of sensitivity. The sad beauty of this movie is what makes it so great and so deep. If you can relate to the main character, it is just impossible not to love this movie. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and boring","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This ambitious semi-supernatural romantic drama has a clever central plot but wallows in it's own seriousness to the point where any enjoyment is dissolved. Jennifer Connelly is good as the saintly object of wannabe president Billy Crudup's affection, but Crudup himself struggles with an overtly emotional and poorly written role. Painfully (and I mean painfully) slow, self important and extremely uninvolving - with the one of the worst scores of recent history and awfully inept editing that wrings any sense of interest out of each and every scene.  "},{"Title":"A Frustrating Blech-fest of Overwrought Emotion","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the kind of garbage you might find on the Lifetime channel. I was embarrassed for the actors who appeared in this gut-wrenching, slobbering, emotion-fest.  Both Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connolly are fine actors, and anyone offended by mawkish sentimentality will wince at some of the lines they are made to speak in this in this awful, maudlin, frustrating movie.Billy Crudup plays a super-decent, super-caring, super-sensitive Democratic (of course--just one of this movie's many cliches) Congressional contender. Jennifer Connolly is his lover from some 10 years ago, who he believes has been killed in Chile rescuing people from a despotic regime.  Their affair is told through flashbacks. They have long senstive conversations.  When they fight, they don't really fight--they are both too decent to yell at the other.  They just look hurt, and we *know* that this is a very meaningful non-fight. Naturally, he is a gentle lover; she weeps during sex. Everyone in this movie is terribly earnest, and LOVES to talk about what they're feeling. In other words This is the Über Chick Movie!But then, when Crudup's character is running for office, he begins seeing Connolly...around, sometimes out of the corner of his eye, sometimes everywhere, a flock of her coming at him.  It seems likely...likely that she's alive...or is it his imagination?  We're never given a convincing reason why, if Connolly is still alive, she has been in hiding all these years, or how such a sensitive, decent person could justify doing what she did to him.  If she isn't alive...then ole Fielding is hallucinating and is, therefore, a psychopath, and the whole idea that he could sustain a campaign, let alone get elected, is laughable.There is one remarkably inept scene in which Crudup's character Fielding is eating with Connolly, her church coworkers (two priests), and 4 Chilean nationals they have just rescued.  One of the Chilean women confronts Fielding on his desire to become a politician, condemning him specifically for becoming an American politician, and we--like Fielding--feel the others in the room silently agreeing with her.  Fielding explodes (but decently!), pointing out their hypocrisy, and how, despite the world's finger-pointing at Americans, it is OUR shores they so often wash up on when fleeing the terror of their homelands.  Finally, he declares that he is choking on the collective superiority in this room! It is a good line, and he delivers a great tirade...but everyone (except, perhaps, the Chileans) in this movie is so darn nice, and good and wholesome, that we can't believe for a minute that they can't see Fielding's goodness, too.  So their collective superiority...it just doesn't ring true.In fact, very, very little in this movie rings true.  This is the sort of movie a 14-year-old girl wanting an adult love story might like; it displays precisely that sort of idealized emotional maturity.  Few discerning adults will be able to stomach it.  Even my wife (who is the reason I sat through it) disliked it. "},{"Title":"Unbearably wrenching...I don't think I could watch it again.","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" CAUTION SPOILERSThis movie had me in tears just about every 2 minutes at least. While a young man maps out his ambitions for the future, he meets a woman who sees the world with eyes that are similar to his, but a bit more outspoken. They fall in love, and would be the perfect couple if not for their conflicting political views and family traditions. While Fielding (a beautiful Kleenex-box devouring performance by Billy Crudup) works for the Coast Guard and then thru law school, Sarah (an equally wonderful Jennifer Connelly) is an independent Peace-Corps worker of sorts, working for the Catholic church in different and dangerous situations that take her far from home into hotbeds of political strife. Fielding's life is shattered when Sarah and 2 Chilean diplomats are killed in a car bomb in 1973. For the next decade, he tries to move on without her, and presses on until he becomes a candidate for public office. Suddenly, he begins to...hallucinate? Dream? Have visions? of the woman he loved. He begins to believe he is losing his mind, and it affects his campaign. The one thing that confuses me and kind of pees me off is when Sarah suddenly seems to reappear for real, first via phone call and second, with a surprise visit. She apologizes for hurting him, and if what she's saying is true, she really did nearly kill him by faking her death. Did she fake her death because of the Chilean Resistance? Or did she want out of the relationship because though they love each other, their beliefs and politics don't match. Fielding wakes up the morning after this cryptic 'visit' and wonders if even this was a reverie. But somehow, the fact that he never has visions or hallucinations of weird phone calls ever again, says to me, Sarah had been alive all these years and had faked her death for one reason or another. I really should watch this again to get a better clarity on exactly what her motives were, but I cried so much that I don't think I can go through this again. The one consolation is that Fielding won the election and began to help make a difference in people's lives. Sarah influenced him in a major way, but I was so sad to see that they couldn't have a life together working side by side. "}{"Title":"Waking the Dead is a thought provoking film that can have a profound effect on the viewer.","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A congressional candidate questions his sanity after seeing the love of his life, presumed dead, suddenly emerge. Fielding Pierce lives the life of an aspiring politician - in 1972 he's serving in the Coast Guard (trying to avoid Vietnam in the most honorable way), and by 1973 he has entered law school. Along the way he falls in love with Sarah, a fiercely idealistic woman who devotes her life to helping others - unfortunately she's killed in an explosion while assisting members of the Chilean resistance. Nine years later, in the middle of a congressional election, Fielding is suddenly flooded with thoughts and visions of his lost love. Roger Ebert wrote There is a mystery in Waking the Dead, and at the end we are supplied with its answer, but I have seen the movie twice and do not know for sure what the answer is. The finale is thought-provoking and sentimental and stirs a lot of emotions in the viewer. "},{"Title":"Ambiguous Thought Piece.","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The opening shot is of Billy Crudup's agonized eye filling with tears as he watches a television newscaster announce that the love of his life, Jennifer Connolly, has been killed in Chile while engaged in some populist political activity. This is always a bad sign -- the first thing you see being a eyeful of tears. It portends little levity.It gets worse. As ten years pass by, Crudup begins to think he sees and hears Connolly on the streets of New York, where he works in the District Attorney's office. The first time this happens, he walking at night through a vacant parking lot and he hears Connolly whisper something from their shared past. Crudup stops, looks around, and says aloud, Sarah? Now, this is really bad. It's not bad to fantasize about Jennifer Connolly. Not at all. I do it all the time. But there is a difference between imagination and auditory hallucinations.The movie flashes back and forth between 1972 and 1982-83. In the early years, Crudup and Connolly are madly in love. He's a Harvard grad who is in the Coast Guard as a compromise between being drafted and leaving for exile in Canada. The facts as stated are a little topsy turvy inasmuch as the Coast Guard had personnel and KIAs in Vietnam while not a single son of Harvard was killed -- but okay. It's symbolic of Crudup's willingness to find a middle ground.He's a committed Democrat and Connolly is fully engaged too, but from a different direction. Crudup's ambition is to initiate social change from the top down. He jokes about becoming president. Connolly's approach is more direct. It begins at the bottom, working with the poor through the church, and moving upward, more of an international Mother Teresa than a speechifier.As if ordained by the god of screen writing, there are two reciprocal scenes in which each must meet the co-workers of the other and burst into an angry, oath-filled malediction of the hypocrisy of the others' position. At one party, Crudup blows his top at a priest and some guests; at the next, Connolly tells a crowd of well-dressed muckamucks where to go.By this time I'm thinking, Another pair of star-crossed politics, with the guy as sell-out and the woman as conscience. Well, if it worked for The Way We Were, why shouldn't it work here? But it really doesn't work very well. After learning of Connolly's death, Crudup continues to catch glimpses of her in crowds and he hears her whispers. Once, he appears to receive a phone call from her, claiming that she's not really dead but that the incident was faked for political reasons. Crudup marries the niece of one of his wealthy patrons and is elected to Congress. By this time he's really nuts.In the one truly splendid scene in the film, he joins a half dozen of his friends and relatives for a celebratory dinner at an Indian restaurant. Everyone congratulates him of course. But then he tells them he has something important to say before they order -- and he launches into a fine impression of an ordinary guy trying desperately to describe a psychosis. He can't do it well, of course; nobody can who hasn't been there. But the director, Keith Gordon, handles the scene very well. Once Crudup begins to break up and yield to speech pressure, the camera lingers on him and lets him riff. The temptation would be to cut away to the stunned stares of his guests, but the director's self discipline allows us to guess what they are. All we see, as Crudup's voice gets faster and rises in volume, is that some of the diners in the background stop talking and glance uneasily at him.The actors are all seasoned professionals. None of the principals stands out. The most winning performance, in a relatively small role, is that of Janet McTeer as Crudup's sensible sister. Connolly's looks are unimpeachable but she was at that age where supernally radiant young girls turn into ordinarily beautiful women. Crudup, I don't know. He's not magnetic in any way but he pulls it off without any major glitches.There's a final meeting -- or rather meeting -- between Crudup and Connolly in Washington just after he's been elected. In his empty apartment (empty on the night of his election!) the doorbell rings and it's Connolly in a drab wet raincoat. They hug. They kiss. They whisper. They lie on the floor and he falls asleep and when he wakes up she's gone, never to be seen again.I still don't know whether her last visit was real or not, he tells us. He doesn't? I don't know why not, because I know. We can all hope that he prunes his fantasies down to a more realistic level, at least as far as his politics are concerned. As for his love life, well, he's got Molly Parker, which is not a losing hand. "},{"Title":"A heartbreaking political drama","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Haha. Yeah, that's right, the summary is says it all. I was amazed when I came onto this page to see that its rating was so low. When I saw this movie a couple months ago I absolutely loved it. I thought it was incredible. To people that have made comments that Crudup's acting was poor or flat, I would say that nothing is farther from the truth. This movie made me believe in him as an actor. Perhaps it's just me, but the degree to which I identify with his character is almost scary. Especially given the context of the movie and his descent into madness.This movie was incredibly powerful and perfectly describes my own moral dilemmas when it comes to interacting with politics. Do you use the system in order to bring about change, or do you reject the system because it is rife with corruption and unable to be saved? Not only that, but it's treatments of grief and doubt, shame and responsibility, and the hopes and horrors of insanity are all extremely complex and interesting. The characters are deep and intriguing, the dialog is engaging, and the direction superb.A wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Haunting - Good for Halloween","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have read the negative reviews and find I do agree with many of them. The movie moves slowly, and has many boring parts. However, the overall feeling when I was finished was, haunted and perplexed.Jennifer Connelly , well she is just Jennifer, and an incredible looking woman. She is worth the price of the movie, just to see her on the screen, even the small screen. Billy Crudup, well I really did not notice him much.Interestingly, this is Jennifer's second film regarding the same activism subject. She also starred with Antonio Bandares in a movie called Love In The Shadows, about the same subject. I do not think she has any ties to this subject, that took place when she was a three year old growing up in Catskill, New York. I think Jennifer just plays her parts very well and really gets into her roles. The movie also focuses on the US political system, and election process. The movie comments on reasons people do not like the US politicians and reasons for someone to want to be involved in it.Most of all, if you stay with this movie from beginning to end, you will have a question, by the end. You will never really answer it, either. When you see the DVD, you may feel an erie need to answer it, by looking through everything on the DVD and re-watching the movie. But you'll never get an answer. But you should see it and decide for yourself, what you think the answer is. "},{"Title":"Gorgeously heart-breaking film","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" What more can I say? This quiet, intimate, fast-paced film explores the lives of two people who are made for each other yet whose lives keep them apart. Both characters are forced to grow as they face stereotypes and their own false expectations. And then, when the bombshell hits, get ready to reach for the Kleenex! Unlike many other films that deal with relationships, this one continues the exploration of the questions posed, even after it would seem physically possible. Both characters continue to grow to the very last frame of the film. Jennifer Connelly and Billy Crudup are both excellent in their roles. Connelly has less screen time but plays her Jiminy Cricket role perfectly. Crudup is note-perfect in his slide towards psychosis.This is the ultimate what if? film, realistically portraying the agony of loss and unanswered questions. Definitely *not* one to watch when you're in the mood for a fluffy Hugh Grant flick! But for intelligent, thought-provoking movie-making, this is the one to see. "},{"Title":"One Step Beyond","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Trying to put his long deceased lover Sarah Williams, Jenniffer Connelly, out of his mind up and coming Chicago politician Fielding Pierce, Billy Crudup, is hunted by her throughout the movie Walking the Dead as if Sarah was his guilty consciences.Sarah had been killed in a car bombing some ten year's earlier in her being involved with an organization that protest the conditions in Chile. Being the very idealistic and headstrong young woman that she was Sarah put her life on the line for the downtrodden and underprivileged Chilean peasants that lead to her untimely murder. It was Sarah's selfless actions that sparred Fielding to see her way of thinking. But that only happened after Fielding almost blew his election, for Congressman, which and at the same time had him find his long lost and troubled soul.Trying to cover all the bases, as well as his a**, in his future in politics Fielding played it safe in the Vietnam War by becoming a commissioned officer in the US Coast Guard where being sent to fight in Vietman was practically an impossibility. The very politically ambitious Fielding also played ball with the state and local Chicago big wigs from the governor and mayor on down in order to get himself a plumb job in the city's D.A's office which was to serve as a springboard for his future political ventures. While all this was happening his girlfriend Sarah became more and more distanced from him. Sarah felt that the get to the top at all cost Fielding is just a political climber who's concern from the public, mostly the poor and disenfranchised, was only to get their vote and nothing else.It was Sarah's sudden death that put Fielding's career on hold and took the poor guy some ten years to get over it. Now back in action running for a seat in the US Congress Fielding disregarded all that Sarah taught him about serving, in and out of politics, those who needed his help most. As if coming back from the dead Sarah started making ghostly or real live appearances, where only Fielding can see her, in an effort to spook Fielding by making him more of a feeling and caring human being. The question is if Sarah is actually alive, and faked her death, or only an illusion in Fielding's unbalanced mind! Which may be due to his guilt ridden conscious or the result of a combination of sleep deprivation and prescription drugs, as well as alcohol, in his non-stop 24 hour around the clock campaign to get himself elected?***SPOILER ALERT*** The movie makes it's point in a very confusing way where we in the audience as well as the confused and befuddled Fielding don't really know if the supposed long dead Sarah Williams is really alive or the product of Fielding very fertile imagination. Fielding's last encounter with the ghostly Sarah at the end of the movie gets his head back on together in helping the poor infirmed and financially destroyed in his district to get back on their feet. We'll never know,like Fielding, if in fact it was Sarah in the flesh or conjured up from deep inside his subconscious that got Fielding to do the right thing! But whatever the reasons were, real or imagined, it worked! "},{"Title":"Constantly think about this.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in years but I often think about it. I'm not sure why exactly, but something about it really stuck with me. The performances are fantastic and it is no wonder Jennifer Connelly won an Oscar years later and Billy Crudup is a well respected actor. This isn't a perfect film by any means (a little slow in places) but it is very clever and well done by everyone involved. If you are a serious film buff watch this film, if you like crap like the re-makes Prom Night & One Missed Call then you should skip this, because you won't know how to appreciate it. Give this a try otherwise and help it open your mind for some of the imaginative people that do exist out there. "},{"Title":"Starcrossed lovers meet in a battle between practical politics and social idealism","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I resonated with this picture on so many levels that I found the viewers comments as interesting and revealing as this excellent character study of the Vietnam era. However, I thought the title was poorly chosen and a bit macabre for the subject matter. I was particularly intrigued with the writer of the novel, Scott Spenser and turned to his bio for clues. Born 1945 in Washington, DC was a tip-off for me. Does this account for his awareness of the seamy side of politics and his apparently ruptured idealism? He would have been 17 when JFK was killed and in a couple of years become a prime candidate for service in Vietnam or a fast trip to Canada, as he has his flawed hero admit while explaining his cop-out by joining the Coast Guard. Spenser obviously knows about being conflicted. I just don't see Fielding Pierce as being idealistic in his political ambitions as so many readers do, at least not until the image of his lost love comes back to drive him to near mental collapse at the climax of a very physically draining political campaign. And such ventures, unless you are blessed by a very wealthy and powerful father, as with JFK and more recently George Bush -- are totally exhausting experiences in which the candidate can feel that he is absolutely alone and that the people around him are just sucking him dry. Fielding is portrayed as a totally passive pretty boy who is picked up by a powerful King Maker and who appears to have not a single political or social thought, whether his own or anyone else's, not even his eminently lovable and totally idealistic lover. So he loved the sex, but what else? And who doesn't? He had a childish dream, which he casually puts forth, of wanting to be President. Which is the sum total of his political and social awareness in so far as the story goes, until the image of his lost love finally reconstructs his insensitive soul. I was particularly struck by the writer's very short line that no one would have voted for JFK if they had really known him. How did that one get by the Hollywood censors? And did this account for the less than glowing reception this very well acted and directed sensitive story actually received? Did Jody Foster or Ed Harris approve that line? Can it be that these presumably politically sensitive Hollywood stars do not sit at the feet of the Democratic Party's latter day Saint Francis? They both must have had something to say about the script before they became attached to this project.Hmm. I find these clues fascinating. I'll have to watch this one again. And read more about it. "},{"Title":"Sarah Willians effect","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Maybe a movie that really touch my taciturn and melancholic emotions.A movie with a single lightness and full of allusions to our deepest desires of loving somebody unconditionally.At the same time this work shows the impossibility to annul ourselves or to annul the otherin a affection relationship.Sarah Willians; character of Jenifer Conelly; is attired with an almost mystic aura.Your silhouette of sweet little girl , your simple beauty in the middle of a Gothic fog, is the great piece that feed this movie, that is just a very common story, about two common people.I confess that t I din't know her(Jenifer Connelly) before to watch this movie. The sadness, the sensibility and the force that her face shows us,framed by your black hairs, burned in a misty and cold Chicago. The shock of Sarah Willians caused in me is inexplicable.The great merit of the director Keith Gordon(besides this amazing character)was trying to demystify, even of a soft way, the romantic love, that accepted only the unconditional pleasure between two people.Sarah Willians and Filding pierce,were not what we could say twin souls . She is an activist that wanted saving the world as a Che Guevara. He is a politician with a brilliant career.They find in one another the anguish not found in the fairy tales.From the madness of Pierce, Keith Gordon paint your board. Gordon explores the inner fragility of Peirce by his paranoid. He see Sarah in every woman and children, paranoid that keep on insoluble till the end. "},{"Title":"The last scene makes me feel more alive.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The last scene makes me feel more alive. The story about politics is just a glue to fill the main part - their relationship. There are strong, pure emotions between them and Keith Gordon slowly leads us to feel their love more and more. Shifting from presence to past and backwards gives us comparison between the rational and successful presence, with shallow emotions and past in which Fielding was swimming in deep emotions and where he hadn't achieved his goal yet. This comparison emphasizes our experience of their love. Uncertainty about Sarah's death creates hope which is not so real, and sadness caused by the lack of hope. Expectation and sadness prepare foundation for the end of the movie. Their conversation in the end puts the question Did Death decide or Sarah about their relationship? Death leaves us with no choice, which is sad. If Sarah decided to break their love it shows the strength of the emotions they had since being virtually dead is the only way to break off. In the last sentences we see feelings Fielding kept inside, and I'll finish my comment with the quoteAnd to this day, I still don't know if Sarah was real that night or just the product of my broken heart. But, Sarah, if you are alive and it was you that night, here for one last moment of sweetness before going back out to try to make things better in the world, I can only say keep fighting. God be with you. I love you. And if it wasn't really you, if my visit was only the you that still lives in my heart, the you that never gave up, that taught me what being brave was all about, if it was only the you that I will carry with me in my soul until the day I die, I can only say&#133;keep fighting. And God be with you. I love you. "}{"Title":"Love is a double-edged sword","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie on cable. I believe it got to me in the exact moment I needed it to love it.I am currently in mad love. It's a girl that I fatefully met years ago, and only recently got to meet face to face. Sadly, it was only for a few days. She lives in another country, and what will happen from here on is all but clear to me. All I know is that it's awfully painful not to be able to be with her when I need to--which is virtually always.But I digress. This film is about a love story gone wrong. Love can be beautiful and love can be awful, and we are presented with both sides of the coin here. The direction uses a 'time switch' that sends us into either of two relevant periods of time for the main character, Fielding Pierce. One of them are the happy years. The other you can guess. I don't want to let out any of the story itself, and I'm not trying to write a comprehensive review here; I'm barely putting down my thoughts on the film for you to read and evaluate. I'm sure someone else will be touched by the story, and the acting.On a second note, I'm from Chile, and the, can we say, 'dark age' of my country becomes an important subject of conflict between the lovers, and a stepping stone for a key element of the story. It's just a curiosity for me, of course, though I appreciate the way both views are laid out, and I'm able to see Sarah as a three dimensional character thanks to her well-portrayed emotions on the subject. "},{"Title":"Liked the Movie... is there a soundtrack?","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, thought it was a touching love story about two people living in very different worlds.  Despite this, they love and respect one another.  Sometimes that just isn't enough.  I thought Connelly and Crudup were great, and very touching.Many times, romantic movies focus on how bright and happy the couple is, how they fit so well together.  In the real world, things aren't that perfect. These are two very imperfect people who truly see beyond their differences, in fact love each other more because of them, and try to make a go. Unfortunately, that means not being able to be together, but to cherish that person nonetheless, and carry them with you.  The depth of love that we experience in this movie is not found in very many other movies out there. To give a true example of a relationship, pain and all, is awesome.The soundtrack to the movie was beautiful.   "},{"Title":"same old story, same old Connelly","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this film, I thought from reading the book, which was as just confusing, that it would not follow everything in the movie, that was put in the book. It didn't, yet it was the same old story Jennifer Connelly doing what she does best, sex scenes. Granted, I hold nothing against her, she is an excellent actress and deserved the oscar that she won. Yet, when I think about all the movies that she has done, quite a few of her films, have her in sex scenes. She handles them quite well, although I wish that she would do more films like A Beautful Mind, and less of ones like Heart of Justice (Eric Stoltz, uh, such a a**hole.) I loved this film, minus the headache from my best friend cusing out Crudup every 10 seconds or so. It was filled with passion, and the ending, well, that's just one that anyone that sees it needs to decide. The story goes like this Fielding Pierce, is a pollitican that is still haunted by his dead lover, Sarah. But is she really dead? This is the question that is not answered, not even by the end of the film. Fielding sees Sarah, walking out of resturants, in a church, he hears her voice on the phone. Beautifly acted and directed, I found it quite good, which was quite a surprise. I only had two problems with the film first off, why the heck was there so much sex? I mean, sure it's a love story, so some sex should be allowed, yet, the sex in this film, was very disturbing. Second, if Billy Crudup, had not been in this film, and replaced by some other actor, it would have been perfect. Above all, I give it a solid 10 ********** stars. Bravo!!! "},{"Title":"That rare political film","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just ran Waking the Dead. I've also read a few of the comments here on the site.The point of the film is not the love story, nor is it insanity. The point of the story is the love hate relationship between two different strands of politics, or more closely, two strands of political lives.Fielding's strand is a conventional, incremental, progressive, insider's perspective. Sara's strand is, for lack of a more polite term, radical. The two perspectives can, at times, co-exist, but are fundamentally at odds with each other.The film is built around this give and take, this incompatibility. Sara's perspective is one of committment, treating a derelict as if he might be Christ. Fielding believes that if you're bright enough and work hard enough, you can enter the inner parlors of power and work the levers.Is Sara really alive in the end? Clearly, as a committed radical, she could plausibly be working underground. Or, as she put it in the film, she could be Fielding's Jiminy Cricket. Either way, it's a metaphor. It's a counterpoint to Fielding's Kennedy-like trajectory. As an intriguing sidebar, Fielding's dad warns him about honesty and strength. Fielding's dad rejects candor, saying that if people knew about Jack Kennedy, would people have voted for him?Ultimately, the film raises a core question. What does one do once we know of the evils of the world? One could argue the validity of both paths. That's the beauty of the film. Bravo. "},{"Title":"Everybody's got one...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There are a lot of people who clearly didn't like Waking the Dead, from users on IMDB to the showboating reviewers who slated the movie when it was released in the US. Fair enough.But everybody has one band/ movie/ book/ football team, etc. that they are fantastically, neurotically obsessive about; so much so that when they ask one of their friends to listen to/ watch this favourite band/movie that they cannot understand why anyone would fail to see its brilliance.Just to warn you I feel exactly that way about Waking the Dead. I can't really justify it because anyone would be hard pushed to acclaim Waking the Dead as the GREATEST film of all time (ever...TM). And I've had many friends sit and watch it and then personally throw insults at me because they hated it so much. But I don't care because whenever I watch this movie it gets me every time.The first time I saw it I was really moved by it (and I HATE spurious romantic movies) but I still had some serious reservations. Large parts didn't make sense to me, many questions remained unanswered why did Sarah leave Fielding if she loved him so much? If Fielding really was going crazy during the senatorial campaign then how did he keep it together? Why did Sarah return to Fielding at the end only to leave him again?The end part just didn't sit right and I thought that that was a bit slack for a film that marketed itself as intelligent take on a romantic drama.But having watched it a couple more times I'm satisfied that there is nothing wrong with the film at all. I think the way Sarah drifts away from Fielding is very realistic, and if you watch closely it certainly doesn't just happen out of the blue. Certainly, it's quite unfair on Fielding as he is put in some very difficult positions because of her. She is continually testing him to explore the level of his political hypocrisy and self-deception when it comes to 'doing some good' when he gets to power. And he fails every time...Some people have complained that it is stupid and unrealistic that Sarah would fake her own death (admittedly a supremely deceitful act) and risk losing Fielding for ever. But its clear that she thinks she's lost him to the corridors of power by the time she takes the fateful trip to Minneapolis. Anyone who thinks it unlikely that someone would choose political conviction over a lover is clearly a product of these intensely depoliticised times. Bear in mind that Fielding would have entered an administration that had engineered and sustained the Chilean regime that was responsible for countless crimes against humanity that Sarah had witnessed and which Fielding largely chose to ignore.What raises this movie above any other romantic drama is the utterly extraordinary acting. Jennifer Connolly is never any less than excellent in my opinion but she really outdoes herself here. If she hadn't been convincing in this extremely complicated role then the movie would have failed.One scene really stands out the scene where she verbally attacks Ellis, the guy who wrote an article defending the Pinochet regime in Chile. Literally trembling with anger and frustration, Connolly launches into a tirade that is both brave and totally convincing. If this scene hadn't been so stirring then it would have looked like a callous attempt to wreck Fielding's career. But Connolly handles it so beautifully that she makes it clear that Sarah and Fielding's relationship is all but doomed. Billy Crudup, however, is even more amazing. Playing a normally very stable and upright person having a nervous breakdown is not easy but Fielding's sorrow, frustration and confusion is totally convincing, and at times, heartbreaking. The scene that really stands out here is the dinner scene where he loses control after the election. It's absolutely shattering. I know several people who have had breakdowns due to depression and from what I've seen Crudup perfectly encapsulates all the sadness and anger that is capable of driving people out of their minds.OK, OK... the end bit isn't too satisfactory. The idea that Fielding is doing 'some good' by answering a few begging letters is a bit of a cop out. If he was really doing the 'good' that Sarah wanted, then he would have been making some attempt to uncover the shady dealings of his pay masters surrounding Chile. It's also inferred that she may be in a relationship with Steve (the priest she works with) but this is never resolved. Why? It's clear that Steve loves her, but he remains a peripheral character. Also, Fielding would be unlikely to suddenly be cured just because Sarah came back to him for one night. If I was him, I'd be more screwed up then ever if she did that to me.Nonetheless, Waking the Dead remains one of the most beautiful, even handed and intelligent movies I have ever seen.If you're in love with someone, if you used to be, or if you just wish you were - watch it, you might learn something.          "},{"Title":"A gem worth looking for.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Until today(2/27/2002) I thought this title was a Nic Cage film.  I got the DVD because of the director and cast--Keith Gordon, Billy Crudup, Jennifer Connely, Janet McTeer,Hal Holbrook et al. The sellingpoints promoting the love story-the politician-the implications of sweet elements and all were so misleading. The film uses the Scott Spencer novel as a base and from the opening extreme close-up of the main character watching the news of his beloved's death on television throughout the unfolding, multi-layered, textured, superbly wrought construction this film deals with broad, deep, and more emotional realities of American life and values.The acting is stellar throughout-the direction affords  concise clarity and charm that brought the story home brilliantly.  This is a little unknown gem of a film.  Within the DVD is also buried more information of the makers and the making of a film than anything short of a production course could offer.Do strive to see this one. "},{"Title":"The best?","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Love story ever told?  Maybe, maybe not.  But the telling is simply amazing. This is quite possibly the most beautiful film I have ever seen in my entire life.  It doesn't doesn't play around with you, or insult your intelligence.  You're not forced to belive that the characters are perfect or fake.  The movie simply presents you with two, flawed human beings in a flawed but, because of those true and (in some cases) large faults, perfect love.  This film knows that it is not the movie but the story which matters.- Spoilage Warning(?...if spoilage is really possible for this film) -The end leaves you knowing not if Sarah (the Sarah in Feilding's 80s life) was real or not.  It doesn't matter if his grief stricken mind made her up at the time when he needed a flair of truth in his life or not.  It doesn't matter if she had in fact been hiding away from him all those years and finally broke down and came back, just for the one night.  It doesn't matter.  Though there is more proof on the first side it is a waste of time to debate it.  The point is that she had lived and they had loved each other.  And that, not anything else, is the story being told.And it makes me happy that anyone could possibly experience a love like that. "},{"Title":"Put this one on your Sleeper list!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First, this isn't My kind of movie, that said; this is one of the fine- st love stories that I have ever seen. I have always watched for Keith Gordon's work since The Chocolate War and A Midnight Clear. In my opinion, this is his finest work. Well shot, well paced, great performan- ces from the cast and tight direction make this a genuine find for me. Give this one a chance. "},{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you have watched 'The Sixth Sense' or 'The Others' and and you loved it so much, then I highly recommend this movie to you. It is not much different between those two movies, well, almost. But I'll bet you would wanna watch the twos again after watching this.  "},{"Title":"A strange but effective feel good and sad love story.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A strange but effective feel good and sad love story about a congressional candidate (Billy Crudup) who is in a very tight special election race, has the memories of a girl (Jennifer Connelly) whom he had loved and was supposedly killed in a horrific car bombing.  The two leads here are both great and share a terrific chemistry onscreen that makes the film memorable.  Director Keith Gordon (A Midnight Clear) knows when to show the pain and anger that the Crudup character holds.  The movie also has a pair of good supporting performances from Janet McTeer and Hal Holbrook. It's mellow yet it packs an emotional wallop. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully Painful","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie last year and as soon as I ran across the DVD I bought it.  And though it appears to be full of extras that I would normally get right to watchin' I just haven't.   It's been almost a year now since I've purchased this movie on DVD.  The reason is because I haven't been able to watch it again.  Now this probably isn't true of everyone who watches this film, but I found it emotionally devastating to watch.  Let me explain.   This movie is fantastic, I love it, I give it at least 8 out of 10 stars.  Maybe more.  However for me the pain that I felt and the tears that were shed were not because of empathy towards the characters on the screen, but rather because of some strange indescribable way that this movie hit me.  Deep inside where I usually only feel grumbly hunger-related sensations.   You may not like this movie for it's pace or the characters may not appeal to you, etc.  But maybe, just maybe it'll have a similar result with you that it did with me.  And if it does, it's worth watching.  Why else watch a movie if not to feel something?   And as one person commented about the love aspect of this film, I agree, I don't see how she can love him.  When you truly love someone, they are everything.  They are the most important thing to you.  But that is part of the reason that this movie hurts so much, because I think we've all loved someone who has not returned the feelings.  At least not completely.   Check this movie out.  Maybe it won't hurt you.  But then again maybe it will.  "},{"Title":"Incredible film","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an incredible film. I wish IMDB had a way to vote between numbers. I would have rated it a 9.3! I can't justify a 10 because no film is perfect but this is an excellent film. Incredible screenplay and incredible acting all around. Top it off with great direction and cinematography and you have a real winner. Rent it if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"This is a terrific combination of moving romance, political commentary, and a haunting ghost story.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is yet another masterpiece from one of our greatest independent filmmakers, the always intellectually rigorous and emotionally powerful Keith Gordon.  With WAKING THE DEAD he's crafted his best film to date, a movie that's simultaneously a powerhouse romance, a moving ghost story, and a thoughtful piece of political commentary on the decline of genuine liberalism in America.  Most impressive are the performances by Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly, which in their depth and authenticity are reminiscent of the best acting in John Cassavetes' films.  There isn't a false moment in their relationship, which makes its ultimate resolution all the more powerful.  Gordon is comparable to Stanley Kubrick in his talent for precise compositions and difficult adaptations, but he does the master one better when it comes to accessible emotions--it's difficult to imagine Kubrick ever plumbing the emotional depths that this film does, and the seemingly endless truths about relationships (some of which are Gordon's, some of which are novelist Scott Spencer's) combined with a sharp but nuanced political sensibility make this the best American release of 2000.  "},{"Title":"The most overlooked film of the year.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is truly a waste that when you mention Waking the Dead to most anyone they immediately assume you are talking about that Nic Cage film that Scorcese made about the ambulance... because, for whatever reason, this film was passed over by the critics, viewers and most poignantly, the academy.This film haunted me long after I first time I viewed it. It's one of those movies that will score a mark in your emotional memory and haunt you long after viewing. Connelly and Crudup do the difficult battle of playing idealists without making them sanctimonious or bland. They are flawed, driven and brilliantly in love. Keith Gordon, the director, has the patience to unfold his story with a steady hand and uses the cutting back from past and present to mine deeper into the emotion of Crudup's woe.I don't think I've seen a film capture the true hardship and pain associated with the conflict of love versus ideals. Crudup has a monologue in the film that transcends, spirals and eventually dissipates that is as hypnotic and naked a moment as I've seen onscreen. It's amazing in a year that Crudup was in Jesus' Son, Almost Famous along with Connelly who chalked up Requiem for a Dream and Pollock that neither of these actors were even mentioned, or thought of, around academy nomination time. All the actors supporting these two are heavyweights...Hal Holbrook, Ed Harris, Janet McTeer and Paul Hipp. Theres a reason these esteemed people signed on for this gripping chamber piece. It's an emotionally stunning film about ideals and the true personal cost of living for them. "},{"Title":"Too Long","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I realize what this movie was trying to do, but when it was over I just felt awful.  I have never seen a movie that made me feel so bad at the end.  I am not saying that every good film needs a happy ending...far from it, but there was nothing to save this film.  I read on the back that it was an hour and forty minutes, and that must be a lie.  I swear I watched this movie for two or three hours.  It just wouldn't end. By the way....did anyone catch the interesting character name of Jennifer Connelly?  Her name in the film was Sarah Williams...the same as her character's name in Labyrinth.  Just an interesting bit of trivia I found. "},{"Title":"A film standing out in the American movie industry","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Although you might think it's close, any sampling you would take from the Twilight Zone series would prove to belong in their own clichée.You will have a hard time fitting Waking the Dead into any of the known clichées if you try.Unless of course you accept that anywhere the name Jodie Foster goes in ,the difference has already been made!  "},{"Title":"Keith Gordon has done it again.  A beautiful movie.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Keith Gordon, who scored a great victory in his film A Midnight Clear scores highly again with this reflective, engrossing, and beautifully photographed film about the relationship between two extremely attractive, intelligent, but politically divergent individuals in the late sixties. Fielding Pierce, played by Billy Crudup, is running for Congress in the 1980's while being haunted by his love with the lovely Sarah Williams, played by Jennifer Connely.  Their relationship was extremely passionate and emotionally supportive despite their differences.  Fieldings life is turned upside down when Sarah is killed in an explosion (I'm giving nothing away here--this happens in the first scene in the movies).  The movie jumps around in time, but each scene is clearly captioned so that the viewer always knows exactly the time frame.The romance is top notch, the chemistry between Crudup and Connelly is very good, and their both lovely to look at.  There is a sense of urgency throughout the film as the viewer is kept guessing as to whether Sarah really did die, or is that her ghost that is haunting Fielding as he is running for Congress.  Once again, Keith Gordon, the director, has created a mystical and engrossing atmosphere in telling a very good story.  As in A Midnight Clear, he uses snow in a way that is becoming a signature.  A visually and emotionally stunning experience all around. Definitely on of my favorite movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly powerful film","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Subtle acting and lots of talking tells the story of a love that will not die, our hero and heroine are star-crossed but that in many ways is what fuels their passion.Despite the constant casting as the Hot Babe Jennifer really brings emotions to the surface, this could be a break out role for her if enough people see the movie.A good movie is one where you understand everyone's motivations even when it causes them pain you know why they do what they do, and this is an extreme example.  A character study that focuses on the drives of these individuals in a touching romantic story of how one really makes a difference in this lifetime, ...crawling toward paradise "},{"Title":"Excellent! A beautiful movie!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film and was simply blown away! I thought it was absolutely beautiful. The story line is excellent and the ending was very unexpected and left you feeling every ounce of emotion that Crudup's character had to have been feeling. I was floored! The movie was very romantic in a mysterious sort of way. Another thing I really liked about the film was how easy the emotion came across from the actors--along with the fact that the film didn't use the commonly wild special effects to get a great dramatic effect in the movie; very much in the same way the movies of yesteryear were made. A must see with your special someone. "},{"Title":"This movie is surely one of the most unappreciated films of the year.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like many other films of its type, this film was unappreciated at the box office and by many critics.  Not only does Keith Gordon have a bright future, but the extraordinary Billy Crudup is one of the best young actors in film today.  I only hope that Almost Famous will give him the appreciation he deserves. "}{"Title":"Worth seeing twice","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is some great writing in this movie, and you'll want to watch it again in case you missed something. I had no idea who Billy Crudup (other than his memorable last name) was before this film. This boy can act. The story is a little idealistic, but not unrealistic a young Coast Guard officer, politician-wanna-be, meets a poor-person's advocate, a left-wing activist type woman and she captivates him. Against her wishes, he goes on military patrol; against his wishes, she goes to Chile to rescue revolutionaries from the right wing government. She is apparently killed in a car bomb...or is she?  Years later, as he is pulled somewhat reluctantly and mindlessly through a candidacy for (state?) senator by a Democratic election machine, his memory of her gets stronger and stronger until he begins to see her again. She even calls him. Is he hallucinating because he feels guilty that he's not standing up for those beliefs she had that he loved her for?This is a Jodie Foster executive production and I want to thank her for funding it. This movie reminds us that we weren't always so jaded. "},{"Title":"A riveting look back at what your life could have become","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In some ways reminded me of the Big Chill. Same sort of backwards look at the way your life was, the way it could have been and the way it actually turned out. Got me thinking about the details of my own life when I was in my early twenties, full of ideals, and anxious to find my way to meaning in a world all too full of emptiness, self interest, and despair. Great movie and an absolute must see for those having lived through the sixties and early seventies. "},{"Title":"Keith Gordon's WAKING THE DEAD","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Keith Gordon and James Mangold are the best writer-directors working in Hollywood today.  Both have a recognizable visual style and a humanity no one else can touch.Waking The Dead is one of the best films I saw this year.  Gordon's script is perfect.  His casting choice in Connelly and Crudup was a work of genius. Connelly is one of the most beautiful women in the world.  That she is an actress of uncommon talent and dimension just makes it all better. Crudup, a character actor to the death, gives another performance that brought me to tears more than once.  If you've seen this film and you liked him in it, wait until you see Cameron Crowe's Almost Famous in September.This film broke my heart over and over.  If you've ever loved someone.  If you've ever really, really loved someone, you'll love this film.  End of story.There's a scene that takes place on a subway.  A conversation between Connelly and Crudup.  It was so absolutely real that it knocked me on my butt.A Midnight Clear and Mother Night are outstanding towering masterpieces that broke my heart too.Mr. Gordon, keep breaking it.  Please don't stop making these films.  They will last.  They will last so much longer than the crap that is actually in theaters now.  Waking The Dead opened nowhere.  It opened on a handful of screens and no one saw it.  And that is such a terrible, terrible shame. It's a wonderful film.  If you're reading this, go get it.  Buy it on DVD. It will be out in September with a commentary, and deleted scenes (including one with Ed Harris).Just to finalize how much I like this film and how much I admire Gordon's work, just read the followingMY TOP TEN FAVORITE FILMS 1)Five Easy Pieces 2)Once Upon a Time in America 3)Notorious 4)Love in the Afternoon 5)Heavy 6)Crimes and Misdemeanors 7)Waking the Dead 8)Cousins 9)A Midnight Clear 10)Sweet Smell of Success "},{"Title":"A thoughtful film, high intensity love story with life's contradictions and moral dilemma abound","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Director Keith Gordon's previous endeavors 1991 A Midnight Clear, 1996 Mother Night, were both thoughtful, intense, complex, dilemma-ridden film ventures - contradictions and humanity combined. In Waking the Dead, besides all the aforementioned ingredients, he also included self-questioning situations mingled with loss, death - intense grieving of a dearly beloved. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly are aptly paired in this unusual love story. You might say it's literally out of this world. The ending is worth waiting for if you're the impatient kind and could not empathize with the predicament Crudup's character is in.If you want to try something different from a regular Hollywood commercial movie, and go for something with substance, see Waking the Dead.Look forward to Jesus' Son, Billy Crudup's film with Samantha Morton, who is absolutely superb in Woody Allen's 1999 Sweet and Low Down as Hattie the mute opposite the flawless Sean Penn - another delightful paired performance. Morton is capable of intense emotional portrayal, also along the line of loss, death and grieving of her mother in writer-director Carine Adler's 1997 Under the Skin; she is dynamic in demonstrating the range of emotions the main character was going through. If you're ready for a gutsy film, try Under the Skin.  "},{"Title":"A Film Worth Seeking Out","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Keith Gordon may be the American filmmaker of the future.  Although he is best known for his starring turns in Dressed To Kill and Christine, Gordon's fourth feature, Waking The Dead, further establishes him as one of the most stylish and talented directors of his generation.  Much like his previous effort, Mother Night, Gordon compresses big ideas and emotions into an intricately woven film that occasionally dazzles the viewer.  Carefully telling two stories simultaneously, Waking The Dead is about the most complex of all emotions, love, and asks how strong a hold can love take on a person.  Billy Crudup and the lovely Jennifer Connelly (co-stars of Inventing The Abbotts) give wonderful performances as the young couple in question...every one of their scenes are realistic and delicately portrayed.  Gordon keeps you enraptured throughout, all the way to the climactic ending.  Sadly, the ending seems to be a cop-out, as if test audiences were too confused at the initial ending and Gordon added the last minute to make sure the audience really gets.  This diminishes what could have been a powerful and suitable conclusion to the film.  Despite this drawback, Waking The Dead, is a film worth seeking out, simply to revel in the emergence of a first-class filmmaker. "},{"Title":"The best chemistry since Love Story","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It took me about an hour after watching this movie to realize how much I liked it.  I was at first unsatisfied with the abrupt ending but after some pondering I realized what a unique and beautiful story it truly was. Unusually, you get to see a true love affair through the eyes of a man and it is just as touching and emotional.  The realistic sex scenes and arguments between Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly make it easy to forget that you are watching fictional characters.  The acting and direction of this movie are superb.  I would like to see Billy Crudup get an oscar nomination next year.  His is the finest performance I have seen in a while. "},{"Title":"wow, but...","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  An unusual but completely workable structure, great sex scenes that actually make a difference in the story, wonderful acting and casting, lots of effective imagery. And then, the last five minutes are a tacked-on, over-obvious subtlety-slaying nose-dive, comparable to the ending of Copland in its amazing ability to annihilate everything good that came before it. Still, this is a film worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Experience","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was an unusual experience.  It was somehow different than just watching a good movie.  Anyone who has ever really been in love can relate somehow, especially those who know what it's like to be truly in love with someone whose life direction is bound to diverge from your own.  I couldn't leave the theatre until the very last credits had cleared the screen.  Even then, I just wanted to sit there and continue the emotional experience. "},{"Title":"Excellent love story true to life dialog & characters","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful movie by up-and-coming director Keith Gordon. Several of the scenes were so realistic that I was smiling in my seat, as if the characters were really in front of me. Other scenes were so realistic that I broke down in tears--I'm a guy, not prone to crying much. I recommend this film to anyone who's ever been in love. It accurately portrayed many stages of a love relationship, the good and the bad. The director's scene segues and jumps in time worked well to establish a history of the characters and to (intentionally) disorient the audience when the characters seemed disoriented. "},{"Title":"Nice job by Keith Gordon","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The movie is about how falling in love for the first time irrevocably affects the lives of not only the couple, but everyone around them.It hurts to watch handsome Billy Crudup & beautiful Jennifer Connolly fall in love.  It reminds oneself of the first time it happened and makes you wonder if that emotionally delirious feeling can ever be recaptured.LOVED it! "}{"Title":"Keith Gordon is a genius in the works","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have fallen in love with the works of Keith Gordon, and this movie has only proved me right. He will have an Oscar in the next 10 years,... I predict it now. I hope this movie will prompt you to check out his other excellent movies, not only as a brilliant director, but also a fine actor. His presence in Christine was phenomenal. "},{"Title":"Unusual blend of romantic drama and supernaturality; misfire despite strong acting","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" WAKING THE DEAD (2000) **1/2 Billy Crudup, Jennifer Connelly, Hal Holbrook, Janet McTeer, Molly Parker, Paul Hipp, Sandra Oh, John Carroll Lynch. Schizophrenic love story of sorts &#150; a hybrid of romantic drama and supernatural underpinnings &#150; with photogenic couple Crudup and Connelly, respectively, a budding young congressman and a social activist, who are suddenly separated when she is killed in a car bombing with political ramifications (or is she?) The story suffers from its relentless ping-ponging from 1973 to 1983 with its skewed perspective in flashback/flashforward that one never gets a real grasp of what is reality; then again that is perhaps the point(?) The two talented leads make an effort in balancing the schism of reality and ethereality especially Crudup eschewing his leading man looks for some real emoting, particularly his brink of insanity when he envisions his beloved everywhere. Based on the novel by Scott Spencer ('Endless Love') and produced by Jodie Foster. (Dir Keith Gordon) "},{"Title":"A Great Performance - Infuriating Film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First off let me say that Billy Crudup's performance in Waking the Dead is simply great. He's always been interesting to watch, in whatever I've seen him in, but because this film is so infuriating in so many ways I found myself more appreciative than ever of the skill of this man.A story of undying love should be a wonderful and moving thing, but for me the great flaw of this film is that I didn't for a moment believe that these two people would want to be together longer than to share a cup of coffee -- and even then not without the direct intervention of some satanic power.Since they have nothing in common and no shared points of view or interests, the fact that the film simply steps over this problem as if it isn't even there asks too much of the viewer.The character of Sarah (Jennifer Connelly) is so committed to her views of political-social right and wrong that she trashes her lovers career hopes over and over without the slightest concern for the ramifications for him.  Her committments are all for mankind, all intellectual, none are emotional, none personal, and emphatically not for him.  This man and his happiness interest her not in the least.  And he smiles thru it all.There's lots of love-making so they must be in love.  That's as much as the film-makers can provide to hang this entire premise on.I don't buy it.But, man, it was HUGELY interesting to watch Billy Crudup tower over everything else here.  "},{"Title":"Incoherent But Watchable","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have never seen any other movies directed by Keith Gordon so I can't comment on how this one compares to those. Also, I am not familiar with his style of directing so that may be a reason for my opinion of this movie. I loved the acting by Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connally. I also liked the use of the story telling by going back and forth through time. What I didn't care for was the dialogue between the main characters and how, for me, it did not appear to resolve any issues that Billy Crudup's character was having. At times I felt that each of them were having a conversation about two different and unrelated subjects. I didn't experience any type of closure at the end of the movie. Luckily, for me, when I decided to watch this movie I had no expectations as to what it might be like. If I had, I probably would have been even more disappointed. "},{"Title":"It's got something","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I came across this film by accident while washing dishes and I remember stopping in the middle to watch the rest of it. It takes a while to get it, but it does get your attention. It's unusual, it's very quiet, it might be 'weird' to some, but it has a point. I think everyone will understand it differently, but to me it was about how one sees him/herself in the world and what one decides to do for the world. It takes you through the story of two lovers both of whom are passionate about what they do, but there is much more. See it, try it! don't read the critics, just give it a chance. Every time I see the ending I cry...i don't care what anyone says, it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well,Not the masterpiece I was hoping for, but a good movie none the less.8 out of 10.Regards, "},{"Title":"Nice 1970's Period Piece","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Nice little film about two young people coming of age in the charged political environment of the early 1970's.  Like always Billy Crudup is great.  Jennifer Connelly is also really good as usual. Jenny fans will enjoy seeing the twins once again.  "},{"Title":"Waking the Senses","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  	The circumstances surrounding the death of a young woman-- a peace activist working with a church organization in Minneapolis-- and it's effect on her lover, an aspiring politician, initiates a character study underscored with mystery in `Waking the Dead,' directed by Keith Gordon.  The movie begins by picking up the story in 1974, with a news report of the death of one Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly), then flashes back to 1972, when Sarah and Fielding Pierce (Billy Crudup) first met.  Then the story flashes forward to 1982, where we learn what's become of Fielding since Sarah's death.  The entire story unfolds in this manner-- flashing back and forth between &#145;72 and &#145;82, and finally between &#145;73 and &#145;83-- and it proves to be a very effective method of storytelling; it allows the viewer to get to know and understand Fielding intimately, as his character is developed succinctly through pivotal episodes in his life.  And it works just as well with Sarah's character, though her death ultimately becomes shrouded in mystery. 	A good director will let his audience know in the first few minutes of a film exactly what can be expected from what follows, and from the opening frame Gordon establishes the method through which his story will be told, and it works beautifully.  Ultimately, he creates an atmosphere in which the story thrives and maintains a pace that keeps it alive, while exacting performances from his actors that conclusively make it a memorable film.  The story is character driven  Two people share the same principles and ideals and love each other deeply, but disagree on the methods by which to effect their goals.  And Crudup and Connelly are more than up to the task of carrying the film; their respective performances are outstanding.  Connelly especially captures the depth of Sarah's commitment and drive, while presenting a physical and emotional presence that personifies &#145;70s sensibilities, up to and including the sacrifices she is willing to bear in order to `Make a difference' in the world.  Crudup, meanwhile, successfully captures the essence of a young man in conflict, torn between whether to forego all in the name of principle, or to attempt to resolve the same issues through established and recognized channels of mainstream society, buying into the `Establishment,' as it were.  Crudup achieves an emotional level that aptly conveys the inner turmoil with which he must live without respite; a personal struggle that threatens to destroy him.  It's a powerful performance that, along with his turn in `Almost Famous,' should establish him as one of the best young actors in the business today.  	The supporting cast includes Molly Parker (Juliet), Janet McTeer (Caroline), Paul Hipp (Danny), Sandra Oh (Kim), Hal Holbrook (Isaac) and Ed Harris in a cameo as Jerry Carmichael.  In the final analysis, `Waking the Dead' is a pensive, thought provoking film that will grab you intellectually as well as emotionally; Gordon maintains a tension throughout the film, and a sense of mystery, that compels the emotional involvement of the audience.  And with the riveting presence and performances of the darkly winsome Connelly and the charismatic Crudup, it makes for a satisfying film-going experience that demonstrates what the magic of the movies is all about.  I rate this one 8/10.	  "},{"Title":"Ultimately a disappointing story.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film, a combination of a love story and a ghost story, had   potential that was never quite realized.  The plot involves a congressional candidate who begins to be haunted by his old  girlfriend who had died tragically 10 years earlier.  Without giving away the ending, I will say that I felt the resolution of the is she or isn't she haunting him, or is he just plain crazy? question was ultimately unsatisfying.  The acting by  Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly was adequate, but we never quite believe they would have been together in the first  "},{"Title":"Beautifully acted but ultimately dull and disappointing.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  While beautifully acted and directed, this movie is ultimately dull and preachy. The premise is interesting but the screenplay doesn't live up to its subject matter. There's a real chemistry between leads Billy Crudup, who plays the politically aspiring Fielding Pierce, and Jennifer Connelly, who plays his politically radical girlfriend Sarah Williams, but their dialogue is so pat and forced, even they have a hard time rising above it. In fact all of the political musings, and there are many, are pedagogical and out of place in what could have been a Sixth Sense-ish moving and haunting love story. In addition, all of the other characters around the couple are complete cliches; especially Fielding's pushy, obnoxious and unsympathetic family. The ambiguous ending is a disappointing cop out. Almost worth it for the outstanding and very emotional performances, especially of handsome Crudup, but wait for the video. "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am quite bored of people toasting a film simply because it is an indie. The love story was completely unbelievable to me and his outbursts during the family meals - pivotal moments allowing insights into the character (two in particular - the one about America and the one with his family during his victory dinner) seem annoying and overacted.I know some who read this will accuse me of being unable to appreciate the true beauty of this film because of its slow pace, but I disagree.This movie had some interesting scenes and I was very interested watching Billy Crudup's character run for political office (his lifetime goal) as his interest in achieving it seems to wane the closer he gets.I could have truly enjoyed an entire film solely based on what happened in the last half hour- 45 minutes of the film before he is actually elected. It was this journey that I found truly fascinating.Unfortunately that is not the movie's focus and the audience suffers for it. "},{"Title":"Tough Emotional Ground and Only Mixed Results","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Based on the script as written, I can't imagine any director this side of Steven Soderbergh could have really handled Waking the Dead. This is a film that bounces through a nonlinear storyline and any number of genres and yet all the while is basically a showpiece for a single actor. Keith Gordon does what he can with the material, but despite a very strong ending I feel like he's overwhelmed slightly more often that he succeeds.The film takes place in at least four separate time periods, two in the early seventies and two in the early eighties. The earlier periods are essentially the story of the romance between Fielding Pierce (Billy Crudup) and Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly), young people of similar leftist ideology, but very different views of how to achieve political goals. Pierce, the son of a blue collar family, wants to take his Harvard diploma and law degree and turn himself into a Senator or a president. He joins the coast guard because he knows that taking a stand outside of the system will cost him his political life someday. She, on the other hand, is disgusted by the corruption of politics and works through the church and grass roots causes. And in 1974, as we're told through a television broadcast in the opening scene, Sarah was killed in a car bombing. Cut to 1983, where Pierce is being handed a Chicago congressional district by the local political bosses and he's in danger of becoming the kind of cog in the political wheel that Sarah most detested. And to make matters worse, he's started to see Sarah everywhere, becoming gradually more convinced that she's around, either as a ghost, a hallucination, or something else...The film dances from time period to time period, generally in a simplistic fashion aimed at making clear how Pierce's idealism has been tampered with. For at least the first half of the film, the audience is informed of temporal (and geographical) switches by subtitles at the bottom of the screen. I have to admit that this bothered me. If a director wants to do an unconventional piece of storytelling, he should either have faith in the cinematic literacy of the audience or else he shouldn't bother. Gordon's decision to constantly tell the audience where he's going, both through the subtitles (i.e. Chicago, 1973) and the editing marker of a burst of white light signaling flashes forward and back undermines his more intelligent efforts. The transitions in time are clunky and the film has a hard time segueing from romance to political thriller to tragedy to mystery. It's fine for a film to be a mix, but Waking the Dead feels like it's working too hard.I'm not really sure where the currency is in this story that drew Gordon to it. The notion of a man haunted by both a literal spirit from his past and the metaphorical spirit of his lost ideals is hardly fresh and the story feels like it may have had more pep back in the mid-80s, when the shift of counter culture members to the political Right was more of a hot idea.This being said, Gordon (who in my mind will always be the kid from Dressed to Kill) does excellent work with the actors in the film. This is especially true with Connelly, an actress who all too often finds herself cast for her curves and not enough for her acting muscle. Directors seem to get such a kick out of filming her body that they don't work with her performance. Gordon solves one of these problems by keeping Connelly in winter clothes for most of her performance. Rather than being the femme fatale, she's an Earth Mother. And it's a pleasant change. Sure she's beautiful and sexy, but she also has a lilting Southern accent (in most scenes) and a good screen presence.I didn't put an especially true on Crudup's performance because I've simply come to expect very fine work from him. Crudup's film work began with him sleeping through performances in Sleeper and Inventing the Abbotts, but since then he's given one amazing performance after another, carrying films as diverse as the hugely underrated Without Limits and this year's triple crown of Jesus's Son, Almost Famous, and this film. His ability to deliver dialogue speaks to his theater background and he holds the screen remarkably well for a man who, as this movie visually emphasizes on several occasions, isn't of great stature. He's one of the best young actors working and this is an amazing showcase for him. As his character becomes more desperate and erratic, Crudup's performance just becomes better.As I said, this film got better for me towards the end. However, there are huge patches where none of the scene transitions work at all. I'm giving it a 6/10, but I certainly think it has its rewards.  "},{"Title":"Confusing and disjointed","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is a love story, perhaps a good one, but bad directing and organization destroys the story. Almost every other scene is a flashback and the poor viewer has no reference marks. Tough to know at what time in the story the scene was shot. Because of its disorganization, it would not be surprising that every viewer has a different version of what the story is. Frankly, I do not know how the movie ended, it was so confusing.I was motivated to watch the movie because of Jennifer Connelly. She is a captivating beauty who has always come across as a lovable person. But she turns ugly in this movie. At the most inappropriate time, she becomes vulgar. it doesn't fit her character and in real life, it is doubtful that anyone would launch into a vulgar tirade as she did against a reporter at a formal function. Neither was it natural for Billy Crudup to spew forth vulgarities during family dinner at a restaurant. People do not use the f word in front of their mothers, especially when one considers how close Crudup was to his family. "},{"Title":"Try as I could,  I could not stay awake for this.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I love Kieth Gordon films,  let me get that out of the way. They are intelligent,  thoughtful,  and heartfelt.  I'm rootingfor him.  But I was very disappointed with this film.  As thenew york times said,  There is no light in Billy Crudups eyes, and this kills the whole film.  The politics are skirted andslight at best,  and it relies on a love story which has nosparks.  The music is overwhelming,  as if Mr. Gordon is tryingto prompt us into feeling something that his actors aren'tproviding.  Perhaps if he had cast different actors and trustedhis audience a bit more,  the film might have worked.  As it is, I'm afraid it's just dull and lifeless. "},{"Title":"Might Wake the Dead... but Put Everyone Else To Sleep","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  WAKING THE DEAD (2 outta 5 stars)Writer/director Keith Gordon has made some really fantastic movies that most people never see or hear about (A Midnight Clear, Mother Night) so I was very excited about seeing this one.  Unfortunately, I have to say that it's not up to his usual standards.  Billy Crudup plays an idealistic young man with dreams of winning a seat in the US Senate.  Jennifer Connelly plays the idealistic young girl he falls in love with who has a slightly more radical take on government.  The events of the movie take place out of the linear time sequence.  The movie starts with Connelly's death and backtracks to when they first met... and it leapfrogs back and forth forever after... as the latter-day Crudup begins to have visions of his dead girl coming back to life.  Is he crazy?  Is she a ghost?  Or did she fake her own death?  The acting is pretty good... especially by Crudup, who gets all the showy, emotional breakdown scenes... but the script and story are a bit on the bland side.  Not a bad movie... but kind of slow... and after all is said and done... doesn't really leave you with much.  (A good movie for playing Spot The Canadian though... as all the smaller roles seem to be played by familiar Canadian actors... Molly Parker and Leah Pinsent among them.) "},{"Title":"boring between the nude scenes","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Keith Gordon has to be the most stupid director ever, he took the beautiful Jennifer Connelly to make his movie, did a couple of good scenes, the nude ones and then add a boring story to it with no actions, no suspense, no nothing, it is simply bad. Here is the story thanks to ccampbell.Fielding Pierce lives the life of an aspiring politician - in 1972 he's serving in the Coast Guard (trying to avoid Vietnam in the most honorable way), and by 1973 he has entered law school. Along the way he falls in love with Sarah, a fiercely idealistic woman who devotes her life to helping others - unfortunately she's killed in an explosion while assisting members of the Chilean resistance. Nine years later, in the middle of a congressional election, Fielding is suddenly flooded with thoughts and visions of his lost love.Rent this one just for the scenes with Jennifer Connelly, there is an incredible one, I just won't tell, you have to see it for yourself.  **/2 "},{"Title":"Cinematic excellence under a pall of ambiguities.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Waking the dead offers excellent performances by some 2nd tier actors, particularly Crudup and Connelly. However, the story about two people, intensely in love, with opposing ideologies (a politician and a revolutionary), suffers from a choppy series of flashbacks and fastforwards and the thin line between reality and paranormal it treads. Not for general consumption and not to be missed by cinematic devotees. "},{"Title":"Earnest failure","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I suppose its easy to simply dismiss a film like this that mawkishly wears its heart on its sleeve with each and every scene. I tried to resist this impulse and was able to look past the first 20 groaners.  The film beat me into submission. I love Jennifer Connelly and really wanted to like this film but the corny dialogue, too-artsy pretentious editing and monotone emotional stance (Supersensitive Fielding is forlorn the entire running length) ,wore out their welcome. The leads  did have a good chemistry and I applaud the ambition of the film (as well as the maker's non-use of worn out Big Chill-like music to soundtrack the flashback scenes), but mark this one as an earnest failure. "},{"Title":"What movie did the rest of you watch?","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like Crudup, he does a stellar job as always, considering the poor script and unatural situations he put into.  I've read many of the reviews of this movie and so many of them talk about a 'timeless love' that I'm curious what movie these people watched.  What I saw was a heartless woman who cared nothing for her lover.  Whenever she was faced with having to decide between Billy or her activism, he's left standing in the cold.  The only thing these two seemed to have in common was sex and I'm sorry but no matter how good the sex is, it doesn't command the kind of blind devotion Billy's character give Sarah.  Normally I like Jennifer Connelly but in this movie I found her to be tedious, her character was annoying and extremely two dimensional. I did enjoy the movie visually, many of the scenes were very well crafted and technically I'd say this was a good movie.  It's worth renting but it's not a movie I'd care to watch a second time.  I simply don't like any of the character's except Billy and I don't like the way his character is treated by almost everyone else in the film. "},{"Title":"Wake up!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Rating **1/2 out of ****You know, I just wanted to fresh my head one day before some tests, so I decided to go to the movies. I couldn't decide between watching Magnolia AGAIN at an art cinema near my house (and I believe I'll watch it again and again and again...) or walk just a little more and watch Waking the Dead at a mall cinema. Guess what I chose? But... oops! Wrong choice.Waking the Dead has a point. It goes round and round but there is a message. However, it is a shame it can't captivate the audience. It's the kind of film which would have been better with another main cast, a lighter direction and a warmer screenplay. The way it is, it just loses itself sometimes in the middle of a slow pace, a heavy-handed direction and some disposable characters (Fielding's sister, the Korean girl). The main problem of the film is the fact that it is distant. And this detail has already made me change my opinion about some movies- see The Ice Storm. I like warm, emotional films that keep me concerned about the characters. In Magnolia, during 3 hours, I couldn't think of anything else. Otherwise, sometimes I wanted Waking the Dead to finish.But wait! It isn't all that bad! The plot, if not totally original (Ghost + The Sixth Sense + The House of the Spirits), is at least interesting. A young politician seeing his dead lover emerge out of the blue, the constant flashbacks and flash-forwards, the tense political situation in the '70s- all this kept me quite intrigued. And the end was of a impressive sweetness and beauty, but another time made difficult by the direction. The actors would also have better performances if put in more comfortable situations. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly are good actors, but their chemistry doesn't work very much. They seem to be stuck in uncomfortable situations, in the middle strange dialogues- sometimes beautiful but sometimes too shallow and sentimental. Not to talk about Janet McTeer- she is needed just in one scene, I think.Sometimes I wanted to wake up Waking the Dead. Director Keith Gordon has still much to learn. There are many talented young directors out there (P.T. Anderson, Sam Mendes, Spike Jonze) who know much more about film-making than he does. Why doesn't he try to captivate the audience the next time, instead of making such a weird, hard, distant movie? It has its qualities, its moments, and it's not bad at all. But it's just there on the average. I can't recommend it enough. Better wait for the video.PS 1- Waking the Dead has Jodie Foster as the executive producer. Strange no one had heard about that. 2- Sometimes the microphone appears on the top of the screen (when Fielding meets Sarah and in an airport scene). God! I can't take this anymore! 3- I saw Magnolia again, fortunately. "}{"Title":"Not to be taken before driving...","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I hired a copy of this movie in my local video store, the story line sounded good and the preview certainly tempted me to pay the hire price.I put the tape in and kept waiting for it to pick up but it never quite made it .... I found the experience very slow and painful.  There were flashbacks, flashbacks within flashbacks and although I have a good attention span the movie just kind of lost me along the way.All I can say is if you want to experience it for yourself wait until it comes out on weekly hire.  "},{"Title":"Not Political. Not Supernatural. Not Love. Just Lousy.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As you watch Waking the Dead, you can tell that it is based on a novel.  There are many HINTS of a well developed love/supernatural story that includes the political movement in the early 1970's, the greed of the early 1980's, the heartfelt desire by Connelly's character to help improve the world, the heartfelt desire by Crudup's character to help improve America.But that is all you get... hints.  The movie tries to cram too much into 105 minutes, and ends up giving us nothing.  You never come to truly feel the passion of the characters for each other nor for their causes.  The acting, the editing, and the too-loud background music leave much to be desired.I have not read the book, but the hints of a deeper story makes me think that this might have done better as a slightly longer 2-part TV movie.  Any time you do NOT read the original book, but are still left thinking the book was better, then you know that the film has really missed its mark.  "},{"Title":"a long long movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie, although only an hour and forty minutes seemed incredibly long. The story was good, but really couldn't hold up for that much time.  It was nice to see Jennifer Connelly in something a little more mature than Labyrinth, but this movie contained a little too much sex.  Don't get me wrong, I like sex, I just couldn't figure out why there were so many scenes with sex in it, for no apparent reason.  It seemed Sarah (Connelly) and Fielding (Crudup) has sex whenever anything happened.  They fought, and had sex.  They laughed, and had sex.  Sex, sex, sex...in a film that isn't about sex.  That was my only complaint, really... "},{"Title":"Better than a sleeping pill.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Long and boring, and then it goes on EVEN LONGER, this movie is undeniably one of the slowest films made in the last 5 years. Starring Billy Crudup, he of the vacant stare and lack of energy, as a politician who loses his 'true love'- well, I won't go into the plot, but suffice it to say that it doesn't work. It seems that everyone was on qualudes while making this film, either that or the projector was running at a different speed, but whatever it was, I'm sure it'll play better on DVD, where you can keep your finger on the 'fast forward' button. Trust me, you'll use it well.         "},{"Title":"Truly awful, absolutely ghastly","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Crudup proves again he cannot act, and Connelley's once-legendary beauty continues its rapid decline with this turgid melodrama.And make no mistake, this is a CHICK FLICK, so men everywhere should beware!Crudup is an aspiring politician who loses his one great love in a terrible accident and then imagines he sees her everywhere as he comes completely unglued during a stressful senatorial campaign.  She may or may not be a ghost but believe me when I tell you, this is no GHOST.  Crudup has a dinner table scene near the end where he gets to show some emotion.  Beyond that, there is nothing here. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the past few years","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe the amount of positive comments on this film. It is poorly directed, acted and written. It wants to be a love story, but the relationship is unbelievable. The characters themselves are inconsistent and live only in a script. The politics are pathetic - it's like the screenwriter heard some stuff about political activism in the late 60s and early 70s. The sex scenes are exploitative and downright embarrassing. The two lead actors, both great elsewhere, are pathetic here, especially Connely and her Southern accent. But you can't blame them. They didn't write down this awful and pretentious dialogue. I wish I could find a quotation, but the critics have wisely not quoted a single thing from the film in their reviews. Oh yeah, there's the thing about I need you like I have a thousand monkeys on my back. What the hell kind of romantic imagery is this? If this is the kind of stuff you find touching, hey, you're a lost cause. I would give it a 1/10, but I'd feel guilty. You see, I didn't have the patience to finish it, but turned the VCR off instead after an hour. Wait, so is she a ghost or is she alive? Who the hell cares? 2/10. "},{"Title":"PC Gone wild again","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Girl is in the 70s sanctuary movement, girl gets killed in plane crash, US System gets blamed AGAIN.Kids, if it stinks so bad here, if the system is so corrupt WHY ARE YOU STILL HERE.  Go someplace better. (And hope you can survive protesting THEM THERE.If they had kept the leftist, AMERIKA stinks rhetoric out it might have been a good movie, but this is just another even less talented Michael Moore type screed (not that Moore shows any talent or originality himself).Actually, I caught this twittery on the Sci-Fi channel, of all places, seems they have run out of decent Japanese monsters and bad space westerns to show on Sundays.Sadly, a lot of money was wasted with another anti-American piece of crud. "}]