[{"Title":"One of the most widely underrated movies of our time","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"160 out of 181 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is I believe, one of the most widely underrated movies of our time.I first saw this movie as it was a 'bonus DVD' thrown in for free with my DVD player back in 2000, so naturally I didn't expect much (as the other bonus DVD's were very mediocre), but what I found was a very enjoyable movie.At that stage in my life, I had only played a little poker as a child growing up, and never 'Texas Hold'em' so to be honest, a lot of the terminology went 'over my head', but even so, the film became an instant favorite of mine purely because of the performances.The film has so much star power, and yet none of the fine actors try to 'steal' scenes. Damon, Norton, Malkovich, Landau ... and then the fine supporting cast of Turturro, Jansen, and Mol.In fact, there is a scene with Martin Landau and Matt Damon that is perhaps one of the most beautiful performances I have seen in a long time between two very fine actors.So even if you're not a poker player, the story is tighter than a lot of Hollywood 'pop fluff' and the performances alone can sell the film as an enjoyable movie capable of multiple viewings.But ... if you start playing poker and get really into what they are talking about, and reading about poker theory (like Doyle Brunson's book Super System) then the movie moves up to a whole different level.A lot of the time, Hollywood will attempt to cover a specialized error, and usually fail, or at best only partially succeed, whereas Rounders managed to get everything 'spot on', just look at the US DVD, it has a commentary track from 4 World Champion Poker players, if that's not a stamp of approval then I don't know what is.When you factor in how the film can be enjoyed by someone who has little to no idea about Poker (as I did when I first saw the film) just because of the tight story and stellar performances and also be 'immortalized' by poker enthusiasts as the best movie ever made on the subject (and truth be told, a big reason why the World Series of Poker has been doubling it's entries year after year) ... what you have here is a true gem that works on so many levels and what I believe is, as I said initially, one of the most widely underrated movies of our time. "},{"Title":"Who would have thought a film about Poker would be so good?","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"93 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a lot of good stuff in this film.  You have a great story, an excellent cast, excellent directing, and a couple great games of poker.When I first heard about this film, I was a bit skeptical.  It's a game about poker, how exciting can it be?  The fact that Edward Norton was in the film was the prime reason I wanted to see Rounders.  After seeing the film, I couldn't believe how much I liked it.  The film flows very well from start to finish and you can't wait to see what happens in the next scene.  Also, the film is filled with interesting, well-written characters.As I mentioned above, the cast is fantastic.  You have Matt Damon, Edward Norton, John Malkovich, John Turturro, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, Martin Landau and some small roles by Melina Kanakaredes (of Providence) and Goran Visnjic (of ER).  Matt Damon is quite a good actor and this is just another great film to add to his list of already impressive roles.  Edward Norton is fantastic as Worm, he plays a truly unlikeable person, but at the same time you respect him for taking the fall for his friends.  John Tuturro is excellent, as always, he has such a cool style about him.  John Malkovich is superb in his portrayal of Teddy KGB.  And the rest of the cast does a great job as well in their respective roles.If you are a poker fan, then I recommend you see this film, hopefully you'll enjoy it.  I myself am not a huge fan of poker, but I do play the occasional game and I loved this film.  I loved the characters, the dialogue, the acting, EVERYTHING.  I truly hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The Son of the Cincinnati Kid Rides Again!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"71 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie the plot line is pat and predictable as it effortlessly unfolds; the characters are clearly defined and you know who to root for and who to despise; and there are no dull scenes or dead end sub-plots. Matt Damon is Mike, an affable law student with little interest in the law and a passion for high stakes poker.  When he loses his shirt and promises his girl friend (cute and perky Gretchen Mol) that he will never play poker again, you know this pie-crust promise will quickly be broken.  And broken it is when Matt picks up his former schoolmate buddy, Worm (Edward Norton) who is getting out of prison and leads him back to the poker table and deep, deep into debt and hot water.As usual, Matt Damon is adorable as the talented gambler, flashing those dimples and that Gary Cooper down-turned grin; John Malkovich is over the top as cookie-munching Teddy KGB, and, yes, if you're familiar with Russians just off the boat, you know they really DO speak like that and have a natural flare for the dramatic; Martin Landau delivers another impeccable performance as the aging, melancholic law professor whose family expected him to become a rabbi; Famke Janssen is nicely understated as the errand girl who has the obvious hots for Matt; and John Turtorro puts is solid as Knish, the grinder.  Indeed, Mr. Turorro is becoming one of the most reliable and dependable supporting players to grace any film in which he appears.  When the time and the role are right, his time will come.But the real star of this film is Edward Norton as the low-life sociopath who bears the appropriate sobriquet Worm. Twenty years ago when I first saw The Onion Field, I thought James Wood had created the sleaziest character ever to appear on film.  Jim, move over.  Norton is cheap, slimy, and skinny, devoid of scruples and empathy, a little wise guy with a big mouth and nothing to back it up. You just KNOW this scumbag neither bathes nor brushes his teeth, and when the little rat gets the stuffings beaten out of him by a group of off-duty cops whom he has cheated, you want to join in and get in a punch.  Women will want to slap him.  In his first scene he lets you know he's a hard-hearted louse  told that he is being released from prison in the middle of a penny-ante card game with his cell mates who beg him to leave his cigarettes behind, he gathers them up and then contemptuously drops them in the dumper on the way out. This is a cockroach with no redeeming social value who lives to use and con and degrade people.It's no trick for an actor to make you love him; to make you despise him so much you'd like to throttle him takes real talent. I've seen Ed Norton in Fight Club, Primal Fear, and The People vs. Larry Flynt and this is one young actor to watch. He's one of those natural actors who can be whatever he wants to be and it will be sheer joy watching him grow and mature.Rounders may be short on originality, but it's long on suspense, action, and entertainment and while not the best flick to come down the pike, it's a wonderfully satisfying two hours.  I don't know much about the game of poker, but I sure do know a good movie when I see one. I give it an 8 out 10 rating for human interest.  "},{"Title":"One of the most under rated films ever!","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is nothing short of hypnotic. It is a film that introduced me and many others to the surreal world of poker. High stakes, Texas Hold Em, winner take all poker. For those unfamiliar with the game, not only is this a perfect tutorial to understand the game, but this is a movie that will entertain you right to the very end.I like to think that this is just like Rocky. Matt Damon plays Mike McDermott, just like Stallone played Rocky. He has all the talent in the world but he needs to find a way to harness it and get the right opportunity. KGB is a little like Appollo Creed and John Tuturro is like Mickey in some ways. But enough of the comparisons of Rocky.What makes Rounders so compelling is the interpersonal relationships in the film, no doubt, but let's face it, what really makes the film as vibrant and energetic as it is, is the poker scenes. We are introduced to several games here, namely Omaha, Omaha Hi Lo, 7 Card Stud and of course Texas Hold Em. According to Mike, Texas No Limit is the Cadillac of all poker games. He of course got that info from reading books by some of the poker greats such as Phil Helmuth, Amarillo Slim and of course The Godfather of poker, Doyle Brunson. Great detail is spent on the feel of poker in this film. When you are in the poker rooms, you can smell the smoke, taste the mustiness of the air and you can feel the emotions that the players feel. It really is a masterful job by Dahl to convey these emotions. And full credit has to be give to the screenwriters to know the lingo, to mollify us with terms like flop, river, rags and bicycle. Rounders helped introduce me to this nefarious world and just like many others before me, I am hooked. Rounders can take credit for that.What also must be mentioned here is the performances. Like many of the reviewers before me, I was awed by the absolute mastery of these characters by Damon, Norton, Malkovich, Turturro and Landau. My favourite performance is that of John Malkovich. He plays a Russian mobster called KGB. He is a master poker player and in the beginning scene, he takes all of Mike's bankroll as he hits a full house on fourth street, to cripple Mike's smaller boat. Malkovich is a master. He can play any role and he proves it in spades here. Think of his performance in a film like In The Line of Fire or in Of Mice and Men and this is about as diametric from those roles as you can get. There is not one second in the film when you don't believe that he is a Russian mobster with a propensity for gambling. If this film would have been more recognized back in 98, he could have received an Oscar nomination. He is that good. Matt Damon is really a fine actor and this film, while not as known as some of this others, is really a layered performance and one of his best. He plays the young prodigal son here with absolute zeal. Damon has to be one of the best actors working today and seeing as this was one of his first performances after Good Will Hunting, you have to give him that much more credit for taking on such an esoteric role. Kudos to him.Rounders has grown in reputation over the years to the point where a special edition DVD with the likes of Helmuth, Johnny Chan, Chris Jesus Ferguson and 2003 WSOP champion Chris Moneymaker providing some excellent and enlightening commentary on the track. If you love this film, it is imperative that you pick up the SE DVD. It will enhance the experience for you and will help you appreciate the film that much more. It is fun and exciting to hear the 4 of them laugh when Mike finally busts KGB using Johnny Chen's methods from his first win in the World Series of Poker. Rounders is a fantastic movie and for those that haven't seen it, you should.10/10 One of the most under rated films of the last 10 years! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie, more than I thought I would.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I knew Rounders had something to do with gambling, and that Matt Damon stars in it, but not much more. So, when I watched it on DVD I was pleasantly surprised how engaging a film it is.I am not a gambler, so maybe that is part of why I found it so fascinating. Basic story - Damon's character is a 2nd yr law student in NYC, and a good enough poker player that he has aspirations of entering and winning the million-dollar prize in the world series of poker in Lasvegas. However, Ed Norton plays his good buddy just getting out of prison. Norton's character is also a poker player, but also incorporates cheating because that just helps you make money faster. This approach gets both of them in some pretty hot water, and also deep in debt!!Damon's character has a S.O. played by Gretchen Mol. Her distaste for gambling puts a great strain on their relationship. Will she stay, or will she move out??And finally, John Malkovich does a wonderful job as the Russian gambler nicknamed KGB. John Turturro is perfectly cast as Damon's friend and street advisor. I simply found myself caught up in this story, anticipating the next poker game, wondering if they would all get whacked, or survive. Plus, Matt Damon has such a relaxed acting style, with that great smile of his, which makes all of his movies easy to watch.I rate this one 8 of 10 for the well-done gambling drama depicted here. "},{"Title":"A tightly focused vehicle for Damon's charm and swagger.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is incredibly focused.  There is not one throw-away line or one extra frame in the entire movie.  From the first establishing shot to the final line, the production team plays it tight and aggressive.  I couldn't help but think of The Hustler as I watched, and Damon more than survives this comparison to a young Paul Newman. His swagger and charm and the even, controlled truthfulness of his performance all serve to place him solidly in the game with any of Hollywood's best.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Interesting story, great acting","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Have to first mention the great performances by Matt Damon, Edward Norton, John Malkovich, and Martin Landeau.  Good story, although Worm was one the biggest jerks I've seen interpreted on film lately.  Really liked the narration of what's going on during high stakes poker matches.  Talked to poker playing people who thought the game was represented well.  The one-on-ones between Damon and Malkovich were terrific.  "},{"Title":"Very underrated character piece, although not without its flaws","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is about a straight-flying legal student (Matt Damon) who leaves behind his gambling habits to satisfy his moralistic girlfriend. However when his best friend Worm (Edward Norton) is released from jail, the two embark on a cards-journey that leads them from success to misfortune after Worm is caught cheating and the man who caught him (John Malkovich) wants his money back.Whereas Ben Affleck continues to go downhill after Good Will Hunting, Matt Damon has striven uphill, taking on daring productions such as The Talented Mr. Ripley, The Bourne Identity series, and of course Rounders, which features one of his best performances. Damon has become typecast as some sort of bad actor in the league of Affleck, but he's much better than his pal, and films like this prove it.Norton is once again superb as one of his characters you love to hate. He's got the character of Worm down pat, and it really elevates the acting (along with Damon) to a level of greatness.The film is directed and written very well, offering realistic dialog and gritty environments. However the flaws of the movie are its long running time (two hours exactly), which could have been shortened, and probably the fact that its card playing is sometimes a bit alienating to the audience.That said, this is still a very underrated movie featuring outstanding performances and a unique spin on gambling flicks. Worth watching at least once in a lifetime. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have no idea if this movie is at all realistic (certainly so many people inhabiting this strata of the poker world can be so good looking), but at least it has the ring of verisimilitude. Not only does it show us the workings of a somewhat exotic (to me, anyway) part of the world, but it manages to do this stylishly while treating us to an interesting character study and a clever plot.The story is about a young rounder who is trying to go straight by going to law school (although our first glimpse of him shows him losing all his money in a high-stakes poker game with a Russian gangster). He quits gambling for a while until a old friend (played by Norton) returns to his life and lands him in deep trouble. What I especially like about the movie is that is starts off as if this plot line is the main subject, when in fact the movie is about this person learning important things about himself. And there is a lot of information about poker...Damon is especially impressive among a uniformly good cast. "},{"Title":"This is NOT a Hold 'Em Tutorial","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"39 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was unjustly panned as lethargic and bleak without a purpose. Considering how Hold 'Em has developed into one of the biggest social fads in the last decade, I would say that this film captures every emotional aspect the 'swings' of No Limit typically carry.I had absolutely no idea how to play the game when I first saw this movie about five years ago. The dialogue is wrought with jargon that almost makes a mockery of itself. Especially since much of the movie is done with voice-over, I can see where critics are coming from. However, the viewer should not allow themselves to get bogged down with it all, we get the gist with well-developed staging and performances.Damon and Norton play off each other better than Damon and Affleck. Though the story echoes in the wake of Scorsese's 'Mean Streets', the performances seem more detailed than the Keitel/DeNiro combo. The supporting roles add great depth to the film, and Tutorro shines as the wise-old has-been that successfully provides Damon's character with the cold-hard truth he never seems to adhere to (until it is too late).Above all, we feel compelled to cheer for Damon's Mike McDermott the ENTIRE time. He acknowledges his 'bad' play but constantly tries to explain that this is a game of skill and not luck. This is an important element considering the widely accepted belief that any success in gambling is the result of luck. This may be true in the bloodsucking casinos, but in Hold 'Em you play the chips AND the man.Now that baseball is out of the Olympics, perhaps we will see a push for a true WORLD Series of Poker. Then again, I also wanted to see 'Four Square' made into an official event when I was 8, so maybe I'm just talking out of my ass...Should be commended as a precursor to a pandemic fad that is costing teens (and their parents) millions daily.*** (of ****) "}{"Title":"Well made but eventually a bit thin for anyone not a poker fan","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders (1998)A charming idea, almost romanticized if you are young, clever, good looking, and savvy at playing poker you can be ultra cool and maybe even wealthy. That makes for a pretty good movie, if not a very accurate reality. It isn't quite enough to keep two hours going, however, and so the big picture here is to enjoy what it has.A quick comparison might be made to The Hustler and related pool shark movies. And like that classic, Rounders is about charming deceit. Matt Damon is the main man here, an ex-poker champ who has gone straight until his former partner in crime, Ed Norton, gets out of jail and ropes him back into the thrills and malevolence. Like the pool movies, and like the glitzier and more ambitious Oceans movies, personalities matter most. The setting, the glint of money, and most of all the plots matter less than you'd think.So everything is pretty good along those lines, partly because Damon is fun to be with and Norton is simply terrific. An embarrassing appearance in the beginning and end of the movie by an overacting John Malkovich gets in the way of Damon's performance, however. And the general attempt at creating a bunch of bad guys behind the scenes is filled with thin clichés and mediocre acting. This is the result of having to make more of the story that was ever there. The main idea--that the two leads get into money trouble and have to earn a ton of cash in a few days of wild poker games--is eventually actually a bit of a bore. The gamesmanship is always interesting, of course, but the impetus behind it grows old. The addition of Martin Landau as a Jewish lawyer who gives Damon a mitzvah as a kind of honor paid to continue a favor once given him is a touching part of the larger plot, making you wish there was more of this somehow, more of something genuine and a bit different.It might not have helped that I recently saw Croupier with a young Clive Owen as a poker dealer, because that movie, whatever its simplicity and other limitations, actually made the poker scenes more real for me. In fact, one problem with Rounders is you never get to actually sense the betting itself, and the cards--the playing and the strategies of playing--are glossed over with some tossing of chips and flipping of cards, all in a vague muddle.I did enjoy watching overall, but it left me a little disappointed and restless. "},{"Title":"Better Will Hunters","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is an odd film admirable in some ways, but a failure overall.The admirable Malkovich has never been better (as good here as `Killing Fields'). Turturro, Norton and Landau are fine actors who do well. Damon is a second-rater, but he does his best work here. I think that is a matter of casting -- the film is a reinvented `Will Hunting,' and Damon is cast as someone who doesn't know how to act.On the other hand, in the service of setting a noir tone the women here are treated not as characters but as elements in the background of life that `real people' stumble through. This is as cheap as using voyeuristic nudity and equally offensive.The thing that struck me was how lazy was the writer, how closely he followed the `Will Hunting' scaffold.In both, we end with a sympathetic young prodigy leaving town and a misspent life to fulfill his real genius. What makes this better is that Will was about math genius and never showed an understanding of the magic and pain that accompanies that world. Here it is a slightly different type of genius, softer but more obsessive. Although `Oscar and Lucinda' did a deeper job, we do get a feel for what is involved and how obsession necessarily follows, and this is no `Grifters.'In Will, we had three men who interact with Will to braid the story a long-time childhood friend, a highlevel professor and an advisor who triggers the story. One tempts the hero into an unhealthy expression of his gift, one prompts him to `follow his heart' by giving a very personal and tragic story, and one provides nearly unqualified and admiring support. In this film, we have the same three types with the roles shifted. The writer's simple musical chairs.`Will Hunting' was an excrescence. This is better because of the talent of those three actors and because the director wisely targets the tragic dark pull of the obsession. But the film doesn't deliver. "},{"Title":"Still outstanding - with added dimension now","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching this movie again, now, it is somewhat different from viewing it eight years ago. With the many television programs featuring professional poker players, and amateurs who have won or bought entry into the tournaments, there are millions more people interested in, and familiar with, this game than in 1998.The Travel Channel originated the World Poker Tour, and even has now added a spin-off. ESPN and FOX, as well as others, have their own tourneys. You not only can play poker on-line - for about any stakes you'd like - but have umpteen sites from which to select.Johnny Chan and Eric Seidel were the two professionals shown in the movie, and they are still among the best. Phil Helmuth and Doyle Brunson (the Babe Ruth of Texas Hold'em) were mentioned in the dialog; both are also prominent, and the latter the paterfamilias to all. I enjoy watching the television presentations, but not nearly as much as a lot of my friends, and even I can now name about thirty of the prominent players by name without drawing a breath or pondering.In the days of the movie, and preceding, the singular World Series of Poker was held in Vegas annually, at Binion's, and paid $1-million to the winner. Now the television shows present something weekly, in exotic locales throughout the U. S., in France the Bahamas, the Caribbean, and on luxury liners - often with top prizes well over $1-million. Sometimes even the 2nd place finisher receives more than a million, and those finishing lower get several hundred thousand.Nonetheless, this film is just as entertaining, and has an additional point of interest it didn't possess when released. In just eight years, it has become sort of a classic, a depiction of an earlier period (the old days), of its subject matter - something that usually takes a play, book or film, say, 30 or 40 years to do.Damon, Norton, Malcovich, Tuturro, Landau - and all the rest of the cast - are outstanding and engaging in their roles.There is one final aspect which those more interested and experienced in serious poker (even if well-below the $1,000,000 level) can appreciate, too. Even in Malcovich's shabby gambling loft, filled with seedy characters, mob muscle guys, loan sharks, etc. - there still is a sense of honor in paying debts (even if their criteria might vary from, say, you neighborhood banker), and you could leave your chips to visit the restroom or take a break, and return to find them intact. By contrast, most of the neighborhood bankers, and even a large percentage of your average citizens, in the same situation, would likely help themselves to a few of your chips, by accident, if they felt you wouldn't discover. In the story, even John Malcovich's character, KGB, the proprietor of the non-licensed poker room, and a Russian gangster, admits in the finale that Matt has ...beat me straight up; pay him (he pronounces it 'heeem'); pay that man his ('heees') money ('mooohney'). Although he doesn't do it graciously, even this wholly-unsympathetic individual is honorable in this context.In addition to the main characters and supporting cast, the others encountered in the many gambling venues visited are also thoroughly interesting, realistic and fascinating. "},{"Title":"Great Movie...Norton shines","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie that I think anyone who enjoys superb acting will like. I first saw this movie on television when I was about 14( I was 11 when it was first released in theaters), however I recently got interested in Edward Norton's other movies which include Fight Club and Primal Fear ( both great) So I rented the movie this weekend and I loved it( this is coming from someone who knows absolutely NOTHING about poker). The poker dialoge went a little over my head, but even I understood the gist of what was going on. Its the characters not the poker that makes this movie so good in my opinion. It starts out with Mike Mcdermont a young man with incredible card playing talent( Matt Damon) going to play Texas hold em with a Russian mobster named Teddy KGB ( played hilariously by one of my personal favorites John Malkovich). Mike losses 30,000 dollars, his rent money, case money, and tuition for law school. After such a bad beat he quits poker and goes to work for Joey Knish( a fellow card player who is Mikes friend and mentor) driving a delivery truck. Mike is doing good, going to school and making an honest living. That is until his best bud Lester Worm Murphy is released from prison. Mike goes to pick him up and Worm has Mike playing poker that very night, scamming some young trust fund babies. Worm is eager to start playing poker as soon as he gets out, and we find out that it is because he owes like 15,000 dollars to various loan sharks. Mike not wanting his friend to take a beating( which the scumnbag deserves) vouches for Worm and together they try to come up with the money. Worm ends up getting him and Mike in loads of trouble, leaving Mike to fend for himself Now like I said the characters are what makes this movie so great. Matt Damon is great as a young man who has dreams and wants to follow them(playing in the World Series of Poker). You truly believe his poker ability. Edward Norton is my personal favorite. Worm just lights up the screen.He has almost the same amount of true poker skills as Mike, but he prefers to cheat because he says it gives him an edge. Most people who see this movie hate the character( for good reason...he is cheap and slimy) but not me. I actually feel sorry for him not only because he gets the crap beat out of him sometimes but also because he has no direction unlike Mike. He has no idea what he wants to do with his life. I just wish he would have taken up for himself more. There is one scene when one of the loan sharks beats up Worm in the back room of a strip club. Now Worm is skinny yes, but skinny guys can fight too. The whole time he is being pushed around I am wanting to go through the television and tell him to throw a few punches too, fight back. Also it leaves you hanging at the end, Mike leaves Worm after they get beat up by some off duty cops that Worm was trying to scam. It never tells you what happened to Worm. Did he leave town? Did the loan sharks get to him? They spend a lot of the movie developing Worms story and then they just kind of leave it unfinished at the end. The one thing I didn't like was Mikes girlfriend Joe, can you say bitchy. She is two dimensional and needs to trust the man she supposdly loves. Othe then that great movie. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Why doesn't Hollywood make more movies like this?","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This wasn't highly over-promoted and didn't involved flashy special effects. It was an interesting story, well-directed, with a fantastic cast. Have to give it a ten because it accomplished exactly what it strived to and then some.I loved this movie before the recent poker craze and it stands on it's own regardless of what it's focus is. That being said the writers did a good job of using enough technical card speak to interest you in the world but kept it simple enough to know what was happening, and the actors' delivery of lines made translation unnecessary Wired aces or kings?....I had rags, but I HAD to know....It's nothing incredibly new, the usual typical human drama, finding oneself, relationships lost, risk, loyalty, shades of gray with friends and enemies. But touches all points in a realistic and subtle manner The characters are a bit nicely dramatized and their roles sexed-up a bit to make it more interesting, which is OK. it works.The little things are all well done. A probably unnoticed scene when Worm and Mike arrive in the Atlantic City casino lobby and Mike chides Worm about the boys upstate bringing about a few changes is EXACTLY how two men in their mid twenties would act and talk toward one another. Completely aside from the story, but it really gives it credibility.And finally, kudos to the makers for the ending. Just fantastic. They could have spoiled the whole movie, but finished like figure skater making a perfect bow to the crowd. "},{"Title":"great acting, super story","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, here we go, as a poker player ( semi professional) I have never seen such an accurate portrayal of life in the underground poker scene. The acting is superb and the story is all to real to those of us that have been there. I cant begin to describe how often I watch this movie and how many of my poker playing friends agree that this is not only the best poker movie ever written, but also a great movie for non players as well. I think that the casting agent did a remarkable job....Matt and Edward play the parts of poker players to an eerie T. All to often a fictional portrayal of so called gamblers put us into a bad light, this film does us justice and shows that poker players have ambition,desire, and skill "},{"Title":"A great film from underrated John dahl, Norton shines","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dahl's film about an ex-gambler who returns to playing Texas hold em when his friend (norton) gets out of jail. Damon is plays the lead well. This is another fantastic screenplay from Brian Koppelman and David Levien who later wrote the brilliant screenplay for Runaway jury. Rounders is a more of a character study and both Norton and Damon play their roles great. Norton steals the show thow as the dynamic worm. Nortons performance is Oscar worthy. John Malkovich, Martin Landau and John Turturro were great in supporting roles as well. THis is a great film for any fan of cinema or Texas hold em. Dahl is not the greatest director but this film is absolutely perfect! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like poker, Matt Damon, Edward Norton or John Malkovich then there is a very good chance you're going to like this movie.For poker fans there are some great scenes that you'll just love, whatever your level of play. Even if you're not into poker yet the scenes are tense and exciting and don't take over the entire movie.If you like any of the aforementioned actors, they all give outstanding performances.The movie itself progresses nicely without any dull moments or unnecessary sub plots. It holds the interest from beginning to end and leaves with you with that 'just seen a good movie' feeling at the end. I've seen it multiple times and it remains in my personal top 10 favorites. "},{"Title":"Only For Card Players....(not!)","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably the best movie I have ever seen. I know what most people will say - another review by another card geek. If so then most people would be wrong. I've seen this movie about 30 times (love it more with each day). Until the 27th time I had no idea how to play Texas hold'em (NONE WHATSOEVER!) or any other game mentioned in the movie.The reason why I believe it is the greatest movie of all time are  phenomenal cast (everyone seems to agree with that), good story and the sheer moral of the movie (do what you want with your life). Of course this picture has some flaws but show me a movie that doesn't ! I guess it's going to be pretty hard to find anyone who doesn't play cards and likes the movie just as much as I do. But that's not a problem because this review represents only one person's beliefs - that person is ME.10/10 (fully deserved) "},{"Title":"Defnitely in my Top 10","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a fantastic movie. I think the only reason people criticize this movie is because they know nothing about poker. Oh well, that's just their bad luck they can't enjoy this brilliant movie. The characters are great, especially Worm, and all actors did a fine job. There are so many excellent quotes in the movie, most of them narrated by Matt Damon's character, and I just love the philosophy that some of those quotes are about and how they are related to life. It's a movie about tactics, decisions, and risks. Great stuff. You can watch this movie over and over and never get tired of it, and if you are a poker player, it really gives you great hints. I beg for a sequal.  "}{"Title":"This movie thinks it's better than it is","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING  These comments contain spoilers!Actually, the movie is already spoiled.  I rented this movie last night thinking that with such an impressive cast, I would be wholly drawn into a great movie.  No such luck.  Or, as Damon's character mentions, it's not really about luck -- it's a game of skill.  And that's what this film is lacking.The film's strong points are terrific characters brought to life by Edward Norton and John Turturro.  These very different poker pros don't meet in this film, but they both tug on Damon's character is different directions Turturro encourages Damon to play it safe, Norton encourages Damon to risk and cheat.  What an interesting film it would have been if it had been a drama focusing on these three characters and the resulting struggle within Damon.  Rather, this film is about Damon's circle from gambling law student, to giving up gambling, and then giving up law to become a gambler.  And the movie portrays this in a good light.  He's the hero because he follows his dream to gamble.  What?  Damon and the other stars give half-baked, phoned-in performances (excepting Norton and Turturro).The script is also defective.  Some things just don't make sense.  Damon and Norton are severely beaten after they are caught cheating in a game (which made sense -- I thought the film was taking a better direction at that point), but then they argue about it and Norton's character is suddenly absent from the rest of the movie.  Oops?  Did the writers forget this character?  Martin Landau's law professor character gives Damon $10,000 to help pay off his friend's debt.  Really?  Don't we all wish we had teachers like this?  Damon's girlfriend leaves him because he lies to her about one game AFTER ABSTAINING FROM GAMBLING FOR NINE MONTHS!!  Is she perfect?  Is this how a rational human being would react?  Lying is a terrible thing, but most real life relationships go through much worse than one lie -- and still survive.The bottom line is that all the losers stay losers, and no one learns anything.  But the movie doesn't play it that way -- it portrays Damon as a hero, and that gambling is a profession, not an addiction.  And unless you are a card player and/or familiar with pro poker jargon, a good portion is likely to lose you and bore you.  Skip this one.  "},{"Title":"Poker fan or not - this is a great movie","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Why do some truly awful movies do well and other truly great movies like Rounders get lost in the dross. I just happened to come across this on UK Netflix by chance. Matt Damon, Ed Norton, John Malkovic looked a great cast for starters, its about poker, decent looking love interest - even better.The story and characters draw you in immediately, the scene is set although not giving too much away. Norton's character is not introduced immediately, which I liked. Matt Damon holds the film together comfortably with some strong supporting performances especially from Malkovic.Poker is the main theme of the movie, the question mark over the rights and wrongs of gambling, the obvious skills and intelligence that these professional poker players have. Its not really for or against the movie sits on the fence allowing the viewer to draw their own conclusions (another sign of a great Director).To not give the game away, yes I saw the final act coming, there is no massive twist, but this does not take you away from the enjoyment and your willingness to watch till the final credits. You really want the best for Damon's characterHighly recommended 9 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"One of the best card films of all time","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I guess the test is this I've seen Rounders four or five times; I saw it in the cinema when it was first released and thought it brilliant then. If anything now it's even better.Why? Because it's a film about the game, not a sponsor, and it has first class performances and first class directing. It wasn't high rollled by an internet site looking to cash in on the poker craze; it's just a grimy, grim, and effective film about poker and poker players with a little back story but mainly strong performances especially from Norton who really is Worm.The story of the reformed gambler who finds himself sucked back in to pay off debts that aren't his is very well handled and one of its great points is that it's all done without melodrama.Just a great film about gambling, New York, and the guys who play Poker. For my money as good as the Cincinnati Kid and certainly no other card film in the last 10 years has come close.Class and classic "},{"Title":"You Read The Opponent, Not The Cards","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is a story of a pair of prep school buddies, Matt Damon and Edward Norton, who are a pair of poker sharks. Damon's used his winnings to pay for law school and Norton's gone on to other enterprises like identity theft which has landed him a stretch in prison.Damon after being taken to the cleaners by Russian mob guy John Malkovich has given up poker for law school. Norton's finishing his stretch in the joint and as it turns out he owes Malkovich some heavy duty debt. He's needing some help, especially after leg breaker Michael Rispoli gives Norton a sample of what he can expect. Damon owes Norton as well for not ratting him out on some prep school scam that could have gotten him expelled like Norton. Needless to say he goes back into the life.I'm willing to wager (no pun intended) that because Rounders came out right after Good Will Hunting that this was a project intended for Damon and Ben Affleck. I think Ben probably showed good sense in thinking he was not quite right for the role. Certainly Norton who plays some really edgy characters was far better for the role of Lester 'Worm' Murphy.Damon does all right for himself as the standup Mike McDermott. He also because he discharges the debt he owes Norton, realizes that he should follow his dream as well. What it is and how the film ends I won't say, but if you have a dream you have to follow it because you won't know if you don't try. In addition to everything else Rounders is quite a look into the world of professional gambling. As Damon says even if you play it honest, it's far more skill than luck. You read the opponent, not the cards.Rounders was a great career followup to the acclaimed Good Will Hunting for Matt Damon. Even if you're not a gambler by nature, this film will fascinate one. "},{"Title":"A great movie with a terrific cast","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is about a reformed gambler that must return to playing big stakes poker to help a friend pay off loan sharks. This is a really entertaining film that is almost comparable to Ocean's Eleven. The cast was incredible. Edward Norton, Martin Landau, John Malkovich, and especially the main lead, Matt Damon did there roles very well and without their great performances, the film would be a let down. The direction by John Dahl and the screenplay written by former writers, David Levien and Brian Koppelman, were very well done also. The dialogue was written well and the narration by Matt Damon, made the film even better. Overall, this is a very gripping and entertaining movie. I highly recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook 8.5/10 ***+ B+ "},{"Title":"Great  Film!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Who ever thought a film about poker would be so great?! , i clearly thought that when i sat down to watch it i was in for something extremely boring. Fortunately , i figured out that behind EVERY movie is a story , and as i began to watch the way they expressed themselves and the action that was put into the game , i figured it was worth watching. A great story about a young man (Matt Damon) , that tries to find a way to help his friend Worm (Edward Norton) pay off shark loans and risking everything!. In the simplest terms , my opinion of this extraordinary film is that of a good adventure , played by amazing , well talented actors. This movie is definitely worth watching!. "},{"Title":"More sobering than most realise","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I would like to review this film, but I'm not going to. Instead, I'm going to use this space to address a different aspect of the film the sobering aspect.Many people speak of Rounders as if it was really cool film with lots of poker and action and no limit and...etc.. etc.. But if you stand back and look at the plot, you'll realise that the film does not really endorse playing poker for a living, despite it's seductive representation of the game itself.Think about it for a minute. At the start of the film, he has $30,000 in cash spread around the house, a potential career in law, a fantastic apartment and a girl friend that was.... well.... SHAR-WING! Then he goes broke in a very unlucky situation (I think most world-class professionals would have similarly lost their entire stack in that hand). But his world doesn't entirely crumble around him... until his old poker playing buddy gets released from prison. By one hour and forty minutes into the film, he's broke, his girlfriend has left him, he's been badly beaten, he owes a KGB fellow $15,000 tomorrow, he also owes the Chesterfield $6,000 (Famke Jensen's underground club) and his law career is virtually over before it began. Poker basically turned his life upside down. Now think about that for a minute - all you young aspiring Michael McDermotts!!! In the end, he may well get the money together, but that's about it! His girlfriend gone, wicked NY apartment gone, law career gone, best friend gone and he skips off to Vegas to take a shot at it! Personally, I find that rather sobering, don't you? It's hardly inspiration to become a professional poker player!Further, I felt that Worm was probably the best developed character and very typical of people you come across in the poker community ex-cons who have 'done time' and continue to lead scamming lives, leaving nothing more than a trail of unpaid debts to lenders and friends in their wake. It was most appropriate that worm went broke trying to beat a crooked blackjack game. Welcome to the sorts of characters you'll come across in the real-world poker community.It's for these reasons that I really appreciated the film all the more. Scenes where they are actually poker paints the game in a very seductive way, using funky mid-tempo jazz with snappy narration and smart editing. But away from the table, there is a certain melancholy surrounding the lives of these players and it's something you just can't get past.Excellent film - even for those with no poker knowledge. For those who think this is an inspiration to walk away from your life and become a professional, good luck.... But I guess it's not about luck, is it! "},{"Title":"What is GOING ON?????","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is tribute to how good this movie is. I am not necessarily a Matt Damon fan, and I know beans about poker. For all I know, the scenes in the movie have no technical merit from a poker standpoint.Who cares? This move is absolutely loaded! The characters and the acting are incredible, from Damon (Mike) to Norton (Worm) to Malkovich (Teddy KGB) to Landau (Prof. Abe Petrovsky) , and yes, even Rispoli (Gramma). I can't miss a scene, even though I have seen the thing 25 times. The story is good, the screenplay better. But the directing in this film is exceptional. It is what made the movie. Almost all characters are believable and totally engaging. Shot selection is top notch. Just watch it! This is no low-budget movie with the typical low-budget concessions. It has it all. In fact, from a directing standpoint, only the fraternity boys in the early card game were ridiculous caricatures. OTOH, they were making an attempt to segment the various types of opponents, and some viewers are potentially pretty dumb, so I can cut them slack here.The only other flaw I saw in the movie - my opinion - is that the part of Jo (Gretchen Mol), Mike's girlfriend, was miscast. I thought that Mol was too cute. I think it would have been okay to have a more believable lawyer-in-training. You could still have someone good-looking - just don't make me want to touch her cute little nose and then cup my hands on her ears, all the time smiling really wide, and give her a sweet little kiss. That's Gretchen Mol. Lawyers aren't like that.I also thought that there was a hole in the film because Mike and Jo had a pretty deep relationship, but they broke up rather abruptly and there was no resolution. Granted that this was a side-story, but it was part of who Mike was, so it was important to do something with it, especially at the end where they had their last exchange. It didn't seem believable for people who felt about each other the way they should have.I read reviews from poker experts who say that the filmmakers went the extra mile and stayed true to the game, and that just reaffirms my thoughts about this movie. It's a real work of art and one of the best of its era. "},{"Title":"Top banana, norton is fantatsic and damon aint bad either.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film proves that hollywood does still have half a brain left, a great script, good characters and steady direction make this fill vastly enjoyable. Norton's character will have you engrossed from the moment we first meet him, malkovic's accent is slightly bizzare but it only serves us with more enjoyment. A feel good movie which really makes you feel good and doesn't patronize you. A basic guide to the plot is damon is a card player who loses a big game to russian mafia man malkovic, damon then decides never to play cards again, until norton's character enters the scene and turns him back on to playing, queue the final showdown damon against malkovic. A definate must for all real movie fans, FANTASTIC,FANTASTIC 9/10 "},{"Title":"Truly insightful movie about doing what you are meant to do.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  artexploiter must not have seen the movie or is very confused about it, and what gambling is or is not. The only people who make a living from gambling are casinos. Poker is not gambling, neither is playing the horses. Yes you can gamble while engaging in both of these activities, just like you can gamble in the stock market.Rounders follows Mike (a talented reader of people) who has forsaken his gift of reading people to become 'normal', at the behest of his girlfriend. Like all people living for others, he is miserable. When his old running buddy Worm exits jail, they hook back up. Mike feeling obligated for Worm not 'ratting him out' decided to engage in a night of revelry (read Poker playing). He is suddenly reminded of what it was like to do what you are good at, something he has not done or felt in a long while. This leads to conflict with his girlfriend, and some 'soul searching' on his part. The who am I questions.Worm is a character study of people who are talented, but decide to go down a destructive path. Much like in life; we never know why Worm is like that, just that he is that way. Mike likes to 'play it straight' and this leads to conflict as worm is in trouble and needs a quick score. Worm is always looking for an edge which gets them into trouble, leading to their split. Mike having agreed to 'go on the hook' for some money owed to a notorious individual by Worm must now play poker to pay the debt. He goes to his professor for help, and a loan. His law professor gives him the best advice anyone will ever give anyone Your destiny chooses you, you do not choose your destiny. In other words be who you are. The inevitable show down scene is a bit simplistic, and unsatisfying, but does the job. Mike vanquishes his demons, by righting a previous wrong and overcoming fear to defeat his nemesis. No it is not KGB All is well in Pokerville as our hero, decides what his destiny is, and is not.This movie is more of a caricature of the poker world. It is however accurate in the terminology, and play of poker for the most part. While you will not learn to be a master poker player watching this movie, you will get a taste of the world of poker.Unfortunately this movie fails to make the point that you must follow your calling, as witnessed by artexploiter's comments. The characters are not well drawn, and some performances are stilted. Sadly most people will be more concerned with the aspect of poker, instead of the decisions made by the characters about life. "}{"Title":"Who wants to watch a movie about Poker.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not really a great idea for a movie.  The only fun thing about Poker is the prospect of winning money.  I would never choose to watch this movie.  And yet, it was so well done, that I had to give it a wicked high rating.  Matt Damon makes poker seem like a sport.  Edward Norton is probably the greatest modern actor, and he proves it in his role as the trouble making friend.  Forget that the movie is about playing cards, look at the awesome cast, and enjoy your 2 hours. "},{"Title":"'The Hustler' of card movies.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Rounders' is to poker players as 'The Hustler' was to pool sharks.  It's a literate, informed film that gives a glimpse into the lives of men and women that most people can't even begin to understand; an entire subculture that exists just below the surface of everyday life.Matt Damon plays Mike McD, a poker player who lost everything he had in a huge pot to a Russian mobster (John Malkovich), and tries to leave that life behind him as he heads off to law school.  As an old friend Worm Murphy (Edward Norton) is released from jail, Mike realizes that not only hasn't he really left his past behind, but he never really meant to in the first place.'Rounders' is a quiet movie with a subtle script that is filled with poker jargon (if you don't know the game, it takes a couple viewings to really follow the card-playing scenes).  It's not splashy or outrageous; it's a series of character studies that look into the lives of people who play cards for a living - people to whom the words 'gambling' and 'luck' are vulgarities.  It's a well-written script, with tons of quotable and memorable lines.  Just check the quotes section on the main page for a sampling - everyone has attitude to spare, since showing even a hint of weakness is death at the card table.  (If you can't spot the sucker in the first half-hour at the table, then you ARE the sucker.) Essentially, 'Rounders' is an acting clinic.  Top-notch talent is used here, the best of which are Damon and Norton.  Damon's everyman card shark is just on the border of respectibility, and has a sense of duty and loyalty that haven't been seen since the days of chivalry - but Damon is at his best here, disarmingly charming, easygoing, but with a heart of stone at the table.  Norton's Worm is a degenerate all the way, but still with that leftover rebelliousness from his youth that just invites trouble wherever he goes.  Also good here are Malkovitch as mobster Teddy KGB (although with a thick and silly accent) and John Turturro as the eternal grinder Joey Knish.  The only weak spot in the cast is Gretchen Mol as Mike's girlfriend Jo - she's eternally whiny, cloying and obnoxious, and it's quite unbelievable that Mike would ever have settled down with a woman like this.All in all, though, 'Rounders' achieves a good dramatic pace, excellent dialogue, and makes every poker game seem like the finals of the World Series of Poker everything on the line for a million bucks.  It owes almost everything it has to 'The Hustler', but there are worse films to lend inspiration.   "},{"Title":"Poker as a metaphor for life","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a deceptively rich and layered movie.  On the surface, it's about a successful part-time Poker player who yearns to step it up a notch and become a `Rounder,' a professional gambler.  From another perspective &#150; that of his girlfriend and his idealized self, his career, relationships, and fortune are allegedly put in jeopardy by his gambling `habit.'  On yet another level, it's about the internal struggles of a young man.  In his narrow pantheon of possible selves, Poker is considered an avocation, and his training in law his real life's calling.  And yet, he loves the game, and feels a passion for playing it.  At the film's deepest level, Rounders is about all of these things.  The main character, Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) is forced to ask himself, `What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his own soul.'  It's about a man who must have the courage both to know himself, and to be true to himself.  `We are lived by Powers we pretend to understand,' said W.H. Auden.   Matt Damon's character exemplifies this idea with simple perfection.  What I really love about this movie is the way it succeeds in making Poker a metaphor for life.  Mike makes a simple but profound statement when he says that the key to the game is not playing the cards, but playing the man.  It's a life-skill to see through appearances to the person behind the mask.  And in life, as in Poker, everyone goes bust.  That's part of the deal.  And life, like Poker, is a game of skill, not luck.  The `fishes' in the film are those who believe in fortune, who think that the right hand will make all the difference.  Seasoned `Rounders,' on the other hand, would echo Emerson, who said, `I make my own circumstances.'  There's much more to this film than cards and Poker.    "},{"Title":"An Excellent Poker Movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love poker movies. I don't know why; I'm not that good at the game, myself... but I love 'em. If you're like me, if you have a thing for poker movies, then this movie's for you. It does much more justice to poker than Maverick does. While it is a great movie, Maverick inaccurately portrays poker as a game of chance where any ol' fool can draw an ace of spades and get a royal flush to win a poker tournament. Ha is what I say to that. Rounders, on the other hand, sets the record straight. Poker is a very complex skill game and many times during the movie, Rounders will tell you this.Anyway, Rounders is about a hardcore poker player Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) who quits the game after he loses it all in a hand of No Limit Texas Hold 'Em at a shady club run by Russian Mafia man Teddy KBG (John Malkovich). When Mike learns that his newly-out-of-prison friend Worm (Edward Norton) owes several thousand dollars to a couple of loan sharks, he gets back in the game and the two set out to make a big score and settle their debts.I highly recommend this movie for anyone who's in the least bit interested in poker. "},{"Title":"Similar to Days of Thunder...","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just watched this again last night.As an avid card player and fan of the game, this movie is incredible.  I must watch it once every two or three months just for inspiration.  I'd imagine my reaction is similar to my brothers, who loves Nascar for some reason and swears Days of Thunder is the greatest movie ever.This is a theme movie.  For card players, it'll be fascinating.  For movie lovers, its probably slightly above-average at best.  No fancy cinematography or special effects or comedy or plot twists.  Just a simple, predictable script with the all expected Hollywood finish.  However, like I mentioned, for poker players...its awesome.   I always laugh at the suckers in Atlantic City playing against the sharks, probably because I have been that sucker on a number of occasions. "},{"Title":"Best gambling movie since The Color of Money.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is the best hustling movie in this decade.  The acting is as unbelievable as the script.  There is nothing wrong with this movie and it emphasizes all the important aspects of life.  Depend on yourself and women will never cause you anything but trouble.  Words I live by.  This was a very under rated movie, and is one i can safely recommend to anyone who wants to enjoy a movie... anthony "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   I personally think that this is a great film, apart from having a slightly predictable ending. I've read many of the reviews here and so many of them really put the movie down. But as a plus there are many more who like it. What many people don't account for is that the movie is based on a book (and a tremendous book at that) and not the other way around. So of course there is going to be many parts which are skipped/skimmed over. But ultimately its well worth watching, with quite alot of tension and a little humour to break things up Don't overlook this movie.  "},{"Title":"It's a 10!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my top 5 movies of all times.  Matt Damon does a great job acting in this film.  Same with Edward Norton.  They are an incredible duo. They have great sets for the film.  The plot is wonderful.  I own this movie on DVD and I watch it constantly.  I watch it probably 10 times a month.  I know every word.  This is a great movie and i recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"The most accurate movie about real poker.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an avid poker player for many years, I can honestly say that the poker ideas and strategies expressed in 'Rounders' are genuine. Although in poker circles the movie is known to have a few very minor technical poker flaws, it is still a great primer for any would-be poker player. The only negative thing about the movie is the focus on cheating. In my experience cheating is not a prominent part of the game and in a way the movie proves what can happen to cheaters. All in all I recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in poker. I give it a 10 out of 10. (although I am biased, I've seen it over 100 times). "},{"Title":"A great movie with lots to offer","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is an unbelievable flick, which gets better every time you watch it.  It is incredibly acted especially in the case of John Malkovich as KGB, and Edward Norton, as Les Murphy.  The plot is very interesting, and if you are a card player it is all the better because they sometimes neglect to explain in lamens what some of the terms the say mean.  The movie is very realistic and every time you watch it you pick more information, and more insight into the purpose of the movie.  The only slight negative I find in this movie is that at times it gets long during some of Mike's (matt damon) conversations, in particular with the professor.  "}{"Title":"one of the best poker movies to date","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie rules! the lines are awesome, the atmosphere is nice, the acting is good, the story is a great one, and KGB is the best! now, personally, i wouldn't want to be in mike's situation, especially since...well, you'll have to see for yourself. the card mechanics are done nicely, and the actors make the poker games look so easy. see this movie, indefinately. and don't chu worry, san, it wull all be ovah soon. "},{"Title":"Get to know the rounded, well played physic of a gambler/KGB- Texas Hold em","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is the story of a guy who is a great gambler and who could make a living on gambling by beating the casino and other players along the way. However, as luck would have it, he is forced into high stakes, he is forced to go back into the world that he tried to leave.This is were the movie takes off. Rounders (1998) used the technical kowledge of real rounders/pro-gamblers to pull off its sense of realism. However, it does this while balancing the law aspect of the story and while introducing us to great characters like John Malkovich and his Teddy KGB. You don't have to be a gambler to enjoy this film.In fact, I dont gamble much, but if you want to see how gambling can come down to the finest perceived detail or the edge of control, Rounders it for you, it will help you get into the mind-set and the physic of the game.Viewed on tape. Rating 9 "},{"Title":"Playing cards drama.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon loses a lot of money playing poker so his girlfriend makes him quit. He starts playing poker again and builds enough confidence to beat the guy he lost to. Beautiful and colorful scenes. Somewhat exciting. Very few parts get boring. Good enough to buy if on sale. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being someone who can appreciate the game of poker (including its ups and downs), I found this movie to be very good.  The characters in this were well done and Matt Damon and Ed Norton play superb roles. Although I do agree with some reviewers that John Malkovich's accent was a little extreme and also that director John Dahl is a little too technical in explaining the game of poker, I also feel that the overall movie was excellent. If you are looking for an entertaining movie with excellent star performances then this is the movie for you.  The only real problem that I had was with Gretchen Maul's character.  I felt that she needed more of a role to further the movie  "},{"Title":"interesting plot and terrific acting","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was great but than again, I'm biased because I love to gamble.  This is not to say that I gamble incessantly, but it is something I enjoy every now and than. That said, I really enjoyed Rounders and it inspired me to learn Texas Hold em which I think is a fascinating game. Good variety of poker scense, lots of jargon too which I enjoyed.  Malkovich as funny as Teddy KGB.  You don't have to be a gambler to enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Excelent performance","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The thing I liked most about Rounders was John Malkovic. He was definitely the best actor in the movie. Matt Damon did his part very well too though but John really let the movie shine. I love what he did with his russian accent. -marko- "},{"Title":"yay","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie kicks ass for anyone who pretends they play cards. vocabulary is educational. cinematography is excellent. this movie demonstrates what a good actor ed norton is.  "},{"Title":"This movie delivers with a winning formula...","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a winning formula fabulous acting (especially by Edward Norton) some suspense, relationship issues, humor, and drop dead gorgeous people (could anybody take their eyes off of Matt Damon?)At some points in the movie, you'll want to beat Damon's character over the head for his loyalty, but that just adds to the suspense.  A great movie that both men and women will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Best poker movie since The Sting","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent performances from Norton and Malkovich brought this movie into my top ten of all time.  If you aren't into cards then this won't be your movie but if you are or want to learn then see Rounders.  The drama and action evident in this film underscores the emotion and intensity that is obvious in the way the actors interact.  Rounders is a modern classic that will hopefully stay around for a long time. "},{"Title":"A definite must rent.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great script, great actors, great acting, great glimpse at pro cards. What else do you want?  Rent this puppy.  Congrats to all involved who presumably turned down much higher paying, much higher profile projects to do something that was clearly a great deal of fun. "}{"Title":"Great Movie/watched 4 times in a week","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Captivating show. Good Story Great Acting. Great Execution. Great Editing. Great Cinematography.  What a movie should be like. One of the great movies of recent times.  "},{"Title":"John Dahl's Best","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is John Dahl's best movie yet mainly because I didn't care for his other movies and because of strong performances from John Malkovich and Ed Norton.  Malkovich as KGB was an excellent adversary to our poker playing hero Matt Damon and Norton was an excellent foil.  Norton was the guy who would never grow up and refused to learn from his mistakes.  Damon was the poker veteran who could beat the best of them by playing it straight.  The parts I enjoyed most were those with either Malkovich or Turturro.  These actors are incredible and every moment they were on screen they had my utmost attention.  I'd watch it again for the inspiring card playing and for Malkovich. "},{"Title":"A Movie for Poker Fans","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders may not be the best film ever made, but if you like poker, you'll find the authenticity of this movie agreeable (for example, all of the poker jargon used is 'real'). If you don't particularly like poker, you may find yourself wanting to play after seeing this film. Although some plot elements are poorly developed - especially the relationship between Matt Damon's character and his girlfriend - others are annoyingly real. Damon's character is charismatic, and Norton's is not - this has the effect of making the viewer want to strangle poor Damon for falling for Norton's bad ideas and dishonest practices time and again. I personally enjoyed this film immensely, both for its visual charms (the cardrooms are beautiful) and the interplay between the Damon's and Norton's characters.  "},{"Title":"Watch it for the actors, not the plot.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie really surprised me.  It was way better than I expected.  Great performances all around, even though Gretchen Mol could have been written out without affecting the movie.   Extra Kudos to Norton as scumbag Worm, Turturro as career gambler Cannish, and to Malkovich, who eats more scenery than Godzilla.  The dialogue is fast and full of more poker terminology than I could comprehend (I had to watch twice to figure out what they were talking about).  The movie's fatal flaw may be its terrible story (which I've seen a million times before) where good guy gets defeated, rests up for a while, and comes back to defeat evil.  Yawn.  What ever happened to the Good Old Days, where the hero was a total loser and didn't always come out spotless in the end (like Paul Newman in *The Hustler*, or anyone in any Scorcese film, for that matter)?  It's too bad that everything nowadays has to be Shiny Happy, or this movie could have gone from being good to great. Well worth a look, despite its flaws. "},{"Title":"Please find a better way to spend 2 hours!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard really good reviews about this movie and was excited to put in the tape.  After the first half-hour I knew that this film could be taken out with the garbage.  Matt Damon is as stiff and one-dimensional as usual. The friendship with Edward Norton's character is a complete farce.  Damon's love relationship felt like it never really mattered to begin with. The most exciting character (Worm) left the scene never to return with about 30 minutes of this yawner to go. Rounders literally put me to sleep and was the first film in quite a while that I did not want to finish watching. Unfortunately I did, and I wished I hadn't opened my eyes again and interrupted my good nap. This movie is a complete waste of good film.   "},{"Title":"Basically, thumbs down.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sorry, but I just couldn't buy the fact that Damon's character would associate himself with a creep like Norton's character.  And I just can't see Damon as a Vegas-quality poker player.  And what's with Malkovich?  If overacting was an Oscar category, he'd be a shoo-in, right after Pacino and Eric Roberts.  Sorry, too ridiculous to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Wanna know what an intense game of poker is like?","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I did not like the way Matt Damon's girlfriend, was jumping to conclusions and making him into some gambler that he wasn't.  He clearly gave up that lifestyle for her. I was happy when she left. I think that Matt Damon was fantastic. It is pretty hard to believe that an actor can play a part as well as John Malkovich did. This guy is probably the most underrated actor that I can think of. The last scene is a classic, and in the mini rampage that Malkovich puts on is unreal.  To think a man with that accent played Lennie Small in Of Mice and Men.  If you enjoy cards, you will definitely enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Good overall, great cast","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  * * * I can only say 2 words after watching this movie- great cast. The entire cast was in top notch form, especially Edward Norton and John Tuturro.  Although the movie was not great, deep and provocative, it was thoroughly entertaining and attempted avoiding being typical Hollywood.  The characters were real and again- great cast. "},{"Title":"...will make you think twice about ever sitting down at a poker table again","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Dahl (of The Last Seduction and Red Rock West fame) delivers another flick about the seedier side of life in the new character study card-shark movie Rounders. Starring Matt Damon (Good Will Hunting and SPR) and Edward Norton (chilling supporting actor nominee for Primal Fear) with a superb supporting cast including John Turturro as Kinish, John Malkovich as KBG and Martin Landau as Professor Petrovsky, Rounders follows a card shark on the rounds from one poker game to the next in New York's underbelly back halls and clubs. Known as a great reader of people, Damon (Mike McDermott) has made his money for his law school education by using his skills at the poker table. His patient girlfriend (played convincingly by Gretchen Mol) has had enough of his late night/all night rounds, so, to keep her, he hangs up his deck, gets a regular job and becomes a full time student. That is, until Worm (Norton) is released from prison and must pay back a loan made prior to his incarceration. He enlisted Mike's help and out of gratitude for Worm's keeping him out of jail, Mike helps his old friend and in the process estranges his girlfriend and his poker friends as well as Worm builds up more debts under Mike's good name while trying to score big to pay off the loan.At times chilling and always entertaining, Rounders delivers a full house of good acting and great story.  Norton and Damon make a good team and Malkovich (always superb) outdoes himself here while Landau could well earn a supporting actor nomination for two of this year's films - X-Files The Movie and Rounders.Rounders will make you think twice about ever sitting down at a poker table again. And with good reason. Catch this one now and see it again soon. There's a lot more here than meets the eye and it will be just as enjoyable, if not more, on the second go round as the first. One of the best films about poker since The Cincinnati Kid.  "},{"Title":"Rounders is an all aROUND good movie.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to see Rounders last night, and, needless to say, there were a lot of teenage girls there (ready to see Matt Damon, of course).  In fact, the entire row in front of me was filled with them. They seemed very excited.  But, even though Damon was in it, the movie didn't seem to appeal to them.  And it wasn't supposed to.  The brillantly written story begins with Mike  (Damon, Good Will Hunting), a pre-grad law student, taking hundreds of dollars from hidden places in his apartment.  He then he leaves his apartment with the line If you can't spot the sucker in the first half hour at the table, then you are the sucker.  The rest of the first act follows Mike as he loses all that money in a poker game which takes place in a hidden poker palace, owned by the infamous Teddy KGB, head of the russian mob (who loves Oreos).  The movie then skips to nine months later , where Mike has apparently stopped his poker playing, due to his girlfriend , Jo (Gretchen Mol).  We then discover that Mike is a true rounder, when telling a group of judges playing poker about every card in their hands.  The transition to act two takes place when Mike goes to pick up his best friend, Worm (Edward Norton, Primal Fear), from prison.  He discovers that Worm has several debts he got from before his arrest. He has to pay them off.  Thus, against Jo's liking, Mike decides to help Worm out.  The movie follows them as Mike discovers that Worm isn't paying off just any rounder, but Teddy KGB himself.  Slowly, his tution and lover dissapear from his life, and the stakes become higher.  (A turning point of the movie is when Mike and Worm play a few hands with some cops.)  The characters were believable, the plot amusing, and the scenes at the card tables amazing.  There you find that poker isn't just luck, but entirely the opposite.  With killer performances from Damon and Norton, Rounders is sure to impress.  But a note to all teenage girls out there Damon is not portraying a lovy -dovy idol in this movie, as he did in Good Will Hunting, but instead plays a rounder, a guy who earns his living at the tables, and lives by the number one rule of poker, Trust everyone, but cut the cards. "}{"Title":"Put Your Money on Rounders Best Film Yet About Poker Players","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Towards the beginning of the film, Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) chats with his girlfriend and fellow law student (Gretchen Mol) about his world of poker-playing, and she says that she can't believe that her boyfriend associates with someone named Worm (Edward Norton). In many ways, this short discourse describes largely what the story is about. It centers around the two worlds of Mike McDermott. There is Mike McDermott, law student, who habituates the very demanding and yet predictable world of professors and classmates at a nameless law school, maybe Columbia or NYU. And there is Mike McDermott, poker player or rounder, who inhabits the world of card sharks which seems like another planet when compared to the world of the law school. Much of the movie is about McDermott's straddling these two worlds and realizing that he may have to choose one or the other.This film is not about poker playing in the sense of strategy, tactics, folding, bluffing, etc, or at least we receive very little insight into the poker strategist's mind, except during the opening sequence. Instead, which is maybe a better focus, we learn about the world of the poker player. Where he plays, where he doesn't play, whom he plays, and what he's trying to accomplish. We learn about the different secret games and the strange characters that populate this other dimension which seems on the periphery of society.Joey Knish (John Turturro) is the rounder's rounder who plays poker for a living and is one of the few level-headed people among these cut-throats. Often he tries to guide the young McDermott and steer him away from the deadlier side of the game. Teddy KGB (John Malkovich), whose nickname refers to his high position in the Russian mafia, owns a strange underground poker facility that you won't find in the yellow pages. And the creme-de-la-creme is Worm, played with angst and nervous energy by Edward Norton, who is both a brilliant poker player but a reckless cheat who deals hangars even when he's winning. (A hangar is a cheated deal in which certain cards are dealt from the bottom of the deck to a particular player or players to either advantage or disadvantage their hand(s).) Much of the film is about their relationship, and how a scam got Worm busted before the story begins and how the two have to fight to get out of a much larger predicament than governmental authorities.The world of the law students, which ends up playing second fiddle to the poker world, includes McDermott's girlfriend and one of the professors, played by Martin Landau. The glimpses of the more refined world of the law school acts as an excellent reflection on the seedier poker universe to better define McDermott and how he fits into both. But as the movie progresses, the poker world monopolizes larger and larger amounts of his time, energy and attention.Briefly, the film begins with a devastating poker heads-up hand between McDermott and none other than Teddy KGB, the most feared man of the movie, down in KGB's own poker casino that looks like an underground detention center. The story fast-forwards several months later as McDermott tries to reconcile himself vowing to quit poker forever, like an alcoholic vows to stop drinking, and devote all his energy to studying law. But when he picks up Worm from prison, McDermott ends up getting sucked back into the game. And the more he plays, the more his law studies and his girlfriend take a back seat. Simultaneously, a sub-plot is brewing in which we learn that Worm has many obligations awaiting him when he was released from custody, and simultaneously, he has not shaken his interesting ways of winning poker hands which starts becoming a very dangerous game. Eventually, Worm's situations, both past and present, McDermott's willingness to get back into poker intersect providing an incredible tale of twists and turns that will keep you wondering who's got the hand and who's bluffing.Rounders is a gem of movie. The acting is absolutely first rate all around, particularly from the supporting cast. The movie has elements of a suspense thriller with high intelligence and yet always reminds you that this is about poker players. Johnny Chan, the twice champion of the World Series of Poker, makes an unexpected cameo. And of course, the highest acclaim for Matt Damon and Edward Norton. You might be able to bluff a bad hand but the acting and script is the real deal. "},{"Title":"Good Will Dealing?","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only wish this movie had some of the elements or characters ofGood Will Hunting.  However, this movie is terrible.  Matt Damon tries to reconstruct his Will Hunting character, only now he can't stun MIT profs, but New York City lowlifes.  Gretchen Mol plays his girlfriend and her performance, to be generous, was wooden.  John Malkovich attempts a Russian accent and delivers it abysmally, his character of Teddy KGB is supposed to tough and fearsome, but comes out only as ridiculous.  His addiction to Oreos proves to be his undoing?  Give me a break!  There are some bright spots  Edward Norton as Worm gives a great performance as the low life leach that he is.  Martin Landau is very good as Damon's law school mentor.  The portrayal I liked best, and about the only believeable character, Damon's poker mentor, Knish. In short  Two hours of my life I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Matt Damon isn't an actor.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty disappointing film. It proves something I didn't necessarily want to know. Matt Damon is not a good actor. In fact, it's not acting at all. He plays the character in Rounders exactly the same as Will Hunting. As far as I'm concerned this film could have been called, Good Will Hunting for a Card Game. Another appropriate title could have been, as a good friend calls all sequels, Good Will Hunting II, Electric Boogaloo. The film was not boring, it could definetely hold your attention for two hours. It certainly didn't leave much to talk about afterwards, however. The ending is highly predictable. The attempt to make the gambling scene as realistic as possible isn't incredibly admirable. It's not even that interesting.  The bottom line of this movie is that it was a vehicle to try and further Matt Damon's career (and perhaps to prove that  he can act sans best friend, Ben Affleck.) It only proves that he is a somewhat charming kid who is playing himself in every role. "},{"Title":"Underrated? Not at all!!!","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Having found a movie on poker that i hadn't already watched , i was pretty excited. But my excitement wasn't to last long. A few minutes into the movie, the impression you get of Mike Dermott (Matt Damon) is definitely not of someone who is a seasoned poker player, but of a nervous kid out there to lose all he has (it is remarkably amateurish the way he loses the last deal). Nine months later and you are introduced to a string of random events. A difficult girl friend , a reckless friend (Worm, Edward Norton) who does his best to get Mike into trouble, an old man who preaches about destiny choosing a man (starts off with his story for no apparent reason!!), Worm and Mike getting into trouble and everything that reeks of banality and commonplace. No effort has been made to make any element of the later part of the movie credible. Making $7000 on the first night seems a cakewalk, but $8000 in two more nights an impossible task for no apparent reason. Towards the end of the movie was the much awaited showdown, match with Teddy KGB (John Malkovich, only one who does his part well) but it turns out to be the nail in the coffin instead. You'd find more surprise and tension in a local club poker match than in this one. The cocksure hero is expected to win and he does without a glitch.The End. The disappointment the movie had caused was too much for me, and i wanted to read reviews by people who felt like i did, to vent my frustration. But to my even greater disappointment, the top 4 reviews out of 10 had 'Underrated' as the Subject. My Suggestion - Don't waste your time watching this no good movie if it is for the love of poker that you are considering it. Instead, go for Cincinnati Kid, Croupier or California Split if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Now look here, I like cards, but give me some character substance to make me care about the players, eh?","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is directed by John Dahl and written by David Levien & Brian Koppelman. It stars Matt Damon, Edward Norton, John Turturro, John Malkovich, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen & Martin Landau. Music is by Christopher Young and Jean-Yves Escoffier is the cinematographer on location in New York & New Jersey. Film is based around the underground world of high stakes poker. Plot sees Poker playing law student Mike McDermott (Damon) team up with his Poker playing ex-con best friend Lester Worm Murphy (Norton) to try and raise some serious cash. The cash is needed because Worm has saddled them both with high debts, the sort of debts that can get you killed.In the years since Rounders was released to mixed reviews and a Luke warm box office, Poker has really taken off to become a hugely popular television staple. So it's perhaps no surprise to learn that John Dahl's Poker based movie has gained a cult following. It's also found momentum due to a number of pro Poker players citing it as either the reason they got into Poker playing, or that it's the best Poker movie ever. High praise indeed, then. Yet for someone like me who doesn't play the game, but most assuredly loves a good sports movie, the film has too much wrong with it to deserve such plaudits.First off is Damon, a fine actor, but not in this role. He never once convinces that he needs to play Poker, let alone play himself into a life and death struggle due to his borderline volatile best friend. He looks and seems out of place throughout, his boyish charm undercuts what little tension there actually is. While his relationship with Norton (turning in a good show) is never interesting or spiky enough to form a solid core from which the film can grow. Dahl merely uses their relationship as intermittent fillers as we jump from one Poker table to the next. Cue one moment when Mike's girl (Mol barely getting time to breath let alone act), who shock shock hates cards, leaves him; a period of refection for a moment, a life is cards summary and bingo, lets go play cards! I'd have laughed if it wasn't so insulting.What is totally humorous is Malkovich, who after promising much in the beginning as brooding Russian gangster Teddy KGB, descends into pantomime farce for the supposed nail biting finale. His accent so ludicrous you wonder if you have been whisked into a Hanna-Barbera cartoon whilst you sneaked a peak at your cards. There's also no surprise with the outcome. Poker may be a sport not often filmed on the big screen, but this is a traditional sports movie across the table. Janssen (as yummy as ever) threatens to be a great teasing character but isn't given anything to get her teeth into; which when one considers the director likes his peccadilloes to be film noirish is a surprise. And Landau, too, is given lightweight fluff to work from as a kindly professor type who seems more token than earnest.On the plus side. Escoffier's photography is neat and on the money, particularly for the first quarter as we go into seedy card dens that are dimly lit and tinted by cigar smoke. While Young's score is unobtrusive and deserving of a better film to accompany it. Away from the seemingly always watchable Norton, it's Turturro who comes out the brightest with his non histrionic and believable portrayal of Joey Knish. A sensible and honest character in a film that lacks enough of either of those traits. Utterly predictable and smug into the bargain, Rounders, it seems, is for Poker players only. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Don't Get Cornered with Rounders!","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching Rounders is no big deal.Starring Matt Damon, Edward Norton, and John Malkovich, this savvy but soporific saga about high-stakes poker seethes with classy acting and authentic atmosphere. Sadly, where drama calls on the plot to pay off, Rounders cashes in its chips. Unfortunately, this low-key, pretentious potboiler never turns up the heat or the hustle. Coming from a gifted director like John Dahl, Rounders qualifies as a major bust. Dahl and freshman screenwriters David (the 2004 Walking Tall remake) Levien and Brian (Ocean's Thirteen) Koppelman develop secondary characters and settings with greater vibrancy than either their hero or his predicament. But even the secondary characters suffer. They register with greater screen presence but less screen time. Evidently, Miramax tamper with the film. Characters enter and exit without explanation and the plot comes and goes in fits and starts. Not only does Rounders ante up only intermittent moments of suspense, sex, and romance, the filmmakers also never must enough momentum to keep the story from stalling out when the action should be steaming ahead.Rounders are card sharps. Mike McDermott (Matt Damon of Good Will Hunting) is a street-wise, young stud working his way through law school with gambling addiction. The movie opens with dramatic potential as he loses $30-thousand dollars of his hard-earned savings to a creepy Russian gambler, Teddy KGD (John Malkovich of Of Mice and Men) in a tense poker match. Mike's fellow law student and live-in squeeze Jo (Gretchen Mol of  Girl 6) persuades him to reform. Earning his bucks as a lowly route salesman holds little appeal for Mike. Mike has poker in his blood. Late one evening, when he stops by to visit his law school dean, Professor Abe Petrosvky (Oscar winner Martin Landau of Ed Wood), he catches them playing a friendly game of low-stakes cards. Mike doesn't have time to examine their hands to know what they're holding. Instead, he can read their faces. If you can't spot the sucker in your first half-hour at the table, Mike explains, dazzling Abe and his colleagues with his extraordinary skills, you are the sucker.Mike is a prodigy at poker. Nevertheless, he lets his more legitimate, status-quo ambitions of getting a law degree interfere with his first love&#151;poker. Like life, Rounders concerns choices. The more that Mike thinks about it, the more that he prefers poker. His blond girlfriend Jo struggles to keep him focused on his legal studies, but neither her love nor her sexuality can overwhelm the thrill that Mike derives from gambling. If you look hard enough, Rounders shares some literary similarities with the classic American novel Huckleberry Finn. Like the carefree, irresponsible Huck who runs off to the river, Mike knows that he shouldn't be gambling. Jo imitates the Widow as she struggles futilely to break him of his poker addiction. Rounders takes place in the shady gambling dens of the Big Apple. These hidden lairs lure Mike with the same potency that the river seduced Huck. Unlike Huckleberry Finn, however, Rounder doesn't qualify as a classic.On the other hand, Mike doesn't have the reliable friend that Huck had in runaway slave Jim. Instead, Mike has Les Murphy (Edward Norton of American X at his sleazy best). Aptly nicknamed 'Worm,' Les is just as ill-behaved as the couple of con-artists that hitched a ride with Huck on his raft down the river. Worm gets out of prison no long after Rounders unfolds. Mike and Worm had a scam going a couple of years back when their luck eroded. Worm shut his trap, took the rap, and did the time. Now, Mike feels indebted to his old scummy buddy. Worm has no qualms. He cheats everybody, Mike included, and never blinks. Eventually, Jo moves out when she learns that Mike is bluffing her again.Now, not only does Mike find himself saddled with Worm's staggering $25-thousand dollar debt, but also Worm's unsavory adversaries harass him. Things worsen when Mike finds out that Grama (Michael Rispoli of The Weather Man), a vicious thug who pimps for KGB, has brought up Worm note. Grama threatens to smash Worm's arms and legs if he doesn't fork over the fund in 48 hours. Mike and Worm hit the road in search of suckers. Refusing to let Worm win by cheating, Mike vows to get their bucks solely on the strength of his gambling genius. Things are looking up and Mike is winning hand after hand from a bunch of cops when the incorrigible Worm shows up and spoils everything. The cops catch Worm dealing off the bottom of the deck. Confiscating all their dough, the boys-in-blue beat them black and blue. Rather than face an even worse beating from Grama, Worm leaves Mike in the lurch.Nobody gives a bad performance in Rounders. Matt Damon evokes more sympathy here than he did in Good Will Hunting. Indeed, these two Damon characters share similarities. They both display genius in their calling. Mike either wins or loses by knowing facial tick of his opponents. The filmmakers beef up Mike's charisma by letting him provide narration. Mike's character suffers his biggest drawback from passivity. The writers don't give Mike much spunk. Matt Damon breathes life into a pretty, colorless character. The scenarists stretch credibility when Mike allows Worm to use him. Something is missing. For all the card sense that he possesses, Mike shows little common sense.Good movies require a beginning, middle, and an ending. Rounders bogs down in the middle. The movie starts well but stalls out early. The story digresses and wander off onto lateral concerns. Rounders doesn't end with a bang, but folds without a sight of hope. Ultimately, Rounders lacks both the psychological tension and depth of the 1974 James Caan movie The Gambler about a compulsive gambler in the self-destructive those of a wagering addiction. Moreover, Rounders never mobilizes the competitive spirit of the classic Steve McQueen poker parable The Cincinnati Kid. "},{"Title":"Good and realistic look at a way of life","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is not an anti-gambling film. At the end, when Matt Damon defeats KGB, you want to find the nearest gambling joint...But the film does show us the dangers of the world of gamblers and card sharks. Matt goes broke and calls it a day in the beginning of the film. But after his buddy Worm drags him back, he knows that all he really wants and is good at is poker.Matt never hits rock bottom (like all gamblers do once in their 'çareer'). He goes broke yes, but he still has his girl, a house and a job. Most gamblers who hit bottom end up with only the clothes on their back. If there is a critique, it's that. It doesn't let it's main character experience the real downs of a gambling existence.But that's all the bad things I can say about this film. The bad news the gambling world has to offer comes in Worm (an excellent Norton). The film has colorful and realistic characters. The dialog is authentic and film has a 'real feel' to it. I love these 'small' films, in contrary to all the 100 trillion dollar blockbuster with special effects that come out every week. Too bad Hollywood doesn't make more films like this one. "},{"Title":"In a word, Cool!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    From School Ties, Geronimo, to Good Will Hunting I have always loved Matt Damon's movies.  I even liked the Kevin Smith movies he was in!  Here he plays Mike, a law school student who is also a poker prodigy, and he plays for more money to pay his way through school.  Also, he tries to outsmart the enemy, Teddy KGB (played by John Malchovich).  I also liked John Malchovich's performance as the villain in this movie.  Gretchen Mol was good as Mike's girlfriend, too.  All and all, this movie was excellent. So, even if you are or you're not familiar with poker at all, this movie is still worth seeing.    I think this one was the best of all Matt Damon's movies.  I look forward to seeing more movies with him, soon!  I give this one 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Sorry...","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you slice and dice into the depth of Rounders you find that you've just watched 10 poker games over a time period of 2 hours.  This was one of the movies I looked at my watch at during.  While some great performances it just has a bad plot, and there's nothing you can make up for that, even with Matt Damon.  I did not see the depth in it, I saw some card games, just didn't click with me.- The Mad Prince of Denmark princeoden@aol.com "},{"Title":"Good Will Dealing?","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only wish this movie had some of the elements or characters ofGood Will Hunting.  However, this movie is terrible.  Matt Damon tries to reconstruct his Will Hunting character, only now he can't stun MIT profs, but New York City lowlifes.  Gretchen Mol plays his girlfriend and her performance, to be generous, was wooden.  John Malkovich attempts a Russian accent and delivers it abysmally, his character of Teddy KGB is supposed to be tough and fearsome, but comes out only as ridiculous.  His addiction to Oreos proves to be his undoing?  Give me a break!  There are some bright spots  Edward Norton as Worm gives a great performance as the low life leach that he is.  Martin Landau is very good as Damon's law school mentor.  The portrayal I liked best, and about the only believeable character, Damon's poker mentor, Knish. In short  Two hours of my life I'll never get back. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable character-driven story","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mike is a law student who is also a skilled poker player.  However when he loses everything to Russian player KGB he promises his girlfriend that he'll quit playing.  However a year later Mike's friend Worm comes out of prison and immediately entices Mike into an easy game.  Worm still has outstanding debts and Mike is drawn back into this world in order to help him win enough to pay them off.I taped this off TV with no real hope for it.  I knew it hadn't done well at the cinema and that it wasn't exactly a well known film &#150; so I assumed it must be pretty poor.  However I was sold on it by the end and, although it's not brillant, it's good enough to watch at least once.  The plot is pretty simple but the characters make it watchable and the poker action is good.  How many of us long to be Mike &#150; to be able to read a table like that etc? The poker scenes may not all have excitement (you know who'll win) but they are interesting to watch.Damon caused me pause to doubt when he first came on the screen.  I just saw him in `Bourne Identity' and here he looks very young compared to that.  However once I got past his baby face I accepted him although someone else might have been better.  Norton is great as always and very watchable.  Good support comes from an understated Turturro, Janssen, Landau and a slightly hammy Malkovich.  However they all do well given that they all drive the thin plot and make the film watchable.Overall it's not a great piece of work but it does have some really good performances and it works well as a drama with knobs on.  I wouldn't buy it but I'll watch it again if I see it on TV. "},{"Title":"Feel-good film about compulsive gambling","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is helped by a rich cast, led by the increasingly more likable Matt Damon.  John Turturro adds a quiet strength and dignity to his standard misfit prodigy character. The film has a surprisingly low-key feel, with many scenes filmed in dim rooms punctuated with hushed dialogue.  It's an entertaining film, but it seems unlikely that Mike (Matt Damon) could go through what he goes through and maintain such a sunny disposition and steadfast sense of honor.  The dialogue is rife with poker references and inside lingo.  If a viewer has no understanding of the game of poker he/she will certainly be lost. "},{"Title":"Good Acting Rescues An Otherwise Routine Film","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In an era when special effects are the only rationale for so many films, it's nice to watch one which relies on old fashion acting ability.In Rounders, a law student, played by Matt Damon, has a weakness for poker, which leads him into the underworld of professional cutthroat gamblers, with predictable consequences.  None of the characters are really likeable, but I suppose that's what one would expect, given the subject matter.  The film's atmosphere is modern, stylish, and classy.A problem I had with Rounders is the script.  It's too talky.  I could have wished for more card playing, and less chit chat.  The film plods along at times like a TV soap opera.What makes the film worth watching is the acting.  John Malkovich, Martin Landau, Edward Norton, and John Turturro are all convincing in their roles.  Despite his baby face looks, which I found distracting, Matt Damon at least makes an effort to be convincing.  But, in my opinion, he is miscast here, as he also was miscast in The Talented Mr. Ripley.  For the role of Mike McDermott in Rounders, I would have preferred a lesser known actor, one with more of an edge, rather than the well-known and boyish looking Damon.Overall, this is an OK film to watch once, especially for the fine acting. "},{"Title":"Good Movie For Poker Fans","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like poker - and more and more people seem to be playing it or watching it on TV - you might want to check out this movie. Although a fictional story, you get some good insights on the game, the how and whys.My only warning is that it isn't a family film, that's for sure. There is tons of profanity, beginning with many f-word usages. If you can deal with that, you can deal with the movie (yes, puns intended). Personally, I would have liked to have seen this story cut down on the sleaze factor. I like poker, I like actors Matt Damon, Edward Norton, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, John Turturro, John Malkovich and Martin Landau. With the subject matter and the fabulous cast, this should have been much better but came across a bit too much on the sordid side. Still, for card players this is a movie not to miss. "},{"Title":"The Best Poker Movie Ever?","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A young law school student (Matt Damon) is a reformed gambler who must return to playing big stakes poker to help a friend (Edward Norton) pay off loan sharks.If there is a weak spot in this movie, it is John Malkovich. And I do not mean that as a slight against him, but really more against the casting. He is too well-known of an actor, it jumps out as obvious that he is not a Russian. If you can't get a real Russian, at least get Peter Stormare.Ed Norton does a fine supporting job. Not his best role, but even his lesser roles are still good. He is among the best. And Damon? He nails it. It doesn't seem so much like he's acting as just extending who he naturally is. But that's why it works, because it seems natural. He has the timing and delivery to sound like a sharp, witty huckster. "},{"Title":"Damon Goes Full Circle.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders (1998) Dir John Dahl / Cast Matt Damon, Edward Norton, Gretchen Mol, Martin Landau, John Malkovich Intriguing concept fueled the concept of living dishonestly and the paranoia that follows. Matt Damon plays an exceedingly good card player who gambles away his tuition money but vows to quit his addiction. Edward Norton is released from prison and Damon picks him up and decides to help him raise the 15, 000 that he owes. Fine setup pays little attention to subplots involving college and his relationship ties with a narrated conclusion that doesn't cut it. Tense directing by John Dahl who also made Red Rock West. Production is standard but the casting is strong. Damon is the film's best asset playing someone who once propelled by wrong and returns to it once again with consequences. What occurs eventually his his methods of using it to free himself. Norton plays someone motivated by wrong because that is where he emerges. His solution is to retreat. Gretchen Mol plays Damon's girlfriend who helped him beat his addiction but eventually must deal with his return the only way she can. John Malkovich steals moments competing with Damon and eating Oreo cookies. Much of her story is neglected or unnecessary but she plays it with superb results. Martin Landau has a small but pivotal role as generous law professor. Theme of self analysis comes up aces high. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Loyal to Edward Norton, Matt Damon challenges John Malkovich in poker","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders has some very good acting and well-written parts. It dramatizes professional or skilled poker playing in an unrealistic but still engaging way. Matt Damon is perfect as a law student who finds that his real calling is playing poker. Martin Landau mentors him beautifully by relating how he came to be a law professor, not a rabbi. John Turturro racks up another fine character performance as an unflashy poker player who grinds out his earnings. Edward Norton inhabits his character fully, a young man with conflicting compulsions that can be quite self-destructive. John Malkovich impressively sports a heavy Russian accent and beard as the poker player with underworld connections. Gretchen Mol plays Damon's staid law student amour who wants him to quit poker. The story focuses on Damon's loyalty to Norton that goes back to their childhood and on Damon's increasing attraction to poker with law school and Mol taking a back seat. It's all larded with poker confrontations done up in an entertaining way. "},{"Title":"Check,Check, Check,","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you don't spot the sucker within the first half hour your the sucker.Matt Damon a law student puts his life on hold for his best friend Lester Murphy AKA (Worm)who's getting out of jail and has debt to the Russian mob Teddy KGB (John Malkovich) who wants his money and the good friend Mike McDermott (Damon) is helps Worm by playing high stakes poker to get Worm out of the hole. Putting his career, relationship and his life on the line. Which he ends up fighting for when Worm takes off on him.Watch Mike battle for what he has left against Teddy KGB.One of my all time favourite's .So get some cookies and Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Cut the cards","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was pretty good despite the fact that I'm not usually a fan of poker themed movies. It's oldish now but the story is still excellent and I loved seeing a (very fresh faced) Matt Damon who plays a law student trying to avoid his former life of underground high stakes poker (after losing everything) and live the straight life with his girlfriend.When his friend Worm (Edward Norton) is released from prison 'Mike' unwittingly gets drags back into the high-stakes poker world to help pay off loan sharks and eventually faces off against his arch nemesis KGB -who is played awesomely by John Malkovich. I also really enjoyed Martin Landau as Mike's mentor/lawyer. Worth checking out. 12.13 "},{"Title":"Let's play some cards.","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First prize at the World Series of Poker is a million bucks. Does it have my name on it? I don't know. But, I'm gonna find out.These are the last lines from Rounders, the best movie ever made about poker. Their meaning, in my opinion, is that everyone one with poker skills has chances to win WSOP. You just need to believe it and play really well.I absolutely enjoyed the movie and the actor's performances( Edward Norton just doesn't know how to play badly). One of my friend's recommended me this movie, and I can only say that I was delighted by it. I consider myself an intensive poker player (Texas Hold'em), as I spent some of my nights in front of my computer playing non-stop poker on the internet(Pokerstars especially). Knowing the game really well, played a big role in my opinion about this movie. Movie which, i think, expresses very good the feelings you experience playing one your own. The ones who played poker before watching the movie, most probably found themselves in some of Mike's situations and choices. I also like that in the movie, poker is not considered a game of luck, but a game of patience and real skills.So, if you are a poker player, just watch it. You'll love it. It's like a story where it is explained in an original manner how Texas Hold'em Poker is played or should be played. Tells you about Luck, Why Play It, Winning, Losing and most important .. How to get back on your feet and star all over again.. with nothing, except high poker skills. Even if you lose, there is always another hand. If you're not a poker player... you'll be after you'll watch this movie. Trust me. "}{"Title":"Good poker movie elevated by great actors","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) is a card player who loses it all to KGB (John Malkovich). He vows to quit to his girlfriend Jo (Gretchen Mol). However when his childhood friend Worm (Edward Norton) gets out of prison, he pulls Mike back into the life.The card games can get very boring if done incorrectly. The games here are done pretty well. At least, the movie doesn't dwell on the games too much. It's the acting which makes this a superior movie. Matt Damon is really solid which allows Ed Norton to play the wild man. Their relationship is the center of the movie. Norton really has the skills to play the darker half of the duo.Some may have difficulties with the message of the movie. The idea of using your god given skills no matter what those skills may be is an unconventional message. I doubt there is another movie where the movie roots for the lead to play poker instead of studying law school. "},{"Title":"A classic and pure masterpiece","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I am not one for reviews but being this is my favorite movie of all-time I felt the need to give it my best shot. Matt Damon, in one of his best is just the 9 to 5 guy who is tired of 9 to 5, looking to fulfill his dreams of poker glory. He hits a bump in the road with fellow KGB mogul John Malkovich. Malkovich also like most of the cast nails his role. His old buddy Edward Norton AKA worm (go figure) is nothing but problems for Damon. I am not going to get into much more detail but I will say the movie was well written, full of great actors/actresses and is a hidden gem in the movie industry. The movies plot is based purely around the game of poker but can be remembered full of life lessons. never give up your dreams, be careful of those around you who do not make you a better person. And remember odds are no matter how successful you are in life there are people who have helped you get where you are. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Poker Movie","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love poker and I like watching poker so I knew I was gonna love this movie. The story follows a poker genius who's dream is to go to Vegas and play in Poker World Championship. However that dream has to be put on hold because his friend got out of jail and he has some debts he has to pay.This movie was pretty solid, I don't have anything to complain about. Story progression was good, characters were compelling and actors did a great job. You can't go wrong with Matt Damon and Ed Norton. I am a big fan of both of them. So even if you don't like poker you should see this movie. It is for everybody because it will keep you interested all throughout. I gave it an 8 because, for me, it didn't amaze me enough for a higher mark. But I still believe that it is a brilliant poker movie and you should definitely see it. "},{"Title":"Poker is life?","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You won't probably get everything if you didn't ever play some hands at Texas Hold'em. But the film is so low profile and at the same time so powerful you will probably like it as for one typical Oscar worthy drama blockbuster. It's fault is it's centered on poker and there are more people disliking it than not. Every scene delivers and the 1st person story teller recounts events as if gifted with a superior perception (that of a successful poker player obviously). The film runs smoothly and the more you experienced borderline events the more you will find it an understanding companion recounting some typical wanderings of your life. The 9 is due to the writing overall (the script is a 10) actors do their job. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but may be easier to follow if you're a gambler","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this movie was well directed and acted, and those are probably the primary reasons it kept my attention.While Matt Damon has earned a deserved title as the Golden Goose in movies, his fast talking narrative intended to assist the audience in understanding the action, is best suited for those with some reasonable gambling knowledge. Not being a gambler meant that I had a hard time understanding what he was talking about and therefore could not completely follow how the narrative was woven into the scenes.John Malkovich's performance as KGB was awesome. While I was 99.99% certain it was Malkovich playing this role, he was so good that I kept doubting it was him and trying to figure out if I was confusing the character with some other actor.Overall, this movie is worth a watch even if you're not a gambler and probably a don't miss if you are. "},{"Title":"Why the same five guys are always gunning for the Poker World Championship...","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A game of luck or of character and skill? Poker in the mind of most is the latter, and to the majority of people this is undoubtedly the truth. However when the stakes are high, knowledge, calm and cognisance is key to victory - professionality has no place for luck. When Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) attempts to advance to the top grade by beating Russian card Mafioso Teddy KGB (John Malkovich), he ultimately ends up losing everything, including his college tuition fee. This pushes him to drop out of rounding and focus on law studies. The situation changes however when his childhood buddy Lester 'Worm' Murphy (Edward Norton) gets released from prison and soon attempts to engulf him back into the scene...Rounders is an admirable character piece, where Damon and Norton show off their incredible acting chops, delivering a riveting story, which fails however to convey any moral, instead giving each and every character his due based on likability. Nonetheless despite having the majority of the movie focused around cards and occasional grifting, the story remains enticing. Even though discussions about Poker may have as well been in Chinese, the movie manages to flesh out the game and thankfully opts out of any miraculous 'magical last hand', instead focusing on the pure mechanics of professional cards - more psychology and skill, than gambling. The main gripe lays with the movies lack of message, unless glossing over questionable behaviour by the main character by suggesting that 'this is who he is, so its OK'. "},{"Title":"For poker players","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is fully appreciated if being a poker player or at least knowing a few things about the game. If you don't, you find yourself kind of frustrated because the script and the tension that results from it relies for a good part on the technical aspect of poker. Still the story manages to be dynamic, pretty well told, though a bit stereotyped on some points.The characters are a bit caricatural, but the cast did great and there was a good alchemy between Damon and Norton.The direction was quite good, with a special attention brought to the photography. "},{"Title":"very good, exceptional performances","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Matt Damon, Edward Norton, Gretchen Mol, Martin Landau, John Malkovich, John Turturro, Ray Iannicelli, and Famke Janssen star in Rounders, a 1998 film directed by John Dahl.Matt Damon plays Mike McDermott, a law student who has made a lot of money playing poker, but at a KGB gambling establishment, he loses everything and goes to work driving a truck for a friend there, Knish (Turturro). He has to promise his girlfriend (Mol) he's going straight.When his best friend, the aptly named Worm, is released from prison, the ever-faithful Mike is there to greet him. Because of a school indiscretion in which Worm refused to name him and was expelled while Mike graduated, Mike has always felt that he owed Worm big-time. Worm seduces him back into the life, basically so he can be bailed out from all the gambling debts he owed before going into prison.Really excellent movie that takes one into the lives of a couple of ringers who play with amateurs most of the time. John Malcovich as a Russian card shark is excellent, but really, everyone is great. Martin Landau plays a judge who is a professor at the law school and advises Mike You can't run away from what you are. He's wonderful.Director John Dahl takes us into the seedy gambling clubs and the all-night games as Mike, who believes card-playing is not about luck, reads faces and finds mannerisms that are giveaways as to the players' hands. And finally learns, for better or worse, who he is.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Just watching people gamble can be a lot of fun","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie has gambling parts but it has other good elements that had my interest most of the way through. Overall this is a movie to sort of be invested in since it keeps the same tone all the way through. It doesn't get better as it progresses but it's a fun thrill ride. I was hesitant about seeing Matt Damon playing a good card player but he was actually really good in this. Especially Edward Norton who is a card player that doesn't necessarily gamble but sees a mark and goes for it. Gambling can be an addiction and the story in this is about how far they fall and have to gamble there way back up. Especially because of the situation they end up in. I found the beginning to be intriguing and entertaining how it shows how certain people gamble and read each other while playing. Some of the psychological aspects in this movie was interesting and entertaining as well. This movie carried the same entertaining tone from beginning to end although it becomes a bit predictable as it progresses and you can see what is going to happen next. Also although John Malkovich only has few scenes but for some reason I liked watching the few scenes he was in playing the mad Russian card player KGB.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"An Excellent Poker Movie","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is what I call another kind of sports film.The game involves Texas hold 'em,which is one of the most popular poker games.The movie,Rounders has a cult following because of it.The plot of the film presents two friends who need to quickly earn enough cash playing poker to pay off a large debt.It stars Matt Damon and Edward Norton together with John Turturro,Famke Janssen,Gretchen Mol,John Malkovich and Martin Landau.It is directed by John Dahl.The movie is set in New York City.Mike McDermott (Damon) loses his entire bankroll in a hand of Texas hold'em against Teddy KGB (Malkovich),a Russian Mobster who runs an illegal underground poker room. He then decides to concentrate on his law school studies while promising his girlfriend and fellow law student Jo (Mol) to not play the game anymore. Mentor and fellow rounder Knish (Turturro) offers a part- time job driving a delivery truck to make ends meet.Time passes, and holds on to his promise.But then,his childhood friend Lester 'Worm' Murphy (Norton) is released from prison. Worm is also a card mechanic, who owes an outstanding debt accumulated before his incarceration. At Worm's influence, Mike is soon rounding again, which interferes with his schooling and causes both internal conflict as well as turmoil with Jo. When Worm is given a five day deadline to pay off his debt, Mike joins him in a furious race to earn the money by playing in several card games in and around New York City. Thus the movie follows the journey of both Mike and Worm in different places to raise the needed money and their consistent clash as the former is a gambler that wants to win the game straight and latter that wants to cheat.Rounders provided a lot of excitement.One may consider the thrills that gambling provides but it was story of both constant conflicts between Mike and Worm,who principles in gambling are opposite each other,that made the story interesting.Credit that to the great performances of Matt Damon and Edward Norton.Aside from that,it had a lot of talented actors in the group like John Malkovich as Teddy KGB and Martin Landau as Petrovsky.The highlight of this film is the final clash between Mike and Teddy KGB,which is a Rocky-like battle between champion and underdog. For that reason alone,this movie is worth the view despite the fact that the story can be clichéd and predictable as well as it does not offer any element new that a sports film may provide except of course that the game of poker is involved.Credit also should be given to the musical score of the film and the original song of the movie,I Am A Big Star Now by Counting Crows.A must see not only for Poker enthusiast and fans of Matt Damon and Edward Norton but also for people who love underdog films in the tradition of Rocky and Victory. "}{"Title":"Well-rounded Movie","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders. What an incredibly well-rounded movie! Everything about this movie screamed classic and the first I saw it I had never played a poker game in my life. This movie got me to explore the game and learn the intricacies of what was going on in the movie. No wonder why this film is attributed to the poker boom of the early 2000s. It's not just the poker that draws you in; it's how realistic this movie seems as well. John Dahl, the director, creates a fantastic underground poker scene in this 1998 movie. If you were to go to New York looking for a high stakes underground poker game, this is how your life could feel.This movie follows the main character Mike McDermott, an extremely skilled poker player who spouts one of the most famous lines in poker to start the movie. Listen, here's the thing. If you can't spot the sucker in the first half hour at the table, then you ARE the sucker. He is attending law school from the money he makes from poker. It is clear he has been doing this for a while. The film takes off when he tries to win big but loses his entire bankroll on a tough loss to the one of the best antagonists I have ever seen in a movie, Teddy KGB (played by John Malkovitch). Mike a couple months later meets his old high school buddy appropriately named Worm (played by Edward Norton) who just got out of prison. Worm was in jail for taking the fall for Mike on a scam they ran back in high school. Mike has changed considerably since then, Worm has not. Worm tells Mike that he has to pay back thousands of dollars to a loan shark. Mike vouches for him and this is where the movie takes off. They have to make $15,000 in just a few short days.The acting in this movie blows my mind every time I see this film. Edward Norton plays the slimiest and most disgusting human being I have ever witnessed in cinema history. Worm (Norton) always wants to fix the poker games they play and Mike (Damon) wants to win straight up. Norton jumps into this role so amazingly, that at one point in the movie he is getting beat up by the people who he cheated against in a card game and as a viewer I was so angry that I could have thrown a punch as well! His acting along with Matt Damon's impeccable way to play a genius, much like his character in Goodwill Hunting, makes the movie a thrill to watch. Matt Damon's character knows everything there is to know about poker, even enough to take on professionals. Yet, there is still that sense of Matt (Damon) not knowing how to make relationships work which Damon is a master of achieving. John Malkovitch plays an extremely entertaining and eccentric role as Teddy KGB. He is a delight to watch and he will have you imitating his accent after the movie. As for supporting roles, John Turturro, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, and Martin Landau seemed to have the perfect blend of characteristics to mesh with the main characters in the movie.The only lowlight of this movie seemed to be the unrealistic nature of some of the relationships between the characters. Mike seemed to be a smart and highly reliable guy and Worm is exactly the opposite. I am not saying this couldn't happen in real life because it does, but the way Worm goes around and gets into trouble in Mike's name seems kind of ludicrous. If these guys were friends since high school then I would like to believe Worm would care more about Mike than he portrayed in the movie. Another relationship that seemed a little off was Mike and his girlfriend, Jo (Gretchen Mol). She acted the way I would expect her to act in the situations Mike put her in but it almost seemed like she cared more about Mike not playing poker than Mike himself.Rounders certainly had me from the start. There were no dull points, and the movie never really had any slow parts. Every scene had its purpose; there were no meaningless subplots to take away from the main story. Despite some of the odd relationships put in the film, it was entertaining and amazingly thorough even without an understanding of the game of poker. If you decide to learn the game of poker, this movie moves into another category. Classic. This film is in a genre of its own by mixing action-adventure scenes with the suspense of a thriller. It is for all of these great reasons why Rounders gets 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Teddy KGB Aces full, Mike.","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Great cast Matt Damon in my opinion is the best actor today. Gretchen Mol, beautiful and gives her characters that warmish caring feeling. Norton and Malkovich terrific and the likes of Janssen, Turturro, Landau and others.A terrific opening sequence. Terrific score and great monologue. If you can't spot the sucker in the first half an hour at the table, then you are the sucker. The big hand Mike loses all his money is pretty much a no choice situation A9rag flop holding A9 then 9 hits the turn and a rag on the river. Only hand that beats you is AA, which is the case ace and with no raise pre-flop it is impossible to get away from this. You could possibly not raise at the end, but that's about it. The key is not to escalate the pot with A9 to begin with. But it's a cooler regardless.The judges stud game is a bit silly, but still abundantly enjoyable regardless. Mike says what they all have, in stud you can see 2 of a player's 4 cards on 4th street so you can guess what they have or are drawing at, but it is only a guess, you can't know. However by saying what they all have, Mike convinced them that he is betting a hand that beats those hands, and he only had a straight draw which didn't hit, so by them folding it worked. Because the guy with 2 pair may have called if he hadn't of told him what he was holding and still bet into him. )Ahh the dream girl Joe Gretchen Mol, You just told me you that you felt alive for the first time at a f***ing card table, what the hell is that suppose to make me understand. Mike F*** it. let's go. Let's play some f***ing cards! Does he look like a man beaten by jacks? Jacks are a monster compared to the crap you play Tacky. F*** you. F*** me? F*** you! hehe ) Mike is trying to help Worm, but Worm keeps screwing him over. Mike is doing well in the 20/40 stud game with the cops, till Worm comes along and ruins things. Base dealing Mike the nuts all the time. A player picks up on it, even though Mike wasn't raising and folding some because it was becoming too obvious. They get beat up and lose all their money.John Malkovich is terrific as Teddy. Teddy goads Mike into playing him again, by saying it was his money anyway. Mike then goes onto almost lose it all, but then folds a monster because he notices Teddy's tell. Teddy He beat me straight up. Pay that man his money.A perfect movie. Maybe the best movie ever. "},{"Title":"I'm not a poker player but the movie makes me want to be one.","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was surprised that I liked rounders, though i really shouldn't have been. Matt Damon is superb as a young hotshot card player that pays for law school with his winnings. That is, until he risks it all one night to try and take down a Russian mafia card player, KGB (John Malkovitch) and loses it all. Damon is forced to straighten his life out in order to keep his girlfriend. Everything is fine until an old friend of his is let out of prison. Worm (Edward Norton) is a fellow card shark from Damon's youth and is a bad influence. Matt Damon's character seeks to win through superior skill, Worm is a scam artist, taking huge risks in search of the big payoff.The relationship between Damon and Norton is central to the movie. The tension that arises because of their differing methods and the fact that Damon is trying to stay out of the gambling world but keeps getting sucked in because of Norton. Eventually things spiral out of control and Damon has to decide which course his life will take. He can be a gambler or the guy with the girl, but not both. The movie doesn't have a Hollywood stock ending. Rounders is a movie about gamblers and gambling that doesn't seek to preach, merely tell a story about one gambler and how he chooses to live his life. "},{"Title":"Very good movie, maybe too explicit when it comes to poker","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After loosing a lot of money to a Russian mobster in a poker game , a young law student quits gambling and sticks to a more moral path in life. But when an old friend named Worm comes back from prison, old temptations begin to resurface and trouble starts to emerge. What can you say bad about this movie?! Not much. Even tough it is 2 hours long , you don't become bored of the action. The story itself is not very complicated but it touches a couple interesting aspects of life like gambling and debts to long sharks . The duo Mike McDermott and Lester Worm Murphy are very well represented in antithesis by Matt Damon and Edward Norton . Mike is quite cool and cerebral while Lester is more wild and neurotic.Even though he has proved of being able to play a wide range of characters I think every character played by Edward Norton is a bit neurotic. What I did not like was the fact that the poker games themselves were a bit too explicit, not very surprising and quite theatrical, especially the last poker game , the one between Teddy and Mike , where there is even a stupid poker tell revealed , the one where Teddy eats a cookie .The Teddy KGB character is very animated and quite funny represented by John Malkovich with his strange Russian accent and all. This movie is worth seeing , and if you are a profane when it comes to the game of poker , it may even make you interested in playing the game! "},{"Title":"like poker? you will love this film...!!","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You may love this film even if you don't like poker. Just how good can a film about a particular subject like poker be? Think about a subject like say....bowling... how good could a movie about bowling be? Well, maybe it comes down to the people making the film, and in the case of Rounders those people are very good. John Dahl, who made his mark making neo-noir cult classics like Red Rock West and The Last Seduction, shows a sure hand and an insight into the world of poker. The two lead actors, Matt Damon and Edward Norton, are absolutely perfect in their roles. The finished product is an absolute gem.As the film begins we see Mike (Damon) lose his bankroll to a Russian mobster Teddy KGB (John Malkavich, also perfect) playing Texas low-hold poker. He ends up getting a delivery job for long time rounder Knish (John Turtorro) and settles into life in law school with his girlfriend (Gretchen Mol). Its not a bad life, but deep inside we know that Mike still craves the life of a gambler. When his longtime partner, the sleazy card mechanic Worm (Ed Norton) gets out of jail, things change quickly for Mike. We in the audience know even before Mike himself knows....he's going to go back to the poker table.As Mike gets back into that life he quickly becomes less interested in law school and starts getting in trouble with his girlfriend. He also gets in debt to a local gambling hall, who he instructed to loan money to Worm. Worm takes full advantage of course, as you would expect by this point. As I watched this character develop my first thought was...I know someone just like this! My second thought was of what a great performance Ed Norton gives here. I can't even put into words just how perfect he is as the Worm; it has to experienced.This film is something of a mood-piece, as well as a sort of character study. Mike grows in this film not only as a person but as a poker player, meanwhile Worm moves in the other direction, as trouble and debt mount his instinct is to run or hide (or both). When their backs are against the wall its Mike who wants redemption while Worm starts to cave in. It's an interesting twist on the characters; before it was Mike giving up and taking the safe route with Worm always pushing the odds. Maybe hitting rock bottom is how you find out who you really are.I think one of the main themes here is this; are we going to be satisfied being what polite society tells us to be or should we follow our hearts...even if it may lead us into some troublesome results?Inevitibly, Mike's at a crossroads as his girl has given up on him and the law school career starts going down the tubes. Meanwhile, Worms debts have added up to the point that a local thug (Michael Respoli), who happens to work for Teddy, has bought up the debt and has given a deadline. Mike and Worm go on a days-long poker spree in an attempt to settle up.As the film reaches its climax Mike finds himself back at Teddy's place for a showdown with the Russian. Can Mike finally turn the tables on Teddy and get all the debts erased? Its a really well staged finale and we are reminded of what an excellent actor Matt Damon can be with the right material.At the end Mike finds his true destiny and, to me, it is a satisfying conclusion...we are what we are. It's not necessarily a happy ending, yet its not sad either...its real...and its a real solid movie! I love the very final scene as Mikes cab heads down a busy New York street to a song written for this movie by The Counting Crows, Baby I'm a big star now. Great song that fits perfectly, its well worth watching through the credits to hear it, but you won't hear it on commercial TV.My advice...(as always)..is watch this film uncut. 3-1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Best playing cards movie I have ever seen!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The Plot Academy Award Matt Damon (The Bourne Movies) and Edward Norton (Incredible Hulk) star in this story of passion, risk and the extreme price of friendship! After losing a high-stakes card game, Mike (Damon) gives up gambling for law school and a fresh start with his girlfriend (Gretchen Mol - Cradle Will Rock). but then his best buddy (Norton) gets out of prison and in over his head with a ruthless card shark (John Malkovich - Being John Malkovich). From there, Mike's strong sense of loyalty - and the lure of the game - draws him back to the tables in a game he cannot afford to lose! Also starring John Turturro (O Brother, Where Art Thou?) and Oscar winner Martin landau (Ed Wood) My Spiel Easily one of the best Card playing movies these eyes have ever scene. This it a terrific movie and stars 2 powerful actors (Damon & Norton). I have quoted from this movie with my brother a lot. Both of us are big fans of this movie. Some of the best parts are John Malkovich's acting and how he talks it's simply amazing. This is truly the ups and downs of no limit Texas hold 'em brought to the big screen. The acting is nothing but perfect and I have constantly watched this and every time it's just as good as the first. If you thought 21 (2008) was the best movie about playing cards, you are sadly mistaken. A must watch for any one! Rounders in the game of life.....Play the cards you're dealt.Rounders (1998) Review 9/10 "},{"Title":"Undeniably cool","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders seems to have become somewhat of a cult classic since its release a decade ago. Depending on who you ask, it either played a part in sparking the recent vogue for poker or it benefited directly from it.In the film, a ruined poker player (Matt Damon) gets drawn back into the game when his ne'er-do-well buddy (Edward Norton) runs into trouble with a loan shark. With this premise, the film then takes us into the world of high stakes poker and life as a rounder.The cast is a big part of why this film is worth watching. Damon & Norton were still fresh faces in 1998 but time has shown that you could not ask for a better pairing. Both actors are on the top of their game and their performances go a long way in selling the experience. The supporting cast isn't bad, either. You've got Martin Landau, John Malkovich (complete with ridiculous 'Russian' accent), John Turturro and others providing quality support.The film's look is pretty impressive, too. John Dahl's direction is bold and the cinematography is continually appealing as we move from underground dives to Atlantic City and everywhere in between. The soundtrack is pretty good too, with some well-chosen music that fits the picture nicely.All of this makes for a film that's worthy of its cult status. Is it destined to become a classic on the scale of The Hustler? Certainly not, but it's a nifty little spin on similar subject matter. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie seems to be quite overlooked. While I am not a fan of poker, blackjack or gambling in general, this movie actually made it seem great. Even though the story might have seemed predictable at certain moments, the acting, the plot, scenarios and dialogue compensated for any error.Matt Damon plays Mike, a law student and gambling ace. While trying to stay away from the action and the dangerous underground poker sites, the arrival Worm (Ed Norton), Mike old school buddy, thrust him back into the gambling world. Worm is sleazy, unreliable and has a penchant for trouble. John Malkovich, Famke Jannsen, John Turturro (who never seems to get starring roles), Martin Landau and Gretchen Mol all provide strong performances. Hollywood generally never gets it right when it tries to portray certain subcultures. The fact that several former World poker champions have endorsed this movie, speaks to its authenticity. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this film is excellent; acting, screenplay, characters, directing and editing was all superb in this gambling flick. Mike Mcdermott (matt Damon) is reformed gambler who's friend 'Worm' (Edward Norton) has just been let out of prison. However he owes money to such people as crazy Russian gambler Teddy KGB (John Malkovitch). they have little time to win this money back and with some help from friend Joey Knish (John Tutturro) they hope to do it. As star studded as it may seem the best performance came form one Matt Damon which for such a young actor (who some call bad?) is amazing. Norton again turns out a good performance, and with a brilliant script behind them everyone else pulls it off nicely. "},{"Title":"Great Movie so unknown ..so underrated","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is a very good movie. It has many things going for it Damon, Norton and Malkavich all fantastic. The movie follows the life of a gambler who's cleaned up his act after losing his bankroll to a Russian mobster. After 2 years of playing safe Worm(Norton) is released from jail and Mikes turns back into the gambler he always was.The movies really fun mostly do to the great lines and chemistry between Norton and Damon. The finale is well worth it this movie may go down as a box office flop but its very underrated and very very enjoyable I rate this movie 9.5 out of 10 mostly due to how the movie dropped the character worm without much closer with him in the end "}{"Title":"Rounders aces the slick and smooth-talking approach to gambling drama","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is a star-studded drama that glorifies the game of poker and over-dramatizes the heck out of the gambling lifestyle, all while dishing out poker is life metaphors like $5 dollar chips and providing an overdose of slick and arrogant narrative dialogue by way of the prince of the east coast, Matt Damon himself. Call it an exaggeration, but that's exactly how Rounders creators David Levien and Brian Koppelman up the ante in this film. If you're a poker lover, you'll love this film and if you're not, well you'll still probably enjoy it, but not as much as a real rounder would.Levien and Koppelman, who debuted with Rounders and have since teamed up for a variety of mobster and especially gambling related films (including TV show Tilt), are masters at jazzing things up. While Rounders doesn't exactly delve into the glamorous side of gambling, it acts like it does and it packs some excitement into a film that would otherwise be just another movie about guys with gambling problems trying to repay debt.Matt Damon and Edward Norton star as Mike and Lester aka Worm, two boarding school buddies who bottom line know how to win at poker. Mike, the true protagonist, is the more- level headed one (he's in law school and with a girlfriend (Gretchen Mol)) but he is still an ambitious gambler who finds himself losing everything to a neurotic Oreo-loving Russian mob dude played by the multi-talented John Malkovich. His buddy Worm is fresh out of prison, having done time for credit card fraud, and he has no other goals but to play more poker to make the money he needs to pay off previous gambling debts. Mike has quit poker, but he feels the itch and wants to help his friend.The cast also includes John Turturro, Famke Jenssen and Martin Landau, all actors who could get top billing in a film today. While they're all good, it's Damon and Norton that are able to really work the slick and snappy dialogue and also play it up for drama and not just kicks. These guys create some serious problems for themselves about halfway through the film and keep facing moral dilemmas despite their seemingly unstoppable poker prowess. It actually gives the film a lot of strength despite the pompous air it gives off.By the end, however, Rounders does turn back around and become more about the cool, edgy side of gambling, leaving a lot of the deeper questions out to dry while it hits you with what it thinks is an intense ending that proves to be too long and morally objectionable. Not that anyone is the authority on morals, but the film goes for the tagline mentality of play the hand you're dealt and not hey, you should stop gambling because you're $15,000 in debt. Despite realistic turns throughout and giving off the vibe that it's going to be more down to earth, the film goes for the super-smooth finish and it just feels like a waste. Other than getting long toward the end, though, it's certainly entertaining as slick usually is and the two star vehicles really help the film stand out. "},{"Title":"We can't run from who we are. Our destiny chooses us.","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What stuck with me in watching this? In Confessions of a Winning Poker Player, Jack King said, Few players recall big pots they have won, strange as it seems, but every player can remember with remarkable accuracy the outstanding tough beats of his career. It seems true to me, cause walking in here, I can hardly remember how I built my bankroll, but I can't stop thinking of how I lost it.Every time I think about poker, I remember the night I lost it with a straight flush. But, leave it to Matt Damon to remind me about that night.Damon and Edward Norton were fantastic in a film that makes poker look interesting. No, I cannot fathom how anyone could watch poker on TV, but I was enchanted by their performances.Of course, it doesn't hurt to have John Turturro, John Malkovich, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, and Martin Landau to help you out.Great movie about life, losing, and chasing your dreams. "},{"Title":"Trite in all possible ways","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A small film on gambling. It does not really bring anything about gambling itself as an addiction, as a total lack of judgment and reason. And the end of the film is both a total illusion because you never really win in gambling because winning is only there to make you lose even more, and a fatal last move that announces the final descent into hell, a hell that is named Las Vegas. The only strange element, original element, is the Jewish dimension introduced by the judge who should have been a rabbi and couldn't because he could not see God. He actually lent money to that poor Mike knowing that Mike was going to gamble with it and was killing his dream of ever being anything noticeable in a court of justice apart from eventually being an accused or a convicted criminal. For a judge and a law student that is particularly sorry, sad and crude.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Film","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This story deals strictly with card gambling in New York City with all kinds of high rollers and Matt Damon, (Mike McDermott) is a reformed gambler who wants to become a lawyer and at the same time loves his game of cards which occupies most of his brain power. He lives with a young girl from a College of Law named Jo, (Gretchen Mol) who loves Matt very much but his gambling seems to get between this couple and there is a constant struggle. Jo looks through his pants pockets and sees large amounts of money which she calls, Gangster Money and knows he has been gambling behind her back. There is a good friend of Matt who is in prison named Edward Worm Murphy and Matt meets him at the prison gates as he is being released from prison. This Worm character is a tricky friend and leads poor Matt into a big mess and ruins his life so to speak. Great entertaining film and if you like cards, you will love this film, great photography through out New York City and some pretty rough looking characters who can do some real damage to the human bodies. These two guys even try to rip off the cops in Bingingham, N.Y. and get a very big surprise for their card playing. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"What might have been....","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, I love Matt Damon and Edward Norton. They are literally two of my favorite actors as I type this today. John Malkovich is also another favorite of mine as a supporting role guy who doesn't get as much credit as he deserves. And none of these actors disappointed. They all performed if not at their peak, then pretty darn close.But the movie was so anti-climactic and the plot was so dull that even these actors couldn't save the film. Sure, some of the writing and banter was witty and well put together. But that didn't come close to saving the movie. Poker in itself can be somewhat entertaining, but this movie needed something deeper or maybe even some sort of side plot to make you actually care about what was going on.It seemed to me that the movie started out well, and then just died with about a half hour remaining. Edward Norton gets caught cheating and pulls Damon in with him, they get their asses kicked and are left with a large outstanding debt with little time and no way to pay it. For some reason, Norton disappears from the scene and we never hear from him again and Damon somehow puts everything he has on the line for him against all odds and pulls it off...and then some.Weak storyline along with pathetic character development made this potentially great movie a yawner. Could've used much more action and/or suspense with some gravity to the consequences of these guys' actions. But instead we got nothing more than what felt like watching your poker buddies play a friendly game in your best friend's garage. "},{"Title":"Wokman-like, old-fashioned yarn about boyhood friends who are professional gamblers.","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I like the straightforwardness of the storytelling and the film-making style of this old-fashioned pic about professional gamblers. It focuses on the slightly too good to be true Matt Damon and his dodgy childhood pal Edward Norton, who uses Matt once too often. There are no big surprises, but it's a very watchable story in its unimaginative way. It's mercifully free of fancy camera angles and nervous cutting but not free from John Malkovich, who is at his worst, failing to convince us he's a Russian (!) Gretchen Moll plays Matt's girlfriend, an extremely dull character; and - wait for it - Matt turns Famke Janssen down! The only real problem with the film - for me - is that Famke's not in it for long. "},{"Title":"Good Movie But Too Much Poker","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a good movie but I think there was too much poker. I honestly could not recall a scene where there was not a poker game, a discussion about a poker game or some other reference to poker (minus maybe one or two scenes at law school) and yet despite the poker over-saturation the movie is still captivating, and I'm not even a poker guy.The greatest strength is probably the acting ensemble. Matt Damon carries the lead wonderfully, Ed Norton is always spot-on and add that to John Turtutto, Martin Landau and John Malkovich attempting to play a Russian and its an overall great acting performance.The plot and pace never dragged, the script is predictable but enjoyable, and in the end I was entertained, what more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"Incredible performances...","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I regret the fact that I have too little knowledge about the game of poker to even comment on the factual superiority of this film, but to quote my friends who do, it is 'safely accurate and interesting'. What attracted me in this film is the stellar cast and yes, they didn't disappoint me. Matt Damon is professionally perfect as the poker genius protagonist. His commentary throughout the film is also praiseworthy. John Malkovich is also a special treat to watch.But the real star of the film is Edward Norton. He portrays a brilliantly written character with enormous style. Every scene he's in becomes a slick style-fest. His persona makes it so interesting to watch a scumbag character. It's a regret that he doesn't appear at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Great, great movie","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Originally saw this in the cinema on release and went along because (a) my buddy Gary thought it would be good (b) it had Edward Norton in it. I didn't really get the whole poker thing at the time,and as I now am a big fan of Texas Hold 'Em, thought I should re-watch it.The movie begins with us meeting Mike (Damon), a young, cocky poker player. He thinks he's in for the win of his life until Teddy KGB (Malkovich) beats him heads up and takes the whole pot. Devastated and emotionally destroyed, he decides to quit and put his focus into his law studies. Things get shaken up though when Mike's best friend and poker buddy, Worm (Norton), gets released from prison. Worm is a card shark and uses every trick in the book and looks for every sucker he can to win. As soon as he's released from prison Worm has a game set up. He begs Mike to come play with him but Mike refuses (or does he?). When Worm gets some old debts called in and is back up to his old tricks, Mike has decide whether to get back to help him out or to break the friendship before he gets dragged back in.The poker in the game is good, but the movie is about far more than that. It brings up lots of questions- how many times do we forgive those around us, how far should you go to help a friend, redemption, generosity.... a lot more than you'd expect from a poker movie.Easily re-watchable and there's something in it for everyone, even non-poker fans. Plus it's a great way to scrub up on poker terminology. Great script, great cast. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Good middling poker movie","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler regarding Rounders This is a solidly good and entertaining movie. It reminds me of my own poker games with friends, minus the threats of bodily harm.The casting is great and it's very well written; the film showcases how far men will go for their best friend.Overall, I would also recommend two other poker movies. The first is Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels, a hilarious movie that shows the brotherhood between men. The other is The Cincinnati Kid. This one is better because you get a better sense that there's some humanity behind the bad guys, and plus, the surprise ending.All good movies. "}{"Title":"Engaging","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is a showcase for the talents of Matt Damon and the recently rediscovered Edward Norton. Veteran actors like Martin Landau and John Turturro also fare well, and the peripatetic Mr. Malkovich reprises his role as inheritor of the Meryl Streep trophy for slightly off-center accents. In its current 2006 rebirth on DVD and cable, the film ages very well indeed. Poker is still in vogue. Norton's career is in full fury for Down In The Valley. Matt Damon continues to impress audiences as far more believable than Tom Cruise in the genre of various and sundry missions impossible and spy thrillers.The story is more about a young man's coming of age after a false start, however, than it is about poker. The center of the film is the interaction between Damon's and Landau's characters. It is also a tale of a man's competing loyalties to a best buddy, a girlfriend, a worthy profession, and himself. In that it is straightforward and accessible to any viewer, whether or not the viewer has any acquaintance with an obsessive behavior like compulsive gambling.This is moreover a beautifully photographed and directed film. If I have any gripe with it at all it is that the script does sort of telegraph what is about to happen from time to time, leaving the viewer in the position of wondering not what will follow, but how it will be played out. Still, an engaging experience. "},{"Title":"Pretty average movie, but Damon is quite good.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is one of those specialized movies where the only people who really love it, are those that love the subject matter (in this case poker).The movie explores some interesting themes like following your heart, friendship and loyalty, and trying to be the best. In the last theme its sort of similar to The Hustler or The Cincinnati Kid at least in the beginning scenes.Matt Damon does a great job of showing conceit, calmness, anger, and charm in his role. The movie sometimes gets too overly dramatic at times, and these are the only times Damon really fails, but he's probably the best thing about the movie.John Turturro does a good job, as well, of showing the very real life of some poker players, and tries to show Damon that poker isn't all glitz and glamor.The movie makes a large point of showing a conflicted Damon yearning for a good future but being held down by the past. The past is drawn out in the forms of Teddy KGB (Malkovich) and Worm (Norton). Their performances are okay, but frankly Nortons character is TOO annoying, and not interesting at all. His sub-plots are also very dull. They are necessary to carry the story along, but the movie still lags when his character shows up. Malkovich is over the top, and has the most obvious tell in the history of poker...i don't see how the hell KGB became a legend with that tell, a weak part of the script.The movies card scenes are good, and the relationship between Damon and Landau is very nicely done. The movie suffers most though from the unnecessary Damon/Mol relationship. Mol looks good but has a thankless wet blanket female role, and she and Damon have no chemistry whatsoever. Thankfully that whole angle is gone about half way through the movie.A few too many pointless scenes and characters (Janssen for one) but decent enough direction, acting, and cinematography make rounders ***/****. "},{"Title":"Check, check, check, check it out","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is both a sleeper hit and a cult poker movie. This movie hit well before the poker phenomenon hit prime time cable TV. With great casting likes of Matt Damon, Ed Norton, John Tortoru, and John Malkevich it is hard to go wrong. The movie tells the story of Rounders(Professional Poker Players) and there saga of up-and-down poker games.I recommend this film for anyone who wants a taste of poker playing and/or a view of how poker games are sweeping the USA and want to know why college kids have left college for a life of cards. This is the movie, it catches the dream, the vision, and the bleak reality. Let me not forget a good script and some great acting on the part of Rounders aka Best Of the Poker Playing Movie of all-time. "},{"Title":"If you don't have my money then you are mine.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is a movie that proceeded the poker craze that has swept this nation. When it came out in 1998, it was a mild success, but now has a cult following as college kids and others discover they like to play poker after seeing it on TV for the past couple of years. Matt Damon plays Mike McDermott, a law school student who finds he's a wizard when it comes to playing poker. He's good, but lost one big hand to Teddy KGB (John Malkovich) and lost it all, leading to his retirement from the game. His girlfriend Jo (Gretchen Mol) is the one who convinces him to stay away from the poker tables, and is the one who loses faith in Mike when he starts to play again. Mike's retirement only lasts as long as his friend Worm, played wonderfully by Ed Norton, stays in jail. Upon Worm's exit from jail, debts need to be paid. Ed Norton is able to make his character so unlikeable that we feel bad for him and the others who are risking it all to help Worm out. Damon does a solid job of being the good poker player who thinks he can beat the house every time he walks up to a table. Martin Landau also makes an appearance as Mike's college mentor, channeling a thick Yiddish accent that lead me to recall his work as Bela Legosi in Ed Wood. Landau's job in Rounders is to be the Yoda to Mike's Luke Skywalker, dispensing sage advice about destiny and helping Mike save his life. The movie ends in a way that elevate poker from a mathematical numbers game to a psychological battle, the way the game is meant to be played. The poker craze has been mostly online, where playing the percentages is the way people win. When sitting down at a table, on the other hand, not only are the numbers important, but mental combat can lead to winning and losing, and Rounders was able to show this brilliantly. The non-serious poker fan will enjoy the movie as a good guys vs. the bad guys story. The serious poker fan, on the other hand, will really like this movie, as the game is shown for what it is, but also shows the risks of stepping up to the big boys' tables and there are cameos by some of poker's greatest players. And, thankfully, no Ben Affleck in this movie either. "},{"Title":"Underground Poker","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a realistic account of underground poker games. This movie is as real as it gets without living the life of a poker player. The game is all Hollywood now and the matador (ESPN Show) is a fraud. The characters are well developed and very believable. Mike McD, Worm, Teddy KGB, and Kinish, these types of Characters are what makes movies worth watching. The last time I have seen character development was in Dead Solid Perfect and Swingers. The plot also keeps your attention although predictable it has some minor twist and is very good. In my book this is the only poker movie worth watching. The last thing I have to say is that this is a guy's guy movie and can be watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"A good film about a great game","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a big fan of poker, I was very excited to see Rounders, which is a movie about poker. My excitement increased in the first few minutes when it turned out that the main game in this film is no limit Texas Hold'Em; very much my game. One thing that disappointed me with The Cincinnati Kid was that the central game was 5-card stud, and while stud isn't a bad interpretation of poker; it loses hands down to Texas Hold'Em, a game that Rounders rightly professes to be the only pure style of poker. Poker is the main focus of the movie, but obviously that isn't enough to carry a whole film so there's a story behind all the gambling. Matt Damon is a poker whizz kid who finds himself in trouble after blowing his bankroll to a Russian guy (John Malkovich in a fine campy turn). The trouble increases when Damon's friend 'Worm' (Ed Norton) gets out of jail and lands the pair of them in huge debt. Then there's his girlfriend that doesn't like him playing poker and on the whole things just aren't going right for our protagonist.The film benefits from a troupe of credible actors including the aforementioned John Malkovich, Matt Damon and Ed Norton; but also including the likes of Martin Landau, Famke Janssen and John Turturro. Matt Damon is the lead of the film and does a good job with his role, but he's maybe just a little too pretty to be truly convincing. Don't get me wrong, I like Damon and definitely think he can act; but I think also that gamblers tend to be more convincing when they're a little more rugged than Damon is. The film is definitely at it's best when we're following the poker action, and director John Dahl obviously knows this as a large proportion of the screen time is dedicated to the central game. The film falls down on several counts, however, most notably that it's a little corny and some of the scenes seem overdone, while others are severely under-wrought. The story behind the gambling is interesting enough, but it's a little clichéd and it's one of those films where you just know what's going to happen. Adding to that is the fact that it ends prematurely, and would have been much better if we'd followed Damon's escapades in Las Vegas. Still, this is a very decent movie and fans of poker will find lots to like! "},{"Title":"great insight into the poker world","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A great cast cast with great insight into poker world, Matt Damons love of the game is clearly reflected in a typically great Damon performance. The movie demonstrates great understanding of the poetry of poker, particularly Texas hold em while reflecting the dark underbelly of the rounder profession. Charismatic performances, especially from the great Martin Landau, and tight script all add up to a great poker classic. Although some elements may seem unrealistic, these moments are easily forgivable from adept performances and poker understanding. All novice poker players should watch and card conessoiurs should find the references and respect for the game pleasing, well worth watching! "},{"Title":"mikes loss early in the movie","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" how much was mike up to in the game with teddy that he lost to early in the movie. i know he buys in for 30,000, does anyone know how much he was up or down when he lost the hand to teddy? also what is everyone's favorite rounders lines? well i have nothing else to write and i have to fill ten lines so i will just keep babbling until i have written ten lines. i don't understand why they have some rule about these questions or comments needing to be 10 lines long. Another question, does anyone know how much money the top prize at the wsop is gonna be this year? i heard 7.5 million and ten million. i just gotta get one more line in. hmm what else can i write about, i don't know. i think that makes 10 lines, "},{"Title":"Aces over Kings","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While walking into an underground club, where the rich flounders swim, while the sharks circle for the kill, Mike McDermott (Matt Damon) sits down at a Texas Hold'em table with his gambling winnings from past games, $30,000. Across Mike sits Teddy KGB (John Malkovich), one of the top guys of the Russian mob, and one of the most feared players in the 'underground' games. Mike goes 'all in' against KGB. 'All in' means a player puts every chip in front of him on the line as a bet, either winning or losing. Mike loses his entire bankroll of $30,000. He vows to his girlfriend Jo (Gretchen Mol) that he'll never play again.Months later his lifetime friend Worm (Edward Norton) gets out of prison for scamming credit cards. On the way home, Mike informs Worm of his defeat and how he'll never play again. The cocky, but confident Worm shrugs Mike's statement off and gets him to play in a game that very night.Mike is a law student and his grades begin to slip as well as his relationship with his girlfriend ever since Worm's release. His professor Abe Petrovsky (Martin Landau) is concerned with Mr. McDermott, and his absences in his class. Abe tells Mike 'to follow your heart.'Worm is out playing in games and getting into debt with the wrong people. Mike finds out and tries to help his friend. Worm is other places getting further in debt, and he's getting his friend in debt. Mike is stuck with the debt of his former friend. He goes back to his professor, where the professor lends Mike the money to pay off the debt.Knowing that he can beat the game of Hold'em, Mike goes to the place where this all started, and sits down with KGB. He plays the mad Russian, but will he win this time, will KGB force Mike for all his chips, or will he triumph and buy a seat at the World Series of Poker? Director John Dahl knows that Texas Hold'em is a game of skill, and logic. Hold'em isn't about the cards; it's how you play them. You can have absolutely nothing, and still be able to play them as they were the best cards on the table. If you aren't careful you could lose everything you have, with one wrong move. The director also pushes his point throughout the entire movie play the hand you were dealt.  "},{"Title":"Nice plot and fine characters","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounder is a story about a talented Poker player (Damon)is driven back to the world of poker, which he left after loosing evrything in a big game, by his friend (Norton).       the strong point of the movie is its screenplay and the dialogues they make you feel the enviroment and the kind of tension of a poker game. Norton is my personal fav but the character which i liked in the movie was KGB (Malkovich) he comes as a surprise element. Rounders is a fast pace movie with events happening all around after quitting the game of Poker Damon tries to stay away from it n in this process her girlfriend was the main motivation but he couldn't cheat himself for pretty long as later he discovers he must not waste his talent of poker and this drives him back. Another strong point of thye movie is its strong characters,the director is able to do judgement ot every character overall a nice and interesting movie to watch.8/10. "}{"Title":"Great Poker Movie","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is an awesome movie for anyone that likes the game of poker.  If you don't know the rules to Texas Hold'em then you might have a problem picking up what's going on during the Showdown hands between Damon and Malkovich.  Norton does a great job playing the role of Worm, who brings Damon into his problems on more than one occassion.  Bottom Line  Good movie for anyone, Must-see for poker fans. "},{"Title":"Great Poker Movie","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is an awesome movie for anyone that likes the game of poker.  If you don't know the rules to Texas Hold'em then you might have a problem picking up what's going on during the Showdown hands between Damon and Malkovich.  Norton does a great job playing the role of Worm, who brings Damon into his problems on more than one occassion.  Bottom Line  Good movie for anyone, Must-see for poker fans. "},{"Title":"Where are the good guys?","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Personally, I found this movie hard to watch because I couldn't find anyone to root for. Sure, Mike was a bit more honorable than Worm, but even he was hard to like. I found myself in big scenes pulling for characters like KGB, who at least had the decency to know that all he was was a gambler. He didn't pretend to be anything else. Seems like I saw all this in The Hustler, and I liked Fast Eddy Felson a lot better than either Mike or Worm. Minnesota Fats was a better character than KGB, also. Getting your thumbs broken is a whole lot more imaginative than just getting beaten up and thrown out. Take my advice and see The Hustler, if you've never seen it before, and avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Check..Check...Check...","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some classic quotes from the movie All you do is Check. Check. Check..... Pay that man his money he beat me fair and square... I can go busting you up all night... Luck, why do some people call it luck... Damon & Norton give a genuine performance in this movie. It is classic Norton and classic Damon at their best. John Malcovich doesn't do so bad himself. A definite keeper DVD to have in your collection. Good Luck in Las Vegas or Atlantic City! Take Care - Chad Castorina  "},{"Title":"Love them Oreos","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Malkovich appears only in the beginning and ending of this film, but boy, what a performance.  His choppy Russian accent is a hoot and the look he gives when an Oreo is apparently stuck in his throat is priceless. Don't splash the pot.   "},{"Title":"Superior Acting","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WOW...what an excellent movie, with superior acting, and a great plot.  Damon, Norton, and Malkovich steal the show.  I especially loved Malkovich as the character, KGB,  he was simply spectacular.  This movie is similar in plot to House of Games, with Joe Mantegna, which was also an incredibly well acted film.  I highly, highly recommend that you watch this film.  It contains an ample amount of profanity, and some violence, so it may not be appropriate for young children.  Other than that, it is awesome!  It is well directed, well-scripted, and overall, a keeper! "},{"Title":"Ode to Abusive Single Males","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ROUNDERS has to rank in my Top 20 movies of all time. It contains all the underlying aspects of what any life-long single male either feels or ultimately experiences. The characters are perfectly fitted to express various segments of society's most wayward and high-risk group. Michael McDermott, while sincere in his desire to hug the narrow confines of jurisprudence after his live-in girlfriend bails him out after he taps his life savings on a bad hand, had a predestined future up front. Lester (worm) Murphy, meanwhile, is just plain incorrigible, in the words of Joey Knish, a cheat, who might possess a certain boyish innocence but whose only real objective is to take down a fish as sport with no eye to the future or its consequences. Grandma personifies what Marcus Melton described as the abusive male type rude, crude and violent. Teddy KGB is smart and deadly, the one guy you don't want to f--- with.  The game with the state troopers is an object lesson in how strength in numbers is never more corrupting than when placed in the hands of government.Though the ending story line might be a bit of a reach, the Mad Russian's comeuppance is poetic justice in a world where good rarely triumphs over evil or nice guys win the flop.A good sequel would be Rounders Second Street, The Return of Worm "},{"Title":"Not what you'd expect","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a film popular for something it wasn't even about, in my eyes. I think it's a very underappreciated film about choices and the decisions we make to better our lives and the lives of others, not mere poker. The poker was just a sugar coating and that's what most people see when they enjoy this movie. Like many films out there, the main idea wasn't right there in front of you, rather it had to be dug into.Very good, very real, and very underappreciated. "},{"Title":"the card game","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders, written by Levien/Koppelman(Knockaround Guys) and starring Matt Damon, Edward Norton and John Malkovich, tells a compelling story of a young man whose survival has been fueled by his hustle as a Rounder.  He makes ends meet by gambling in card games, his education in Law School is dependent on his gambling money but when he loses his bankroll to a Russian mobster(played wonderfully by John Malkovich), he decides to give it all up but when his friend(Edward Norton) gets caught in a tight spot with debtors he is forced to go back to rounding.  John Malkovich takes another accent the same way he did in Knockaround Guys, and Matt Damon is great as the main character Well-scripted tale about high stakes gambling and how it can make you or break you... I personally understood this as I know some whose lives depend on gambling so it hit home for me and I enjoyed it very much.   "},{"Title":"Norton is always brilliant","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Almost 200 comments here, so I won't rehash it all. All I will say is this I have a movie geek friend who will not watch this movie again with me because Ed Norton plays Worm so well, that he really viscerally hates him on the screen. Norton is that good of an actor. I haven't seen him phone it in yet. Nothing against Damon, who takes more abuse than he should, but Norton is the shining talent here.  "}{"Title":"A cool movie","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this film. Being an avid player of Texas No Limit Hold Em' , I found the card playing and jargon to be entertaining and accurate. Edward Norton is great as 'Worm'. Check this movie out.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"If you can't tell the sucker in the first 5 minutes...","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you can't tell the sucker in the first five minutes, you are the suckerRounders is the story of Mike McDermott (Matt Damon), by day a law student, by night a rounder (someone who makes a living playing cards).  After a disastrous night in the gambling underground, Mike is forced to re-evaluate his life's ambition of playing in the World Series of Poker.His retirement is cut short with the release from prison of an old pal, Worm, played with relish by Ed Norton. Worm tempts Mike back into the game, in part to help Worm settle outstanding debts, but also to save Mike from a life he doesn't really want to lead. As Mike learns from his law professor (the wonderful Martin Landau), what others choose for us is not always what we are meant to be.While Mike struggles to reconcile the failures in his past and his dreams for the future, he and Worm are thrust into a dangerous predicament that isn't helped by Worm's own thirst for the low road. Busted, beaten, and broken, Mike gets a last chance to square with the house.  "},{"Title":"It's A Mitzvah","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  (Drum Roll, Please)&#133;And just when you thought that Edward Norton was going to steal the show, enter the elder statesman, John Malkovich, and you witness a showstopper that is seldom seen this side of Wayne Newton at the MGM Grand (that was a joke).  No foolin', however, when I say that `Being John Malkovich' must be a whole lot of fun!  Edward Norton was superb in his roll leading up to `Fight Club,' and you can always bet the bank on John Turturro.  The biggest surprise came in the form of Matt Damon, who I am gaining quite a respect for, and the most likeliest candidate to receive my `Actors Who I Have Tried To Hate, But Just Can't Bring Myself To It' award.  Damon was the mystery cream filling, sandwiched between the likes of Norton & Malkovich; and who in the heck doesn't like the cream filling in Oreos?  Enter an above average plot, a girlfriend who stays out of the picture, and a young man by the name of Martin Landau (who, by the way, could still put on a better acting clinic than most of the soft soap coming out of Hollywood these days), and what you have is a movie worth watching, not to mention worth owning.  Don't thank the Academy yet!  But, still, an `8.7' is nothing to fold on!   "},{"Title":"Great performances save the day!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The great thing about this movie is that it produced some great acting moments from the likes of Edward Norton, John Malkovich, and suprisingly Matt Damon. Damon pulls off the law student by day and poker-player by night with super-suaveness and intelligence. The plot itself was interesting yet predictable, but ultimately was saved by the aforementioned performances. I'd give this movie a 5 out of 10 soley for the performances that were given. "},{"Title":"John Malkovich is great as KGB.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I own this movie on DVD and I have watched it many times.I don't know what it is about this movie that I like so much,maybe it is because the acting is really great.Matt Damon and Edward Norton plays their roles great and when it comes to John Malkovich no one could have done it better.He is superb in the role as KGB.The story and the plot is really simple,but still very entertaining because it is about gambling and poker. I think everyone even if they dont know the rules of poker will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"In the Game of Life, women are the rake","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ...No truer words were ever spoken.  Rounders is a life story about the battles we have within our mind about various topics.  Addictions come in many shapes and sizes, a bottle a joint a game.  But in any case, they are all addictions.  Rounders can be a dangerous movie to watch, but one that should be watched by all of those who want to understand the true mentality of someone who is addicted to gambling.Matt Damon is a hero of sorts.  He is able to curb his addiction for some time, but, in the end his inability to deal with reality leads him to Atlantic City.  Gamblers use gambling to escape from the troubles that they fear.  Ed Norton, plays the part of this type of gambler to perfection.  It is not about winning or losing to him, it is about sabotaging his life.Rounders is an uplifting movie because it leads the common man to believe that he can overcome insurmountable odds and reach his goal.  But it is also a lesson in life for all of us 12 steppers out there that we need to ask for the serenity to accept the things that we can not control. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The people who made this film didn't take much care in creating it. While enjoyable to watch in many ways, it in retrospect is a big disappointment. We hear many Poker terms thrown around but the lack of the film makers' questioning whether or not most of us had any personal knowledge about those terms was a big downer. In addition, having watched a genuine and substantial movie about Poker like the Cincinnati Kid, I could see that nobody making this film questioned what kind of character becomes a card shark. Edward G. Robinson's character in The Cincinnati Kid certainly wouldn't wait for a jerky friend of his to get out of jail nor would that character be easily led around into trouble by such a friend, he'd know what kind of crowd to hang around with, quality people. Matt Damon's character is easily led into trouble by such a jerky friend. In addition, we see Matt Damon's character's losing and getting kicked the crap out of quite a bit during the film, yet after one big score we're supposed to believe that he knows that he's now made it to the big time?Quite unconvincing "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film will not set the world on fire but it is a good film and it makes a change from all the other movies out there. This movie has some fine actors in it and that is what gives this film charm,Matt Damon is good as he normally is and Edward Norton puts in a good show but no where near as good as American History X or Fight Club.I would say this  is a rent only movie because after watching it twice it got boring but still a good watch the first time. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that if I am flipping through the channels and see it on, I will stop doing everything to watch it. I don't know what it is that really grabs my attention in this movie. Could it be a highly credible plot? Is it the excellent acting by a guy that I really can't stand (Matt Damon)? Maybe it is the subject matter since I am one who likes to play a little poker myself.No matter the actual reason, I find this movie to be riveting and keeps my heart pounding through each round. The complete make up of this movie is what other movies should strive to be--an escape from reality. "},{"Title":"In the game of movies...Watch this reasonable drama being dealt","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is my favourite ever drama about cards. Of course I can't think of any others but then it's not an overly exploited genre. And, in fairness, it works alright here.Matt Damon is Mike McDermott, a card sharp who gambled away a huge fortune and is now working in a low end job, trying to scrape back enough to earn a living. Enter his old pal, Lester 'Worm' Murphy (Edward Norton), who tries to make Mike play one more game, despite Mike quitting cards, so he can help Lester pay off some debts. Guess what? Trouble occurs! What follows is a not-all-that-surprising story, complete with obvious-ending-#3. There's not much there but the script is affable enough, and manages to give you some feel for the actual tension and cunning employed in these card games. It would certainly make you wary of taking on these men.The acting? Norton's great - as usual. I could rave about him for ages, suffice to say he's the bes thing here. Damon is grand - this is *his* movie after all - but a bit too soft and cuddly, to be believable at times - yet he's perfectly capable overall. The supporting cast - including Malkovich - are all enjoyable. 'Nuff said. The direction, by John Dahl, is quite spot on considering he's dealing with what could be - in other hands - a tedious subject matter. He manages to inject some tension into the card games by bringing us close to the subject matter, immersing us into the atmosphere of the game. Credit to him.Rounders is a fine little movie, and by no means a classic. For what is - about card games - it's quite admirable, but that can't quite make me want to particularly watch the rather average plot move along again. So I'd pencil it for a 6/10, principally due to some nice work by Dahl and Norton. "}{"Title":"CAN YOU BEAT THE GAME?","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Think of yourself as the best poker player in the world. You can see what they've got in the people's faces but you are one hell of a pokaaah face)) Everyone's dream ha?But this one is fun watching. Young guy beating John Malkovich( bad hearted, excellent poker player), you've got to see this. Edward Norton is such a friend that everyone should have someone like. Cookies is the hint, that's what this movie is all about. You liked the poker scenes of Maverick? You will love this then. Anyway watch this and never forget that poker is not about luck. "},{"Title":"A good buddy film for Generation X","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon never ceases to amaze me. I thought he was just anotherpretty boy but he's proven himself to be an excellent actor. The storyis classic. A guy trying to do the right thing but his past keeps comingback to haunt him. Edward Norton's character is part of this checkeredpast. There is an old Steve McQueen movie called The Cincinnati Kid. Ithink that this movie is a veiled remake of that classic. John Turturro,John Malkovich and Martin Landau provide maturity and grit to the "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable - Even for Non-Card Players","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has style, a dense atmosphere and great acting.Predictability of the plot has been noted here many times and I agree. But watching the character development as Mark moves along this plot is intriguing and somehow the whole plot is expressed through poker games which I also found quite interesting and entertaining.I'm not a card player but I liked to be given some insight into the world of the 'rounders'. I had the feeling everything was quite authentic and apparently I wasn't fooled since many commenters here who are familiar with the game confirmed the authenticity.Expect, however, a fair share of unknown terms (which often aren't explained) if you don't know poker quite well.As a last remark, I consider this a typical guy movie. That is, watch it with your mates/buddies, possibly with a supply of whiskey and cigars (but don't overindulge or you will miss many of the film's subtleties). I'm not trying to be sexist here, but I think that _on average_ Rounders will appeal more to men than women. And this has to do a lot with the ending... but see for yourself!7/10 "},{"Title":"Comes up a loser","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ended up being a bust. I was able to look past Malkovich's ridiculous Russian cartoon character (I was waiting for him to say I defect). Spoiler Or the predictable card game at the end between Damon and Malkovich. But when they get beat up and have all there money stolen by a bunch of cops, I said to myself, that's retarded!, and let the movie play out while I went on the internet. Overall pretty weak effort. "},{"Title":"Ed Norton the loveable loser","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Edward Norton playing a shifty deadbeat gambler was a great casting choice. His whole look and style were just perfect(the three hundred in the boot was a very nice touch).  This movie also had some very quoteable dialogue that makes a second viewing worthwhile.  Malkovitch and Turturro are great and really add to the story.  Matt Damon may not look the part of a rounder but he does look very much like a law student and I thought that it worked quite well.  Choosing someone with even a little more edge may have called mike's morals and character into question which considering the plot may not have been wise. "},{"Title":"inspiring, but flawed","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After I saw this movie I suddenly developed a burning interest for poker. This movie inspired me to learn the techniques and to experience the excitement. And as all poker players start, I too had my period of being the fish. But after a few many hours of thoughtful thinking away from the table and informative poker books I started to get the hang of it. and I must say, I admire anyone who can not only earn money but make a living play cards. I never realized how much calculation and skill was required for this game.....but now I'm just straying from the topic, all right. all in all, Rounders was a good movie, entertaining and by far the best stab at capturing the life of a gambler.Things I liked- Although the plot was trite to almost every sports movie about the little guy who has odds stacked against him but still manages to come out on top, but the movie still pulls you in. You can almost feel the ups and downs of Mike's bankroll as if it were your own money.- By far the most accurate account of poker termology I've seen in a hollywood produced movie.- Edward Norton although his character was too shallow to really have a feel for him, but he plays the part in such a way that you can't help for put yourself in Mike's shoes.- The beginning scene with KGB and Mike playing heads up at the table. When KGB casually and confidently turns his two amazing aces over and just simply leaves without even checking to see if Mike has two 9's. It just presents KGB in such a way that it almost seems like he's a force that should be feared because he has such confidence in his moves, and he never makes the wrong ones.- Golf Pro Game Scene When Mike leans forward with cash in hand pretending to call in order to test the guy out. It was only a split second long, very subtle, but just makes you smile.)Things I don't like- Something doesn't add up In the last scene, Mike walks into KGB's place with 10 thousand....plays until he wins another 10 thousand. that's 20 thousand. and obviously at this point KGB would match up that 20 thousand. And Mike wins that. so that's 40 thousand.....but he some how says he came out with over 60 thousand..???????- This really bothers me, someone clear this up for me Last Scene and last hand (Mike's winning 10 high straight). WHY DOES KGB PUSH IT ALL IN AT THE END???? it doesn't make sense either way. If KGB really thought that Mike was on the come but missing, then why bet if you're confident that they're not going to call?? And doesn't that just create a problem for KGB himself? If KGB thought Mike was on the come, but he had the cards(which he obviously did)why would he throw in the excess money to test it??? because obviously, if Mike didn't have it KGB would win, and if Mike did have it KGB would lose. zero sum game, nobody wins unless somebody loses. as simple as that. but if Mike didn't have it, he would fold when KGB bets, if Mike had it Mike would win. So KGB throws money in.......for.....WHAT??? yes yes, I understand those aren't the only two options........anyone want to take a stab at what they think KGB had at the end??7/10someone email me...  "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why I love Rounders as much as I do. But it's on my favorites list, right up there with Star Wars and Glory.Admittedly it is predictable. Admittedly the plot is a little thin and a little typical of the genre. Admittedly Matt Damon (of whom I am not a huge fan anyway) seemed just a wee bit off in the role of Mike McDermott... but then again, I can't think of anyone else I would have preferred. (I don't think Mike was meant to have an 'edge', really.. I interpreted him as being quietly in control, a good kid, unlike the boisterous Worm.)Speaking of which. The casting of Edward Norton seems perfectly appropriate here. Tall, slender, lanky, with a general whatever-happens-happens attitude and an unsophisticated -- yet very funny -- sense of humor, Norton the chameleon truly becomes the undependable (is that even a word?) carefree gambler, just as he always easily morphs into every character he portrays. Martin Landau is impressive, and John Turturro -- while his character seems a little all-knowing ever-wise mafia boss-ish to me with that way too collected demeanor -- delivers well. The casting of Gretchen Mol seemed off to me. She seemed just a bit too mousy, a bit too non-understanding and even a bit too uncaring. I understand that is probably partially just the way the character was written. But I think it was also poor interpretation.This is a sophisticated movie. It had a lot of thought and work put into it and it shows. It's intelligent, it's classy, it's intensely interesting. The pace is steady and unwavering. All in all, very highly recommended. In my opinion Rounders is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Great Performances Pace The Movie","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some of the best acting I've seen in years. Matt Damon tries to give up card playing and gambling, but realizes that he can't walk away from who he is. The ever more remarkable Edward Norton plays his buddy Worm, who takes too many chances. Other good performances come from the creepy John Malkovich and John Turturro. Overall, the best movie about real card playing ever made. Recommended to anyone who just wants to see good acting with a good script without the typical Hollywood cliches of sex and explosions. A well deserved 8. "},{"Title":"A tough flick to rate","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This review contains some spoiler information. Rounders is basically the best movie to date (that I've seen) that deals with the topic of pro poker.  The score, the poker matches, the acting all draw you in.  No poker movie even comes close to the first scene with Mike and KGB.  Although not entirely accurate of a real brutality and skill involved in heads up Holdem match, the audience cannot possibly be expected to understand all the ins and outs of Holdem.  Very few people do.  However, an engaging heart wrenching loss is still conveyed when KGB casually tosses in a call and flips up those two red aces with absolutely no remorse.  Thus, although a little off form reality (Mike's rationale in the scene's narration is too simple and the statement I'm gonna go all in cause I don't think you got the spades basically announces Mike's hand to any doof at the table) the big poker scene essentially works.  The same applies for the second final one as well. The plot is quite predictable and there are some real problems like the size of Mike's apartment, the professors loan, and the fact that Mike decides not to have sex with Petra (come on she's really hot).  However, these shortcomings don't detract the way the simple plot draws you in.  I mean after Mike lost that first big game I knew he would come back to win.  Everybody does.  But I still felt the ups and downs of Mike's bankroll like it was my own money.  When worm cheats and they (Mike and Worm) lose all their money and get their asses kicked in that 20 40 game I was ready to go berserk.  I'm glad Mike gets rid of him.  And that's how good Norton is in this film.  He plays the part so well that (as intended) you just can't stand him.  The ending of the film is problematic to many but I think most people who see this film just don't get it.  The film does not suggest compulsive gambling to everyone.  However, for some people, it is a lifestyle and a productive, fulfilling one at that.  The top 200 poker players in the world are functional addicts.  They live well and enjoy every minute of their compulsive, non traditional lifestyle.  Mike is going to find out if he can be one of the big shots.  In my opinion, he's really not that good a card player and will probably go home from Vegas dead broke.  However, poker as the film states is a calling.  Mike hears his and goes for it.  Whether he makes it or not isn't relevant.  Poker excellence is a lifelong pursuit.  All the greats go through tough times.  I think Mike is somewhat delusional (so you put one move on Chan, big deal) but I think the poker mindset he exposes to the audience is very true to life.  That idea is what makes Rounders an important film.  It gives a voice to pro poker players.  Most people think of them as worthless, parasitic, immoral scumbags but I think this film lets you know something of what they are really like.  Doing so is really much harder than one would think.  Explaining poker in the course of 121 minutes is very very difficult.  Nonetheless, you want to play cards and re-experience the rush that Rounders gives you after you watch the film.  Personal Note  I'd like to thank whoever was involved with getting this film to theatres.  You have encouraged millions of suckers to play poker.  Thank you Thank you Thank you !!!!!  Anyway, I give this movie a 7.  A tough task, well executed, but still more could be said.  Rounders' friendship plot (the relationship between Worm and Mike) is not really ground breaking.  So you tolerate an old friend to a point and then drop him.  Ok, big deal.  Neither is Mike's romance with Gretchen Mol.  I think She loves me, she loves me not, she loves me has been done before. I think the actual topic of poker and its dynamics is what makes the movie interesting and enjoyable.  In terms of poker movies it (I'll say it again to make my point crystal clear) is by far the best to attempt to tackle the subject.  Yet, at the same time, it is not a masterpiece by any means.  "},{"Title":"Does no-limit make sense?","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand how people can play poker with no betting limits.  Suppose that I have more money than anyone else at the table.  You have a good hand, and you bet big.  What do I do?  I bet my whole pile.  It doesn't matter what cards I have; you can't match my bet, so you have to fold.  So whoever has the most money can win every hand.  Have I missed something?  If I have, someone please email me to explain this. "}{"Title":"Great writing, directing, and outstanding performances","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a slick and engrossing movie about gambling as a way of life. Matt Damon and Edward Norton are terrific as the two card players who lose money, get it back, lose it again, etc. It's a lot more interesting than it sounds, because John Dahl gives it a slick atmosphere, the dialogue's great, and the score's fantastic. Edward Norton still confirms himself as my favorite actor of all time. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A very good movie.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed Rounders for a variety of reasons, it has great cinematography and very solid performances from the actors. This movie doesn't dumb it down at all for the audience as far as the game of poker goes, it is not like Maverick where Mel Gibson gets the Royal Flush and then calls it magic. It is a very nitty gritty view of the underworld of Poker and uses a lot of terms like wired and split and even the title Rounders which mean nothing to the average movie goer, but it is not necessary to understand the movie.Rounders is one of those movies that people watch and then afterwards want to try their hand at what they just saw, it is like when you watched Back To The Future as a kid and wanted to Skateboard like Marty Mcfly, or watched Point Break and wanted to surf, this movie does the same for poker. Rounders is not a classic in my books, but it is well done, and well worth the rental. "},{"Title":"I mean, THANKS, but...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  We liked this movie.  The dialogue was very well written. 1.Keep in mind I will be paying you back with your own money! 2.Mike Here's $220 to get you started.   Worm $220?!?  I mean, thanks, but...(priceless expression here, as    well) Those are only two examples.  Gretchen Mol is not too hard on the eyes either.  The only real action comes when Mike and Worm get the s**t beaten out of them, but the main amusement is to listen to all the characters talk trash to each other.  We liked it so much we decided to rent the video to finish watching it after the DVD player our roommate bought froze up while playing it.  If we are willing to spend an extra four dollars to finish watching the movie, then dammit, you should be willing to spend half what we did.  That's our opinion.  And now, we would like to go return some videotapes. "},{"Title":"Acceptable poker movie","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I mistakenly rated this movie 7 instead of 6.As an aspiring professional poker player (legitimate; in casinos), I found this movie to be very ENTERTAINING.  I capitalize ENTERTAINING because that does not comment on its artistic integrity.The following notes describe what is right with the movieJohn Malkovich, Edward Norton, John Turturro and Martin Landau, need I say more?  Landau, Turturro and Malkovich perform on par, which is about three levels up from on par for many other actors.  Norton creates a character that is lovable and familiar.  Though perhaps many people who see the movie won't have a best friend who screws up quite as much as Worm (Norton), no one has a perfect best friend.  His humanity shows through in every move he makes.The visual aspects of this movie attributed to lighting and production design are phenomenal.  There is a scene early in the movie in which Mike (Matt Damon) and Joey (John Turturro) are standing on the sidewalk that takes my breath away every time I see it despite having watched the movie twenty or more times.The plot is excellent, providing the audience with a sense of tension despite the movie's Hollywood production.  Hollywood production leads the audience to the knowledge that everything will be ok and the status quo will be maintained by the end of the movie, as far as I'm concerned.Rounders is accessible enough that upon watching it, the audience is playing all the hands that Mike (Matt Damon) is playing and winning and losing with him.The things that are wrong with the movie are as followsGretchen Mol.  She couldn't act her way out of a cardboard box.There is one specific time (if you're not a serious poker player, you won't understand anyway) when Damon seems to misunderstand, or perhaps not understand at all what he is saying in terms of poker parlance.  This event falls in a voiceover at a major turning point in the movie, thereby cheapening the voiceover's effect if you do understand what he means.The end is predictable.  I won't say any more than that in the interest of not giving away the story to anyone who has not seen it.At the beginning of the movie, there is a piece of writing and/or direction that is bothersome Teddy KGB (Malkovich) walks away from the poker table having just turned over a hand as if it couldn't have been beaten.  The fact is that he holds the second best hand possible and that Mike (Matt Damon) holds the third best possible hand.  Again, to the layman, this fact is likely not a problem, but to me, the scene was clearly artificial in that Malkovich's character walks away from the table as if he couldn't have been beaten when in fact, he could have been.  A minor inconsistency, but a problem to the aficionado.Overall recommendationsIf you're a poker player who has read more than a few books on the subject, see the movie, but don't expect it to dazzle you in terms of its poker savvy.  If you've never played poker, watch it and enjoy it despite the whole Hollywood thing.  If you play poker at home with your friends recreationally, watch the movie, it may teach you something about how to play the game.  If you don't like poker or are a gambling addict, don't watch the movie; it makes you want to play poker.  If you like independent films and play poker less than once a year, don't watch this movie; you'll think its trash. "},{"Title":"A very strong, engrossing film","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"        This is well written and produced film.  The plot is made difficult to convey on screen because of the complexity of the game yet it seems to work for both for those who know the language and those who don't.  The roles of the principles are difficult and very well played.  My only disappointment was that the Damon character is so unconnected, except to his girlfriend and a judge.  Such a clean cut kid, at the outset studying law with apparent success and living in a very nice looking apartment in Manhattan would not be completely devoid of family connections.  Otherwise a terrific film. "},{"Title":"a pretty decent movie","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was ready to slag this one but it is actually a pretty decent movie. It´s well acted, (especially Norton) has a great looking, stylish photography, a fine score by Christopher Young, and a well written, naturalistic dialogue (but a hideous russian accent by Malkovich). !!minor spoiler!! Minor flaw Would Landaus character really grant Damon the favour he does? All in all, nothing spectacular but a nice film. 3 out of 5. A definitive climb up from Dahls previous Unforgettable.  "},{"Title":"Matt Damon breaks out of the male hottie mold, but Edward Norton has the best performance!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"       Matt Damon proves that he is one of the most talented younger (but no too young) actors out in the movie business. I wasn't expecting much from this film because it was being overshadowed by all the hype GOOD WILL HUNTING and Matt and Ben Affleck received. So when television programs and magazines were making a big deal that Matt and Ben weren't in a movie together (heaven forbid!) I wasn't quite sure whether I would like this movie. I had another reason for my doubt Along with Matt Damon, Leonardo DiCaprio had a lot of attention from his 1997 movie as well (titanic), and his follow up movie, MAN IN THE IRON MASK was just a fair attempt at OOH A LEO FLICK! Leo's bland performance in that movie made me believe that young hotties only have enough fire to do one really good movie, get heavy publicity, and then they fizzle and take a couple years off for partying or self discovery.       Well...Matt Damon totally changed my opinion. He proves he can handle the publicity and still dish out good movies that everyone (including his fans) could enjoy.       Rounders is an excellent and thrilling movie featuring an awesome cast. Edward Norton is superb as the jerky best friend, Worm. His performance is better than Matt's! (See him in Primal Fear, American History X, and Fight Club) The supporting characters are excellent as well (Martin Landau, John Tuturro). I do concede to the fact that John Malkovich's Russian accent is a bit obnoxious, but I love him anyway. At least he attempted at an accent. In his movies where everyone else around him is speaking in a fake accent (Dangerous Liasons, Mary Reilly), he stands out with his regular voice. Maybe he likes to stand out.      I love the story and the whole ending. It had me talking to the television, and if movies get that reaction out of me, it's definitely not a dud. I would recommend this movie to anyone!     "},{"Title":"Edward Norton shines...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I had never heard anything about it. I rented it because Ed Norton is my fave actor and manages to turn every movie into a masterpiece (Primal Fear, People vs LF and AHX). And that's exactly what he does here. The plot is thin. The other performances are OK, except John Malkovich who is pathetic. But Edward Norton turns the potentially average into the actually very good. See this film if you're an Ed Norton fan (and let's face it, who isn't), If you're not - don't bother **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Two young actors pull off a nail biting performance. look out for them","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders was one of the most tense and enjoyable films of 98'. this film included some nail biting performances by Edd Norton and Matt Damon. Matt Damon plays a law student who loses all of his money in a high-raked poker game. His old school mate is released out of jail (Edd Norton) and damon is gradually convinced to get back in the game after he learns about his mates high debts. the film has  twist and turns which will keep you guessing untill the end. with some great dialogue from Matt Damon and Edd Norton which will keep you quoting untill your days are over. If you love this film i will recommend watching ed nortons best film to date ' fight club'. the film has convinced me that film quality over the next decade will be excellence. good luck to Norton and Damon. "},{"Title":"lets play some cards","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What an outstanding film, and this is a person who finds cards boring.Outstanding performances from all cast members....a must see if youre into wheeling and dealing films....lock stock without the violence....9 out of ten   "}{"Title":"Edward Norton is the best new-comer in the industry","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is an exciting trip into the world of a couple of gambling addicts. Matt Damon and Ed Norton both do superb jobs in this one. Norton is surely going to be a huge star. American History X, Fight Club, Keeping the Faith, and Rounders are all top notch flicks. The story is pretty gripping and you'll actually find yourself rooting for these two guys to get the money they need. If you like movies at all, or are just a fan of great actors, watch Rounders tonite. "},{"Title":"A great watch even if you aren't a poker fan","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you have not seen this film then you may not want to read this as it gives away 1 minor plot change very early in the film.This film starts following a small time poker player(Damon) who is desperately trying to break into the world of the big players and his dream is to make it into the Poker World Championships.The story starts by following him to one of his normal games, where he tries to kick-start his career by playing much bigger stakes than usual and failing miserably.At this point I will stop to explain one of the points of the film that impressed me the most. All the way through the film you hear Matt Damon voicing over the thoughts and the mentality of a poker player. This gave a very interesting and unusual insight into the world of a man who is in his third year of paying his way through law school with money earned by poker playing, and who then loses all of his hard earned cash in one night of big headedness. You may not agree but then you may not be able to relate to them like me.We return after this event to McDermot (Damon) a good while later when due to lack of money he has had to take up a night-shift delivery job to pay his way, still lamenting his losses but having made a promise to his girlfriend(Gretchen) that he will never play cards again.However this is all turned on its head with the release from prison of his best friend Worm(Norton) who tempts Damon back to cards. A roller coaster ride ensues as Damon tries to pay back the loan sharks who are on Nortons back, all complicated by the fact that is a notorious mechanic.This is a form of cheating involving the grip of the cards enabling the dealer to deal cards off the bottom of the deck which is virtually impossible to spot.With an amazing script, notibly good performances by John Malkovich, Matt Damon and Edward Norton and a script that always leaves you wondering what is going to happen next.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a highly entertaining film that features a rich gallery of characters and an engaging plot. There are some very well acted scenes in this movie that range from funny (the judges' game) to scary (the police game). Especially good is Ed Norton, who seems to be one of the best young actors out there right now. The film also effectively explores the perils of gambling, a serious problem in society. "},{"Title":"Gambling is a drug; It is addictive and destructive; Some play for the adrenalin rush, others make a living from it.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Script writers David Levien & Brian Koppelman tackle the issues of gambling and its shortcomings with the characters Mike, (Matt) and his troubled partner Worm, (Edward). Mike has talent and abuses it on the card table,\par destroying his personal life and profession. But he faces his responsibilities and attempts to make amends. That in itself is a difficult task when addiction has a hold of you. Especially when you are dealing with the seedy side of New York. Matt Damon fits in perfectly into the role of Mike, (he was very unconvincing in SAVING PRIVATE RYAN), and is supported by professionals in the likes of Norton (who almost steals the show), Turturro, Landau and even the eccentric performance from Malkovich as the seedy Russian card king, KGB, are all top notch. Narration by the main character can sometimes put you off, but in this instance it helps to understand the intricate art of playing cards. A tight script that holds you in there for the ride, uninterrupted by John Dahl's direction. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess I am a sucker for narration films in the sense that Goodfellas was. We all like movies that show us a different, vibrant world that may be right next door for all we know. Although a bit predictable Rounders never fails to hold your attention. True tension is built by wondering just how much longer Mike is going to hold up for Worm. We question his sense of loyalty when anyone else would have dumped the dumb SOB. But haven't we all had a friend who was like Worm to one degree or another? If you're a poker player this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Over-drawn characters","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Amazing how a bunch of otherwise worthy actors can play over-drawn roles and create a mediocre film.  Edward Norton is such a jerk it's amazing he survived prison, all the cons are paper-thin caricatures of tough guys, and don't get me started on John Malkovich's completely ridiculous out-of-bounds Russian accent.  John you come steal my muuuney forrrr movie teeket, ees betterrr than payink for zis feelm.Martin Landau is the only name here who plays his role up the middle, the way it ought to be done.I don't know who to blame for this mess the writers, the director, or maybe it was just the time pressure to get it out the door and let Matt Damon go back to his endless parade of GQ interviews.  "},{"Title":"Ho hum...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This not not a bad movie by any means, however it doesn't reach the heights it perhaps could. I didn't expect much from this film but it was reasonably entertaining. With a talented cast headed by Matt Damon (a wildly over-rated actor) playing Matt Damon (not a difficult role for him you'd think - he does it passably well) there is no real challenge and precious little plot or character development. But of all the unusual and unlikely things done by the characters in this movie (get this - KGB's 'tell' is playing with his Oreos - the viewers pick this up straight away because its so blindingly obvious - but wunderkind takes the whole movie and a pile of money to work it out?!?) the worst is turning away the luscious Famke Janssen - like sure!!! It would have been nice to see Worm turn up at the end but, on the whole, this is a relatively formulaic but moderately enjoyable movie - even if just for some classy actors (Malkovich wasn't really THAT bad although his accent was a little hard to take), snappy dialogue and a glimpse at the seemy NYC poker underground. My vote (and apparently most others') 7/10 "},{"Title":"The most ruthless poker player in the movie..","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  is gonna let Oreos decide whether he's holding or folding? What a crock. John Malkovich is awful in this.  I know real Russian-Americans and they sound nothing like him. Fire your dialect coach, John. Sorry, Being John Malkovich was great, this was not.  I gave this a 6 because the other movie I saw the same day, Arlington Road, made me so mad this looks like Casablanca in comparison.  In all fairness, Edward Norton is pretty good and John Turturro is good also in a small role.  But I thought if I heard keep the juice going or roll one more time I was gonna break my DVD player.  Rent if you want to see some cool card playing and scams, but not for the story, which is pretty lame.  And Famke Janssen isn't in this, although the woman in the movie looks a lot like her. "},{"Title":"More sharks than the descovery channel","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a fairly entertaining movie that hits its high very early on in the movie then fails to get back up there. If you like card game movies you will love this , its pretty easy to understand and it flows without hitting any rapids along the way by way of sheer thrills.Matt Damon is becoming a fine actor and it is he that really makes this movie good. Check out Gretchen Mol ( his Girlfriend) what a babe!. John Malcovich is a slight dissapointment , his Russian accent leaves a lot to be desired. Over all a good movie if not a little predictable. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great movie (10/10)","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was perfect. I loved although I'm not a pro card player and usually play cards in Sweden (I live there) I had no trouble understanding most of the poker parlor (in English). There was actually one thing though that annoyed me about this movie at first. It was that John Malkovich who was a great actor in Con Air really sucked in this movie. To hear him speaking English with a Russian accent was just terrible (but has nothing to do with the movie), it is not that I'm an expert on English with Russian accent but you could feel his acting (it didn't feel real). Maybe it really sounds like that but I got the chills. You know when you are ashamed of/for someone else (an actor). "}{"Title":"A good film","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, to be honest my reason for renting this film was Edward Norton. He's such a fantastic actor, so very talented, that I really don't care what films he's in. I must stress, though, that I would *never* like a film only because Norton's in it, it's just that he's so brilliant that he would make it worth it to sit through a boring film. The thing is that Norton has never been in a bad film, which means (in other words) that I liked Rounders. I really didn't expect much from this film, but as it turned out I was very interested to know how Mike (Matt Damon) and Worm (Norton) would get out of their&#133; Shall we call it predicament? -) I even liked the lenghty poker game scenes. Matt Damon did a good job, as did most of the other actors even if Malkovich's turn as Teddy KGB was a bit over the top. Norton was of course as brilliant as ever. Possible spoiler follows. I must say that I really missed Worm when he decided to leave NY, there was something very sad about his character and I really wanted to know how things turned out for him.Overall, a good film. Not as good as I had wanted it to be, but it was still very interesting.  "},{"Title":"Winner Takes All...","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a terrific film set in the underground world of illegal gambling in and around New York City.  It has a great cast headlined by Matt Damon as our protagonist, Mike McDermott, a law student struggling with the loss of a $30,000 roll; and Edward Norton, as his insufferable friend, Les Worm Murphy, fresh out of jail and looking to score early and a lot to pay off certain debts.Other players include John Turturro, as Mike's mentor and a fellow career gambler; Martin Landau, as Mike's law professor; and John Malkovich as the unforgettable Teddy KGB, a Russian mobster with a fetish for oreos.The card play is spectacular throughout Rounders, and while the lingo and the techniques are sometimes hard to follow, the film is thoroughly engrossing from beginning to climax.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Acting with Intense Drama","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again, Matt Damon comes through in a well-acted, high drama motion picture that will have you feeling the anxiety of danger laden back street gambling.  Rounders is a film that tells it's story so well that it leaves you feeling that you've been right at Matt Damon's side the whole way. It's a story about friendship, loyalty, betrayal, fear, risk taking, and survival.  The story is so believable, that it had me on the edge of my seat from the beginning to the intense card game ending. "},{"Title":"A compelling, interesting and exciting film.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon stars as Mike McDermott, a highly-skilled poker player that knows all the in's and out's of the game, insisting that its 'not a game of luck, but rather skill.' He frequents the many seedy bars and cleans up on naive, first time players, but one night he loses 'three stacks of high society' (30 grand) to the notorious Teddy KGB (John Malkovich), and resolves that enough is enough- no more gambling. That is, until his slimy friend Worm (excuse the pun Edward Norton) gets out of prison and reintroduces him back into the world of gambling.Slowly, the storyline develops and it is learnt that Worm is neck-deep in a fifteen-thousand dollar debt to Teddy KGB. Mike, between juggling law school and his girlfriend, vouches for Worm that the debt will be repayed. What follows are some intriguing, compelling and above all entertaining poker scenes. Its interesting to hear Mike use the poker player vernacular, saying things like I've got the wheel, and gimme three stacks of high society ($30000).Rounders is a very well acted, stylishly filmed movie. All the performances are very solid, notably Edward Norton as the infuriatingly arrogant Worm. Martin Landau, Gretchen Mol and John Turturro also make appearances, although John Turturro is criminally underused.Above all, Rounders is quite a different motion picture. If you can look beyond pervasive language and see the film underneath, then you won't be disappointed.Eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Damon mailed it in","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie should have been titled Will Hunting Plays Poker.  Why couldn't we have had a movie about Worm?  Matt Damon called upon the same little nuances he used in GWH.  Same shy smile, same way he looks down to show he's thinking, same walk, same inability to let us in as an audience.  Watch GWH, then this movie right after, and you'll see the same performance, the latter without the South Boston accent.  Did he even bother to get into his character's head for this?  Watch Norton... Brando/Hoffman-esque perfection of characterization.  How often do you ever catch him acting?  "},{"Title":"'Mean Streets' reminder","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some of the scenes seemed deliberately based on 'Mean Streets'. When the Bad Friend insults the boss on front of the Hero, and when he shows he just doesn't care. Not to mention the hat... This is fine, because Norton is the next De Niro, and comes along just in time for the old one to run down. The film was ok, but I can't take much more of Damon's grinning. "},{"Title":"For once a film that exposes the true world of poker","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a good film that has a credible story, credible charaters and a credible ending. All of these combine to make a film that surpassed all of my expectations. Never mind what others say about too much poker lingo being used in the film, it holds no important affect for those who don't know the game. Never mind what others say about Matt Damon's lack of acting ability, he comes through in this film with a performance up to Good Will Hunting standards. Never mind what others say about the film's all too predictable ending, regardless of it, the tension still builds up quite nicely.I liked this film because the story never strays causing the viewer to lose interest in the film. Not once did I lose interest here, regardless of my biased love for the game of poker. Ed Norton shines in his performance playing Worm as if it was his true alter-ego. One really must wonder why Damon's character puts up with all of the Shenanegans that Worm puts him through - the guy just doesn't seem the type you would want to keep as a friend. John Malkovich also gives a small but smart performance as Johnny KGB, a masterful poker player, but a loose cannon otherwise. Perhaps my favourite part of the film was when the camera pans on his stack of Oreo cookies and a Don't Touch sign that would make most laugh at the sight.John Turturro and Martin Landau also give strong performances in smaller roles, adding to the depth of talent this film has. John Dahl did well here to get the true feel of the gambling underworld and the highs and lows that accompany it. One can only be left wondering why Mike (Damon) turned down a chance with the gorgeous Famke Janssen. Ouch!!!  Highly recommended.8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first ten minutes of Rounders were excellent. We watch a poker stand off between Matt Damon and John Malkovitch that is really tense. I was really excited then, cuz I figured the movie would rule. However, the film's story doesn't provide for that type of pacing, and even though it loses that moment, it is still an excellent movie. Matt Damon, whose Good Will Hunting made him a star, proved to us once again that Best Actor nom was no fluke. Not that much prove was necessary. Eddy Norton, Martin Landau, and John Malkovitch even though his accent kinda sucked were terrific. As was Famke Janssen and Gretchen Mol and most of the other peformers. The only person who annoyed me was John Turtorro. It wasn't him, but the character. I really liked this movie, though. No one makes movies about card games. This showed the genius of it. However, even though I am a poker player, the terminology can be confusing. "},{"Title":"Great movie, well worth your while","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  For anyone with even a mild interest in gambling and/or card playing, this is movie worth watching. It follows a professional poker player through some tough times.I am not familiar with the underground gamblers and their pimp enforcers, so I can't comment on the realism. I can only say that I enjoyed this film immensely. It might be laughed off by real players the same way that Armageddon was laughed off by physicists and astronomers, but for everyone else it's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Rounders was a Love/Hate Deal","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overall, it WASN'T a great film. but for some reason I really enjoyed it and I can't quite figure out why....MY LIKES a) Ed Norton is a great actor who brought the film to life as soon as his character appeared on screen. b) John Malkovich, another great actor, did a terrific job portraying a Russian-sleazy-thug-like-villian, ironically named KGB. c) The poker scenes had me thoroughly entertained, and often holding my breath until the hand was over.But here's what really bugged mea) Matt Damon is just too bland, and his role of the lawyer-by-day/card-shark-by-night was incredibly irritating. Most times it was hard to believe the card-shark side of his character because he just looks so preppy and...well...lawyerly! b) Martin Landau's character seemed unbelievable too. His wise tales and willingness to lend Damon's character $10,000 just didn't cut it with me. Cliche....snooze.... c) Gretchen Mol's character Jo was irritating because she didn't seem angry enough. I mean, come on...her boyfriend's a gambling addict, loses all their money, and doesn't come home at night, and all she does is look sweet and demurly repremand him!!!!! d) Ed Norton's Worm just vanishes from the film without further explanation.I wish the film had gotten more into the disease of gambling addiction. Not once did Damon, or anyone for that matter, express or discuss that he was an addict whose life was literally falling apart in all areas because of a literal powerlessness to stop the free-fall. I'm not saying Rounders should have turned into a 12-Step spiritual-fest, but that sad reality was never even acknowledged by any of the characters.My rating 5 out of 10. I'm glad I didn't pay box-office prices.  "}{"Title":"More Than 1-Dimensional Plot","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not a simplistic morality tale.  Is the main character a gambling addict, or is he just 'following his own path'?  I believe it is a combination of both.  However, the filmmaker does not make a 1-dimensional movie.  This added to the masterful performances of John Malkovich and Edward Norton makes Rounders an interesting movie, although not being familiar with poker (or whatever card games these people were playing) may leave the uneducated without a full appreciation.  Also, the film has a great score.  Though I would like to say that the set designers had a major lapse in judgment.  How does that couple afford that apartment?  On a non-cinematic level I harbor a latent resentment against gorgeous heterosexual males, and Matt Damon with his blue eyes and color-treated blond hair playing another self-sacrificing good-guy role (cross-reference Good Will Hunting) was a bit of a turn-off.   "},{"Title":"Gambling isn't a game it's a business","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again Ed Norton has really helped make a movie great. I found parts of this boring-- watching people playing cards isn't all that exciting.... and Matt Damon is more a pretty boy than a great actor... but Martin Landau and John Malkovich and Norton make this movie watchable... sorry he didn't quit gambling while he was ahead-- but I guess his destiny found him....   "},{"Title":"good script, let down by lack of credible female roles","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an interesting, low key movie set in the sleazy world of poker playing.  Matt Damon plays Mike McDermott, a law student with a talent for the game.  The film has a witty script and says a lot about the nature of gambling.  There are also great performances from Edward Norton as Mike's idiotic but likeable friend and an amusingly accented John Malkovich.  It's let down by the female roles which are criminally under-written.  "},{"Title":"I have lost a great deal of respect for John Malkovich","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You take a great story, excellent script, and a superb premise, and then you ruin it with the most pathetic Russian accent ever. I've been a Malkovich fan (Well at least for the most part) since Empire of the Sun.  I've seen him dish out wonderful performances amidst poor movies, but what we have here appears to be the opposite.  I really liked this movie, but Malkovich and his terrible accent almost ruined it for me.  I can only imagine when this movie was being made the directors, producers, and all involved probably stood by, but didn't have the guts to tell Malkovich that his accent wasn't working.  C'mon, you can't tell me they didn't notice it. They should have said something, but I'm sure they didn't want to insult the great actor.  Some guys just command too much respect.  Like no one was going to tell Williams his Boston accent wasn't cutting it in Good Will Hunting. I don't know, maybe it was intentional.  Maybe Malkovich made this movie and did this accent just to see if anyone would actually say anything. He's probably sitting back and laughing about it with friends.  It was way too flagrant to be unintentional.  He was flaunting it for crying out loud. He even fell out of the accent at the end with that final outburst. Watch it again.  Either way I've lost a great deal of respect for the man.  No one should get paid that kind of money for such a ridiculous performance. "},{"Title":"Good film, rounded off by one of the finest performances of the year","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boasting the sort of line-up producers dream of (lots of high quality names that you don't need an Armageddon budget to get hold of), Rounders sizzles from the first moment to the last. Matt Damon (along with his butch mate Affleck) are proving themselves to be immensely capable on screen as well as writing.The support actors are two actors who have won Oscars for supporting (Landau/Norton) - both of whom show why they are award-winning at this stage in their career. And perhaps the finest actor alive, John Malkovich giving the best performance I have seen in a movie this year.This film also stars Famke Janssen which is reason enough. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of 1998","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon and Edward Norton round out a great cast of characters in a drama about life as a rounder. I saw this movie three times not only for the screenplay but also for the acting. John Malkovich is Teddy KGB the owner of the poker club. Malkovich is a great actor, but has the worst Russian accent I have ever heard. My favorite part is when McDermott and Worm go and look for poker games so they can get money to pay KGB. This movie is highly recommended especially if you are poker player. "},{"Title":"Very good for poker fans","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't claim to be a poker expert, but I do play on occasion and know things, so I am part of the ideal audience for this movie.  Unlike some, I didn't have any problems following the jargon-heavy screenplay (though it might have been a little too heavy), even if I didn't recognize a couple of the games they played.  Dahl managed to make it look interesting and cinematic, and the dark, gritty look he gave to the rest of the film helped. Gretchen Mol is wasted in the girlfriend part, but the rest of the cast is very good.  Unlike some, I thought Matt Damon was quite good in the lead, and Norton was a hoot as his best friend, as was Malkovich as KGB.  I do wonder how many good card players rely on tells, but that didn't stop me from enjoying this quite a bit (though I'm not what a non-poker fan will think). "},{"Title":"Famke Janssen fans will be disappointed; John Malkovitch fans not!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, In Holland this movie was very hot because Famke Janssen played a character in it. I have seen the movie and why she has this part, I don't know. It's a short part, 3 scenes I guess. If you are a fan, you will be disapointed. But I did not see the movie for Famke, I did see it because of the gambling and the characters. Well, I wish the writers did a better job, because you hardly get to know them, not even Damon. Using a voice-over, well it hardly works. But I did enjoy the movie, because the shallowness and loneliness off this gambling existence is very touchable in this movie. You can feel why he has this need to play, and why he has plays while he know that even winning means you lose (Karate Kid 3, mr. Miagi to Danielsan) And thats why I love this ending. You want to know how? Go see it for yourself. You wont be disappointed, that's if you like poker and John Malkovitch. If you don't like the both of them, maybe you better wanna see an Adam Sandler movie.   "},{"Title":"Great Supporting Cast","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders succeeds for one reason only, but it's a pretty compelling one - fascinating characters, even if Matt Damon (Good Will Hunting) who plays Mike the central character, isn't one of them.That Rounders is a winner in spite of having a lame duck lead is remarkable.Rounders is a gambling movie. It's about a pair of New York professional card players trying desperately to get some big money very quickly to pay back hefty gambling debts.Mike has sworn off gambling after losing all of his dosh some months before to Teddy KGB (John Malkovich). Mike's also a law student, in love with his girlfriend Jo (Gretchen Mol) and she's warned him off cards.But Mike's old buddy Worm (Edward Norton) has just got out of jail owing thousands to dangerous creditors and he can be expected to try to entice Mike back into the fray.Should they take organised crime's money? How much can they afford to offend the big boys. Should they play smaller stake games out of town with amateurs? Will they risk cheating or will they play straight up? Will they hit Vegus?Rounders is far from perfect. There's lot's of technical stuff about cards in Rounders that I couldn't understand and in spite of being directed by John Dahl (Red Rock West, The Last Seduction) Rounders regrettably isn't film noir, it's far too Hollywood and up beat for that. But still the film is fascinating because of it's larger than life support cast.Edward Norton (the captive in Primal Fear) is scintillating as the squirmy, risk taking Worm. The contrast between Worm and Mike is extreme and I suppose that Damon did well there, depicting the straight, more honest gambler against Worm's pathological risk taking.John Malkovich is frightening as the Russian heavy, John Turturro riveting as the pragmatic, tight mouthed Joey Knish. As Petrovsky the Judge, Martin Landau is very effective.And Rounders isn't really Hollywood even if gambling is treated in it as a sport. There's still an element of John Dahl grittiness about the characters even if it isn't remotely like the remarkable The Grifters which painted it's gamblers as profound losers.No, these gamblers would seem to be always able to get their gambling injuries treated and get back onto the field for the next quarter, the next deal.But even if Rounders doesn't really have really much to say of worth about the profession of gambling it does paint a very interesting picture of still another brand of New  York low life. And that's always fun.  "},{"Title":"Right game, wrong cast, no story","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love a poker game. I even love watching a poker game in which I am not a participant. Nevertheless, Rounders is a not very exciting and rather forgettable film. Matt Damon should be a boy scout or a wellfare worker and definitely not a poker player. And though Edward Norton fares a little better as Damon's sidekick, the character he portrays is so utterly irritating that he too isn't much fun to watch. One strong point of its predecessor The Cincinnati Kid was the fact that one couldn't predict if Steve McQueen would win or lose the final game against The Man Edward G. Robinson. This element of uncertainty is sadly lacking here. John Dahl proved in The Last Seduction and especially in Red Rock West that he is a fine director. But somewhere along the way he certainly lost his grip on Rounders.  "}{"Title":"Dark, shiny film digging into talent","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is most incredible for what it isn't.  It isn't flashy, it isn't spectacular, and above all, it isn't really Hollywood.  Matt Damon puts in a so-so performance at the head of a truly incredible supporting cast, with gem roles for Malkovich, Norton, and Turturro.  The script is understated, thrilling, and realistic - the protagonist is sympathetic, and the plot is linear and interesting.  Excellent direction and cinematography make this one worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Like a merry-go-round...","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders appears to have stolen its thematic structure from 'The Music Of Chance' - a feeling of inescapable, perpetual ups and downs, wins and losses. Indeed at the end, Mike (Damon) reminds us that with 30 big ones in his pocket, he's back where he started. Look out for dwelling circular imagery - the table, the chips, the cookies etc. Dahl paints the New York Rounders scene with a type of warmth that almost declares it to be an acceptable lifestyle choice for the nineties - could his elderly judge friend (Landau) have been more helpful? The problem I had with the film (the only one, and a relatively minor one at that) was that Matt Damon was unsuited to the role. No manner of make-up, dirty clothes and facial hair could disguise his babyface, boy next door, untouched reputation and appearance. Credit to Dahl though after the mess that was 'Unforgettable'. "},{"Title":"an educational experience","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders was a learning experience.  It is a well written and acted tale of ins and outs of high stakes poker.  The audience is introduced to a whole new language that describes the game and also given insight to the psychology of it as well.  Mr. Damon had to have done some serious prepa ration to handle the language and mind set of professional poker player.  He continue s to light up the screen with his boy next door good looks and his brazen honesty even in a character of mixed morals.  I guess that's what makes his performances so appealing.  Mr. Norton was excellent as well and has shown great latitude in his recent performances as well.  The relation ship between the two is well developed and interesting and they complement each other well.  Strong and weak, straight forward and shady, and smart and well not too smart (failed cunning) makes for an intere sting pair which in this case beats a full house.  I learned never to sit down at a poker table where I don't know everyone, but I enjoyed sitting in the theater watching this film and everyone else seemed to as well.  Once again thank you to Mr. Damon and Mr. Norton for their excellent perform ances. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If all of your perceptions are fixated on plot, and that is all you are willing to see; then don't watch this film, because you know nothing about the art, or trash, of good movies.  But if you're like me and you love mood, atmospheric photography, and some quirky characters then watch this film. It reminded me of the real b-movie-noirs of the past---like Out of The Past and Detour.  Yes there's a lot wrong with it, but don't be a pessimist...just relax and observe the texture of it.  "},{"Title":"Deal me out","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There are some awfully hot hands in Rounders, but the story is ice cold and there's nothing we haven't seen before. Matt Damon is a card shark with a bright (and legal) future. Just as soon as he kicks the habit of playing for thousands a night (a mostly lucrative gig) an old friend (Ed Norton) is paroled and the wily duo ante up their very hides in order to pay off Norton's growing gambling debts. Any half-awake viewer knows from the first deuce that what will follow will only be a series of cheap highs and lows. John Malcovich and John Torturro turn in typically memorable performances and make this over-long flick a little more bearable.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a great movie that reminds me of some of the interesting plot movies from the 50's and 60's.This movie gets you involved in the plot of a gambling addict that is sometimes very technical yet the director is able to keep everyone interested.It reminds me of the movie The Cincinnati Kid. <http//us.imdb.com/Title?Cincinnati+Kid,+The+(1965)>This movie has an abundance of personality and ambience that is lacking in a lot of movies today. "},{"Title":"Rounders as the Archetypal anti-Heroic Epic","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Dahl's Rounders portrays (whether accurately or not is beyond me) very vividly the world of underground poker in the United State's upper east coast through a story not-so-typical of the archetypal hero.  Mike McDermott is a reformed gambler who turns in his chips for a degree in law, only to be forced back into the clutches of the game when he vouches for his best friend.  The parolee in turn leaves him high and dry with a $25,000 debt and a poker game with the KGB as his last resort.  It's a high stakes thriller combining a fancy poker glossary with some true professional history and a plot so thick that even Matt Damon's charm can't slice it.But I wish to comment on Dahl's portrayal of Levien and Koppleman's masterfully written script as an anti-hero-tale released in a time when happy endings and big budgets seem to gross more than good movie making does.  This unpredictable and yet very powerful plot manifests several identifiable depictions of anti-Hollywood inferences, all of which can be divided into `plot-determining' or simply `authentic.'  I'll focus on just one example of each, in an effort to keep this article brief (and under 1000 words!).`Authentic' refers to small, sometimes unnoticeable parts of the movie that, although they make no difference in the plot, disclose the attitude of the movie.  It's clearly not a Top Gun or Titanic by any means&#133;the good guys don't wear white hats, and he doesn't always get the girl.  Another poker movie of the decade was Maverick (Gibson, Foster), a western comedy about a card shark bound for the big game.  For Hollywood's sake, Maverick wins the final game with, what else, a Royal Flush, when he dramatically tosses the final Ace of Spades onto the chips&#133; after having played it blind of course. But Rounders depicts a much different final show down.  McDermott is at the table not because he needs to win his money, but because he's in a pissing contest with KGB (Malcovich).  He wins not on a royal flush, but by outplaying his opponent and knowing the game, and by winning the `staring contest' that proves to be so dramatic.  This authenticity provides a more credible plot, while at the same time produces a certain aura about the viewer; that this is not a Hollywood film, this is a film for rounders, who can respect (italics) that win, and can appreciate the depth of the game. It is this authenticity that unfortunately sometimes turns viewers away (my date was bored out of her mind because she just didn't get it, though she loved Maverick), but at the same time adds a dimension to the film that is unparalleled by any box office smash with tuxedos and gold chips.On a larger scale, the `plot determining' authentications truly make Rounders sit alone amidst few other movies of our time.  Like Good Will Hunting, the hero does not fit the mold precedented by Beowulf, or, in more modern vernacular, Star Wars.  Hunting doesn't go to college, or take the six figure salary, or clean up his act; he gets in his car, and leaves it all behind to go get the girl.  Granted, it is a crowd pleaser, but the scholarly likes of Sylvia Rousseve or Mike Mason would disagree with the depiction.  All the same, McDermott should (italic) cash in his chips, grab the girl, graduate, and head for the altar.  But, to the surprise of at least this viewer, he heads for Vegas in search of the World Series of Poker.  Looking back, one realizes `of course he does, that makes the most sense.'  But that is not the type of writing that Sister Mary Sunshine teaches in grade school, and unfortunately is often overlooked by public critics.  Writers, a tip keep it up.  Titanic gets boring, focus on the tragedies.  Will Hunting once said, `hey, whatever blows your hair back.'  "},{"Title":"poker is NOT a game","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  games are about luck. poker is about life / people. understanding who you are and who 'they' are.a great movie if you are into poker. else, it's pretty obtuse. the characters don't come alive, other than Mat, when he's at the table. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie, but i wouldn't watch it more than once","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  interesting movie that sheds some light on the underground poker scene in new york, with excellent acting from Matt Damon, Edward Norton, and John Malkovich. Although this movie is quite predictable, with little suspense or action, it is still worth the time to watch it.  "},{"Title":"Rounders (2.5) is one big bluff","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon plays another kid who is really good at something in another film written by first-time screen-writers (David Levien and Brian Koppelman) in John Dahl's  ROUNDERS.On one track, and one track only, this movie plays an adept hand When the action is focused on a decent card game, or the surrounding accoutrements of the rounder subculture, the often incisive writing and first-class acting (especially, by Damon, Norton, Malkovich, and Martin Landau as one of Damon's law professors) ROUNDERS hits its stride.  But, almost everything else surrounding -- and ostensibly, supporting -- this drama lacks luster, is cheap, clicheic, and ultimately one big bluff.Part of the reason ROUNDERS fails is that the conflict is weak.  The way that it is presented to us, the conflict is between Matt Damon having to choose between his law school career (and the girlfriend that goes with it, Gretchen Mol, just as dealt out of the game here as she was as DONNIE BRASCO's wife) and the cards.  But, the problem is that the screenwriters stacked the decks such that there is no real choice or conflict involved; the law school scenario is so thinly written that it's tedious.  All the characters associated with that world are forgettable, such that even Martin Landau cannot pull off a completely misplaced and tortured scene in the middle of act two in which he attempts to flesh himself out in a lengthy dialogue scene that was, at best, reminiscent of a similarly ill-placed soliloquy by a superfluous character in the middle of SCREAM 2.  "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I know nothing about poker, I enjoyed this movie.  I was interested through the whole movie, which is pretty unbelievable, considering the fact that I spent 2 hours watching a movie about a game I didn't understand. Matt Damon and Edward Norton are both great in it.  Gretchen Mol got the short end of the stick with a lame part. "},{"Title":"A solid film worth seeing...","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon stars in this likable story about poker. The story is engaging and refreshingly -- the film does not talk down to the viewer. There are many poker terms bandied about and time is not taken to explain each and every one -- something that you don't see often in the movies. The film is well-written and you are carried along with the action. Damon does an excellent job with a difficult part -- how do you act the part of someone whose best asset is that he doesn't react? Damon nails it. The supporting cast is tight -- standouts are Edward Norton, John Malkovich and John Turturro. The female characters are more weakly drawn and tend to be a bit one-dimensional, but the parts are handled ably by Gretchen Mol as the girlfriend and Famke Janssen as a rounder. Janssen does an especially nice job -- it would have been nice to see more of her character. Overall, I highly recommend this movie. It isn't the deepest movie to come out of Hollywood, but it is solid entertainment and it might stimulate a few conversations after viewing. But be careful -- everyone I saw this film with immediately wanted to start playing poker... "},{"Title":"Law student reverts to poker with a little help from a friend.","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent representation of Texas Hold-'Em - they got most of the details just right.  Edward Norton almost steals the movie from Matt Damon as he certainly stole Primal Fear from Richard Gere.  Just rate it all in. "},{"Title":"Fine. But Art is elsewhere.","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well crafted, and entertaining. But why was it selected in  competition at the 55th Venice Film Festival? It's the classic Miramax feature, good for Saturday nights and cable TV,  balancing between independent appeal and mainstream big bucks structure. Malkovich's performance, however, is worth the ticket. As intelligent as he is, he realized he  could revitalize a career next to agonizing recycling himself as a wonderful supporting actor. Kudos. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't be put off with reviews that knock Rounders for lack of plot or  suspense.  For me, as an addict, there was plenty of suspense -- is the  Matt Damon character a fish, a compulsive gambler, or is he a poker  craftsman.Wonderful characters and a fascinating view, visually and through dialogue of  inside-poker and the folks who make it their life. "},{"Title":"A coming-of-age tale about a young man, and his story about discovering, You can't run away from who you are.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie Rounders is not a significant tale in premesis.  But it does have a great cast and acting.  This is the story of Mike McDermott, poker -player.  All his life, Mike has been playing poker, and he's been good at it, pretty darn good.  So good in fact, that he thinks that maybe he can go up against one of the best in the world, Teddy KGB played by John Malkovich, who gives a stellar performance. In one hand, Mike loses everything, his money, his car, his pride.  All he has left now is his girlfriend, Jo (Gretchen Mol).  Jo represents the angel from the cartoons, you know the good conscience.  Then there's Worm (Edward Norton), who gets out of jail the day after Mike loses everything his life.  And who says art doesn't imitate life?  Worm represents the little red guy with the horns, you know, the bad conscience.  After getting out of the big house, Worm is right back where he was before he was sent away, in debt and in it big, $25 ,000.  Worm brings Mike back into the underworld that he knows so well, the underworld of poker.  Places that you would pass on the street, and have no idea that it was a club, that's where they'd play, and they would play to win.  With Worm back in his life, will Mike stay in this world that he decided to let go? Or will he decide to stay on the straight and narrow?  You'll have to go and see the movie for that answer, this is a review, not a spoiler. But I will tell you, this is a great movie, if not just for the acting, it also teaches a good lesson.  You can't run away from who you are. "},{"Title":"What a movie.....","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great, it wasn't boring, but interesting, it didn't drag on, and Matt Damon stole the show, Edward Norton was very good too. They made such a great pair. This movie made me think twice about gambling, and it should, no more gambling for me. I recommend this movie to anyone.  "},{"Title":"Holding Four of a Kind Rounders wins the pot.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Outstanding performances by Matt Damon, Martin Landau, Edward Norton and John Malkovich draw you into the tale of a young poker player pursuing his dream to become the best.  Set predominately in the seedy world of New York City's underground gambling, Mike McDermott (Damon) risks it all to help his best friend Worm (Norton) pay off debts he accumulated before serving time for selling false credit cards.The solid script methodically ups the ante from the first scene.   Mike must decide when to fold.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Just another movie","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is not a bad movie, but does not stand out either. Rounders is about hold 'em poker, and Matt Damon trying to help a friend, Edward Norton who Matt owes. The Norton doesn't seem to learn his lesson and always relies on others' good nature to help him out of it. He uses his friends and does not seem to care. A couple of side stories where Matt ruins a love interest, and his university. The main story line of Rounders is about dealing with, reading, and playing poker with people. The directing, acting, and story is so so! I watched Rounders off a cable channel. Would I watch Rounders again? No! Just okay. Something to do on a cold February late night. Rounders is a six out of ten. Not a good hand which one would have to bluff their way through. "},{"Title":"It was OK...","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Yet it failed to satisfy me, as an avid poker player who has played well over 10,000 games (mostly online btw), I just didn't believe much of this movie, I didn't really care to like the characters all that much, the story was cheap and uninteresting, I mean how many movies are about debts and people getting beat up? probably 50%.I would have enjoyed this so much more if it wasn't about debts, just a straight up poker movie, no mobs and death threats, because that shouldn't be how poker is represented, sure it's like that some places, but not everywhere. Here we see poker as gambling, but what it is, is it's a game of skill, and of luck, if you put two and two together, you will win high, lose low. But you will lose, yet you will win.This film lacked so much, it could really have been something, but the story failed to intrigue, it failed to teach the audience about the characters, all we saw was some ordinary people, I mean I could walk down the street and do that everyday for free.I was about 10 minutes left of the film and I looked at the time and thought hell this movie is supposed to finish soon, I thought so much more was going to happen and it didn't, it was overall, an OK film, nothing I would ever watch again, but if you're a novice at poker, I suggest you watch it, as it has some pretty onto it key-points every poker player should learn. "}{"Title":"Too much character confusion to be great","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all, Matt Damon, Ed Norton, Martin Landau (as ever) and John Turturro are great in this. John Malkovich, never known for underplaying a role, only stops eating the scenery long enough to munch a few choccie bikkies. The suspense and the essential jeopardy of Damon's character is well done, and the involved references ensure that poker nerds will have plenty to get their teeth into.But there are several things seriously wrong with the structure of 'Rounders'. ***(SPOILERS)*** First of all, why doesn't Matt Damon just take off to Vegas in the first place? I accept that he's trying to stay loyal to the girl, but betting his whole bankroll on a non-nut hand is not the action of someone who owns all those poker manuals in his apartment. At the end he has his money back, and all that's changed is that he's single again - this is a pretty mundane illustration of the idea that he has 'learned to let his destiny find him'. He seemed to shrug off his girl leaving pretty easily, compared to the agony which Martin Landau in a parallel backstory seemed to suffer in leaving his mother (oy!). I suppose he had Ed (and there was a gay shout-out in Atlantic City), which brings me to Second of all, and the main flaw in the film Ed Norton's marvellous character takes over the plot; as soon as we watch him playing on his own, the movie becomes his story - and then when he just suddenly fades away at the end it's a total letdown. Where did that fantastically flakey character go? It's like Dustin Hoffman disappearing halfway through Midnight Cowboy. In the first half he's THE pivotal character, in the second, we're just supposed to forget him. (This was also a flaw in The Hustler - the love interest kills herself? Oh well, let's play pool for big money). With the loss of focus on Matt's character the whole movie becomes confused, and the big poker finish only resolves the plot issues they have heaped on Matt Damon - he takes on Ed Norton's debt? He doesn't take on Ed Norton's debt to the audience, which would have involved Ed Norton redeeming himself in some way concerning the beating of KGB. I think the use of voice-over is an admission that Matt Damon's character doesn't convincingly carry all the film. It starts off a buddy movie, and the buddy butts out. Third of all, the female character is two-dimensional; I suppose something had to give in the struggle to fit all that poker in, but she just walks out. That's it. How convenient. One more scene for MD's decline and another for his redemption and that's all girls. She wasn't even what you'd call hot, unlike the girl in the club (he turned her down? Was that another gay shout-out?)All in all, the only thing that changes in Matt Damon's character is that he decides he's better off single. Not a world-shattering conclusion. And one more thing - to expect us to believe that nobody else had spotted KGB's cookie tell is little short of insulting the audience's intelligence, as well as that of the whole New York Russian poker scene. He might as well have had a special clown mask he put on when he was bluffing. I do think John Malkovich thought he was in a different movie, maybe something by Ken Russell - Goran Vsnic (bit part as one of the Russian suckers) would have been far more believable as a main heavy.Seven for the show, four for the structure. "},{"Title":"A Sports film-come-Neo Noir that lacks conflict and enough noir to be anything great and yet remains an entertaining tale.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In one sense, Rounders is like nothing I've ever seen; in another sense it's like everything I've ever seen. Director John Dahl may be famous for his love of noir with The Last Seduction springing to mind; a sort of cross between a typical 1990s heist film and the classic that is Double Indemnity but with Rounders Dahl doesn't stick to what he loves most enough to make the film anything too fantastic. Let's be honest Rounders is a sports film and no, it's not about the sport/baseball hybrid 'rounders'; it's about poker which in itself sparks some debate surrounding whether or not it's actually a sport or just a mere form of gambling. In my book, it's a sport since it takes brains and skill to win at the game whereas something like wrestling, which is fake for the best part, can be considered of the sporting variety.So there you have it a sports film directed by a man in love with noir which is still evident in this film and revolving around an engaging plot whilst at the same time containing good acting. What's clever here is that the director is challenging us and poker as a whole into contemplating whether Poker is a sport. The film follows a familiar sports narrative, ie; it has the hero with nothing to loose; the disgraced mentor who is able to pick the hero back up onto his feet; a winning and/or training montage and of course 'the final showdown with the villain' only in these stories it takes place on a sports field (or a Poker table, in this case).During the film, my mind kept harking back to Paul Newman's 1961 sports film The Hustler, revolving around another popular American sport 9 ball pool, since although both films are decades apart in terms of film-making; the way the story is told and the way events play out remain the same. I'll never forget Newman's character playing frame after frame with Minnesota Fats and then leaving the hall a dejected and tired man after loosing so heavily; the same sort of way Mike McDermott (Damon) does so in Rounders. What follows is painful and eventful uphill struggle involving loved ones becoming detached, hard times coming to the surface and lots and lots of the respective sport being played &#150; in Rounders, this aids McDermott since it enables to get him closer to the powers that be (Abe Petrovsky &#150; Landau) regarding his education. This not only gives us the feeling that time is passing and relationships are developing but is a great way to not only introduce a character but to also demonstrate what a skilled Poker player McDermott is &#150; needless to say, it happens early on in the film.Although a sports film as such, the essence of noir can't help but worm its way into the frame. What I couldn't see was the point of it all There are gangsters of the Russian kind; lots of people smoking; voice-overs; gambling and a dystopian urban setting. Fine you think, but the femme fatale character of Petra (Janssen) appears and then disappears without too much of an incident and without too much evidence to suggest she's even a femme fatale in the first place, there is no real conflict for the middle period of about forty minutes apart from the usual montages of poker games being won although sometimes we'll be shown the games; often when they go wrong (the match with the sheriffs is a good example). I'm not sure if Rounders was supposed to be a neo-noir of sorts because although it has the basis to be one, it doesn't utilise enough conventions of the genre to be considered one and if it's not a noir then it is most definitely a sports film; albeit a rather average one. I liked the way we are supposed to feel for McDermott; I liked the way Edward Norton does some 'acting within acting' or playing a 'character within a character' and the way characters and incident float in and out of McDermott's life was sometimes effective but Rounders is a film that relies too heavily on generic substance and star power to be truly memorable even if it does raise the debate about whether poker should be a sport or not. "},{"Title":"Ace In The Hole","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is subtle. Very subtle.And did I mention good? Very good.Like any good poker player will tell you, having a tell is the worst when trying to win a game. The movie itself also plays coy with the viewer. Ideally, you believe Matt Damon will i9ntervene and reform his pal (Norton), overcome his own addiction for the game, and get the girl to boot. But none of this happens.The filmmakers, either intentionally or unintentionally bluff you so good that even Johnny Chan would have guessed wrong.Outstanding piece of work, and a must see flick.Not to mention John Malkovich (KGB) in his usual uncanny form. "},{"Title":"interesting poker film. gut wrenching losses. but not a great film.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It was a must-see simply because of an interest in poker. It brought some new perspective to the game, but the plot of the film wasn't entirely enthralling. Matt Damon had a great performance as a young former high-rolling poker player who lost his fortune one night and had to work his way from the bottom so he can make it through law school. The trouble comes when a no-goodnik friend gets out of prison, and has to repay a huge debt. Damon is torn from his poker-free life, and is used by his friend for all he's worth. The movie has a bit of a fairytale ending, and much of the movie has twists and turns that couldn't be predicted more easily if the viewer had a map. However it talked about the concept of regrets, and likened it to a loss in poker. We never remember the many great hands we played to build up our fortunes. We only remember that one hard loss. However it's important to let go of the past, and to focus on the present. To change what can be changed in the here and now. Additionally it warns of the dangers of being too selfless. Of putting faith and fidelity and trust in another, and not looking out for oneself. It will screw you. It wasn't that beautiful of a movie or that well constructed. But it was interesting for me to see the poker underworld, and two guys trying to scrape together a huge amount of money playing poker. It also made a good effort at implanting some messages in there. If you're interested in poker, see this movie which was before the Hold'em craze. If not, don't feel bad skipping it. And remember, if it doesn't make you think, it's not worth your time. -Michael "},{"Title":"The realism is what counts","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Far too often in movies involving sports, card games or other competition, you see far fetched scenarios play out. One of the things that I truly enjoyed about this movie, and probably the thing that put an already incredible movie over the top for me, is the realism of the way that things play out.Before I dig too deeply into that, allow me to say that everything about this movie was outstanding. Each actor captured their roles perfectly. In a movie that had so many name actors, you got the idea that they were all truly trying to work together to make each scene special rather than trying to upstage each other. Now I understand that Matt Damon and Edward Norton were still relatively young in their popularity when the movie came out but I believe that makes their unselfish performances even more noteworthy.Aside from the brilliant acting from the main characters right on down to the smallest bit player, the film has a seamless flow throughout. Every scene is meaningful and necessary to telling the story. At no time do you watch a scene and when it ends think to yourself that it didn't need to be in the movie. The transitions from scene to scene don't skip a beat. Each character is well defined.Getting back to my original point though, what truly put this movie over the top in my mind was the authenticity of what takes place. A straight flush and especially a royal flush are just not very common in the world of poker. In many Hollywood-ized films, one of these types of hands would be the end all to your film. It would be the type of hand that improbably highlights the hero scoring his ultimate victory. Things like this do not happen in Rounders. Common winning hands like flushes, straights and full houses are featured.Aside from that fact is the very realistic idea that many of the hands are not won because of what they are, but rather because of how they are played. People who are familiar with the game of Poker, Texas Hold Em in particular, understand the fact that this is so often the case. That is the icing on this wonderfully baked cinematic cake.Adding to the authenticity of the game is the lingo used by the card players. Watching the movie gives you a realistic feel of the banter used amongst avid card players and this gives yet another true feel to the movie.Don't be fooled though, my wife doesn't ever play cards and she (amongst many who don't play) enjoys the movie a great deal as well. The characters themselves are enough to hook you into the movie from start to finish. All-in-all, Rounders is an excellent film whether you are an avid poker nut like myself or somebody who just wants to see a great movie with an outstanding plot and beautifully developed characters. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, worth a watch","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Mike (Matt Damon) is a law student and hard core gambler, however when he loses his stash he is determined to change his ways and lead a normal life. All goes well for 9 months until his buddy 'Worm' (Edward Norton), gets out of jail and Mike returns to his gambling ways in order to help his friend pay money back to a group of Russian crooks. I m not a big fan of Matt Damon but he was pretty tolerable here even though his voice over narration ran throughout. Edward Norton was excellent in his role and he has some truly funny lines.In addition the cinematography was pretty good and there was a fine pace to the movie.However at times it did get a bit tedious and overlong, in addition, the ending was not that impressive being as it was somewhat predictable. "},{"Title":"A look at the accuracy of poker portrayal in the movie.","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is considered the cinema spokesman for present day poker. In fact, it is more than that; it is a recruiting film for no limit hold 'em. It's the story of a talented poker player who gives up a promising career as a lawyer, his girl friend, his mentor, and all else just to play the game and is, in the end, successful at it and happy with it. How much more of a recruiting film can it be?The story line is simple and straight forward. There are no plot twists. I kept looking for a way for the story tellers to introduce a curve in the plot, but none came. The ending is predictable, right from the start. The film does not intend to do anything spectacular except to accurately show us what poker hustling is about today and it is generally successful in that effort. We don't mind the voice-over of our hero as he explains the various psychologies of the motivation, the rules and rewards of successful poker play.The lead is played by Matt Damon. He is matched scene by scene by Edward Norton, this time in a slightly overplayed role. Support is offered by Gretchen Mol as the maligned girl friend, by John Malkovich as a Russian mobster with a ridiculous accent, by Martin Landau as a revered judge with a bad toupee, by John Turturro as a caricature of me (at least I thought so), and by Famke Janssen as the cashier, all good performances.The opening scene takes place in an underground poker den in New York, run by the Russian mobster (John Malkovich). The main character, played by Matt Damon, risks all his money and most of his future in a poker confrontation with Malkovich. In the deciding hand, Malkovich slow plays aces which Damon mistakenly believes to be a drawing hand. Damon sets his trap and Malkovich draws out on it. The trap is typical and has been addressed in our discussions. On the turn, the board shows a pair of nines which makes Damon a full house. Damon sets the trap by checking the full house to Malkovich to give him a chance to make a flush. Malkovich checks along, with aces and nines. While Damon's trap is usually rewarding,it fails this time. The river brings an ace of spades. Damon believes Malkovich has made his flush, states that he doesn't believe Malkovich has made the flush, and Damon moves in. The ace, of course, has made Malkovich aces full and Damon loses everything.Anything wrong here? It's a heads up match and slow playing the aces is something that is easily done in heads up play, depending on the rhythm of the hands. We won't criticize the Malkovich character for that. When Malkovich checks along with Damon after the turn, he risks nearly nothing and has everything to gain. Damon, being an excellent player, should know the risk of checking the full house, but he's placed Malkovich on a spades draw and feels he's risking nothing. We don't know why he's so sure of the spades draw, but he plays with this conviction. After all, full houses are hard to come by and he has one. Later in the film, Damon says with candor, the hand was not a bad beat; instead, he was out played. And indeed he was.We know we're going to end up, at the end of the movie, in the Russian's poker den with another heads up match between the two adversaries. And we know Damon is going to win.Cue the final scene. There is irony in the decisive hand as Damon slow plays his flopped straight. He checks the hand all the way through and Malkovich does all his betting for him, including the all-in move. The trap that broke Damon in the early scene has been reversed, except this time it isn't a draw out which, somehow, makes it cleaner. After the hand, the Malkovich character complains how the Damon character 'checked and checked', which gives the winner even more satisfaction.Anything wrong? Sure. We don't believe Malkovich would take the lead in the final hand. Yes, it's a two gap straight and a little hard to spot but, in moving in, Malkovich risks all against the possible nuts. He has obviously put Damon on two pair and played it accordingly, making the same procedural error Damon made in the early hand. It's more probable that Malkovich would have checked along with Damon (after the turn would have been good) to see what he wanted to do after the next card. Although it isn't said, the message is this time Damon out played Malkovich.The movie is filled with jargon. The viewer will enjoy the film whether or not he understands the special words, but those who know the language enjoy it more.The sets are back room typical, although I don't think poker would be played on that many hard surfaces. They photograph better, though.Edward Norton plays the cheater, 'Worm'. Norton acts like many cheaters I've known, but he doesn't hold the deck like any of them. In fact, he deals like my grandmother used to when we were playing cribbage, deck held loosely while she pushed the cards off the side with her thumb. It's almost impossible to cheat successfully that way. It becomes even more ludicrous when someone says he spotted Norton as a cheater because of his 'mechanic's grip'.The director, John Dahl, obviously did a lot of research to make this film. His objective was not to film a clever story line. His objective was to make an accurate portrayal of poker today and describe some its psychological properties. Dahl had some good technical advisors. There are frequent references to Doyle Brunson and some unattributed quotes from his books. Johnny Chan is shown in newsreel footage, but not filmed for the movie and his lines are obviously dubbed. Director Dahl's film, while not perfection, has done a good job of showing what today's poker is really like. In doing so, he's also recruited many players for the WSOP and other tournaments.Silver Dollar Sam "},{"Title":"content is for acquired tastes but it still entertains","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Mike McDermott is an ace gambler who has reformed his ways and finally broken his lifelong gambling addiction. He's a promising law student with potential to do great things, but all that takes a backseat when his old friend and gambling addict Worm (Norton) is released from prison, only to resume his reckless ways and draw Mike back into the high stakes. Smart, intriguing story with hip dialogue and well-drawn characters played to perfection by an excellent cast. The target audience is obviously those who love to gamble, but there's enough twists and surprises to satisfy a few others as well. Malkovich makes the most of his colorful supporting role as a slick Russian gangster. *** "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made about cards...","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of my favorite movies of all time. As I write this quick comment, I am watching the movie again. It is such an excellent film. Matt Damon shows his best performance in this other than his role in Good Will Hunting. Edward Norton does great as Damon's shady best friend (and strangely reminds me of Sean Penn in this film). John Dahl directed a great movie. The script is very well written. David Levien and Brian Koppelman really know their s*** as far as the poker world goes (but really failed with their directorial debut of Knockaround Guys).This movie isn't for your modern day movie watcher, since it's all about acting and story. But for the people who really enjoy great films, this is one of the greatest movies to be made in the last ten years.SCORE 10 out of 10 (a perfection of its kind) "},{"Title":"A royal flush, well crafted and presented.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a relief to see a movie not simply designed to stun you with visual effects. The movie has a crisp plot and was well acted through and through (Malkovich at his best). Overall the film was a success because of a focused plot a brilliant cast and an involving story. I feel that any person who enjoys a good game of poker would enjoy this film, even though the general outcome is predicted without much effort. Without a confusing story it manages to include a unique and normally unexplored theme for a film and was well done. It had all necessary concepts such as some intrigue, suspense, romance, a climax and wavering situations provided by the trickster. In summary a worthwhile watch even if only once for the poker realism and entertainment. "}{"Title":"This movie did for poker players what Top Gun did for pilots...so did it even need to be made?","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful acting. Wonderful cast. Empty script. Some of the characters are entirely unnecessary to the story. Some of the behaviors are obvious plot points that an attentive audience would notice before the other characters do.  If every actor has their bad movie in their past, this is Edward Norton's bad movie. He shines in this basic cable flop. "},{"Title":"Rounders -- The Movie you never get sick of","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a movie that is based around the poker game, Texas Holdem. With a great cast including Matt Damon and Edward Norton, there is no surprise that this movie is a must see.  I saw it for the first time last year and since then I've watched it at least 20 times since then.  I definitely recommend this movie.  Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Wow!!!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie like 2 weeks and I cant stop watching itit's awsome Matt Damon's performance is spectacular and Edward Norton also. I like the part when they go to play with the (municipal workers) it's my favorite part this is an excellent movie i give 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Say what you will, but this is my favorite movie... ever.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what is so appealing to me about this movie.  All I know is that I'm compelled to watch it again and again.  There are some great characters in this film; Worm, Teddy KGB, Grama.  And you really can't beat the last scene with John Malkovic.  Everytime I see it I always find myself pulling for Matt Damon to come out on top. "},{"Title":"Good poker movie","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I reckon this is a good poker movie. Matt Damon (as Mike) and Edward Norton (as 'Worm') play their characters in a brilliant way, even though Norton would always come out on top (since he is the better of them of course). John Malkovich makes a brilliant appearance as Teddy KGB. Awesome acting.Overall I reckon this is a must see for poker fans and players, but also anyone who wants some entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Few Cards Short of a Full Deck","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The deck was stacked in favour of this movie succeeding. The cast was anchored by such masters as Ed Norton, John Malkovich and John Turturro, and yet, it fell shamefully short. My primary complaint with Rounders is the casting of Matt Damon as a hard-core, habitual gambler. That's about as believable as Sharon Stone bedecked in Versace flipping burgers at McDonald's.My second complaint is the women in this film. Were they simply placed on screen as filler. The characters were utterly superfluous and added nothing to the plot. A plot that was as thin as Famke Janssen's legs.My final complaint was Malkovich's over-the-top portrayal of a Russian mobster. It was completely ree-DEEK-u-lose! I have utter respect for him as an actor. His range is awe inspiring. But this was just laughable. Last I checked, Rounders was not intended to be a comedy.So, that's what's wrong with the movie. Norton and Turturro were the only things right with it. They flowed so effortlessly into their parts. Every movement, expression and sound they made exuded the appropriate characteristics and nuances required of them.This movie is not an entire waste of time if you can get past the poor casting, weak plot and predictable ending. "},{"Title":"Under no circumstances rent this film!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the truly boring films of our time.  It took away two and a half precious hours of my life.  There are MANY things that I found annoying with the film, but I'll only list a few.  The cheezy voice overs sound like they are starting to say a profound metaphor, but in actuality they are just poker jokes.  The film just showed a man who did not know how to pick friends and how to drop friends who did him wrong.  And apparently, based on the ending, the Matt Damon character had learned no lesson from his gambling experiences.  A hideous film.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"under expectations","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is worse than i expected... When i saw the big rating in here i thought it would be great. Well it isn't. Don't get me wrong, it is a good movie, but nothing more than that, all i could give it was a rating of 5.Rounders is the story of a gambler named Mike. After losing all his money playing cards, he decides never to gamble again. 9 months later, his long time friend Worm is released from jail and he convinces Mike to  reenter in the business.The story is slow in many times and not convincing at all. The plot is poorly built and very predictable. There is nothing special in this movie. The only really good thing about the whole title is Eddie Norton, who plays really well, just like he always does. "},{"Title":"A little slow, but a good film....","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is a little slow in parts, unlike a good game of cards, but the acting is excellent despite the rather predictable outcome. An overall good film to watch and to feel a little what the gambler's drive must feel like.  "},{"Title":"Too Formula to be Real","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a lot to like about Rounders. Edward Norton is the most original young actor around today. He has great energy and sets up some interesting problems for the Matt Damon character. The world of high stakes poker depicted in the film at times seems exotic, dangerous and for a while felt somewhat realistic. Yet, I felt unsatisfied with this movie.Good pictures about gamblers such as The Hustler (1961) and The Grifters (1990) tackle tough issues head on. Do you play by the rules and if not what danger are you in? How can you have a love life if you make your living this way? Compared to these films Rounders is gambling lite.Except for Edward Norton's role, I did not care very much about any of the people in the movie because we don't get a chance to know them. The film does little with the girlfriend or the other friendly characters and then there are the stereotyped bad guys.Rounders' biggest problem I chalk up to the Rocky Effect. After the Rocky films, most pictures that are kind of realistic or gritty had to have a Rocky type of ending no matter what the odds. At the finish of Rounders the story becomes so obvious, routine and unrealistic that it was almost not worth watching.Rounders had the elements to be good but typical formula plot twists spoil a promising beginning.  "}{"Title":"Lingo, lingo, lingo","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, somewhat interesting (but not captivating) script, and fine performances as usual by Damon, Norton, Malkovich, and Landau.Landau's character was just a little too preachy for my liking. You knew when his words of wisdom were coming from a mile away. A comment on his lines and NOT his acting.Overall the movie had far too much insider dialogue that the average shmuck (shmuck = non-cardshark = me) very likely missed. When the girlfriend (who is very obviously opposed to Damon's former vice) gives pointers of her own to him on more than one occasion in the language of the cards I thought...wouldn't it be great if my wife spoke to me in hockey-speak! Yeah right, like THAT'S realistic!I recommend Rounders (--- insider term) as decent entertainment, but how some IMDB voters give films like this a 10 really disappoints me. "},{"Title":"Easier to go to Vegas and see the real thing.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movies about gamblers have always had incredible problems with authenticity. Although not the fodder of the 'GAFF SQUAD', card playing situations like those encountered in the brilliant Cincinnati Kid would never happen in real life circumstances. And those that really do happen are too subtle to be appreciated by the masses via the big screen.Real-life card players of any merit rarely have an option of law school (as the Matt Damon character does), and they don't have Gretchen Mol waiting at home for them, either. Of course authenticity is not necessarily a requirement for a good film.John Dahl does his best here with a weak script, a distant premise, and what is obviously a hastily thrown together star-vehicle for the hotter than hot Matt Damon.John Malkovich is brilliant  as KGB, the Russian card parlor manager, and Damon's nemesis. Ed Norton does little with what little role he has as Damon's always in more trouble than he's worth, accomplice. If you look quickly you'll catch Melina Kanaredes.A partially redemptive arc does little more for this assembly of ill-fitting pieces than provide an opportunity for 'The End'.Maybe fun for those on the outside looking 'in' to the world card players, other than that, pass.  "},{"Title":"If You're In Debt, All You Need Is Some Skill, Luck, and A Royal Flush","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is not a bad movie. But it's not a very good one. The problem is that the film sends out the wrong message. It says that if you are young, intelligent, and handsome you can overcome- even the greatest of odds, and come out a big winner.Mike McDermott (Matt Damon), a young attorney, who has given up gambling, after losing his case and law school money to a Russian Mafia boss, who calls himself KGB.McDermott swears off gambling forever until he has to bail out his best friend, an ex-con named Worm (Edward Norton). Worm was sent to prison for making thousands of dollars through a credit card scam, and still owes his creditors over ten thousand dollars in loan money.Together Worm and McDermott hit the streets of New York, looking for every possible card game in hopes of winning back the money Worm owes. When Worm finally has enough money to pay back his number one creditor, (John Turturro) he digs an even deeper hole for himself by taking out more loan money, instead of just closing his account. This puts a tremendous burden on McDermott, who must choose between loyalty to his friend and keeping his wife (Gretchen Mol) to whom he swore off gambling.Together Worm and McDermott wind up $15,000 in the hole through losing several hands at poker and even get beaten up a couple of times. Finally McDermott is forced to vouch for Worm, trying to get his friend on payment program to save him from danger. However the creditor, (Turturro) demands his money -all of it- within five days, and now McDermott having vouched for Worm is also responsible for it. Damon borrows $15,000 from his good hearted law professor (Martin Landau) to save Norton's hide and ultimately his own.Now how can the hero, Damon, take advantage of the generosity of a friend the way he does? But this is Rounders. A movie about gambling and the mafia should show gambling as a sickness that destroys the integrity and possibly the life of the main character. But Damon comes out of it smelling like a rose, and then heads to Las Vegas to bet even more money. Damon's is a talented performer, but Rounders shows little purpose in conveying the right message.Rounders, doesn't lecture on the evils of gambling, it promotes them. Even though this movie has similarities to The Sting (1973), Rounders is definitely not Oscar material "},{"Title":"Middle of the road muddle","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, let's get a couple of things straight first  Ed Norton is a great actor.  He's impossible not to watch when on screen whether here with Matt Damon, or elsewhere with types such as Brad Pitt, or Richard Gere or anywhere.  On the other hand, Matt Damon, is little more than a big smile.  Gretchen Mol is a non-entity.  John Malkovich...?!?!  (What has happened to this guy...can't anyone direct him anymore?...okay, okay, he was good as himself in BEING JOHN MALKOVICH.)  And Martin Landau has turned out to be quite a treasure in his old age.  He huge features exude so much life experience, world-weariness but opened heartedness.  The scene where he gives Damon the $10,000 is one of the best in the film.The film...there's the rub. On one hand, it feels like it wants to be a gritty, grimy expose of the toll gambling takes, the price of friendship, the toll of clawing your way from a miserable childhood into a decent adulthood, whatever.  Heck, the opening scenes almost feel like they could be set in the depression, all brown-tones and sweaty walls, with an old-fashioned voice over from Damon.On the other hand, the film is just a cliche film, following the rules of any sports film about underdogs winning against all odds.  Norton's character ends up being written in one dimension.  He smiles, acts goofy but charming, gets some money, cheats at poker, gets caught (maybe beat up), loses money, is told by all around him that he won't get anymore money, but gets it anyway.  Why in the hell does Damon stick with this guy?  Again, and again, and again?  He causes him to drop his vow to stay away from Poker, causes him to lose his girl and causes him to get the poop beat out of him and to end up owing a lot of bad people a lot of money.  It was never convincing.Gretchen Mols character is unconvincing as well.  It's tough to tell what she will or won't forgive in Damon.  And all the stuff about law school is completely unbelievable.The poker scenes seem to imply that any really good player will always have a good hand.  They always seem to be battling full houses against four of a kind.  In reality, aren't most poker hands lousy?  A pair of eights against a pair of fours, maybe?The scenes where all the pro players get together and chat, or play poker in Atlantic City, are kinda fun.  But in general, this movie seems to want to be a crowd-pleasing sports movie and a gritty slice-of-life movie.  In the end, it isn't quite either.Matt Damon belongs in no more movies.  He has no gravitas, and now his smile is getting old. "},{"Title":"Entertaining look at seedy NYC gambling...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here is a movie with a lot of stars, both established and on the rise, that creates a fully believable world of lowly card-sharks, ex-cons, and a straight kid who is in the eye of the storm.  Matt Damon is the young man and lead of a cast of actors, who are hidden behind the facade of their characters.  This film easily could've been one of those all-star outings where we identify more with an actor's image than with what we are supposed to experience through the story.  John Dahl, director of 1993's RED ROCK WEST,  keeps the movie focused and does not allow it to stray into a morality play between Damon and his girlfriend (Gretchen Mol).  My worst fears did not come true when the girlfriend was placed in the background and the real story involving the friendship between Damon and Norton was told.Edward Norton is one of the best young actors of his generation.  His character is aptly titled 'worm'.  Damon proves again that he can play the lead effectively amongst a crowd of monster talent.  Martin Landau plays the quiet, vulnerable professor, John Turturro the constant on-looker of the poker underbelly, but the most interesting performance comes from John Malkovich, playing a Russian card player who acts and speaks strangely, but happens to run the Russian mob.  The key scenes do involve Norton and Damon. You never wonder why Damon keeps helping his paroled buddy.  They seem as if they have been through tough times together.ROUNDERS is also told in a Docu-drama style, showing us the way the games are played and the consequences you may face if you screw up.  The cinematography is sharp and the movie as a whole is an enjoyable romp through this dangerous lifestyle that always seems to clean people out. Gambling is all these people know, thus they continue to make the rounds. "},{"Title":"No surprises, some scenery chewing.","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Couldn't somebody sit on John Malkovich to tone down his way-over-the-top bad guy portrayal?  And what's up with that Boris Badanov accent?Reviews all called Worm a likeable character.  After ten minutes he was as likeable as a case of herpes. Matt Damon was OK, despite being a tad young to be an ace poker player.  As for Gretchen Mol, haven't I seen this character a hundred or so times.   Leave the force...Hang up your guns...Don't fight anymore...Stop gambling... and so on ad infinitum "},{"Title":"Great idea, Poor execution","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have several problems with this film, ranging from Hey Matt, apply for a scholarship. to Why is John Malkovich playing Valmont (again) with a fakey Russian Accent? But my biggest problem is What sort of dumbass bets $30k on a full house?  How did he even amass that kind of money in the first place?  I wasn't convinced that he was some sort of Badwill Hunting poker shark, his summary of reading poker faces was basic and inane1.If someone looks like they're holding good cards, they're not.2.If someone looks like they've got crap, they've got a decent hand.If poker were that easy, we'd all be able to play our way through law school.   "},{"Title":"Sort of film rookie poker players love.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie seems to have a single target audience rookie poker players who believe they can take Vegas because they know what a 'tell' is. This movie overworks every little aspect of what a rookie might think is important, but in the end it falls flat...it basically involves Damon as an excellent poker player trying to go legit via law school, and his buddy 'worm' (Norton) whom he is indebted to help after Norton is released from prison; Norton's character is a smart-mouth poker snipe who, of course, gets into too much debt, and Damon must play a high stakes poker game to keep said smart-mouth idiot from a double knee-capping and a one-way ride. That's IT. That's the whole movie....Landau is wasted as the kindly mentor of Damon, Malkovich should receive some award for the worlds worst Russian accent EVER, (Doo kyou khaaave my myoney? he croaks at one point, Boris Badenov had a better rusky accent!) then reveals the biggest 'tell' EVER, even though he is an expert poker player. And Norton, supposedly the center of all this, is not even in the last 1/3rd of the movie...! My advice is, unless you are a gambling addict and just like to see people winning against the odds regardless of reality, avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie, it deserves a better rating","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Firstly to get this straight this is not tutorial about poker. If you do not know the rules of certain poker game or poker rules and manner of play, then do not expect that after this movie your knowledge is greater. So that once again this is not a tutorial about poker, but great drama that is used as the theme of the story of a poker player. Mike McDermott is a law student, part of his scholarship paid by means of poker. Known as a player who plays it safe, but everything changes when one night in a game against Teddy KGB, loses all savings of $ 30000th stops gambling, until his old friend Worm does not come out of prison and drag again in the world of poker, debts and Russian criminals. Matt Damon and Edward Norton are great played their roles. Matt Damon really totally fits the description of a good the guy who is trying to achieve something in life, right, who has the ambition and who would never cheat on poker table. While Edward Norton is a real bad guy who is always in trouble, always gets into more trouble than that each worse than the last, and always at the table looking for a particular advantage in the form of cheating and tricks with cards.Matt Damon and Edward Norton are actually played his great roles but John Malkovich is perfectly played the role of a Russian gangster Teddy KGB. Movie adorn excellent scene. The last party between Mike and Teddy KGB, I felt like I was with them in a stuffy basement of the smoke, where time has stopped and everyone watching two masters how play. For poker fans, this is a movie that you must see for the other ones I'm not sure whether you like it or not but definitely recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Interesting plot, good acting","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film has a very small target audience. The film is boring as fudge for anyone with zero interest in poker. But it is interesting to watch the actors play. John Malkovich does a horrible job playing a Russian. No Russian speaks with that grotesque accent. Also, we don't eat Oreos, they are disgusting to us. Whoever wrote the KGB's character definitely has no clue about Russians. That made the whole movie difficult to believe.Edward Norton is a pleasure to watch, as always. Matt Damon does his usual thing of vulnerable decency with a hint of civilized manliness. Sadly, the end is predictable, boringly so. I guess it would not be a Hollywood movie if the good guy did not win. "}{"Title":"Really good poker movie","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not the biggest fan of professional poker players, since I think watching poker on ESPN is equivalent to watching paint dry. But the story in this pulls in even people who aren't hardcore poker afficionados.The story focuses on Mike McDermott a law school student and poker player who vowed to never play again after going bust. His best friend Lester aka Worm from catholic school is getting out of prison who's also a card player but is more of a unscrupulous character. Mike okays Worm a line of credit at one poker house but next thing you know he's racked a big debt in Mike's name. Along with that and all the money that Worm owes already him and Mike have to go on a poker playing marathon just to break even. "},{"Title":"I don't think there ever was a lazy man","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Critics have unrelentingly focused on this movie's depiction of gambling. I don't think the screenwriters ever meant to make a movie strictly about gambling. Rather, gambling, like boxing in Raging Bull, is the world the characters happen to live in. This movie is about the two philosophies every human being chooses between in life whether they're aware of it or not.Edward Norton and John Turturro's characters represented the two philosophies Matt Damon's character was conflicted between. Turturro represented the philosophy that it's better to grind out a living and live a nice safe life, get a comfortable job, buy a house and pay your mortgage and get an equally boring wife who takes out her frustrations in life on you and tries to suppress and kill who you are as does your entire life; your job, your kids, your debt, the obligations you signed up for and from which it is hard to escape.Edward Norton represented never getting comfortable and never sprouting roots and always shooting for the moon and not denying who you are and getting rid of anyone who doesn't care about you enough to accept you as you are which is what any woman who tries to change her man is doing. It makes me think of Leaving Las Vegas where Nicolas Cage's character, even though he was an alcoholic and he was talking to his prostitute love interest, talked about how he accepted himself and her for who they are, which is not to say he didn't care or that he was indifferent but merely that he was at peace with it.As despicable as Norton's character was he was true to himself and he loved Damon's character, he knew who he was and he wasn't always just looking out for himself when he tried to get him back to gambling. There was always this glimmer in Norton's eye that suggested he knew what he was talking about and knew that Damon's character was a card player and knew he was suppressing who he was. Norton's character was trying to help Damon's character's true self break through all the nonsense and fears he was clouded by.The end was the movie arriving at the conclusion that it's better to shoot for the moon and be who you are. Anyone who's got a passion should watch this movie. Damon winning at the end is a positive sort of note to end it on but who knows how many people shot for the moon and missed. Maybe it would have been better to show him lose but nonetheless be content and nonetheless keep at it.Someone said, Shoot for the moon. Even if you miss you'll land among the stars. I don't think this quote makes a lick of sense. You're probably gonna land in a vacuum and let's hope you don't end up near a star or you're gonna get sucked in and burned to death. Most people who fail don't end up in some better position in life because of it, they'd probably be in a better position had they played it safe in terms of their standing and wellbeing.However they do learn from their mistakes and grow and many of the greatest people in the world failed in many ways before succeeding such as The Beatles getting turned down for a record deal and Abe Lincoln being defeated in multiple elections and Michael Jordan being fired from his high school basketball team. These are just some examples but The Beatles are the most successful and critically adored band ever, Lincoln is one of the most revered leaders in all of history and Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time.If we make the stars contentment at being true to yourself and symbolic of growing not just as a person but also at whatever it is you have chosen to do in life, that quote could be the tag line for Rounders. "},{"Title":"Good Acting Rescues an Otherwise Niche-Market Drama","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Rounders is, actually, almost entirely enjoyable. The actors give you most of the enjoyment; a very good music score adds quite a lot. But, unfortunately, the screenplay hardly helps.No-Limit Texas Hold 'Em is supposed to be the real star here, I guess... But most of us will just dismiss this as poker hyperbole. The Cadillac of Poker is a title I do not respect; I don't even like Cadillacs. The game is the all-surrounding ocean in which the actor-players swim, but it is just... a... game... after all, folks. Yeah, the cameo appearances of real-life Poker All-Stars (so-called) are supposed to awe us. Sorry; I'm not at all awed. Their whole life is, I think, mere sleaze.But there is an impressive list of top supporting actors Gretchen Mol, Martin Landau, John Malkovich, Edward Norton, John Turturro... All provide a fine foundation for Matt Damon's great job in the leading role. These good folks help to rescue the viewing experience.I finally figured out why I always like watching such films as Rounders, The Hustler, and The Color of Money. Objectively, all movies of this kind just over-glorify games to the point where they take on life-threatening proportions. I know better than to gamble, but these films deliver vicarious thrills without the dangers.I bought this DVD at a $5 cut-out bin. Just the right price. Enjoyable, even with repetition. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This excellent drama has an strong cast and fine direction.","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Mike (Oscar-WinnerMatt Damon) is a Master Poker Club Player is trying to give up the underground life of gambling to continue his studies at law school with a fresh start. But things start to change, when Mike's close friend (Edward Norton) gets out of prison. But his friend has a debt with a ruthless Russian Cark Shark (John Malkovich). Mike is unwittingly and trying to help his friend paying off his debt by playing Cards not because he likes to gamble but because he knows how good he is.Directed by John Dahl (Joy Ride, Kill Me Again, The Last Seduction) made a gripping thoroughly entertaining film. Damon gives an terrific performance, the cast are extremely good. The Cast includesGretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, John Turturro, Michael Rispoli and Oscar-WinnerMartin Landau. This is a well directed, it's such a good film that is worth seeing. Since this a underrated film. This film is about the passion of playing cards, risk and the price of friendship. Do not miss this strong, satisfying film. Written by David Levien & Brian Koppelman (Knockaround Guys, Walking Tall-2004). Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Poker was interesting, characters were not","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" So many wanna-be poker stars love talking about Rounders. Everyone likes to throw out quotes and proclaim how this film really shows what it's like.Well, maybe it does. Maybe Rounders is truly about the seedy underbelly of the professional poker circuit.The problem is, as a film Rounders doesn't really hold up that well.Rounders lacks any sort of an emotional core. It's as bland as a well-rehearsed poker face. It's hard to care about the characters, it's hard to empathize with any of the hard choices portrayed in the film, it's hard to connect with these people on any sort of a level. The bad guys aren't interesting enough to be despised; the good guys aren't interesting enough to root for; and the rest are just window dressing.Matt Damon shows intensity during the poker scenes, but otherwise falls flat. He fails to imbue this good guy character with any sort of heart or soul. He does not adequately sell the scenes where his girlfriend dumps him, when his mentor bails him out of trouble, when his old friend screws him over. I think Damon tried so hard to portray single-minded focus of a poker master he let the rest of the character facets fall by the wayside.Edward Norton, an actor whose work I normally admire, is only moderately more interesting here than Damon. But he's been in so many better films, this is not at all indicative of his abilities. After watching 25th Hour, Fight Club, and even The Italian Job (a film he even admits to having phoned in), any Norton fans should be let down by Rounders.I've given this film a 6 out of 10. It does have an interesting, if unrealized, script. Some of the poker scenes, especially the bits about scamming, are interesting. And I've seen much worse.But overall Rounders simply isn't that well acted, and that's it's downfall.Barky "},{"Title":"Norton as a bad influence???","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this predictable flick of a boy gone good and then bad again. This easily forgotten movie isn't so bad though. Damon manages a mediocre performance while Norton once more steals the show as recently jail released bad influence who drags Damon back into the high stakes game of poker. Really great game playing sequences with some not too shabby action bits thrown in, this isn't the best I've seen but most certainly not the worse either. To boot, Malkovich plays the hard *ss Russian who wants his money back. Not today, not tomorrow but right now (or he's likely to blow you to smitherines...)A good selection for an evening with the guys or a girls night out of oogling.7/10 "},{"Title":"A very compelling film.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  **Warning! Mild Spoilers Ahead!**Rounders tells the story of Mike McDermott (Matt Damon), who was once a pretty good card shark, and his best friend Worm (Edward Norton), an accomplice fresh out of jail. As one can infer, Worm nudges Mike back into the card world, and things snowball from there.The movie falls primarily into the sports movie genre. Poker of course isn't a conventional sport, but the script follows the sports movie formula. Thus, you shouldn't be shocked by any of the plot turns, as the movie requirements make each decision a necessary one. But what does surprise is the smartness of the decisions. The characters think smartly and on their feet, making almost every decision a logical one, when the character of each is considered. Everything adds up well, leading to the blood-pumping final scenes (at least as much as poker can get the blood-pumping).Acting performances provide both highlights and lowlights of Rounders. Matt Damon provides Mike with the needed mix of boyishness and confidence, and contributes one of the great movie faces of the last few years when he loses a poker hand early in the movie. Edward Norton nails another part, this one as the slimy weasel of a friend. Worm rarely makes a good decision, and Norton expresses that cocky stupidity, effectively making you want to strangle him.I haven't yet decided if Gretchen Mol is awful in her role as Mike's girlfriend, Jo, or if she nails the part so well that I hate her. The truth is probably somewhere in between, and regardless of her intent, she portrays the epitome of every whiny, intrusive girlfriend. With Jo's every line, you can almost hear the stakes being hammered into Mike's heart. If you watch this with a group of guys (as you should), you will undoubtedly hear a combination of cursing, moaning, muttering, and teeth-gnashing as she grates on their nerves. But at least from a male perspective, this doesn't detract from the movie. Mike becomes that much more appealing, as we beg for him to ditch the b**** and dive back into the exhilarating world of high-stakes poker.John Malkovich's portrayal of Russian mobster Teddy KGB also deserves its own paragraph. He delivers one of the most enjoyable over-the-top performances I can remember. I have no idea what the heck kind of an accent he uses, don't know if it's accurate at all, and frankly don't care. It somehow hits the right note. Teddy's flawed attempts to use American profanity and innuendo are perfectly executed, yet hilarious.Among the solid supporting cast is John Tuturro, being his usual stellar self as Knish, the stoic grinder. Martin Landau, in a Obi-Wan/Mickey Goldmill-esque role, is fine to good as Mike's law professor. Famke Janssen is smokin' as Petra, the Russian vixen who runs a local poker club. The rest of the cast falls into place, nailing their parts without drawing much attention to themselves.Matt Damon provides narration over the course of the movie, and that is an excellent decision by the filmmakers. Rather than provide excessive exposition in the form of dialogue, they choose to use Damon's voice, which provided thoughts primarily related to poker theory. Those opinions and facts are both informative and enticing, further drawing the viewer into the poker world. That world is portrayed extremely well, and yet you need not know anything about cards to enjoy this movie. While you probably won't pick up on some of the intricacies, you will still fully understand what is happening.This is the kind of movie that doesn't rely on technical prowess to succeed. But those aspects of the flick are still surprisingly good. There isn't a traditional score, but the music kicks in at appropriate times. Often used along with shots of transition, both physical and emotional, the soundtrack contains a mixture of jazz and blues instrumental music. It's card-playing music, Vegas music, driving when necessary, sitting in the background when necessary. The highlight of the understated music was at the end of the movie. After a climactic event, the camera lingers on a particular person who is absorbing what happened. Rather than crescendo and over-dramatize the moment, the music remains subdued, effectively expressing the thoughts of that character.The color choices are excellent as well. The exterior shots and most non-poker scenes are primarily done in monochromatic hues, somewhat similar to the matrix portion of the Matrix films. Contrasting with those shots are the vivid colors of the poker scenes. Whether they occur in an Atlantic City casino or an underground lair, the card scenes feature a richness that is accented by the colorful chips and playing cards. Those scenes are where Mike says he feels alive, and the colors on the screen express this emotion as well.Great movies possess great themes, and although I hesitate to label this movie 'great', it does feature the great human themes of money, greed, pride, and friendship. These are what drive the show. Above all, it is a compelling film, one that you want to keep watching throughout, and one that you will likely want to watch again when finished.  After a few hands of poker.Bottom Line  If this doesn't get you fired up to play poker, nothing will. 8 of 10. Let's play some cards.   "},{"Title":"Real, Gritty Buddy Film","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best 'buddy' film that I've seen in recent history. It's good because the 'buddies' Matt Damon and Edward Norton actually have conflict 'within' the relationship as well as a conflict for the both of them to fight against. Both of these men are totally likable in spite of their faults. And the element of poker is a sure fire device with which to create tension and drama. Gretchen Moll's character could have been played by a more intense actress(ie Minnie Driver, Winona Ryder, etc). John Turturro and John Malkovich are excellent in the portrayal of their broadly drawn characters. Is it just me or is this film a remake of Steve McQueen's Cincinnati Kid??? "},{"Title":"Poker is great","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Rounders' has a story that involves poker. And things that poker can do with your life. And what it can not do. And what it can mean in your life.Mike (Matt Damon) is a law student and a great poker player. One night he loses his 30.000 dollars to a guy named Teddy KGB (John Malkovich). He stops playing poker to save his relationship with Jo (Gretchen Mol). Then his old friend Worm (Edward Norton) comes out of jail and since he has a lot of debts Mike will help him out. He starts playing again. Since Worm is a real screw-up more problems arrive. I will not reveal more because that would take away all the fun. And a lot of fun there is. First of all Damon makes the game of poker great. With his explanations on the game it is pretty interesting as well. Second of all not only Damon but also Norton is great, as always. And third of all there are some nice supporting characters. Martin Landau as a professor on his law-school, Famke Janssen as a poker-club owner who likes Mike very much, and John Turturro as Knish, a legend in the world of poker. The only annoying thing is Malkovich with his ridiculous accent. For some reason they always bring him in when they need a strange accent ('Johnny English' is the latest example).Despite Malkovich (he only does what him is told, and his character is a lot of fun) this film is all about the fun you can have watching a movie. Very nice and very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Glad I bought it..","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the first DVDs I bought for my new Hitachi DVD player. No bonus coverage in DVD which was disappointing but movie was good. Entertaining throughout and it is better than spending a night watching NHL or NBA. Good performances and interesting to learn about how poker is played. A good effort and a good DVD to add to your collection. I give it 8 of 10.  "}{"Title":"Somewhat odd movie about gambling","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The basic story seems to be about a college student who has a real skill for playing poker.  His gaming doesn't appear to be a real problem until he finds himself down on his game.  He has a gambling friend who gets him into trouble and he has to use his gambling skills to bail them both out.The plot is rather strange.  Is gambling bad?  Organized crime figures heavily in our hero's gambling activity, but this does not appear to trouble his conscience.  Is his gambling a problem for him?  Not until he loses big and only until he applies himself to get himself out of a jam. The movie is otherwise pretty good and it is a lot of fun to watch everyone playing cards.  There are a lot of interesting characters who manage to survive the very sketchy plot.  There is plenty of drama and excitement too that drives the card games.  For a movie about playing poker, it works very well.  "},{"Title":"A Movie Specifically on Gambling","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I noticed a lot of movies who make you think it will be about gambling turns out to be about a heist, or a bunch of people trying to kill or whack each other. Rounders is the perfect movie on gambling and takes you into a realistic setting of what could happen if you like to gamble. I like all the realism involved and i especially liked the ending because it also seemed realistic. Edward Norton who played Worm is a gambling finatic much like his friend Mike McDermott the only difference between the two characters is the Worm tries to run from all of his problems. The ending had Norton leaving Damon in fear of his gambling debt, while Damon finishes off head to head with John Malkovich a dangerous KGB guy. The finality of the movie has Damon riding a cab to Vegas, while he could persue being a lawyer but realizes he sucks at it anyway, and he loses the girl and the friend which is cool because it sort of makes you relate to what could really happen in real life. "},{"Title":"I guess I enjoyed Rounders. But I also guess if you don't like playing poker (or cards in general), you probably wouldn't enjoy Rounders. It was a well acted movie, but had a plot that reminded me of a Rocky","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon plays Mike McDermott, a card shark (or a rounder, get it?). He used to play cards for serious money, but as we see in the first few minutes of the film, he blows a lot of money on one hand, and decides to give up poker for a while. Here's one problem I had. He's in law school, and said he used the poker money to pay for his tuition, and I'm assuming his nice New York apartment with his girlfriend. Once he stops playing cards, and drives a truck around all night, how in the hell does he still pay tuition? I don't think you make enough money driving a delivery truck around, to pay for tuition and an apartment. When Mike's best friend from his younger days (Worm, played by Edward Norton) gets out of prison, Mike goes to pick him up. Worm immediately wants to get into a game of poker, and to bring Mike along with him. Mike says no, but we all know whats going to happen. Mike jumps back into the game, loses his girlfriend, gets beat up, owes money to the Russian Mob, uses a lot of technical card playing terms, and comes out clean in the end. Like in Rocky III where Rocky gets his ass kicked by Mr. T early in the movie, then fights his way back to win in the end.  Wait, doesn't that happen in all the Rocky movies? The movie is predictable, no question about that. So what you need are strong, likeable characters to help push you through that. So let's run down the major characters in the film.Matt Damon's Mike McDermott - I liked him. Damon has a regular guy charm about him that makes him stand out from the rest. So I liked his character.Edward Norton's Worm - Didn't like him at all. But I think I wasn't supposed to, so that's good. All Worm did was try and destroy both himself and Mike. I think it was because he felt the only way he could get Mike's attention, was by bringing Mike down with him. But his abrupt departure near the end of the film left me hanging. Mike's girlfriend Jo (Grechen Mol) - Didn't like her at all. First of all, why is there all this hubub about her being the next big girl? She was only in the movie for a few minutes, and her character annoyed the hell out of me. All she did was whine and question every move Mike made. I think if they had added a little more to Mike and Jo's background story, this would have made more sense, but as it stands, she came off as being whiny and annoying.Mike's law school professor Abe Peterovsky (Martin Landau) - He was supposed to be the moral center of this movie. Yet his major thing was basically to tell Mike that he should leave law school and play cards. What kind of professor would say that? And what he does near the end of the movie is almost unbelievable. Like the actor, didn't like the role.Lastly I'll do John Malkovich as Teddy KGB - KGB is the owner of a major illegal underground poker house. He also happens to have ties to the Russian Mob. Malkovich plays him with this over the top accent, but makes him a great character at the same time. He was there as the bad guy to Mike's good guy, and pulled it off amazingly. So I liked this character.There were others to be sure, John Tuturro and Famke Janssen among others, in the film that sort of helped the (plot?) along. Overall though, I found I didn't like or understand a lot of the characters. What made this movie were Matt Damon and John Malkovich. Thankfully, the movie centered on Damon, and his enemy in the film was Malkovich, which made the movie entertaining and something worth seeing. You probably need to be a Matt Damon fan to really enjoy Rounders. But at the same time, if you've never seen a Matt Damon film (and why haven't you seen Good Will Hunting yet?) this is a good one to see as well. Damon does have the ability to be the next big thing, if he isn't already.  "},{"Title":"I love gambling movies, but this doesn't make my top 20","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard it was great with fine performances. But I found it dull, way too long in certain scenes and with the exception of Matt Damon who is subtle and controlled, the other players were just too damn mannered. Particularly Malkovitch who usually always overdoes it, but it's important to have actors like that, too. He's fun to watch, but Ed Norton once again proves that, although he's a fine actor, he is a bit  over-rated.  His constant mugging is just annoying and as an ex-con, he's too sure of himself. I was hoping for more anxiety and real energy at the tables, in the relationships between gambling buddies, and between enemies, the director aspired to this, I'm sure, but seemed to peter out after the first half hour.Unless you're an unconditional fan of any member of this normally interesting cast, don't bother with Rounders, unless you've got nothing better to do.If you're looking for a good gambling movie, check out the brilliant California Split from Robert Altman. "},{"Title":"Fine cast in interesting film","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Compulsive gamblers have, to me, always been rather synonymous with pathetic loosers.  Somehow I just can't muster much empathy for these folk--any more than I can for mountain climbers, speed racers or stunt daredevils.If that's their choice, fine; but leave me out when it comes to feeling sorry for their plight when things go amiss. In the case of Rounders, I just couldn't feel much for these assorted poker whizes, be they reformed-, hustler-, or addict-types. It was then to the cast's credit that this presentation proved as provocative as it was.  The excellent Matt Damon and the superb Edward Norton offer convincing characterizations, along with fine supports, including John Turturro.  The above trio represents the best of the more younger crop actors working in film today.  Each brings a youthful talent and integrity to their respective assignments, which shines through even in average productions.  In the case of Rounders, their ensemble acting is on a consistently high level, with the total production offering some well-observed statements on the tensions created between gambling denizens and their loan shark counterparts.   ###   "},{"Title":"Fine performance","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Matt Damon gives another fine performance as he makes his way towards super stardom.  Rounders has an interesting story plot and gives the viewers a look at the world of professional gambling.  Damon is supported by a professional cast that makes for good viewing time. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but still watchable","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While not the most original of films, Rounders, does manage to present an extremely well done and watchable film. Damon, Norton, and Landau are superb. Unfortunately, Malkovich's wild performance takes away from the climactic card game. Rounders is on par with The Cincinnati Kid, as best poker film. "},{"Title":"It takes a two-hour gamble to sit through this one.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ROUNDERS is a simplistic movie with its showcasing of poker matches, playing cards, and tons of chips. This is the kind of movie some folks would enjoy because of such an amusing display of recreation. Yet this is made so simple that it's too hard to sit through a lot of repetition and play-by-plays of gamblers sitting at the table and folding cards, and especially a lot of talk. Then, you're asked a question like When is this movie going to be over?. The classy touches behind the authentic gambling environment looks real nice along with Matt Damon in his sensitive role as a law student who becomes The Gambler. Seriously, this isn't my kind of movie except the ones starring Kenny Rogers. Not bad, but not for everybody. "},{"Title":"Why Do You Think They Make Them Round?","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The chips, that is. This is easily the best poker movie I've ever seen. It is the only one that is authentic both technically and psychologically. Much of the plot is familiar and could be (and has been) wrapped around other themes and sleazy backdrops. The ending, is however original as far as I know, and psychologically true, just ask any rounder.Part of the power of the script comes from the technical help of Mike Caro and other professional poker players. I know the triptych themes of (1) buddy for buddy (until it becomes ridiculous--as Matt Damon was for Ed Norton), and (2) honesty among poker players, and (3) The Game and male-bonding before women are themes espoused by Mike Caro and many in the profession.Matt Damon is very winning in the starring role, and Norton is properly despicable as one of life's losers, and John Malkovich is riveting as Teddy KGB in spite of what some might say about his accent.Incidentally, guys, Damon cashed out $60,000, I believe, but he started with $10,000 from Martin Landau (how the man has aged!), played head up for it all and won = $20,000, played head up for it all again and won = $40,000. Had he started with the $15,000 he owed (which he didn't because he could only get $10,000 from Landau) the numbers would have come out right wins $15,000 = $30,000, wins $30,000 = $60,000.But hey that's a small thing when Director John Dahl and company get the main point right, which is it takes courage to win at poker, and Mike McDermott had that.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"OK movie, poker slang was hard to pick up on","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movie for card sharks. I enjoyed Matt Damon as usual, and Edward Norton was good although his character was weak. Recommended for those who love cards, or just love good drama. The ending was kind of sad though. "}{"Title":"Fire jets on the arms","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Fun little Vampire tale. Lots and lots of Vampires exploding into flames starting with the arms. Woods' one-dimensional tough guy bit wears thin at times, but you've got to love this film anyway because it's 79% scary, 15% funny. The other 6%? That's the mystery of the Sante Fe New Mexico outdoor footage. "},{"Title":"Blah!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders is a film that had a nice cast, but no real conflict in it's story. Matt Damon is a law student who likes to gamble away large sums of money? Where's the logic in that?  Damon' character looks like a smart kid with a promising career and a good looking girlfriend.  So why is he blowing his wad playing poker with the rather silly accented John Malkovich?  At least Edward Norton's character didn't make any kind of attempts to be something he wasn't.  His character was a shyster, pure and simple and that's the way Norton played him.  Gretchen Mol, Hollywood's It Girl, was rather annoying as Damon's love interest.  The only tension there was in this movie was during the poker games, and that's not saying much.   "},{"Title":"A young man gambles his way out of trouble","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Utterly boring, almost makes a lifestyle of constantly being in debt glamorous.  Reggae style pop music makes this horrible movie like a night out on the town. "},{"Title":"Good film fails to deliver any emotional punch.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film works very well as a psychological profile of a man obsessed with gambling and the edge he uses to read people's mannerisms. However, the film fails to provide any emotional core that the viewer can grasp onto. It tries with the relationship between Matt Damon and Gretchen Mol, but the two are already emotionally separated themselves. Edward Norton comes off as the user he is intended to be, so the viewer only is interested in seeing Damon freed from his grasp. In the end, it is that lacking item that keeps the film from being as impressive as Damon's Will Hunting.  "},{"Title":"Stars sparkling,worth seeing!!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Edward Norton and Matt Damon are both of my favourite players who simultaneously appeared in the story.The movie started out smoothly with a man called Mike McDermott(Matt Damon)who was a veteran in the gambling table,lost nearly all his money one night.Though his craft was exceptional we can see from the start,he failed this time.After a heavy hitting Mike McDermott promised his girlfriend Jo(Gretchen Mol) come back to the track,starting his normal student life,unfortunately,his buddy Lester 'Worm' Murphy(Edward Norton)was just released from the prison and soon he wanna reback to the gambling,keeping borrowing money from his formal partner,tempting to persuade Mike McDermott to run risk in gambling again,but getting refused.Worm decided to work lonely and soon deeply involved in the jeu,after losing nearly 150000 dollars,he got heavily troubles and hided in the regular spot,Mike McDermott tried to help his buddy out of difficulties and eventually rolled in the work with Worm.Jo made his mind to break up with Mike McDermott for his renege.Mike McDermott remained gambling desperately.Both of them started out successfully and smoothly,and an accident nearly dashed their dreams.McDermott did not give up and got his final shot with the help of the his professor,beat the Russian.A new life was waiting him.I really admire the wonderful acting of both stars,especially Matt Damon's unbelievable maturity in this movie.We are expecting their great performance to sharpen audience's appetite. "},{"Title":"A decent, if not one-dimensional film","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Rounders', directed by John Dahl and starring Matt Damon and Edward Norton, deals with two childhood friends who are poker players; Worm (Norton) has just gotten out of prison and is content with being a small-time hustler who has to dig himself out of the hole he got into with debtors before he went into prison. Mike McDermott (Damon) is his buddy who, after losing all of his money in one hand to KGB (John Malkovich) nine months prior, has decided to get out of the cards racket and concentrate on law school; more to please his girlfriend than anything. Of course, within ten minutes of picking Worm up from prison, he is back to playing cards, and his girlfriend promptly leaves him. In a bid to save both of their necks, Worm and Mike must earn 15K in five days, so they do what they know best, play poker.The biggest problem with 'Rounders' is that it tries to create a multi-faceted story where there really is nothing but poker playing as a plot. The audience is supposed to contemplate the bonds of friendship, the struggle in relationships, etc. but these plot lines are so weak in favor of the poker playing that the film would have been better off had these elements not been introduced at all. Instead, there are many plot holes and a couple of moments where I was left saying 'So what?' The poker scenes were indeed very interesting and well done; they probably should have been either expanded on or toned down a bit in favor of stronger and more clearly defined conflict lines in terms of the supporting story. Having said that, the acting in 'Rounders' was quite good &#150; Matt Damon was, well he was 'Matt Damon' and Edward Norton, who is always good, was good as the degenerate hustler. The greatest acting, however unsurprising as it is at this point, was the small but effective role of KGB, played by Malkovich.He is virtually unrecognizable beneath baggy clothes and a big beard, and his accent, though I'm not an authority, was flawless. Malkovich is best in his small, quirky roles, and this was absolutely no exception. His acting was the high point of the film, despite the fact that he was on screen for perhaps fifteen minutes total. 'Rounders' is not a bad movie because of its flaws, but unfortunately its one-dimensionality makes it only a decent film. I liked its low-budget, art house feel, and I always have to respect an actor, no matter how big they are (though Damon and Norton weren't as prolific at this point) for being in an independent film. 'Rounders' isn't a great film, but it is an entertaining one.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"what a movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is a movie to die for, its got above par acting, the music goes perfectly, and its a solid story. damon is great, and norton as worm is just awesome. he nailed that part, he was perfect for it... great jobs by john turrurrururro and john malkovokloikvich as well. the shots for the card games too are just great, great lighting and everything... even great SHOWER ACTING by matt damon. somebody throw him an oscar for acting, NOW. (ckck)hanging around, (kckc)hanging around, keeds gat alleeGATOR blood... "},{"Title":"Mike and the Mechanic","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   I saw this on video a while back and really liked it. I have some personal experience with gambling addiction, and the Worm character is dead-on. The dynamics of the relationship between Worm and Mike are very well played out, and the gambling scenes are portrayed realistically - with one notable exception.********SPOILER ALERT************The idea that a big-time cardplayer like Teddy-KGB would have such an obvious and easily corrected 'tell' reeks of screenwriting contrivance. The final game between him and Mike is anti-climactic, and somewhat ruins the rest of the picture. The ending is too upbeat for a story about professional gambling - it is a Hollywood fantasy. *********END SPOILER*************Overall, the lure of the quick score that sucks people into (all forms of) gambling is well portrayed. The marathon series of poker games at the end is right on the money, so to speak.  "},{"Title":"Cincinatti Kid it ain't!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It wants to be a 'Cincinatti Kid' crossed with 'The Hustler' and 'Mean Streets', but it doesn't come within half a dozen downtown blocks of these greats. One problem is the density of the technical info thrown at you - straights, flushes and low-hi 30-40s (or something) go in one ear and out the other, which would be OK if it didn't matter to the build-up of tension - but it does! The final game is a damp squib because we really don't have a clue what's going on. Another problem is some of the performances. John Malkovich has a truly preposterous (Russian!?) accent and wouldn't frighten a kitten, but he's supposed to be The Man who's supposed to put the fear of God into Matt Damon, who in turn just can't carry such an intense role, I'm afraid. A film that wants to be cool but that comes out cluttered and awkward. A major disappointment. "},{"Title":"joker ??","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dahl has made 3 previously excellent modern-noir films. This I would classify as an honourable failure. He seems a little too taken with the poker. You feel like the narrative and plot have been added as an afterthought. The cast is very good, although Damon is too squeaky clean to ever convince.  Malkovich's Russian accent is annoying, pointless and useless.  "}{"Title":"Double Downer","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  R-epetitive, scene after sceneO-bvious in all waysU-biquitously generic structureN-ary a doubt of the outcomeD-erivative of better Gambling FilmsE-vasive charactersR-epleat with phoned-in performancesS-ame old stuff, different dayI didn't like it. "},{"Title":"People play cards but you don't care who wins or loses","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie but it had two flaws that prevented me.  First, whoever wrote this has never been to law school.  As a third-year law student this disturbed me.  However, I would have been able to overlook that if I had cared about any of the characters.  While the acting was fine, the characters simply existed, I couldn't find any reason to care about any of them.  Martin Landau, in essentially a very small part, is the most likeable and compelling character in the movie. "},{"Title":"Well-acted and photographed, but predictable","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an interesting glimpse at a world I know nothing about, the underground poker world. Edward Norton is terrific, as is the photography and editing, but the story is thoroughly predictable. Also, there was too much poker lingo that I didn't understand. During the big hands, I wasn't even sure what cards the players had, or hands they were trying to make. John Malkovic overacts up a storm, and Gretchen Mol is given a thankless role as an unpleasant scold. "},{"Title":"I cared more about the monster in Godzilla than about anyone in this film","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I cared more about the monster in Godzilla than about anyone in this film.The amount of talent wasted in this boring, elliptical, passionless, over long celebration of sociopathy and addiction is mind boggling.Matt Damon, charming, boyish as always, loses a lot of money, gets beaten up, suffers relationship difficulties and in the end, as he himself notes, just ends up where he started.  Edward Norton, the pride of Columbia, Maryland, shows why he will be this generation's Eric Roberts as he portrays the buddy who gets Matt Damon in trouble and whom I personally would have shunned. John Malkovich (Who has been guiding his career lately?  Con Air, now this?) chews the scenery (and large amounts of Oreos) as the evil Russian mafia connected gambler.  And Martin Landau is wasted as the sympathetic law school professor who loans Matt Damon $10,000 (more money than most law school professors I know have).On a positive note, I continue to be amazed by the depth of talent of John Turturro, who fleshed out a minor role as Damon's somewhat more law abiding friend.My nephew Ben put it best, It's hard to care about the characters when they're all losers. "},{"Title":"Too many questions unanswered","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've always been a Matt Damon fan, and Edward Norton is obviously an impressive actor, but even they could not carry this film about a retired pro card player forced to get back into the game to clear his debt.  In short, the writing was an admirable try, but for me, it flopped.  The only things that made this movie somewhat entertaining were the performances of Damon, Norton, John Malkovich, John Turturo, and Martin Landau. But now some of my questions  1.)  When exactly does Damon's character sleep?  When we first meet him, he is going to law school during the day, driving a truck at night, and then repeating the same cycle; 2.)  When does Michael (Damon) study?  Law school is certainly more than going to classes, and we're led to believe that he is moderately successful in school until the end.  Can't do that without studying a whole lot; 3.)  Why does Gretchen Mol stick around as long as she did?  4.)  Why can't I have friends like Michael as the worm did?  This guy took advantage like no one should have, from borrowing Michael's money to forcing him back into the card games; 5.) Speaking of worm (an aptly named character), what happened to him?  No one ever says, as far as I could tell; 6.)  And finally, how was Michael paying for rent and a car after his girlfriend has had enough?  7.)  Finally, part two  Why can't I have acquaintances like the professor who will write me a check for $10,000 to repay a gambling debt? Now, I more than understand the willing suspension of disbelief, but with this many questions, it was tough to enjoy the plot.  Again, it overshadowed some good performances, especially noteworthy was a chilling performance by Malkovich (KGB).  I would not want to be on the other end of a card game, golf match, pool game, or even a chess match with this guy.  He could have done without  the oreos, though. Overall, this movie was interesting, but not believable enough. "},{"Title":"I'm out","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Boy, I'm not a big fan of buying DVDs of movies I've never seen, but Rounders came with Good Will Hunting and buying the double feature actually made my price $10 cheaper. I had no interest in seeing Rounders, but seeing as how it's now a movie in my collection I felt obligated to watch it.It's not a bad movie in any way, but I was right about it having little appeal to me. The storyline is kind of weak- Damon's card playing character gets crushed by John Malkovich and gives up on the game, until his girlfriend dumps him. This makes him free to go back to playing- so the girl is portrayed as just a ball and chain, really. He has little confidence but eventually goes up against Malkovich again, and unsurprisingly this time he wins.Conveying some drama in card playing is achieved, and I think Edward Norton did a good job in this movie as a card player who suddenly becomes a bad card player, and gets Damon into a lot of trouble. Still, as a person who's not a poker enthusiast (although I did play years ago), on a subjective level this movie is of little interest and I'm out. "},{"Title":"Harmless, if a little conceited","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing a film for the second time can be an interesting experience.  Sometimes you see more than you did the first time, others you're intensely annoyed by it.I saw Rounders at the cinema, but obviously forgot about that when it came to getting the video out.The cast of this film is potentially brilliant.  Edward Norton as the bad guy poker player, the bad influence on the 'hero' aka Matt Damon.  John Malkovich is, as he always is, excellent.  He plays a brilliant cameo role as Teddy KGB, the connected Russian poker club owner.Damon and Norton get themselves into trouble and need to play their way out of it by making $15,000 at the poker table.Despite its potential, this film just seems to get more and more obsessed with Damon, who comes across as conceited and just a pretty face, not at all like his superb performance in Good Will Hunting.Notwithstanding the cast - also featuring Martin Landau and Famke Janssen - this could and should have been a heck of a lot better than it is. "},{"Title":"Look, she closed her legs too early, ok?!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    There are so many of these one-liners fromWorm, you'll be so smitten with Ed Norton by the film's end.   Ed is the reason why I went to see this film.  He is outstanding, easily the best performance in this flick. Everyone's good, though; even Malkovich. -I THOUGHT I WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO FOUND HIS ACCENT ANNOYING!- Anyway, John is funny and cool, but very animalistic at the same time (the kind of role he usually plays). You can tell Matt Damon watched a lot of movies when he was younger; the man can act. To those who said Damon looks 'detached' from people...this is how he was supposed to look! His nickname was poker face and that explains a lot; that he has to  constantly be calm and collecred, at least at the poker table.Jon Turturro's great, so is Gretchen Mol. Everyone in this movie was great, but Norton takes the cake. If you're an Ed fan, you'll soon have this movie in youe collection!-Sep "},{"Title":"solid performances, and a stellar script, make this movie for the non-Poker players","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I forgot how much I liked this movie, and how it works a little more on me now than when I saw it almost eight or nine years ago. I don't play poker, but having tipped the hand into the gambling arena this is territory that isn't too foreign, and its on that end that the film Rounders gets its cards, no pun intended, right. But I liked it even before I knew anything about poker (it's still a bit of a foreign concept at times, especially with the wrong people). What makes it work though is that the script by David Levein and Brian Koppelman feels as if they have been at way to many tables, and have poured a lot of that spirit into the film. It also helps that director John Dahl basically casts to the point where he doesn't even NEED to direct, he can just sit back and let the cast take hold of the material.The real beef of the film comes then in the scenes between Damon and Norton, who take good material and make it almost like it could be material for a play on a stage, with a solid conflict that makes good drama (love the dialog). There's also a couple of really terrific scenes between Damon and Martin Landau as a judge, one of those 'old man breaks it down for the young guy' kind of scenes in films that's done without over-doing it. And in general there's a nice rhythm put in place to the film by director Dahl; nothing is too forced, everything happens rather naturalisticlly, and it ends on a great, great note with Malkovich turning in one of his best as Teddy KGB. So, I would recommend it perhaps more than when I first wrote in my review great performances save this movie. There's nothing necessarily to be 'saved', it's just a good movie, and it's apparently now got a cult following over the years (mainly with poker players, but also fans of Norton and Damon). "},{"Title":"Too Formula to be Real","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a lot to like about Rounders. Edward Norton is the most original young actor around today. He has great energy and sets up some interesting problems for the Matt Damon character. The world of high stakes poker depicted in the film at times seems exotic, dangerous and for a while felt somewhat realistic. Yet, I felt unsatisfied with this movie.Good pictures about gamblers such as The Hustler (1961) and The Grifters (1990) tackle tough issues head on. Do you play by the rules and if not what danger are you in? How can you have a love life if you make your living this way? Compared to these films Rounders is gambling lite.Except for Edward Norton's role, I did not care very much about any of the people in the movie because we don't get a chance to know them. The film does little with the girlfriend or the other friendly characters and then there are the stereotyped bad guys.Rounders' biggest problem I chalk up to the Rocky Effect. After the Rocky films, most pictures that are kind of realistic or gritty had to have a Rocky type of ending no matter what the odds. At the finish of Rounders the story becomes so obvious, routine and unrealistic that it was almost not worth watching.Rounders had the elements to be good but typical formula plot twists spoil a promising beginning.  "}{"Title":"An okay film...great if you like to look at Matt Damon","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an okay movie.  It has some good scenes but many plot holes, and is dragged by several key scenes hung on jargon-laden dialogue that is spoken so woodenly that it seems alien to the characters who live in this shadow world.  I found the whole thing unbelievable, and wondered why Gretchen Mol was in the film at all.  Another reviewer commented that he walked out...that was my reaction to The Avengers.  This isn't that bad, it's just not that good, either.  There are better gambling films out there that deal with this theme, and I'm tempted to rent them again, including The Hustler and California Split, which I haven't seen in many years.  I think these films are more difficult to watch, but give better value for the money.I gave Rounders a 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One from Column A; Two from Column B","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This predictable melodrama is totally unworthy of its talented cast.  The story is too obvious for any viewer to take it seriously and if you are unfamiliar with card-playing, you may drop out before its over.  The only card game I know is 'Go Fish', but the people in the movie knew what they were talking about, so it didn't matter.  But, I didn't care either.  I didn't doubt for a second that anyone could leave Gretchen Mol - the woman has ice running through her veins "},{"Title":"Rivals Godzilla and Congo for worst possible movie ever.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To be completely honest, this is the only movie I have paid for and then walked out of.  Every character in this movie was just a paper shell of a character.  Every conflict was idiotic and attempts to resolve them were a testament to the lack of real thought that went into this film.  It was like a really bad after-school special where the mom finds some pot in junior's lunchbox or something.  Only here we have a huge scene where the girlfiend rumages through the boyfriends pockets to find.... Cards, Playing Cards.  If only he would have said I learned it from watching you.  Then, to spice up the action, they put in voices to tell you again just how dumb each part is.EXT. big brick building Two men bump into each other at the doorway.Man1 Hey, man2, I haven't seen you in years. How are you doing?Man2 I'm doing ok.  I've missed you a lot.Man1 Yeah me too... we used to be like brothers once.(voice over in The Wonder Years fashion) It had been a long time since I'd seen Man2, he used to be like a brother to meAlas, I couldn't take it any more and I left. "},{"Title":"You almost have to admire how stupid this movie is","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" All I remember about this, from seeing it years ago, is how boring it is. I'm by no means an expert at poker and I figured out the end of the movie about 30 minutes in, the rest just drug it out. I didn't care about the characters either. The reason I say you almost have to admire this movie is that here you have Ed Norton, one of the best actors of his time, Matt Damon, no slouch either, and Gretchen Mol, who gets poor roles a lot of times but is pretty good in spite of that, and John Malkovich who is routinely great...and it's boring. Malkovich is terribly in this, by the way, Mol is kind of annoying so I could use even LESS of her in this movie. It just wasn't that dramatic. It had less tension than a cliff-hanger episode of Full House. "},{"Title":"Rounders is totally flat.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You know how there's supposed to be the Oscar curse, when a person wins a gold statuette and proceeds to star in a really worthless movie? Well, it happened to Matt Damon. After he and Ben Affleck won writing Oscars for Good Will Hunting, they both starred in some real turkeys Affleck in the god-awful Armageddon and Damon in the go-nowhere Rounders. This is supposed to be about high-stakes gambling, but the whole thing runs as if the actors are on depressants. There isn't a likable or memorable character anywhere in the movie. So there's the possibility that a screw-up might lead to danger? Well, watching this movie, I wished that something would happen to the worthless characters. AND WHY DOES THE GANGSTER (John Malkovich) HAVE TO BE Russian?!!!!!!!! The point is, you should avoid this movie at all costs. There are plenty of good movies out there, so there's no reason to waste your time on this junk. Also starring Edward Norton, John Turturro, Martin Landau and Gretchen Mol. "},{"Title":"Apparently, acting ability still matters","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In an era when technological special effects is the only rationale for  most movies, it's nice to watch one which relies on old fashion acting ability, and a credible plot.In the case of Rounders, the acting is superb.  John Malkovich, Martin Landau, Edward Norton, and John Turturro are all very convincing.  Despite his baby-face looks, which I found distracting, Matt Damon does a credible job, though I question whether he was the best actor for that part. Rounders followed the much praised Good Will Hunting by just one year, and while watching Rounders, the thought occurred to me that this movie could be construed as a Matt Damon vehicle.  For the part Damon played, I would have preferred another, perhaps lesser known, actor with more of an edge.The plot is somewhat thin with a predictable ending, but the character's characters are to some extent the plot.  The atmosphere is stylish and classy.  I could have wished for more card playing, and less chit-chat.  At times, the movie plods along like a TV soap opera.Overall, a good movie to watch once or twice.  I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you didn't like The Cincinatti Kid you won't like this","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rounders was a movie that progressed at an average pace.  It never had a hugely suspensful string of scenes, but then again, it wasnt that type of a movie.  It had solid acting from Matt Damon and Edward Norton.  John Malkovich gave a great performance with a terrific Russian accent.Matt Damon's performance was very reminnescent of that which he gave in Good Will Hunting.  The character Damon plays in Rounders is same type of poor, working guy who is smarter than all of his friends.  I think this is Damon's best type of performance.  Given that he was excellent in The Talented Mr. Ripley, which is one of my favorite movies, Damon's ability to play the regular type of guy is what makes him so likeable.  He can pull it off better than anyone else today.Rounders takes time to develop.  It makes the watcher learn the intricate parts of different types of poker games.  If you don't like gambling or poker, keep your distance from this one.  In the grand scheme of things, rounders is a good poker movie.  It is better than The Cincinatti Kid, but of course it can't hold a candle to The Sting.  Either way, its an enjoyable movie, with a good soundtrack, and really nice cinematography. Kudos to the director.   "},{"Title":"Snoozers.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do you like watching people play golf on tv? Then you might likethis film, where people play cards. That's right. Cards. And wehave to watch them play cards. And watch them some more. Andthen, for the big finale- they play cards! Wow! Hardly thrilling, cards,unless you are playing them. Which I did, during this movie, tokeep myself awake.          "},{"Title":"Boring, awful look at the world of gambling... save your money.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is not only a waste of the viewer's time and money, but a drain on the viewer's attention span. Boring barely describes this long dreary look at the life of a young man addicted to gambling. The young man is played by Matt Damon, and this film will not go down as one of his big films. Martin Landau as the kindly judge who dishes out some advice and money, seems tired with his character and the whole atmosphere of the sets. Actually, everyone seems to be brought down by a film that really never answers any questions and never goes anywhere. Gretchen Mol is wasted as the girlfriend , and Edward Norton as Worm (an appropriate name for his character) is a pocket-change user of people. Bottom line, don't waste your time, or your money on this film. "}]