[{"Title":"a masterpiece, plain and simple","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"235 out of 258 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm 25 years old.  I have no children.  So why am I praising a 'kid's movie' which nobody saw?  Because I have never seen a film pack the emotional wallop 'The Iron Giant' provided.The film's plot is similar to 'E.T.' - a young boy meets an alien robot from outer space, who is stranded on earth, and runs afoul of paranoid government agents.  Not to knock the Spielberg film, but what makes 'The Iron Giant' the better film is that the young boy is the teacher.  It is he who has to teach the Giant about the beauty of life, the difference between good and evil, and choices we have to make.  The Iron Giant, it turns out, is a weapon, who has to struggle against his own nature.  The film has an obvious (and timely) gun control message, but its real message is about the choice we make when dealing with other people.  We can use our powers for good or lash out at everyone around us.I dare not give away the climax.  All I will say is that it features a sacrifice absolutely breaktaking and emotionally shattering (albeit somewhat blunted by the ending).  The animation is gorgeous, Michael Kamen's score is perfect, and the film beautifully evokes the 1950s.Sadly, poor marketing kept audiences away in droves.  All I can say is, to heck with the box office gross.  Despite Warner's appearant desire to pretend the film never existed, the word is getting around about what a magical film this is, and I have no doubt it will join 'It's a Wonderful Life' as a film which bombed in theatres but became a classic over the years.  See it now, so you can say you discovered it before everyone else did. "},{"Title":"YES!!!!! NO SONG OR DANCE NUMBERS!!!!!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"176 out of 204 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a GREAT movie! Not just for kids, but adults as well. Kids will love it on one level, and adults will love it on another level. Even adults who are not parents will love it!There's humor, there's action, there's nostalgia, there's the perfect capture of being a child, there are positive messages (be yourself, don't kill, etc.), there's satire, there are adults who are not stupid and not comic relief....there's GREAT WRITING!AND NO SONG AND DANCE NUMBERS! Also, there are NO COMIC-RELIEF ANIMAL SIDEKICKS! Take that, Disney! I know some people might be resisting this movie, because it looks like it's aimed for kids - and they might be expecting a Disney clone (and we all know the bad results of Disney wannabes).....but TRUST ME. Give this movie a chance - you'll love it!Is there ANYTHING wrong with it? Well, the only thing that bugged me (just a little) were some close-ups of the characters - these certain close-ups had a sketchy look a la the movies We're Back! and Balto.Fortunately, there's very little of this. Other than that - this is a PERFECT MOVIE!  "},{"Title":"The Best of Two Worlds Adult and Kid","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"138 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  All too often, family films are only infantile, simplistic formulas with a few self-referential and pop-culture jokes thrown in to try and keep adults awake.  But then along comes  something like The Iron Giant, which is sophisticated enough to demand respect while maintaining a mythic and pure-hearted tone that actually does appeal to the kid in everybody.The Iron Giant is refreshingly non-Disney in no end of ways.  Characters seem real and chosen to fit the story, instead of being a superficial reshuffling of an old formula.  The animation definitely has its eye-popping moments, but there are also scenes of great wonderment, pathos, and humour that only top-drawer animation can convey.  The Giant itself is a great character, who only becomes MORE interesting as the film continues (another huge break from Disney).  No scene is wasted in this film, either; every set piece, even the really funny ones, helps either to establish the world of the movie, or to advance the plot.  At no time do you feel that you are merely waiting for the story to crank up again.The Iron Giant is funny, exhilarating, and touching as well.  It's sad to see it failing at the box office, as a blunt reminder that the success of films is often in direct proportion to their publicity budget.  Hopefully, though, word-of-mouth will come to its rescue.  Go see it!  Tell your friends!  Then go again!  (Repeat as necessary.)P.S.  I find myself comparing the Iron Giant character to Martin Donovan's character in Amateur.  If there is anyone else on earth who has seen both films you may wish to entertain the notion yourself.  "},{"Title":"A delightful surprise","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"118 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is the kind of animated film you wish there was more of. It respects the audience's intelligence, it has genuine emotion without resorting to schmaltz, and best of all it balances fantasy (well, science fiction) with believability.  I think Warner Brothers animation has out-Disneyed Disney by adding thoughtful writing to clean, understated animation.  What a concept!The story is deceptively simple Iron Giant falls from the sky at the dawn of the Space Race and befriends a young boy.  But within that framework we get a double story, one for the grown ups and one for the kids, but the message is essentially the same one paranoia and violence begets violence. I appreciate very much, as others who have commented, that no one burst into incongruous song and that there were no cutesy animal sidekicks.  I should add that there were no clever yet implausible plot twists, nor were there any stock characters.  The bad guy gets a little overheated, true, but he is never the embodiment of all things evil.  The townspeople are your average small town Americans, not bumpkins.  Mom is, well, mom-ish, caring but neither shrewish nor prone to whimpering outbursts.  And our hero is plucky but not annoyingly precocious.A BIG plus for this film is how well it weds the computer animation to the hand-drawn animation, a feat that the Big Mouse hasn't mastered yet.  Even as recently as Tarzan it is glaringly apparent what parts are computer graphics and which aren't, and the contrast is very distracting. The Iron Giant makes a virtue of streamlined animation that draws your eye to the beauty of its color and motion.It was a very VERY distinct and unusual pleasure to be treated to a film such as this.  Give us more . . . please!  "},{"Title":"An Absolute Wonder Which Cherishes Its Influences - The Best Animated Feature Ever !","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"75 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animated movies have long been considered strictly for children.  The old Disney classics that started it all are indeed aimed at kids, but are still very watchable, even for adults.  With the advent of TOY STORY and its countless mimics,  animated feature films have taken long strides to be considered worthy of serious attention.  THE IRON GIANT is just such an animated piece.  The 87 minute wonder is, to put it mildly, incredible.  Everything about it is good.  I've also never seen so many influences and references in an animated film before.This is a movie with a heart the size of the title character.  A gentle, gigantic robot is rocketed to earth and befriends a 10 year old boy.  The kid has a single mother (voiced nicely by Jennifer Aniston) and he is just looking for a friend, whether it be a squirrel, or even a 50 foot tall machine.  The familiar premise is obviously out of Spielberg's E.T.  One scene even has the giant reaching out his finger to the boy in much the same way ET did to 10 year old Elliott when he departed this earth.  E.T. was an out of this world fantasy that took place on this earth.  Here, it is animated and almost just as effective.IRON GIANT takes place during 1957 in a small town in Maine.  The 1950's was a time when the American public was fearful of atomic bombs and the possibility of alien life off the earth.  Live-action sci-fi films of the 1950's always depicted the arrival of dangerous alien life and our efforts to destroy it.  THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL is an influence on this film for evident reasons.  Ultimately, the characters in that classic learn from the extra-terrestrial being and realize the dangers of the A-Bomb.  It is amazing to see an animated feature which can relay this same type of message some 50 years later.A beautiful and touching ode to BAMBI is witnessed about halfway through.  It also brings back some tearful moments from the key scene in that great, hand-drawn film.  Here, we see both hand-drawn imagery coupled with a computer-generated iron giant.  The title character is actually a 3D composition done digitally, mixed with the 2D action surrounding him.  There are some highly imaginative shots of the robot mixing in with the film's environment.  At one point, he appears to be a lighthouse until the lights begin to blink.  I guess robots must blink too.  Enough analysis.  I loved this movie.  It is ranked #81 on the top list by other user authors for a reason.  Not only is it escapist, fantastic entertainment for kids, adults, and seniors alike, it is an animated picture like no other.  It combines the joy of SNOW WHITE and PINOCCHIO, the commentary of 1950's science fiction, and the wizardry and laughter of TOY STORY and its sequel.  Do not miss this enchanting flick.RATING ****  "},{"Title":"What more animated movie should be a thoughtful, funny, touching story.","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"67 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After seeing this movie, I was overcome by a strange feeling. I realized that I had found a treasure where I had least expected it. The Iron Giant is intelligent, funny, touching, and visually superb, and should show the world that an animated movie does not need to be A) computer-animated, or B) based on a fairy tale to be successful. One of the best American-made children's movies I have seen in a decade b8.5/10.0/bNow, I'm a 17-year-old who is slowly transitioning into the domain of movie buffdom, which basically means that I am watching a stream of movies based on recommendations from friends, critics, and the IMDb Top 250 list. I got this one almost by accident after the local rental place could not find the movie I was really after, choosing it basically on the knowledge that it was the previous project of Brad Bird, director of The Incredibles (a personal favorite). After watching it, I felt like calling up every mother I knew and telling her to have her children (and herself) watch this.The Iron Giant revolves around an adventurous young boy in 1950s small-town America who discovers a gigantic robot out in the woods that has arrived on Earth from goodness-knows-where. He befriends the robot, while trying to keep him safe from a nosy government agent. The story seldom lags, with a series of comical adventures connected by the boy's growing relationship with his friend. This movie is very appealing as entertainment. The voices are well-done, and the scenery is also terrific. Most importantly, though, is the animation, which is a bright spot from this time period. The characters are well-drawn, especially the Giant, who through terrific design, lifelike movements, and clever small touches (i.e., the eyes) seems both alien and human, imposing and childlike. Furthermore, the animation is comical. I don't know when I have ever seen slapstick or punchlines so well-complimented by the animation. The script, written by Bird and based off the book The Iron Man, is also very well done. Though the movie relies upon a few minor crutches common to children's movies, it is still very original and clever.One thing that I must point out about this movie is its morals. Throughout the movie, the main moral of the story, about the Iron Giant learning and choosing to be good, is actually fairly adroitly handled. At no point when the subject comes up, including standard sentimental climax, does the idea seem contrived. Throughout the movie, evidence of Bird's influence by comic books is quite evident, and his ultimate message about heroes (variations of which will resurface in The Incredibles) is relevant and sincere. However, I do have to say that the secondary moral, about the evils of xenophobia and paranoia, both of which are embodied by the movie's antagonist, the government agent and the military, are very politically charged. While this may sound initially controversial and politically charged for a kids' movie (the second of which I do not deny), I noticed that it was in large part a thoughtful spoof of Cold War America, with jokes as well as valuable lessons about duck and cover and 1950s nuclear edginess that I found very clever.On a final note, I do have to point out that this movie had me laughing hard, but more importantly, it brought me closer to tears than any animated movie I can remember (including Bambi), closer than I like to admit. I wish that I had discovered it sooner, and I hope that everyone gets the chance to experience it the way I did. "},{"Title":"A very good movie....","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"64 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hmmm, what to say...well....  it was really good.  I've seen it several times, and I've enjoyed it immensely each time for different reasons.Analytically I find the animation incredible.  The characters are extremely alive and quite realistic, not because of incredible drawing, well, actually, yes the way the characters are drawn, and animated, is incredible.  From the jerking, swaying and swooshing of body parts to the magnificent and CONSISTENT use of eyes, eyebrows and cheekbones to show real emotions, it's definite that this movie is a masterpiece in terms of animation.  The backgrounds are wonderfully lush, and evoke a wonderful sense of everything that shows fall for the beautiful season it is.  I love animation, and I love good looking landscapes, so the artists behind this movie are making a fan out of me very quickly.I admire (analytically) most of all the enormous apparance of little details in the film the season sublty changes from fall to winter; the characters are always doing something, even if they aren't directly in focus (the best ad-libbing a director could dream of); I also think in some parts of the movie the little details actually become crucial to the movie's strength and validity (the time and setting of the story help it to make more sense, also, the duck and cover scene)You know, I think it's amazing when sometimes a movie can move you so much, talking about it's good qualities seems like child's play.  This is the kind of movie that you can watch over and over and take a long time to get sick of. We all have movies like that, very few can do that to us, but we have them. I'm realising as I write that I like this movie very much, because I've written two or three paragraphs and have not even started talking about the iron giant yet.The animation and expression of emotion in the giant, who is a computer graphics animated character, a hundred feet tall and with a certain old time sci fi persona to him, equals and even surpasses it's traditionally animated companions.  There were scenes in the movie that the giant almost made me cry because of his expressions.  The director, Brad Bird I think, should earn good credit for his work bringing the giant to life.  The giant was very organic and fluid, always animated and extremely alive, without really trying to be. After a while it obvious he's not your average rigid robot.It's hard not to give away details when you write a lot, but thankfully I haven't really given anything away.  I will say this...the movie is about not prejudging things you are unfamiliar with, big or small, and it's about doing what is right and not using gray areas and politics as an excuse not to do the right thing. The movie explores the strange concept of finding friendship, love, and innocence inbetween past guilts and prejudices. It is one of the most well rounded, enriching, thought provoking movies I have seen in my lifetime, and the best part is that it wasn't the visual effects that made me say that...something other feature animation companies have used a a string to lead me on for almost a decade.  I feel like I just recovered from an extended brainwashing experiment.  I've learned my lesson. No longer will movies that use stunning graphics to redeem themselves be an interest to me.  Rather I will watch movies for the messages they give and the depth those movies have. If anything Brad Bird must have tried to make the giant as close in simplicity to the regular animated characters as possible, because you CANNOT tell the difference between CG and traditional in this movie.  Exceptional stuff.I can't imagine anyone I know not liking this movie.  I've shown it to a LOT of people, college students mostly, of all races and religions, with different prides and prejudices, the result, amazingly, always seems to be the same I have some after movie comments here, and I quoteWow! ; That was NICE!; That was SO...GOOD! ;That giant is crucial, dog! ;It was good...yeah...I liked it!,; and Dang man, that joint TIGHT!.  If you actually read this review all the way, that's nice. Now forget everything I bumbled about and go see this movie, that way you can spent less time writing your own review than you did reading mine. "},{"Title":"Exquisite.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"67 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a critically acclaimed piece of animated cinema. I wasn't expecting it to be that good, but The Iron Giant was an amazing movie, it is easily the most exquisite animated movie I have ever seen.Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marenthal) is obsessed by the opportunites offered by science fiction, the possibility of an alien take-over or, at the very least, an attack from outer space. The original story, which the late Poet Laureate had set in England, saw the innocent Titan of the title emerge from the sea; here he is a visitor from another galaxy.The Iron Giant is an amazing piece of animation, the voice-overs were done perfectly, the actors obviously enjoyed themselves, the animated art direction and cinematography was beautiful and the giant itself is just...breathtaking.The Iron Giant is not just another silly little kiddies movie, it is perfection in filmmaking. Please, for the love of God, make your life better and see this brilliant film.I rate The Iron Giant 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Fun For Anyone","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"53 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's nice to see an elegantly crafted piece of animation come out of America.  How did they manage it?  The writing is great the animation is excellent and the voice acting is superb.  I don't think I've liked an English animated film this much since The Plague Dogs.  The film doesn't talk down to it's audience, and instead tells a simple story very well.  My only complaint would be that Hogarth is somewhat of a smart-alec at times, but I guess this is the era of Leave it To Beaver.Many of the situations are standard movie-fare, the ex-lax in the food, the helmet on the bed, but it's nice to see them in an animated film for a change.  As an anime fan, the realism of the movie didn't impress me as much as the quality of the writing, voice acting, and the music and sound effects.  I particularly remember the sound of the power lines snapping and the musical score building up to the climax of the film.The character design for the giant is excellent, it's amazing how they could draw out very subtle emotions without noticeably distorting the face.  I bawled like a baby near the end.Finally, most importantly for me, there are NO CHEAP LAUGHS in the movie. One of the best moments in the movie for me was when Hogarth is running through the woods and he slams his face into a low branch.  The theater full of kids raised on recent Disney crap bursts into laughter, but wait, there's no stupid sound effect, he's not hopping back up to his feet instantly with a ridiculous lump or distorted face or little birds flying around his head, he's still on the ground ... and what's that coming out of his nose.. it CAN'T BE.. it IS, a trickle of BLOOD.  The kids (and parents) quickly cease their laughter.  I couldn't stop smiling because I knew then that like me, they actually cared about the character on the screen and frankly that doesn't happen very often.Tarzan was a small step in the right direction, and near the end of the long path beginning with that step is The Iron Giant. "},{"Title":"Guns kill.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An ambitious take on Ted Hughes' 1968 children's book The Iron Man, director Brad Bird's The Iron Giant works well as both archetype-infused allegory and heartstring-tugging tale of friendship.  Set in small town Maine in the 1950s at the height of Cold War paranoia, the film explores the relationship between a lonely, fatherless boy (a photo on a nightstand hints that the father was a combat pilot killed in WWII) and a monstrously huge, hulking metal behemoth (the origins of which are brilliantly left to the imagination).  The animation marks a welcome contrast from the virtually ubiquitous Disney template, with the human characters bearing a stylized, comic book exaggeration that fits perfectly with the story material.  The Iron Giant has more than enough imagination and sparkle to interest kids and adults, and nicely balances its action-adventure aspirations with a solidly-crafted sense of moral purpose. "}{"Title":"A new classic","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is simply one of the best animated movies ever made. Brad Bird, the talented man that worked in shows like The Simpsons and directed the great animated film The Incredibles is the man responsible for this masterpiece. That man is a genius who is able to turn the simplest stories into gold, having an entire career of very good films. Even his Mission Impossible film (A franchise which I particularly don't like)managed to be worth-watching.Now The Iron Giant is one of my favorite films, and it is the best movie directed by Brad Bird, having not only a great animation style, but also a memorable story (Which shows that kid's films could have deep and complex stories)and many intesting characters, The Giant itself is a fascinating creature, which could be easily considered one of the most endearing figures from the entire animation history.Movies like this are enough proof that making a children's film is not a excuse for a lack of quality. It is for movies like this that I'm a fan of animation. "},{"Title":"Stunning and magical","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I had heard many great things about the iron giant in the last few years but was one of those films I never got round to seeing. I picked up a copy of the special edition DVD expecting an entertaining animated film. What I actually got was not just one of the best animated films I have seen but one of the best films ever. It takes you to another world but never strays from reality and when watching it you forget it's animated. The characters are so well written it puts most live action films to shame. If you pass this off as a kids film you will be missing out on one of the most immersing and emotional experiences you can get from a film. The voice cast are perfect, the animation stunning and the fact this film flopped when released is nothing short of criminal. I urge anyone even with only a passing interest in cinema to watch this film and prepare to be amazed. Brad Bird must be one of the best directors working in animation and after seeing the incredibles the iron giant was no fluke. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films - animated or otherwise","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Like most reviewers here, I stumbled across The Iron Giant. Frankly, I don't know how I missed it in the theatres, but I picked up a used VHS copy a few years back and fell for it. I recently purchased the DVD version and have rekindled my appreciation for this lovely film.In addition to being a polished gem of a morality play, it is well animated, and well voice-acted. Perhaps Hogarth is portrayed as too obvious a scamp and Kent is too over-the-top in his zeal but the subtlety in the Iron Giant's limited movements and vocabulary more than make up for it. In any case, this is an animated film - we should expect cartoonish characters, right? Perhaps it was the total lack of cutesy animals doing Disneyesque song-and-dance numbers, but I found myself noticing the acting of these characters. Don't worry, I snapped out of it soon enough...Unlike some, I didn't see TIG as a slam against militarism. In fact, the General here (nicely voiced by John Mahoney) shows a considerable amount of balance. Rather, the film is about personal growth and change, respect for life, values, and the bond of friendship. This side of the film works so well that the Giant's utterance of one word - Superman - toward the end of the film sent me searching for the tissues. (word of advice keep them handy).Do yourself and your kids and watch this film. Appropriate (IMO) for ages 3 and over (including adults!). "},{"Title":"As touching, funny and timely a film as any committed to celluloid","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Having to compete with Disney, Dreamworks and Pixar, Warner Brother's animation has never been at the forefront of the animation industry. Apparently all they needed was the brilliant Brad Bird to quell any doubt about their capabilities. The Iron Giant is one of the final films to be presented in the traditional animation form, but even this flick had begun the transition to computer generated visuals. A number of characters, including the giant, were inserted digitally over the hand drawn background, taking special care to perform this imperfectly so as to contrast the rougher backdrop. The finished piece is a visually flawless and captivating film and ranks among the best animated features to ever grace the screen.Brad Bird who began with significant role in The Simpson's cartoon, marks his feature film debut, and would follow up with the even superior films The Incredibles and Ratatouille. The Iron Giant is part political statement, part satire and part family fare, but contains more substance then most children's films, containing passionate and is reminiscent of classics such as ET and The Lion King. Based on the book by Ted Hughes, the tale tells of a young boy in Rockwell, Maine named Hogarth Hughes voiced by unknown Eli Marienthal who, if you must put a face to the voice played Stiffler's younger brother in American Pie, in Cold War era 1958. His mother voiced by Jennifer Aniston, works late shifts at a local diner, his father has been killed (presumably in combat, as we see from a photograph he was a fighter pilot) and Hogarth who has been moved up a grade, finds himself lonely and misunderstood.On a stormy night, a mysterious object crashes off the coast, which to Hogarth's surprise (and everyone's for that matter) is a giant metal eating robot. Finding the creature to be as harmless and confused as a young boy, he befriends the behemoth, stashing him away in a local scrap yard, who the owner (voiced by Harry Connick Jr.) is not especially pleased about. After the giants shenanigans begin to be noticed, a federal agent, brilliantly voiced by Christopher McDonald, comes to investigate ands comes to suspect Hogarth may know something.The scenes where Hogarth attempts to hide the creature are the most hilarious, one sequence after the giant loses his hand (which can walk on its own once severed) our young protagonist attempts to sneak it out of the house. But don't be fooled, the iron Giant is less comedy then it is bold statement, but don't let this turn you off either.Bird's piece is riddled with political commentary on the Cold War and its effect on America and the society's obsession with warfare, weapons and at what cost freedom can be obtained, issues such as morality and death, and explores the human gift of free will, as both a blessing and as a means to do harm. The Giant, despite having every few lines is surprisingly layered and human, and has an innocence covering an inner evil turmoil. The message that you are who you chose to be is reminiscent throughout the whole film, but it never for a second feels preachy. The climax is a thrilling as any action picture, which I will say may be slightly too violent for younger children, and the closing act is as touching as any committed to celluloid.The Iron Giant is a dazzling tale and complex experience which is bound to keep you involved, entertained and will give you something to think about after leaving the theatre. Ranking as one of the best films of 1999, if The Iron Giant marks the end of the reign of the traditional animation style, I say that no finer adieu could be given in this world, or any, dare I say it, beyond this Earth.Read all my reviews at http//www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Best Animated Film","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Without a doubt this is my favorite animated movie of all time. I have seen it dozens of times and I still enjoy watching it once or twice a year. I recommend this movie to everyone. It's not just for kids. The animation, editing and soundtrack is amazing. I am a huge fan of Disney movies, but I cannot think of a Disney movie that can touch the Iron Giant on any level. This movie can be enjoyed by kids, parents and non-parents alike. It's not just a great action movie with great writing it will also touch you on an emotional level as well. I have been waiting and watching for a sequel, but I don't think anyone involved in this production intended to do another (even though the ending leaves that wide open). This is the type of movie I wish Hollywood would do more of, instead of re-makes and movies based of TV shows. "},{"Title":"Wow!!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What an amazing film. I had no idea what a wonderful film this is. I mean, I'm in my mid 30's and a mum of 3. I absolutely love this film. My kids really enjoy it but I don't think they really appreciate the message that it is trying to put across. (well, my 4 year old anyway) My 7 year old just likes it for the bang factor. (the explosions and stuff!) I was a bit disappointed though that the giant didn't have more to say. It would of been nice to know were he came from and why. I had no idea at all that the voice of the giant is Vin Diesel! I would never of thought that he would do anything like this. Just goes to show how many actors are typecast. I got quite tearful at the end, especially when the giant says his last line about being Superman. I mean this is ludicrous! A grown woman crying over what is basically a cartoon!!! Maybe a sequel to this film could happen?If you haven't seen it yet, please make an effort to do so. "},{"Title":"I didn't cry during this movie","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No matter what anyone says, It wasn't me blubbering at the end of this movie.  I had something in my eye, was all.  Anyone who testifies differently is a filthy liar.  I thought the movie was okay, you know, if you're like a kid or something, but it didn't touch me at all... *sniff* I have to go now... "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films of all time","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This certainly ranks as one of the finest examples of cinema in recent pop culture memory. Intelligent, funny, tragic, and deeply moving, we'd be so lucky to ever see an American animated film strike such chords again. The look of the film is superb, and it's underlying themes and messages resonate even more strongly today. Containing a boldly pacifist theme, the film tells a story of a mechanism of war--meant to destroy--that, through the innocence of a little boy, learns to sacrifice in the name of peace and understanding, as apposed to killing in the name of ownership and power. I hope,as years pass, more and more people come to discover this gem so that they can share their experience with the Iron Giant, as well. "},{"Title":"Best Animated Movie Ever","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have seen many animated movies in my life from Nightmare Before Christmas and BatmanMask of the Phantasm to Snow White and the Lion King. The Iron Giant is the best by far not just technically with amazingly beautiful visuals but overall. This movie appeals to people of all ages like no other movie before if you have not seen it go see it. It has something in it for all fans of various movie genres from sci-fi to comedy. It is a shame not many people have seen it. If you can watch this movie and not get hit by a sense of nostalgia or get caught up by the emotional storyline. "},{"Title":"Attention to Detail","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Having been nine in 1957 myself, i appreciate the incredible amount of attention to verisimilitude that this film exhibits -- even the wide turn-ups on Hogarth's jeans, for example.Another thing i was interested by is the fact that we are never told *why* Hogarth's mom is a single parent... but i seem to recall a framed photo somewhere in the house showing a pilot standing by a jet fighter. I knew a couple of kids my age whose dads had never come home from a place called Korea.There are some glitches -- a 1959 Cadillac in a scrapyard in 1957, for instance, or going skinny-dipping in a lake in Maine in late October; and i'm fairly sure that (a) There was no Spirit comic in publication in 1957 and that (b) the Spirit comic cover shown is actually a painting Spirit creator Will Eisner did in the late 70s/early 80s for a reprint series.The references to films of the period -- the sand pit from Invaders from Mars, the tank disintegration for The Day the Earth Stood Still and the animated Brain from Planet Arous on teevee are neat, too.Looking forward to next Friday's opening of Brad Bird's new film, The Incredibles, though i suspect that Iron Giant will prove to be the stronger of the two... "}{"Title":"Outstanding on all levels!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant was a beautiful, funny and touching movie, that is one of the best non-Disney animated movies I have seen along with The Prince of Egypt, The Secret of NIMH, Watership Down and Castle of Cagliostro. There wasn't a single thing I hated about the movie, for me it was outstanding on every level. The animation was absolutely gorgeous, with stunning colourful backgrounds and brilliant character animation especially on the Iron Giant himself. The music by Michael Kamen was consistently excellent, and never overpowered the story. In fact at times it even enhanced the drama. And the film has a beautiful message not to mention a sweet story. The characters were delightful, Hogarth isn't annoying at all and the Iron Giant isn't scary in the slightest. Strictly speaking he has to be one of the most gentle and poignant characters in an animated film. There are plenty of effective scenes like the explosive climax and the scene with the dead deer is a real tear jerker. I will admit I was worried initially when I saw the voice cast, but everybody involved did a superb job. Jennifer Aniston and Harry Connick Jnr were perfect, in their most understated performances. Both get stick about being untalented, but for me their vocal contributions in this film suggests otherwise, while Christopher MacDonald almost steals the film as the FBI agent. Eli Marienthal is very sweet and likable as Hogarth too, and watch out for John Mahoney and Cloris Leachman. All in all, an outstanding film, that if you mind me saying so is the best animated film of 1999 and one of the best films of that year too. I may be wrong but I do think it is highly underrated on IMDb. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The greatest animated movie ever created","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the greatest animated movie ever created. It takes state-of-the-art computer graphics, excellent animation, old-school character design, and a compelling and truly modern story. I believe this is based off a book called 'The Iron Giant' or 'The Iron Man' or something. I'm not too sure - never read it.By the production studio _not_ being Disney, it really is a no-holds barred scenario. No cushy wide-eyed animals singing in dewy meadows, or bad guys in epics fights missing every blow almost as it were blatant. No, this movie has an extreme sense of emotion, realism, and feeling I only ever felt in one other animated movie (Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust). The absolute jolt in the `emotional quotient' at the end of this movie is a mental roller coaster, it's a hill you know is there but it 'gets' you every single time.If there is an animated movie gauge this should be what the rest measure up to.It's a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant stomps all over the competition.","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Based on the poem 'The Iron Man' by Ted Hughes, Brad Bird's first feature length movie, The Iron Giant, tells the story of a huge alien robot who crashes to Earth, where he is befriended by a young boy named Hogarth, but also pursued by a paranoid US government agent.Hogarth proceeds to teach his newfound metal pal about the wonders of life, the tragedy of death, the difference between good and evil, the joys of dive-bombing into water, and the all important moral 'we are who we choose to be'. However, when the boy innocently aims his toy gun at the massive mechanoid, the robot's true purpose is revealed he is a walking array of extraterrestrial fire-power programmed to respond to aggression. And with the army on its way to apprehend the giant, it looks like the proverbial is about to hit the fan.Will the robot destroy his enemy with a series of high powered energy blasts from his in-built armoury? Or will he choose to fight his basic programming and become a hero?Featuring breath-taking CGI-enhanced animation, flawless direction, and a script that brilliantly and intelligently mixes comedy, action and drama in equal doses, The Iron Giant is an unmissable treat for all ages.In true kids' movie tradition, the story has several important messages to tell and a couple of tear-jerker scenes, but it thankfully never resorts to the heavy-handed moralising and saccharine sweet schmaltz of many an animated feature. Instead, Bird delicately handles his themes of anti-violence, freedom of choice, life and death, and sacrifice for those you love. And he does this without once feeling the need for a song and dance number. Nice one, Brad!The film also succeeds in feeling very 'real', despite its fantastical premise. This is undoubtedly down to the well developed and likable characters (brilliantly voiced by a talented cast) and the incredible attention to detail in the animation, which not only includes loads of authentic 50s design, but also throws in some great references to the sci-fi movies and comics of the time.If the majority of animated features of the past few years have left you less than impressed, do yourself a favour and track down The Iron Giant. Charming, exciting, and ultimately uplifting, it's a film that'll leave you grinning from ear to ear. "},{"Title":"One of the finest animated films made","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The greatest compliment I could give this film is that I have viewed it twice, as an 11 year in the cinema, and as an 18 year old at home, and enjoyed and loved it on both occasions. It's been said already, but this film really does combine the best of both worlds. It's silly and slapstick enough to make the kids laugh, and has enough subtle and sophisticated humour for the adults too. In fact, the comedy is what makes this film so special. The jokes are consistently excellent, and it's highly unlikely that anyone can keep a straight face throughout. It's funnier than the Disney/Pixar efforts, save Toy Story, and in fact it's better than most comedies you'll see.The characters are great too. Hogarth Hughes ( Eli Mariental) is actually not that annoying for a Hollywood kid. His double-act with the Giant (Vin Diesel) is entertaining and endearing. Halfway through, Beatnik Dean McCoppin (Harry Connick Jnr) is added to the mix, and together it's a highly amusing triumvirate. However, the show, and the best lines, are stolen by FBI agent Ken Mansley (Christopher McDonald). Mansley is the ideal kid's movie villain, just bumbling and stupid enough to be humorous, but with enough menace to get by. His interrogation of Hogarth itself is chilling, as is his hate of the giant, demonstrated during the finale. The other character of note is Hogarth's mum, Annie (Jennifer Aniston). She isn't a prominent part of the story, which is strange given that Aniston is the biggest name in the cast list. But thankfully, she doesn't wreck the film either.The film is at it's weakest when it's trying to be profound, and there are certainly a few cheesy lines as a result. However the film carries a decent anti-war message, as well as preaching acceptance to those who are different, which is to be applauded in a kid's film. In particular, the Giant's initial refusal to allow himself to become the weapon he was designed to be is well done. Even better is his subsequent rage and rampage at Hogarth's apparent death at the hands of the army, which shows us we can all go off the deep end sometimes. That's pretty deep for a U-rated picture.Other things to note are the animation, which is excellent, different from the Pixar style, but impressive nonetheless. The 50's soundtrack is great too, adding authenticity.In conclusion this is a film that really punches above it's weight, providing great comedy and a decent message that anyone of any age can enjoy. It's said often, but this really is a film that the whole family CAN enjoy. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Mature","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The most unfortunate thing about this film was how underrated it was when it came out. To be honest, when I heard about it, I thought the animation looked simplistic and was another straight to video deserving flik.But when I actually got to see it finally on TV it blew me away. Not only was the animation actually an artistic and in a few ways a technical achievement (nicely handled discrete use of CGI), the story and dialogue were far more sophisticated than the usual strand of kid's animation. So much so I became far more intrigued emotionally by the characters and the major plot twists then I have been by many live action movies. The humour was also subdued to short well timed bursts, not completely unbearable like some tripe i've experienced. The story is also told in a way that is logical; characters react accordingly to events and everything happens in a way that can't be questioned and is completely understandable, not overly simplified for the younger audience. Plus the ending was satisfying and a great way to round off an unforgettable experience.It's a shame therefore that such an emotionally vibrant and surprisingly mature animated movie has to be judged on how good it is just by how much cash it rakes in, a dire fate that many a movie has been subject to. 10/10 "},{"Title":"And I thought this would be a bad movie...","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I consider myself a fairly hard-headed and cynical guy.  I like my movies to have blood and death.  As a rule, I want to see explosions and terrible slaughter.  I loath sentimental slop.  So, when I sat down to watch Iron Giant, I was not expecting much more than a Disney-esque piece of emotional goo.  I'd also read the original book, and I was prepared to be annoyed by departures from the 'Iron Man'.Yet within minutes, I was totally hooked on this fabulous piece of animation.  The quality of the picture - the visual effect of the animation - is truly stunning. The film is a work of art.  None of the sloppy crap that Disney passes off for animation these days.  The world of 1950s New England is beautifully recreated.  The attention to detail is impressive. As a military buff, I was particularly impressed by the authentic representation of Patton tanks and Sabre fighters.  The landscapes are awe inspiring, and the musical score sets off the visual spectacle magnificently.  The whole picture has an overpowering aura of quality, effort and skill.  You are properly immersed in the film's world.  Such fine workmanship is impressive, and stands in sharp contrast to the poorly drawn pulp that floods kids TV these days - the abomination that is pokemon springs to mind as the very antithesis of this movie.Enough of appearances.  A good visual picture is never going to make up for a bad story.  And I really thought that the storyline was going to be awful. The film is radically different to the story told by Ted Hughes. Normally, I can't stand it when movies dare to depart from the novels on which they claim to be based.  But in this case, I am prepared to make an exception. The movie explores many more interesting ideas than the book.  Hughes was more concerned with a dull environmentalist idea, suggesting that the Iron Man was somehow mother nature's response to the pollution caused by humanity.  The film, however, takes a totally different view of the Iron 'Giant'.  The Cold War context of McCarthyism, 'Red Scares' and the emergent Space Race is intriguingly utilised to engage the far more interesting issues of superpower rivalry, military paranoia and the crass naiveté of a culture that seriously believes 'duck and cover' will see school kids safely through nuclear holocaust.Some people have expressed the opinion that the film takes a politically correct view of guns.  Yet when we realise that the Iron Giant is himself a colossal weapons system, it is clear that the film is more sophisticated than any simplistic anti-gun rant.  Indeed, all of the 'good' characters in the film are connected with guns.  Hogarth has toy guns, the Iron Giant is a gun himself, the honourable military men are armed.  The paranoid and slippery CIA agent is in fact conspicuously unarmed.  Even in the scene with the deer hunters, the men themselves are not cast in a negative light at all.  I would be the first to choke with rage if I thought that this movie was trying to convey a sanctimonious and politically correct message of anti-gun propaganda.  Instead, I think that the picture considers the relationship between man and his weapons. We see that it is the decisions taken by individuals that decide whether good or evil is done, not whether they happen to be in direct possession of a gun.  The Iron Giant is, after all, capable of destroying all of mankind with his arsenal of weaponry, yet his decision to refrain from using it makes him a great force for good. Kent Mansley, on the other hand, has no gun in his hand, yet is solely responsible for the decision to unleash nuclear weaponry upon his own countrymen in his personal quest to destroy a non-American robot.This is a greatly enjoyable and rather moving film, and, in spite of myself, I must recommend it wholeheartedly to everyone.  Even the most rational and level-headed of movie-goers can find something to like in this picture. Go watch!  "},{"Title":"Go get this movie...","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You will just have to take my word on this.  You have to see this movie.  Animation fans will be blown away by the cool '50s look, everyone will enjoy the great story, funny lines (harry connick jr is superb) and kids will love the giant, his antics, and how he saves the day.  Even i cheered the end, and im 26.  I used to work in a video shop, and when i recommended this to parents, they looked at me blankly (it aint Disney, it can't be that good) but i forced them to take it, and when they brought it back (several days late most of them) they thanked me. Not only did the kids love it, they could not stay away either. Proof enough, now go, rent it. Go on, you know you want to. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most amazing cartoon ever!!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a movie that has something that lacks in almost every single movie in the last five years, and that´s heart. Hogarth is a kid, a kid like you would imagine your grandfather was, from a long forgotten past and is suddenly playing in your tv. He has no barriers, because his imagination can take him anywhere... And the same goes for Brad Bird, the director of this animation epic that can thrill you, like in the confrontation between the Giant and the Army or touch you deep inside your heart... There is no way someone can keep their eyes dry or a smile from showing in the face in the ending, when we see that the sacrifice that one robot did for humankind wasn´t without it´s reward.BEST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"A rare gem","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is one of the few animated movies that isn't directly meant for kids. The film, as a whole, is more between the lines of being mature and young. Being in between these lines is what makes the movie more unique. It had a charm while, at the same time, also had subtly dark moments which children may see as odd but an older audience may understand better. Despite that, it is still a movie that anyone can see and still feel something from it. It's an emotional and charming trip through the friendship of a young boy and a giant robot. It is also Vin Diesel at his finest, despite his role being a giant metal man that can barely speak. Eli Marienthal, who plays Hogarth, also did a fantastic job in portraying a rebellious young boy in 1957. The plot also accurately portrays the concerns regarding the 1950's with the Cold War, as it does mention nuclear weapons a couple times in the film.Overall, I would strongly recommend that this movie be watched. It is one of those films that should be watched within someones lifetime. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant I dare you to dislike this movie...","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is a movie that I can watch time and time again and never tire of. This one sits high on a pedestal with The Little Mermaid and Lilo & Stitch as one of my favorite animated features. I am going to skip spoiler warnings here because, well, if you haven't seen this by now, then shame on you.A lone man in a boat in the middle of a terrible storm with hulking waves thrashing him from side to side cries desperately into a radio for help. As he is starting to lose hope, he glances up and spots an illumination in the sky. Saints be praised! It's a lighthouse! A brief moment of rejoicing is quickly extinguished by terror when he realizes that this light is no safe haven, but they eyes of a towering metal man.Miraculously, the man makes it out of this little pickle alive and goes to the local diner where he tells everyone his tale. With guffaws of disbelief, his audience implies that what the man saw came from the bottom of a bottle, if you catch my meaning.At a nearby table, a wide-eyed Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marienthal) is listening to the man's story. Also listening in is Dean McCoppin who is voiced by Harry Connick Jr. He peeks over the wall to vouch for the man, only to be laughed at as well.Single mom to Hogarth, Annie Hughes (Jennifer Aniston), is hard at work waiting tables. Hogarth and Dean meet and are fast friends. Dean is a cool cat and is always calm and collected. Hogarth has a wild imagination and while he would love to do what his mother asks of him, he manages to do the opposite quite often.Hogarth is home alone that night while mom works late. The curious young man ventures out into the night to investigate suspicious activity and is awestruck to find the same humongous metal man from earlier. Incredibly, Hogarth saves the iron giant from doom.The following day, Hogarth bikes off to the woods in an attempt to find this new friend. He places a piece of sheet metal, the giant's favorite snack, out as bait. After dozing off, he is awoken by a loud noise. The metal is gone. He turns around to see that he has done what he came to do. Afraid at first, Hogarth runs, but quickly realizes that the iron giant means him no harm.Hogarth must teach his metal friend, voiced by Vin Diesel that guns are bad and that he doesn't have to be one, even though he is equipped with some major fire arms. Without a place to hide him and no food for him to eat, Hogarth takes the iron giant over to Dean's pad. Dean is an artist who deals mostly with large metal sculptures. I mean, what am I? A junkman who makes art or an artist who sells junk? You tell me. So you see, he has lots of metal sitting around. Perfect for snacking.Meanwhile, after reports of spotting the giant, a call is made and fast-talking government agent Kent Mansley (Christopher McDonald) rushes right over to get to the bottom of things. With his initial disbelief, Kent spends his time making quips about the small town. Gems like The biggest thing in this town is probably the homecoming queen. After a close encounter with a car that appears to be bitten in half, Kent catches on to the situation. He knows that Hogarth is hiding the iron giant and won't stop until he is discovered and destroyed.The movie is full of funny and endearing moments. A couple personal favorites include the scene in which Hogarth, Dean, and the iron giant go swimming. When the giant robot does a cannonball into the lake, hilarity ensues. The heart-to-heart scene that Hogarth has with the iron giant about death is also heart-warming. Souls don't die. When eventually the iron giant is discovered by the government, despite Hogarth's best efforts to tell them that he is harmless, Kent insists that they blow him to smithereens anyway. Hogarth tries to get a handle on the situation, but Kent &#x97; in a fit of madness &#x97; presses the obligatory big red button and launches a bomb that will destroy the giant, the town, and everyone in it.When it seems that all hope is lost, the iron giant bids his buddy Hogarth a fond farewell, shoots off into the sky, and collides with the bomb, saving everyone from certain death.Flash-forward. Annie and Dean are admiring what she says is his best work yet. A sculpture of the iron giant. Hogarth is given the only piece of the giant that was recovered, and is delighted when it lights up and jumps out the window. He knows the iron giant can self-repair and waves goodbye, hoping he'll see the iron giant again someday.Sweet. Funny. Touching. I really can't say enough good about this movie. I double dog dare you to make it through this one with dry eyes.(Search mssilverscreen for more of my reviews) "}{"Title":"You stay I go, No Following","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" An amazing film. Very inspiring there is no where to begin or end. If you haven't seen this film and have doubts because its animated or because its kiddish think again. The ending, the middle, the beginning. All a work of art, words cannot describe the satisfaction after seeing this movie. The animation is amazing and there are a few corny jokes here and there. If you're like me, open minded you can really appreciate this movie and how unique it is. This is the kind of movie that leaves you with good feelings. The robot had good intentions and learned over time. Excellent10/10 "},{"Title":"All Time Classic","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I always read through the IMDb reviews to see if people have the same opinions as me on the films I watch but have never felt the need to add my comments until now.A friend brought the Iron Giant for my 2 kids and advised me that it was a great watch for adults as well, so I popped it into the DVD the other night and sat down to watch.Without giving any of the story away I will just tell you my thoughts after I had watched it. This is the best animation film I have ever seen. I loved Nemo, The Incredibles, Monsters Inc etc, but this film offered so much more in terms of emotional ties. I had tears in my eyes at the end of the film and had to hide my face from the family.It is such a wonderful simple story and I cannot believe it did not get the commercial success it deserved.For any people with kids or without, please give this film a chance and either rent or buy it. This film is what animation was invented for. "},{"Title":"Possibly the greatest animated film in the history of cinema","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is beyond amazing, It is probably the best animated film ever. It has you weeping one moment, and laughing at the antics of Hogarth and The Iron Giant the next. It is definitely on my list of top ten best movies of all timeThe best scene is near the end when the Iron Giant is flying up in the sky, and he says, Superman It almost made me weep.If you want to watch an animated movie not just made for kids, and with more heart than most movies out there, this is the one. If more movies were made like this one, more people would see movies in theaters, instead of the crap that comes out of theaters lately, like all of the sequels and comebacks to the theater, like rocky and Rambo. "},{"Title":"Duck and cover&#133;The Iron Giant","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I finally took the time to see writer/director Brad Bird's first foray into feature length film with The Iron Giant. Hearing how great of a film it was and the success of his Pixar debut The Incredibles, I've been seeing the movie on my shelf for a while now, just waiting to finally be viewed. If you thought his last movie had heart, you need to see this one. While being based on a book, I'm not sure if it is the original source material or Bird's vision on screen, but the parallels to King Kong are unmistakable. This creature from another world instills fear into all but one person&#151;one person who can see beneath the harsh exterior into the wealth of feelings and compassion bottled up within. Sure the beauty in a story like King Kong is the sacrifice he makes in order to keep his love safe at the unfortunate price of being a monster in the eyes of everyone else, but here we have a kid's story where happy endings aren't just a commonality but a necessity. Bird handles the subject matter nicely at the end in order to give the audience the same emotional attachment to the creature despite the fact that the general population does end up seeing him for what he truly is. Ala Superman/Spider-Man/ etc, the monster mystic soon dissolves as they begin saving human lives.A big part of The Iron Giant's success is the gorgeous animation. This may be one of the last great 2D animated films before CGI took over the field. The cinematic touches are great, including a depth of field composed of blurred images to give the audience a focal point. You forgive that the blurring effect renders the object even flatter than the medium does originally because the effect works as it would in a live-action film. Also, the lighting effects are wonderful, especially the flashlight sequences. When our young protagonist looks out his window into the woods, and the light flare goes from bright blind spot to illuminating band of vision, it looks very realistic. The power of the light even dissipates as the flash goes farther out into the distance. As with The Incredibles, though, the true heart of the film is in the fully fleshed out characters. There is not an overabundance of cluttered supporting roles, but instead a few main roles, which are allowed to evolve and grow an attachment from the viewers. The emotion etched into the movement and facial ticks of the Giant are spectacular at getting language across, much as would have been done in a silent film. Eli Marienthal does a great job as young Hogarth Hughes, the only one who believes that his new friend is more than a weapon. Christopher McDonald adds some nice comic relief as our only villainous role, albeit not a bad guy in the common use of the term, and Jennifer Aniston allows Mrs. Hughes to be both motherly and understanding of her son's adventures. The vocal star ends up being Harry Connick Jr., who is fantastic as Hogarth's friend and confidant when it comes to the new discovery of the Giant. I think the best compliment that a film like this can have is the fact that the vocal talent was so good I didn't recognize any as the people they are in real life. No one tried to infuse their own shtick into the part, but instead played the roles to enhance the story being told.Along with all that, we are treated to subtle commentary on the state of the government, both with the duck and cover absurdity of atomic warfare and the references to gun control and war. These jabs are just that though, small moments that go along with the story, rather than take it over and hijack the film like what happened with Happy Feet this year. Weighty issues can be addressed in children films successfully, making the audience understand the problem yet not shoving it down their throats when the real issue at hand is the relationship between a child and his new otherworldly friend, giving him the confidence to stand up for himself and be a hero.So far Bird has really impressed me as an animation director. While the teaser for Pixar's new Ratatouille left me a bit indifferent, just the attachment of this autuer's name makes me that much more excited for the movie. Hopefully Bird can keep the track record intact and also, maybe prove that in order for these films to be successful, a good story is necessary. In an age where we get around ten animated films a year, there are many that are horrible cashcows to rip off unsuspecting parents into taking the children to a cartoon. Thankfully Brad Bird shows us that animated films can still hold up against live action ones for the pieces of art they should aspire to be. "},{"Title":"Brad Bird at his best!","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I, unfortunately, didn't get to see this movie until six years after it's release. What a misfortune indeed! This film truly is a masterwork of art, direction, script, and artistic vision. The voice acting is top notch here, Aniston and Harry Connick Jr provide a fabulous and perfectly toned performance. Vin Diesel, even though not saying much, delivers the voice of the Giant with heart, passion and conviction.And I have not yet touched on the humor! There were many parts during this film that had me laughing in hysterics! Bird truly has a knack for making us laugh.Lastly, this movie truly has a message to it that I firmly believe in. Passive to some, obvious to others, the message of The Iron Giant rings true to us all as The Giant gently says I am not a gun.A true tear-jerker in the best way, The Iron Giant is a film of greatness that all should experience and enjoy.10/10 "},{"Title":"A non-Disney cartoon, I almost cried at the end.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Here was a cartoon movie with loads of potential, and even more depth, one that gave children and parents alike a real, emotional story, and on top of that, it didn't treat kids like they were stupid. It's probably Vin Diesel's greatest role (because he doesn't say much, and sometimes less is more).The Iron Giant learns mankind's inhumanity and obsession with irrational fear. The Giant is essentially a war machine, his purpose to conquer and lay waste to entire civilizations. Not unlike Frankenstein, he's ostracized and feared merely for existing. But from friendship he learns mankind's capacity to do good even in the face of impossible danger, and ultimately, sacrifices himself out of love.I liked how we don't get to know where exactly the robot came from, or why it's here. I think that we're supposed to draw our own conclusions when we see strange visitors from the starry sky. And because we naturally fear what we don't understand, we feel the need to destroy it. Because it makes us look at ourselves in the mirror, and question our own purpose and existence. Maybe the things that fall from the heavens are too good for this world. "},{"Title":"personal responsibility in a fable","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pete Townshend of the Who must have had a good reason to work on this. Watch it and you will see. Every boy wants to be the Hogarth, Every man, to be Dean. Every one wants to hate Kent, and all that that implies.Whether you relate to Hogarth, his mother Annie, the beatnik Dean or the General, you will find a reason to relate to this movie. The stereotypes from the 1950s America are not so blatant as to make this movie stilted. It pulls off the era with the same smooth aplomb as Back to the Future. The staging is professional, the soundtrack excellent. The only tragedy is that they did not go on to make more with this tight production team.Watch with your son, with your father, with your heart. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A very touching film. It is much better than anything Disney has done for quite some time. It stands up there with any of the Disney classics in my opinion. Great story, wonderful characters, the Iron Giant is amazing!SPOILERS I had tears in my eyes when we saw that the Iron Giant had survived the bomb and only really powerful movies can do that to me! Watching the parts return to him in Iceland was a powerful scene and perfect ending. The Iron Giant was such a nice and gentle character despite his massive iron body. The relationship between he and Hogarth was perfect. I'm also pleased that the Iron Giant became a hero to the town instead of being driven away, which is what I feared would happen to him. "},{"Title":"The movie was great!!!  A sequel is in order!!!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I really enjoyed the iron giant and wish that Mr Brad Bird would create a sequel for the iron giant!!! Maybe the creators of the iron giant would come looking for him because he hasn't reported back to them about conquering the earth! In the mean time the giant is coming back together and returns to Hogarth's place just in time to confront his creators to try to get them to back off from their pursuit of world domination. Or he could come back in time to prevent another alien race from coming and doing the same to earth. I don't know how or who will write the sequel but I sure wish someone would. I just don't think it should be let go and never heard from again!!! "},{"Title":"Simply - The Best Traditionally Animated Movie of All Time!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Simply - The Best Traditionally Animated Movie of All Time!As the title of this review states, it's the best. Toy Story 2 and Shrek are my all time #1 CGI movies, but The Iron Giant (which I thought would suck) turned out to be the biggest emotionally affecting 'cartoon' I have ever seen, its even more of a tearjerker than the ending of Monsters Inc.Beautifully animated and expertly executed, I was in both tears and perched on the edge of my seat for the last twenty minutes. As of writing this review the movie is ranked #235 in the top 250, I strongly agree with its placement among the best movies of all time, but strongly disagree why it's not within the top 100. I have noticed one or two people (mentioning no names) have rated the movie a 1/10 simply because they disagree with its ranking, despite admitting they enjoyed the movie. Henceforth I have voted it a 10/10. Which incidentally is my rating for the movie )Please just buy the DVD, for a mere £10 or less (or $12 if you are in the US) get this movie. I can't possibly imagine anybody would not like it, it's superb. 10/10 - AN ABSOLUTE CLASSIC!  "}{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a beautiful movie. One of Vin Diesel's best performances and unfortunately it has been overlooked by the masses. If the Academy awards had the animated movie category back then I would not be surprised if it would have been nominated. The quality of the animation takes me back to when I was a child watching Bugs Bunny cartoons and it just gives me a warm feeling. "},{"Title":"Regarding the gun issue . . .","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just watched this movie again on DVD with my 4- and 6-year-old boys. Truly this is a great movie for raising all sorts of moral, ethical, and religious issues with youngsters.Which leads me to the reason for this post  To respond to the many viewers who are obviously concerned about the negative portrayal of guns as being heavyhanded or politically correct.Several of these viewers quite accurately point out that the depiction of guns is uniformly appropriate.  Guns *do* kill, after all, and no one should be shocked to see a hunting rifle used to kill a deer (the hunters themselves are not in the least negatively characterized) or military weapons used in combat (and again, the uniformed military - in contrast to Kent Mansley - are depicted quite positively and professionally).  Even Hogarth's numerous toy guns are given realistic treatment.Regardless of your position on hunting, gun ownership, foreign policy, or whatever, please don't miss the opportunity to use this movie to discuss these issues with your children in context.  The Iron Giant, after all, is himself a (the?) super-gun -- that's the whole point of the movie.  It's not the gun itself that's good or bad, but the use to which it's put.  Guns don't represent evil in the movie, they represent power.  And each one of us has in us the power to do great good or great harm, within our families, our workplaces, our communities, and so on.  Teach your child to recognize his or her own powers and understand that he or she has the freewill to choose how they are used.  Teach your child to be Superman.And of course, like other posters, you will find political and religious themes in the movie, or any number of other things.I'll say it again -- what a great movie for kids to see.  Please don't automatically conclude its message is simply anti-gun just because guns are depicted being used as intended. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever made","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Iron Giant is a must see for everyone. Simple, heartwarming and inspirational, this film really hits the spot. I do not know ANYONE who hasnt LOVED this film - and if someone doesn't, they are a heartless shell of a human being.In fact, this film is so good that I suggest you just purchase it. If you rent it, you will want to make it a part of your permanant DVD or VHS collection - so save the four buck rental fee and buy it outright.Incidentally, look for a wonderful cameo by Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, two of Disney's original 'Nine Old Men' as two train engineers - they provided the voices and the characters are spitting images of them. A delightful treat for any true animation fan. "},{"Title":"a truly great movie!","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is one of the best movies I have ever seen, if not THE BEST--all genres considered. My 3 yr old son absolutely adores it, and watches it about 3 times a day. Therefore I watch it about 3 times a day, and I can tell you honestly, I never get tired of seeing it, even after the 75 times I've watched it so far. Every time I still laugh out loud, and tears swell in my eyes. My husband actually introduced us to it, as he loves it as well. Not surprising; it is one of the best written, most touching movies I have had the pleasure of watching over...and over...and over.I don't know why this didn't do well at the box office. Too inconsequential for the public I guess, most likely passed off as another Disney rip-off. There are no cheap tears here, or cheesy gags of any kind. This movie is the real thing. Just take a look at the robots for sale on Ebay (I was going to buy one for my son but $200 is a bit pricey) People are finally realizing how wonderful this film is and it is slowly becoming a cult classic. Buy it up while you can still find it! "},{"Title":"Mechanized Animation","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I will admit that this is very skilled storytelling I am really impressed with how singlemindedly every element of this film is coordinated to give a single feel which sustains -- it has to because there is no story development to speak of. So rather than focus on managing evolution of drama, `Iron' focuses on evocation of a single `feel.' And they do that well enough for me. I actually did participate in those duck and cover drills.What I find more interesting is the approach they took to the production of the film, which I find highly self-referential, and which may be the cause of a subtle effect for the viewer. At least I like to think so.The giant is drawn not by a human animator -- instead it is a three-dimensional model created in the computer. The computer then `renders' the 2-D image according to directions. The resulting figure is assembled in a scene that has hand-drawn human characters. In a very real sense, this character of a robot is acted by a robot, while the human characters are `acted' (drawn) by humans.As with all cartoony films, the voices are what you really `see' so far as the drama. But in terms of the images -- which is what all film experiences are about -- what you really see is a conflict among the religions of animators very much like what you see on the screen. That it is set in a pre-computer, but post-nuclear age -- that the lines drawn are not ones of coexistence but of good and evil -- says a lot about Bird's take on all this. A very intimate and effective film on filmmaking. Probably shouldn't be on IMDB's `science fiction' list though. "},{"Title":"Best Animated Film of All Time","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I watch almost any kind of movie, and when it comes to animated features, they have to be truly heart-warming to capture the real spirit of a family film. There have been plenty throughout the years that deserve immediate and all time praise; Toy Story (1, 2 and 3), How to Train Your Dragon, Aladdin, Sleeping Beauty, Shrek, Wall-E, and Sinbad Legend of the Seven Seas (underrated Dreamworks cartoon). But no cartoon deserves more praise and acknowledgment than Brad Bird's The Iron Giant.The Iron Giant is set in 1957 and stars Vin Diesel as The Iron Giant, an alien machine that crash-lands on Earth and is soon befriended by a little boy named Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marienthal), who discovers that Giant, as Hogarth calls him, eats metal for food. Not long after all this, a government agent (Christopher McDonald) arrives and begins to cause trouble, and soon chaos as he believes Giant to be a foreign weapon sent to destroy America. I have never seen anything like this movie before; constantly heart-warming, family-fun comedy moments (which are great), and an emotionally shattering climax that is truly memorable. If you really love to watch movie and, not only be entertained, but moved, then The Iron Giant is one you have to watch. I would also have to say, Warner Bros. should be ashamed for the bad marketing they did for this movie; just like Brad Bird said, They had no idea what they had in their hands. This should have won a few Oscars and Golden Globes; it deserves it. 10/10 Stars*** "},{"Title":"Succeeds on all levels","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Let's see Story First rate. Interesting, involving, plenty going on but easy to follow.Subtext Subtle but deep. On a personal level, deals with friendship, being a loner, making choices, sacrifice. On an ethical level, the issue of gun control is addressed.Humour A lot, but not obvious, and it doesn't beat you over the head with it.Drama Throughout, ranging from small domestic dramas to life and death.Animation Traditional drawn animation, gorgeous.Production design Perfect.Character design Perfect.Voicework Excellent.Emotion Carries a huge, HUGE emotional wallop.A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"You are who you choose to be.","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's the 1950s and young Hogarth Hughes happens upon a visitor from space.....in the form of a giant iron man.Delightful animation adaptation of Ted Hughes' much beloved 1968 novel The Iron Man. Set during the period of time when Cold War and sci-fi paranoia was prevalent, The Iron Giant embraces these themes and stokes them with lessons of friendship, hatred, death and pertinent reminders of pacifism. Directed by Brad Bird and scripted Tim McCanilies and Andy Brent Forrester, The Iron Giant is one of those rare animation animals that delights the kids as much as it does the watching adults. Tho the actual giant himself, with all his dazzling weaponry, is the star attraction on show, it's the iron colossus' inner conflict that gives the film its heart. Aided by his friend, young Hogarth, good old iron decides he doesn't want to be a big weapon, but the authorities, as is nearly always the way, just can't let it be. The unflinching attitude that ran thru many of the 50s sci-fi schlockers was one of being-because we don't understand it, lets destroy it-something that Ted Hughes and the film makers here capture perfectly. Sophisticated and intelligent in its approach and delivery, this is definitely one of the better animated film's from the modern age. 9/10Voice work comes from Jennifer Anniston, Harry Connick Jr, Vin Diesel, James Gammon, Christopher McDonald, M. Emmet Walsh and Eli Marienthal. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant is a great cartoon movie","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" (Written by Zakiyah Azam a year 5 pupil) The Iron Giant is a great movie from the start to the end.The funniest part is when Hogorth the boy met this man called Dean and up Dean's trouser's there is a squirrel and when Hogarth asks Dean to jump into the water but Dean dozen't jump into the water the big robot dose!The happiest part is when the robot and Hogarth become friends!The saddest part is when two people kill a deer and Hogarth tells the robot it is bad to kill and when the big robot flied and hit the bomb that was about to kill everyone the robot died and everyone was saved!The scariest part is when the investigator Mr Manly threatens Hogarth that he will kill his mum if he dozen't tell him were the robot is! "},{"Title":"It's like a live action would-be movie, cept it's animated.","Date":"5 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, nothing much to say for an introduction here. Simply, about five years before The Incredibles, was made, Brad Bird was attached to direct one of the most underrated movies of all time, The Iron Giant. I gotta say, I only watched this twice and even though I know what happens the second time, it is still heartwarming and Brad Bird's best. Let me remind you that this is all opinion and zero fact and the only fact that will appear as an event in the movie.Our main characters are The Iron Giant (Vin Diesel) and Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marienthal). The relationships in this film are amazing and subtle. They aren't shoving it in your face they just play it naturally and the relationship between these two is no exception. They're both fun characters and The Iron Giant gets his funny moments too. The main villain is probably Kent Mansley(Christopher McDonald). He's just annoying and a jerk but that's what makes him such an awesome villain-ish. He's obsessed with destroying the Giant that he forces Hogarth to tell him where it is and if he doesn't cooperate, he's gonna take him away from his mother! ... YOU SICK TWISTED *******! The supporting characters are, Hogarth's mom, Annie Hughes (Jennifer Aniston) and Dean McCoppin(Harry Connick Jr.). Once again, the relationships here are very subtle and the cross relationships of Hogarth to his mom, Dean, Kent, and the giant are amazing (and all that that implies lol). The action in here is amazing, especially near the last part. Kent gets the AIRFORCE to strike at one giant. Once again, forgive me for this... YOU SICK TWISTED *******! Now the story is simple. A robot crashes on Earth and a kid befriends it. The kid tries to prevent anyone seeing him but A SICK TWISTED *******! ... sorry tries to find out about the robot and tries to get the army to destroy it. Well, this is on my top movies list and I'm proud to give The Iron Giant, 88% awesome! "}{"Title":"A superb animation. And criminally underrated","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Before Brad Bird found success with The Incredibles and Ratatouille, he directed this little seen film, The Iron Giant. Bird is one of the true auteur's of modern animation. Despite only three films to his name, the man is quite simply a genius. His films represent the finest examples of family entertainment. Ones that appeal to adults and children alike. And he understands what makes a film accessible to a child. You don't talk down to them. Just talk to them.The Iron Giant was given a curious lack of advertising by Warner Bros. It was just dumped into cinemas with very little advance notice. And not surprisingly, The Iron Giant did next to no business. And that is a real shame. Because its one of the greatest animated films you will ever see.Taking a leaf out of ET's book, and based on the short story by Ted Hughes, The Iron Giant follows the tale of a 100-foot robot that crashes to Earth in Rockwell, Maine, 1957. Bird has deliberately set the film in Cold War America. In fact the setting is just days after the Russians launched the Sputnik satellite. So the atmosphere is expectedly tense and paranoid. Most Americans of that era thought anyone who wasn't a member of the USA was their enemy. And its unfortunate The Iron Giant should have to land on Earth during such a dark era.Hogarth Hughes is a schoolboy obsessed with the stars. He watches all the classic B-movies. Collects all the comics. Has posters of Forbidden Planet proudly displayed on the walls of his bedroom. But when the TV goes on the blink one night, Hogarth goes outside and investigates. Their antenna has been bitten off the roof. Someone has left a trail of destruction behind them. Cars. Wagons. And when Hogarth follows them, he comes across The Iron Giant.When Hogarth saves him from being electrocuted at a power plant, the two become fast friends. Hogarth sort of adopts him, and has to go to great lengths to conceal him from the outside world. No easy task considering his insatiable appetite for metal. And when a government agent comes snooping around, it isn't long before war breaks out between the townspeople of Rockwell and the innocent Iron Giant.Anyone who hasn't seen this film must go out and buy it immediately. Because you are missing out on one of the most perfect family films ever conceived. Brad Bird never puts a foot wrong. He strikes the perfect balance between comedy, action and touching sentiment. Its a film where you never feel like you're being patronised or lectured to.Although ET did spring to mind while I was watching this film (and Bird has worked with Steven Spielberg in the past), I think The Iron Giant is far superior. ET felt (to me anyway) like a calculated attempt on Spielberg's part to push all the right emotional buttons at perfectly timed intervals. I never felt any manipulation during The Iron Giant.Bird crafts the friendship between Hogarth and his new friend with surprising sophistication. Hogarth's attempts to humanise the machine is conducted with real skill and expertise. Since Hogarth knows they're living in dangerous times, he knows exactly how the people will react if they saw The Iron Giant. They'll only see a monster. Something alien. And in they're minds, anything that's alien must be destroyed.Bird also does a great job evoking the atmosphere of 1950's Cold War America. The film has many accurate details that will immediately strike a chord with anyone of that era. Such as the disturbing Duck and Cover programmes. And Bird makes sure the fear and uncertainty of the times are neatly represented too. Like paranoid conspiracy nuts and straight arrow Army Generals.But the crux of the film is Hogarth's friendship with The Iron Giant. The way these two outsiders find a friend in each other. The film gets a lot of mileage out of the different adventures they get up to. Whether it be slapstick, like Hogarth doing a cannonball into a lake, and when the Giant tries it, he ends up draining all the water. Or sentiment, like when Hogarth discovers what the Giant really is.The film has a very strong anti-gun statement to make. None more so than the scene when the pair come across a deer in the woods shot by hunters. Hogarth makes a very impassioned speech about how its wrong to kill. And how to make the right choice.Its genuinely shocking to discover the Giant is a weapon. His crash to Earth has robbed him of that knowledge. But his programming kicks in whenever he feels threatened. Something not helped by the Army coming to take this 'monster' down.The Iron Giant has to make a choice between being a gun, and being a person. Which will he choose? Or will his programming make the choice for him? Pretty heady material for a so-called kids film.Brad Bird has a clear love of retro futurism, something he lavishly displayed in The Incredibles, and here too. The Iron Giant is a tall, galumphing behemoth. But Bird does a great job making him seem endearing, especially with a surprisingly animated metal face. And the different weaponry inside of him is pretty inventive too. He's got more add-ons than the Swiss Army!Things come to a very moving conclusion when the Giant must sacrifice himself for Hogarth and the people who hate him. Its very saddening, and will leave you feeling depressed for days afterwards. Odd to feel such compassion for an animated character isn't it?The Iron Giant is an unforgettable experience. One of the finest animated movies ever made. And all the more remarkable for having the ability to move and enchant you as much as it does. "},{"Title":"I Should've Listened To My Nephew...","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Back in 1999, when The Iron Giant was first released, several friends of mine, aware of my love for 1950s sci-fi films, urged me to go see this movie. For some reason, I passed. A few years later, another friend's 4-year-old son told me what a great video this was, but I still declined to watch it. And even later, when my own nephew (then 6) told me what a hilarious scene he'd just witnessed in The Iron Giant (the one in which young Hogarth drinks espresso and starts talking a mile a minute)...well, even then, I still ignored the advice. Anyway, all the above folk will be happy to hear that I finally DID watch this animated sci-fi film last night, and found it absolutely charming. Featuring wonderful animation, nice touches of warmth and humor, and wry commentary on '50s paranoia and A-bomb lunacy, the film really does have appeal to young and old. Lovers of sci-fi and/or action films should especially enjoy the film's latter scenes, in which the lovable Giant gets ticked off and morphs into an unstoppable killing machine. My hat is certainly off to everyone involved in the making of this most entertaining film. And this special edition DVD, filled with more extras than you can imagine, certainly does live up to the advertising. Hmmm...maybe I SHOULD take my nephew's advice and finally rent out his favorite movie, Toy Story 2... "},{"Title":"Perspectives","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This ran a big risk of going horribly wrong, but Brad Bird shows in his first feature that he knows how craft a new whole out of genre parts, while keeping his eye on the big picture. The opposite of this movie would be the execrable Independence Day, where the whole decidedly was a good deal less than the sum of the pieces.Part of his crafting solution is to take a story set in the past, that's about the past, and keeping the feel of the visual and vocal expression in the past -- no referential pop-culture hokum. Obviously, this is composed from parts of The Day the Earth Stood Still, E.T., Terminator 2, Godzilla and countless 50's B movies. What matters is that this is smarter than all those put together. The way this shatters old perspectives is placed directly in the visual narrative -- the part where the kid watches the brainlessly stupid movie about the man-eating brain -- all intended to point out the superior intelligence of what we have here.Secondly, the use of the Giant's exaggerated height gives Bird the advantage of exaggerating the perspective of the 'camera'. He gets to play with focus and composition -- this is superbly detailed from every angle and in every trajectory...Anime without the losses in translation. "},{"Title":"Fantastic - a Classic","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" An excellent story line with humor that is neither gross nor crude.There was a TV special that aired this movie for 24 hours straight. My son watched all but 5 hours. That was enough to make this movie our first children's DVD purchase and it has remained an oft-watched favorite. This was the first movie that my son and I actually enjoyed watching together.This movie should be a defining standard to measure all other children's movies against. It has excellent animation, voice acting, and humor. It also has the added benefit of a responsible plot line that teaches the danger of weapons and becoming your own person. (You are who YOU choose to be.) With it's voice cast, I can hardly believe that is isn't more widely known. I recommend this movie to every family I know. "},{"Title":"Fun and Intelligent","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is an example of the seamless way in which more animators have wished they could mix CG with traditional animation. It is a fun story about a kid and his robot, what could be more simple? They don't pander to the kids.The point that this movie makes is not an esoteric philosophical moral or agenda but a very simple and to-the-point statement about fear and that simplicity is what makes it so great. They aren't trying to take on too much but they don't treat the audience like morons.This movie really is fun for all ages and I really could watch it 1,000 times, BTW it's based on a book by a great writer, Ted Hughes 'The Iron Man'. "},{"Title":"Brings tears to my eyes","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is perhaps the best animated movie I've ever seen. Iron Giant is a no name robot who's origin and purpose for creation is unknown, but is surprisingly innocent and powerful. It has a sense of purpose and has loyalty and decency we don't even see in ourselves until it is provoked and shows what it might have been created for - weapon of mass destruction. Who created the Iron Giant with its heart of gold and body as indestructible weaponry ? Was it part of an unknown robot army from another planet that got strayed from its squadron ? The story leaves lots of plot holes that beckons us to know more about this character. Would the writer of this story do a sequel that fills in all the gap in the robot's back ground, and help us look deeper into its character ? It seems to be one of the best character to come along in many years. Although the scope and the period setting is similar to Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow this animated character is much more lively, and thought provoking. "},{"Title":"this is a perfect film!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie grabbed me from beginning to end, and on several levels. Childhood, friendship, love, respect for life, family, this movie moved me in so many ways. It is very funny, and so innocently heart-warming, with a deep message about faith, love, and sacrifice, carefully woven into the story. It is something when an animated film makes you laugh, but when it can make you cry too....that is fantastic. The cinematography is excellent and I felt the subtleties of the music also contributed so much to emotion of this film. Also, the acting was fantastic, there was great depth to all the main characters which made them very real to me. This film can definitely be appreciated by young and old. It is in my personal library. "},{"Title":"Beautiful fusion of children's classic with the Cold War","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Relocating Ted Hughes' seminal children's story to Cold War America could have gone dreadfully wrong and it's a real credit to director Brad Bird and his team that they pulled it off so beautifully while demonstrating the day of traditional animation is far from over.From his first appearance during a storm at sea, this iron giant is spectacularly realised and his friendship with young Hogarth sensitively and intelligently explored.The film's given a snappy '50s Beat sensibility, from the exceptional animation design and cool soundtrack to characters such as the offbeat artist Dean, who can't help but recall an idealised Jack Kerouac.But it's the immersion of the story in the nuclear paranoia gripping the US of the period that proves to be so effective, as agents of the government which has nothing to fear but fear itself allow their suppressed terror to goad the metal alien into revealing its purpose as a thinking gun. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and with a wonderful atmosphere.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant really is a wonderful movie. It's a different kind of animated movie and although it has some comical moments the main essence of the movie are on the emotions and atmosphere. It can be describes as E.T. with an Iron giant.The movie really perfectly captures the 50's atmosphere. The animations are not really among the best of the last couple of years but they look more than good enough.The story is heartwarming and the ending really is superb!Jennifer Aniston is really good and very believable as a mother but Harry Connick Jr. really was the one who stole the show. His character really is my favorite of the movie and his sense of humor is spot on!Wonderful animated movie and also one with a message. A treat for young and old.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The metal man with heart","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Having being a great fan of the Iron Man i was cynical about this movie i have to admit. It does make changes to the original story but this creates a separate tale which can stand on its own. Its very entertaining, with jokes for kids and adults. Featuring excellent voice acting, a strong plot with good pacing. The animation, using the more traditional approach, is impressive and most importantly adds to the story instead of becoming the story. The ending will make you get that tingly feeling that I believe tells you that the emotional story is effective. If you are a fan of the book you have nothing to lose, if you like the story, you win and if you don't well the book's still there. Oh and its Vin Diesel's best film to date. "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the rare movies that I loved, my 6 year old loved, my 9 year old loved and we all want to see it again and again...no boring songs and dance! This is on my top ten list right along with Spirited Away and Monsters Inc.  "},{"Title":"A delightful surprise, this is one of the best animated films ever made and is as good as anything put out by the House of Mouse.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   Warner Brothers' only previous half-way decent full-length animated film was Space Jam - a animation / live-action mix that saw Warners' greatest stars (Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, etc.) team up with the world's highest-paid sports superstar Michael Jordan to entertaining though easily criticisable effect. Aside from this their efforts have been somewhat useless. Content for a long time to release other peoples animated movies such as Thumbelina and The Pebble and the Penguin (go on, have you seen them?) they decided, on the strength of Space Jam's success, to reopen their famous theatrical animation department in the hope that they could recreate the legendary success of their 50's short cartoons with full-length animated features. Their first effort, The Magic Sword Quest for Camelot, boasted as many words in the title as there were famous names in the voice cast but, sadly, boasted almost nothing else. Except that there were almost as many words in the title as there were people who went to the cinema to see it. So, it is somewhat of a surprise to find Warner Brother's Feature Animation department releasing this upon an unsuspecting movie world, for this is the finest animated feature-length film to be released that has nothing to do with the mighty Disney studios (as of February 2000 and, it should be noted, that the key animators on this movie are all ex-Disney). Forget DreamWorks' glossy but botched Prince of Egypt, forget Steven Spielberg's over-rated executive-produced An American Tail, forget the excellent Antz, forget even Toy Story and Toy Story 2 (both co-financed and released by Disney anyway). The Iron Giant is cinema's finest non-Disney animated feature length film. It is a real shame that so few people saw it. Here's hoping that the home video market will discover this real gem. "},{"Title":"a true gem","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've just watched this film for probably the fifth time, and I must say it rates as one of the best animated films of all time. It's truly heart-warming and something you don't often find in animated features it's REAL. The characters are actually believable. The film boasts rich and vibrant artwork. Its message is simple, yet effective. Warner Bros. should be ashamed it didn't put any effort in promoting The Iron Giant when it came out in '99. This rivals anything Disney has put out -- without the annoying show tunes. Easily 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was so good, i cried in a lot of parts but it was still great, i have seen it over 100 times, i never get sick of it, it was such a cute and good movie that taught u about life and stuff like that and it was just great, watch it sometime, its on cartoon network all of the time lately so watch it!! "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Maybe the best animated film ever.  This movie manages to get right what Hollywood has been trying to do for the last forty years.  I truly don't understand why it didn't cause more of a splash when it first came out.  It's great to see it slowly achieve its rightful status as a classic, but why didn't the critics stand on the rooftops and shout about this one?   "},{"Title":"Nicely done.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spoilers.The Iron Giant is a very interesting movie from the opening scene to the final conflict.  At first I was skeptical after seeing the strange character design and some childish events.But I was impressed with some of the ideas presented in the movie.  The Iron Giant, really a child at heart, is a pretty cool character.  His CGI doesn't fit too well with the other animated scenery, but still interacts rather well.What I didn't like about Iron Giant was some of the perfect events that seem to plague today's movies.  For instance, a switch on a power plant to turn it on or off?  Come on!  And Hogarth's mother finds the flashlight within seconds of the power going off!  I found things like these kind of annoying.The final climactic moment seems a little out-of-place, since the movie was filled with heart all the way through.  Then the end is filled with military bombardment and attacks, which I found strange.  This action at the end is really cool, however, and I really liked it.Also, I found the ending only partially satisfying.  The movie breaks the traditional happy ending that American movies constantly have nowadays.  The Giant's final sacrifice is amazing.  Here he was, a defensive device with the ability to take out the world if necessary, yet he jumped skyward and into a massive missile to save the inhabitants of a small town.  He isn't really killed, as we find in the end, but I kind of liked this, too, since at the beginning we found out that he was made to fall apart rather than shatter.The plot and story are simple.  Young boy finds giant robot, struggles to keep him out of sight.  Which proves to be obviously difficult and leads to some hilarious twists and turns.The Iron Giant is a really good movie, and I now have a little more respect for Warner Bros.  They've got an adult mindset for a movie that could have been advertised for children.  That seems to happen a lot now.  And it's annoying.  But Iron Giant didn't do this.  It was advertised and made for everybody. "},{"Title":"Don't Judge a movie by it's stigma","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh sure, it's just a kids movie, there's no way it can be any good.  There can't be a plot, or interesting characters, or emotional content at all. Stop.  This movie is amazing.  Like a good boxer or dancer, there is no wasted movement.  There is no gloating about how good the movie is, there are no ridiculous song and dance numbers (not that all song and dance numbers are ridiculous.)  There is a story about a boy who gets a friend and... well you better just go find it and see it.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fantastic family film about an Iron Giant robot that falls from the skies in the late 50's.  A young kid named Hogarth finds a 50 foot tall steel eating 'Iron Giant', after discovering it trapped in a power plant station.  After saving the giants life, the two bond and Hogarth has to figure out how to keep the whole thing a secret, as a nosy government agent arrives in town convinced there's an enemy 'something' created either by the Russians or martians that must be destroyed.This is the perfect animated film, the giant looks great and has a neat personality and a cool sounding voice (like synthesized grinding metal).  There's also enough humour to keep things a little on the lighter side.  But the movie shines spectacularly in its portrayl of a 'friendly giant' and a kid who tries to convince the world that he's harmless.  This is a total setup for a very sappy, preachy, and didactic story line, but the film is not like that at all.  It comes out with the ingenious of an aesop fable handled with great simplicity and without being a paint by numbers moral lesson.  Great for kids and even better for adults.Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Touching Filmplay","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A small spoiler in here.The Iron Giant is the most absolutely amazingly definitely best animated filmplay I have ever seen. It is just perfect, you must see it yourself. At the time of writing it is showing on Sky. It combines humour with drama, and deals with the problems experienced by young teenagers as situational euphemisms i.e. one actually expressed in the film compares the giant, a metal creature of gigantic proportions, as a little child lost within a supermarket. This complies with everything I've written.If you haven't seen this film, even if you are of late teenager years like me, you will love it. It have received a lot of skeptical looks when mentioning this to schoolfriends, but I don't really care. It's their loss.The only comment I have against the film is the ending. It seems out of place. Comparing it to the life support machine starting to bleep after some time is a possibility, but this is (in most cases) a good thing. I reckon that it is good that a child should see that all good things come to an end (like the film), and that nothing lives for ever, not even giant metal monsters. That doesn't stop me awarding it 10 out of 10 though.Great voice acting, though the movie is always introduced hyping Jennifer Aniston, as though she is a 'special guest appearance'. This is wrong - she is as good as the rest of the cast, no more. Why isn't Eli Marienthal higher in the cast list? "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant was one the best movies of 1999 combining great animation with a strong story, that of The Iron Man written by Ted Hughes.The basic plot is that a mysterious robot crashes to Earth from outer space, becomes friends with a small boy and junk-yard owner, learns important issues about life before being discovered by a paranoid army officer who is intent on destroying the giant.This film more than lived up to my expectations, I could hardly find any faults with any aspect. The voice talents are well cast with Vin Diesel doing a great job voicing the giant. The animation of the giant is also good with the last act of the film, when the giant shows a new side, being easily as good as Disney could manage.For me, the film is made by the story and the issues raised, especially the ending which always brings a tear to my eye.All in all, go and rent this film, it not just for kids but for the whole family.10/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" But it should have been longer. I distinctly remember an entirely different ending in the book. I also do not remember any 1950's communist paranoia in the book or the character of Hogarth being so young. But the changes do not harm the movie and the ending this film has is just fine. There are obviously no opening credits to the film so guessing the voices is cool fun. But it's impossible to guess who plays the Iron Giant.But the Iron Giant himself is a wonderful hero. It's cool to watch him learn simple things and having him eat cars is a neat little characteristic. I like when he's bored and he plays with the hood with one of the cars in the junkyard. You cannot dislike the Iron Giant.I think it was a wise and creative decision to make this cartoon in 2.351. Most cartoons by Disney are in 1.851 or even worse&#133;in 1.661. Warner did a great job with this movie. These days it seems that Dreamworks SKG and Disney seem to do all the feature length animations. But Warner beat them all in 1999 with this movie.My only gripe is that it should have been longer. At 87 minutes, it's all over too quick. But it's still cool. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It would be very easy for me to say this is the greatest animated film I've ever had the pleasure to see, but that would be an understatement and it certainly do no justice to Brad Bird's work.  I don't want to go on and on and I don't pretend to be a critic, but do yourself a favor and see this, it works great as a political statement, an allegory on childhood, or just a splendidly engaging story. "},{"Title":"A magical film with stunning characterisation - unmissable","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An enjoyable and inspiring animated film for all ages. This modern fairytale is a story of a great friendship - that of a lively yet warm-hearted boy and a 50 foot iron robot with some very human qualities.In 1950s America, post-war suspicion and paranoia give rise to a fear of all things different. A huge robot from outer space is seen as the ultimate threat. Yet one perceptive child discovers that the Iron Giant has the ability to combine superhuman powers with the best qualities of human nature. With the encouragement of his young friend, the gentle giant discovers his soul and learns about trust, friendship and respect for life. But will his true dark purpose lead to the destruction of all he has come to love? Is the power of friendship strong enough to save him not only from the prejudice of others but also from himself?This intelligent and moving film has much to offer to anyone who can put their own prejudices against `cartoons' and `kids films' aside. While being good fun for children, The Iron Giant has a depth that adults will appreciate. This is a more `grown-up' kind of animation - no singing and dancing animals and attention-stealing backdrops, no caricature sidekicks or too bad to be true villains; instead we are treated to a fully developed characterisation rarely seen in feature animations. The result is a small cast of believable and engaging characters who draw you into what could have been a predictable plot and who leave you caring about what happens to them. The story is by turns amusing, touching, dark and inspiring. The animation is clever and seamless, but understated, letting the wonderful characters take centre-stage.A talented cast breathe life into the characters, without turning them simply into animated versions of themselves - unlike some  actors in rival films. Hogarth Hughes, the boy who befriends the giant, is given a spirited and natural performance by young X. The powerful voice of Vin Diesel, by turns frightening, funny and heartbreakingly emotional, gives the mysterious yet lovable giant his soul. Jennifer Aniston is utterly convincing as Hogarth's mother Annie - a hardworking single mother desperately trying to be a responsible parent to her imaginative, energetic son, yet secretly in need of some magic in her own life. Harry Connick Jr. gives warmth and humanity to trendy beatnik Dean, a scrap-metal yard owner who turns junk into `art' and works hard at seeming a cool laid-back kind of guy, but hides behind the smooth exterior a caring, fun-loving personality who needs others more than he would admit.  Y is the villain of the story, as Kent -, the government official on a quest to destroy the `monster'. Driven by fear, misunderstanding and most of all the opportunity for self-advancement, Kent poses a real threat yet is also amusing and thoroughly believable. It is this thoughtful characterisation that makes the film so special - there are no extremes of good and evil, simply characters not very different from us, with a range of emotion and the potential to become what they choose. The films message, `You are what you choose to be,' reflects not only the inner struggle of the Iron Giant between the desire to do good and the instinct to destory, but the struggle inside of us all to be the best that we can.I was pleased and not at all surprised to see this animation voted number one in the Children's category on IMDb (April 2000). Kids will love it, and will maybe learn from it's message of non-violence and shaping your own destiny. But, whether you have children or not, I highly recommend this heart-warming and intelligent film. It is so much more than just another feature animation. In The Iron Giant, Warner Bros. has succeeded in avoiding the all too common pitfall of turning an animation into a poor imitation of Disney. They have instead combined their talents to produce a deeper, more intelligent story with a magic that is completely their own. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant saves the day","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Seeing the Iron Giant makes one realize just how formulaic and tiresome most movies (especially kids' movies) are.  Fortunately, it also makes one realize how wonderful movies can be.  The Iron Giant does not have an extravaganza of special effects (a'la The Prince of Egypt), yet still is visually magnificent.  It does not have a plethora of sound-alike songs written by a big name in sound-alike songwriting, instead it has a pleasant background of songs true to the setting.  It does  not have the Disney Romance, a major relief.  Most importantly, The Iron Giant does not talk down to its audience.  The characters had multiple dimensions to their personalities, a feature rarely given to animated characters, details of real people (note Hogarth's crooked tooth), and even *gasp* realistic dialogue.  The Iron Giant  even has a good moral, something I can't seem to find in most other animated features. I can only hope to see more movies as worthy as this one. "},{"Title":"don't be a gun","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  WB certainly took some risks here.  An animated flick with no musical numbers, no cute little animal sidekicks, blood, and a couple damns, hells and even a screw?  Overall, I think it worked fairly well.  Nice animation, retro-design characters, simple but sophisticated plot, and just the right touch of visual humor, e.g. the robot mimicking the child's postures, the detached hand running amok through the house, etc.  Ignore the preachy anti-gun message (which was, by the way, lost on the younger kids in the audience - my four year old thought the iron giant was cool because he had all those guns that could blow up tanks), and you have yourself one very entertaining movie.  Maybe they could have made the moral more reasonable, i.e. gun's can be good if used defensively, but I guess that would have (** spoiler alert!! **) made the ending far less dramatic -  a blast from one of the robot's lasers would probably have sufficed.I saw Iron Giant a few weeks after release, and the theater was, sadly, almost empty.  Word-of-mouth and critic reviews have been very good, so I guess we would have to chalk it up to poor marketing.  Hope this doesn't sour Hollywood on an alternative to the standard Disney formula.Its no Beauty and the Beast, but I would still give it a solid 7.5/10.  Runs circles around any non-Disney animation I have seen yet. "},{"Title":"one of the best of the modern animated movies","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Brad Bird's The Iron Giant is, in my opinion, a flawless and superb animated film that is well suited for the entire family. I saw it once in the theater and loved it from the start. A few years passed by before I saw it again and I loved it even before upon my second viewing. As I've gotten older, I've come to respect it even more for being a film of quality substance, excellent animation, humor, voice casting, and even great action sequences. It's a film that's not afraid to get violent from time to time, not even to show a tad bit of blood, but it doesn't go over its head to disturb the kiddies too much. That's why parents are recommended to view it with them.The animation designs of the characters and the voice actors who made them come to life verbally was absolutely perfect. The voice of Hogarth, our main human character, fitted very well with the animated design of the character. The character of Dean was just as good at being humorous and was not under-developed. The character of Kent Mansley, our main antagonist, was very well designed and acted. His overly large and forward-jutting eyebrows as well as his slender head and relatively calm voice was perfect for an animated villain. But who really steals the show is the Iron Giant himself, a giant hundred-foot-tall extra-terrestrial invention made of metal but containing a vast array of emotions, feelings, and thoughts somewhere within his several-ton metal body.Like I stated earlier, this film is not afraid to show a little violence or hard action. In fact, there's a lot of it. And it does not become overly powerful to be frightening, except maybe to young kids. Another thing is that it's not afraid to use a minimal amount of vulgar language, which is another reason why parental discretion is advised. But we have gunshots, explosions, and plenty of destruction on screen. But with no carnage. As far as I know, there is no body count in the entire film, which is appropriate. It makes the film suited for everybody.Aside from the action sequences, we have an extremely well-written storyline and plot. And it knows exactly which subplots of the film to emphasize and which ones to keep a minimal level, such as a small romantic subplot. It is shown enough to make the story compelling, but does not become too involved to distract us or slow the movie down. The Iron Giant almost seems a little bit too short for its brilliance, but nonetheless, it does play at a very reasonable running time.Bottom line, this is one of the best animated films there is out there. I highly recommend it for its brilliant animation styles, lovable characters, somewhat original plot, and overall style. It works out very well. "},{"Title":"Perfect, jackpot, bullseye, 10/10.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I am 31 years old, i watched this movie the first time when i was around 26 and i still love this movie. It is made with heart and has a lot of messages while being entertaining at the same time.Im not a huge fan of the latest cartoon movies because they tend to have singing scenes in them, or some comedian sidekick that it suppose to be funny in some strange way.When everyone loved Hercules, i hated it. Sure... i liked Beauty & the Beast, but i didn't care much for the singing part of it. This movie, it is perfect in all aspects. Unless you are a fan of cartoon musicals. Then you'll hate it.The Iron Giant is a movie i will show my kids when they get old enough to watch it and understand it. But until that day, i will enjoy this movie myself several times. For anyone who hasn't seen The Iron Giant, i highly recommend watching it with an open heart, and let loose that kid inside you for a while.I gave it 10/10 because its worth it. The best cartoon in years to come. "},{"Title":"SciFi fans delight.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this movie about 7 years ago on one of the premium channels. As I started to watch I was thinking oh well another cheesy scifi cartoon but, as I got into it I noticed little things that made it different from other movies of the like. As in the simple way Hogarth goes through a daily routine and as a child of the 50's I was taken by the way things in his life were similar to mine. Only one parent, dreams of a being from outer space coming to earth and being his only friend and influence. Being the center of attention as an only child. The Giant and his way of getting inside of you and wanting him to be only yours. A true friend to be sure. I was swept up in this film in about 10 minutes. I was Hogarth. I felt everything he felt. I was taken with how the animators came up with the different weapons at his disposal, and that the Giant was basically a peaceful soul thrown into a situation he didn't ask for. Once attacked, buddy look out! I WANT A SEQUEL!! "},{"Title":"Open hearted one","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Here we have over four hundred comments on the film already, so, to save your time, I am lining up with those who said the animation is a really good one, adding personally that it resembles not those usual Dysney things often considered over here in Russia the only kind the Americans can do, but the good old kind Soviet multiki of my childhood. So, let The Iron Giant have the 10/10.Why, we got used to being shown bunches of evil aliens, menacing robots and maniac Russians (what a pity)... and this animation is a nice change. Not so evil aliens, a goodwill robot and such a lovely sputnic right in the beginning... yeah, we did it first ;-DRating it 10/10 doesn't mean this multfilm is ideal but only proves I liked it to the extent of caring about its plot twists, animation quality, minor bugs etc. Surely you would be right saying 'tis highly subjective. No surprise I have a fancy for robots, aliens and Russians... for some of them for sure.Watching this animation you (and, of course, your kids, if there are any) hardly would want to search for mismatches or glitches or whatever as it has the features of a tale when you are not forced to believe, to stick to realism, but you take the story close, and it has some deep honest overtones. The movie is rather laconic and inspiring as you are let to guess the characters' background, is really humorous, no cheap jokes, no sugar, definite style, the 1950's atmosphere; I assure you, you need not to be even American or a comics fan to appreciate it.And though I disapprove, err, the total gun abstinence, even in the dire need of defense (that is a bit too of satiagraha, or orthodox Christianity, eh?), I pity most that watched this seven year old movie only yesterday. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant - what can I say? This movie, starring Friends star Jennifer Anisten and Harry Connick Jr, is a heartwarming movie not only for children but adults. This movie has laughs, tension and the ending is so sad it will bring you to tears.The movie is based around Hogarth, a small boy who doesn't fit in and who lives with his single mother Annie. One day, a giant metal man falls from the sky, scaring everybody witless, except Hogarth who befriends the giant and hides him away from the US Army when the investigator is looking for him.The giant - voiced by Vin Diseal - is a beautifully made character who you grow to love more and more as the movie goes on. The end is heartbreaking and the last scene is a fantastic way to end the movie.Laughs are made all the way through the movie and my personal favourite part was when Hogarth was trying to get the giants hand out of the bathroom, in doing so, creating so much noise that his mother and Kurt - the inspector - run upstairs and storm in on him on the toilet.This movie is fantastic and no one should miss the chance to experience such a marvellous film. Top marks. "}{"Title":"Brilliant animated feature, easily one of the best animated films of the 1990's","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is one of the best animated films of the 1990's. It has everything you could ask for in a movie and it covers some great topics. It covers topics such as cold war tensions, childhood, and it even has an underlying message about anti violence and being yourself. The story follows a gentle robotic giant who befriends a young boy. The giant has no recollection of his origin, or what he was designed for, but the young boy, Hogarth Hughes, tries to teach him about things, similar to how a parent teaches a little kid. At the same time, Hogarth also tries to hide the Giant and protect him from anyone who wants to destroy him. Unfortunately, not everything is well. A shady government agent is bent on trying to find the giant at all costs. The animation is very colorful and very well drawn. The voice talents are all very good. What's interesting to me is how Vin Diesel, who later went on to be in action movies like Fast and the Furious and xXx, was the voice of The Iron Giant before all of that. This movie has a great story, and there is a good message underneath it all. Kids should definitely see this, and adults should too. Even though it looks like a kids movie, adults will be able to get something out of it and enjoy it as well. Another thing this movie pulls off that many cartoons are unable to is to make you feel certain ways. When Hogarth and the giant are playing around and doing fun things, it puts you in a good mood. Later in the movie, when certain things happen to certain characters, you feel the way they feel.Director Brad Bird later went on to make the excellent animated movie, The Incredibles. He has made some good movies, so I hope he can make even more good movies.The Iron Giant is a brilliant animated movie, and as I said before, it has great animation and a great story, along with memorable characters, and a great underlying message. This is easily one of the best animated movies of the 1990's, and it has great elements. There is humor, but smart humor, not mindless fart jokes. There is never a dull moment, or a dumb moment. At certain points, there is action. Normally action at the end of a movie makes it that much more entertaining. It's very rare when you find a cartoon with all of these elements, and when everything works out perfectly. I recommend this for anyone, kids or adults, even teenagers. "},{"Title":"greatest animated movie ever","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think this is a secret masterpiece of the movie history. Not too many man knows Brad Bird's unforgettable animated feature, I don't know, why The Iron Giant didn't become a great success, and why didn't write itselves name in the box office history. Maybe the Warner is the guilty, I think they don't spend enough money for the promotion, and the movie ran under grass in the theaters. The Iron Giant is a great entertaining movie, however there are some deep emotions and thinks in it. It's more adventures than Finding Nemo, more funny than The Incredibles, deeper than The Lion King, the recall of the Cold War feeling is brilliant, and the final action-scene is... Oh my God it's SO GREAT!. Well, I think The Iron Giant is the best animated movie ever made. MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"In the world of animated flicks this one gets five stars.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Iron Robot is a well crafted film and I'm not surprised to see Brad Bird knocking it out of the park for Pixar with the recent hit The Incredibles.Obviously this movie is about a Giant Robot and a little boy in Smallsville, USA, so I'm not sure why someone would write 5 paragraphs about it. But I will say this; it is a perfect movie for children and even an old dude like me. Most of the time animators and directors don't have the talent to breath life into animated characters without exaggerating their actions and reducing them to cartoons. But Brad Bird has a gift, he really gives the machine a soul, one that almost brings you to tears if you get mushy at films (I did).If you have kids buy it. If you don't have kids, rent it and enjoy a really good movie. "},{"Title":"Pure Movie Magic!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Some of my friends told me to see this film years ago, when it came out in '99. At the time I though The Iron Giant? That's a kids movie right? Well, now that I've grown up enough to enjoy kids movies, I casually picked it up at the video store- let me tell you this movie is awesome! It was barely advertised in it's day, and despite Brad Bird (The Simpsons, etc.) and a well known cast, The Iron Giant, unfortunately, is overlooked my most viewers.Granted, it's not a perfect film. There were some inaccuracies, especially with regard to the military, and some might argue that it runs short at 87 minutes. But this film has more compelling characters than you are likely to find anywhere. If you have a heart for movies, this film will inspire it. Hollywood, if you're listening, MAKE MORE FILMS LIKE THE IRON GIANT! "},{"Title":"FORGET DISNEY","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film does great service to the excellent Ted Hughes tale. It is one of the most beautiful animations of recent years. A film that perfectly captures the anti-Soviet paranoia of the 1950s in the atomic age.With DreamWorks also producing interesting stuff like The Prince of Egypt, it shows there is interesting, entertaining non-Disney animation to entertain the family. "},{"Title":"Quite simply, this is the best non-Disney animated movie.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm so glad that I finally found this masterpiece five year after this movie has been released. This is a really great movie and in my opinion it's one of the best animated movies ever made. I think the biggest flaw of the Disney animation is the complete lack of human characters. Disney and now Dreamworks made movies about fishes, sharks, bears, lions, dogs, bugs, ants, toys, superheroes and many other animals and creatures but you can hardly find single movie with human character from a real life . Well, all their characters can talk, feel and behave like humans but it is not the same. Most of their recent movies were good, funny and entertained but at the same time they look a bit childish and not so emotional, even cold. They are typical commercial stuff and with strong marketing studios often get good box office returns. The Iron Giant is a different case. This is a very intelligent, good-feeling and enjoyable animation with powerful and clever moral messages in its core. At first sight it looks like a kids movie but it's a wonderful movie both for kids and adults. In fact the movie idea could have been unnoticed for small kids. The story happens in 1957 in small town in Maine. It was a years of the cold war and military paranoia, a period of total fear and misunderstanding from both sides. It was really amazing to watch how brilliant was recreated the atmosphere of that period. All begins than the Hogarth, a young fatherless lonely boy found near his home mysterious Iron Giant. I think it was s a clever idea what we'll never know where this giant come from. Different and unknown doesn't always mean bad and enemy. Hogarth helped him and they become friends. He gave Iron Giant some moral lessons and even taught a basic English. But when in the town comes paranoiac special agent Kent Mansley they friendship now is in a danger. He wants to kill the Giant without any reasonable reason, just because he think what this strange robotic Iron Giant can be dangerous. Most surprising and intelligent element in the story was the fact that this movie didn't become a cheesy childish anti-gun propaganda. The message is more wise and intellectual. As Hogarth said we are what you we choose to be. Our acts are always our individual decisions and some things can't be simply bad or good, and only our choice can decide how we can use them. Also you can find in this movie many other strong philosophical ideas and thoughts. Overall, the story of friendship between young boy and The Iron Giant is very touching and emotional. Now about animation. It was absolutely fabulous. All movie is an amazing work of art. The Hogarth character so perfectly drown that you can easily forget that it's an animated movie. He looks like a real, well acted boy. I have seen almost all famous animated movies and I suppose he is a best animated character I have ever seen. The rest of main characters also very impressive, landscapes, sky and all minor details like ships and tanks were beautiful and looked absolutely real. The Iron Giant was the only computer-generated character and he didn't look as a soulless machine. He becomes a very warm and likable character. With excellent characters development and interesting story The Iron Giant is an extraordinary intelligent movie. Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's sad but it's always enjoyable, touching and entertained movie. If you haven't seen it before just go and buy, rent or borrow it. I recommend The Iron Giant to all people irrespective of their age. A solid ten. Thanks for reading and sorry for my bad English. "},{"Title":"Iron Giant is a Classic Animated Masterpiece directed by Brad Bird.","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Brad Bird is an amazing director he has made great movies such as Mission Impossible 4, The Incredibles, Tomorrowland & Ratatouille. I never knew that Vin Diesel was actually the Iron Giant in this movie until some years ago and that made me love the film even more everybody did a great job for this film it's funny, action-packed and most of all it's full of emotion everybody cried when The Iron Giant went against the missile you stay i go....you are who you choose to be this film is an underrated masterpiece Hollywood has made sequels to almost every crappy film except the good ones such as this one and the Incredibles but finally after all this years our dreams come true since The Incredibles II is coming out on 2019. I really hope they make a sequel for this film someday and i hope it's actually better than this one but usually sequels ruin everything so it's a 50/50 for me. Like i said an amazing emotional movie that show us that Robots can actually be good and kind and learn more about life than us a perfect 10 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Awesome...","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What an amazing movie this is Brad Bird's initial try-out to make animation movie (off course The Incredibles is awesome!) and yes its amazing...The Iron Giant is a story that touches you really amazing movie animation is good the story is really good from the moral things about the deer scene and the whole soul thing is really good...Touching and i honestly cried when the Giant is destroyed (yeah i was 08 when i saw it for the first time) sacrificing himself the you are what you choose to be Suuuupermaaan and explodes... i cry I could never be more happy i think that is the second time i myself explode out of joy (The first was with T2 when Arnie's revives after being apparently killed by the T.1000 when he impaled him with the crow bar) but at the end when the screw wants to get out of the room and we see every part of the Giant moving trying to reach to the Giant's head to rebuilt himself i explode of joy...Touching and good for kids and/or adults an amazing movie i approve this movie Bird... awesome... "},{"Title":"Brad Bird's Greatest Achievement","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have seen many promos with this movie on television, and was curious to see it. Sadly, I didn't, so I guess you can say that I was lazy for not seeing it. No matter, I did see this on HBO and watch this many times as it aired as a 24 hour marathon on Cartoon Network when Warner Bros and Cartoon Network were promoting The Powerpuff Girls Movie with a music video during the end credits of The Iron Giant. The movie itself feels timeless, and I know this movie will continue to find an audience despite of its failure at the box office when it first came out in theaters. I am more than happy that this movie has a cult following, and there many fans that are embracing it. With that said, The Iron Giant its about a boy named Hogarth Hughes who lives with his mother Annie a waitress has discovered a giant metallic robot, who fell from space and befriends him. A beatnik artist Dean McCoppin looks out for the Giant at a junkyard, but federal agent Kent Mansley wants to find the Giant and destroy it. The movie is itself is like Steven Spielberg's E.T. the Extra Terrestrial, but it acts very much its own movie. I continue to love this movie as I watch it, and I see nothing wrong about it. The movie does look gorgeous in widescreen as it gives it a much epic feel to it in a CinemaScope format. As much as we love animated movies in CGI like Pixar or DreamWorks, but I do think its beautiful to see an animated movie to be all done traditionally by hand instead of having it all done by a computer. The animation is again beautiful with all the rich colors, and details that were all put into this movie. I do love how the movie looks as the movie takes place in 1957. The movie does have some funny moments, and I guess a bit edgy for an animated movie that features some curse words. The movie is made for kids, but its something that adults would enjoy. Hey, when I first saw this movie, I didn't expect to hear any curse words in an animated movie which I thought it was going to be a clean animated movie like what Disney did with their animated movies. I guess both Bird and Warner Bros. want it to take it up a notch. The movie is rated PG, and nothing to be worrying about. Or shocking for that matter. I do love the characters, and really love the way they're designed. Also, I thought it had great voice acting. Jennifer Aniston; Harry Connick, Jr.; Eli Marienthal and Christopher McDonald were all really good for their own roles. Vin Diesel, I thought, was perfectly cast for voicing the Iron Giant, and can't imagine any one voicing it aside from Diesel. Michael Kamen's score to the movie is very good, and nothing more that I can say about. I love its story and the direction that the filmmakers went, and I think its perfectly executed. This is Brad Bird's greatest achievement, and should be given a lot of credit for making this wonderful movie. I have heard that Bird and Warner Bros. are both working on bringing this movie for a limited release this year on September the 30th, and October the 4th for remastering it and presenting two new scenes for the movie. This new cut will be called The Iron Giant Signature Edition. I am very excited about it, and would love to see this on the big screen like I never had before. I love The Iron Giant, and I am giving this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic which young and old alike can enjoy","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is such a beautiful film. This was a treasured childhood film of mine and revisiting it after all these years brings back a real wave of nostalgia and sentimentality.There's something for everyone in this film. It's funny, its original, its heart-warming, its heart-breaking and it's full of positive messages. Children will love this film &#x96; after all &#x96; isn't it every child's dream to meet a giant, super galactic robot?! And adults will surely appreciate the self-referential jibes to the tensions of the Cold war backdrop; often brought out through the hyper-active, villainous character Ken. On a technical note, the animation is superb and meticulously detailed whilst the voice work is equally impressive.If you haven't seen this film already, see it. It will make you laugh, it will make you cry and it will make you reflect. For behind this film's warm story lies some positive, practical themes &#x96; most prominently it's anti-war message. Don't be put off by the fact this is an animation; this is a film everyone can enjoy. The Iron Giant is a film with its heart in the right place. "}{"Title":"Brad Bird's Directional Debut Is A Timeless Classic","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Affectionately crafted, mesmerisingly told & gorgeously animated, The Iron Giant is a wonderful marriage of traditional & computer animation from Warner Bros. Animation that not only triumphs as a technical marvel of its genre but is also the most heartwarming, emotionally resonant & thoroughly intimate narrative to surface on the silver screen since Pixar's very own Toy Story.Set in the late 1950s during the Cold War, The Iron Giant tells the story of Hogarth Hughes; a lonely but smart kid raised by his mother who one day comes across a giant metal robot that fell from space & soon befriends the innocent alien. And with the help of a junkyard owner, he tries to save the fifty-foot, metal-eating robot from the paranoid government that intends to find & destroy the Giant.Directed by Brad Bird, The Iron Giant marks his feature film debut & is a work of impeccable craftsmanship from start to finish. There is no irrelevant moment in its story, every sequence has a role to play, the various themes it deals with brilliantly captures the fear & paranoia present in the society in those times, and the way it all adds up into an engaging & thought- provoking cinema speaks volumes about Bird's talents as a filmmaker.The whole plot maintains a playful tone despite dealing with some serious issues, has a very fluid feel to it coz of which the events unfold in a smooth manner, the 2D animation is exquisitely handled & meticulously detailed plus the CGI element is seamlessly integrated into it, voice cast is wisely chosen, use of colours isn't extensive but it works in its favour, pacing is steady and the background score provides a very personal feel to the story.On an overall scale, The Iron Giant is one of the greatest animation features of last century that deserves to be seen by every cinema lover out there. Presenting a firm control over all aspects of filmmaking, cleverly balancing its refined drama with clever wit & riding on the strength of its highly gripping story, crisply defined characters & terrific animation, The Iron Giant is endearing, entertaining & enlightening in equal doses and is a timeless treasure in every sense of the word.A roller-coaster ride of emotions that's sure to leave its audience both smiling & teary-eyed by the time it ends, The Iron Giant is absolutely worth your time & money and comes one hundred percent recommended. "},{"Title":"An underrated animated gem from the late 90s","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I fondly remember watching this when I was about 12 or 13 and like 'The Magic Sword Quest for Camelot,' this is another animated film from my youth I had forgotten about for several years until the Nostalgia Critic reminded me of it by placing it at no. 6 in his 'Top 11 Underrated Classics,' which also included the likes of 'The Prince of Egypt' and 'Babe Pig in the City' that I had also seen during my pre-teen years.So back to 'The Iron Giant.' The animation was mostly smooth but jarring in places and there seemed to be a continuity error with regard to Hogarth's eyes - in some shots they had pupils in others they didn't. Other than the jarring movements and alleged continuities, the Iron Giant blended with the 2D animation perfectly since he didn't look anything like a CGI character and I liked the black and white animated segments that were used for the televisions and the bombing protection public information film shown at Hogarth's school. The film, although animated, had some realistic elements such as the Iron Giant eating metal that stayed true to the Iron Man eating metal in the Ted Hughes book and reminded me of a task I did at primary school where we were put into pairs and had to create a menu for the Iron Man that included ingredients such as chicken wire and oil. There were also some realistic and effective uses of colour and lighting such as the camera pan from a sunset sky to an autumnal landscape and the pale blue lighting as Hogarth followed the Iron Giant to an electric substation. The incidental music was initially forgettable but I found it fitting to the story when I re-visited the film this evening. As for the story itself, I found it a creative spin on the Hughes book that had a mixture of funny, somewhat crude and touching moments; the funny ones including the squirrel running rampage around the diner; the crude ones including Hogarth pretending to suffer from constipation as he tries to push the Iron Giant's hand out of the bathroom window and later sprinkling 'Coco-Lax' onto Kent's drink; and the touching ones including Hogarth's ever- increasing friendship with the Iron Giant and teaching him about death being a part of life upon witnessing a deer having been shot (it's Bambi all over again albeit less powerful. The story also has some educational value, especially Hogarth teaching the Iron Giant about the human world around him and that killing people or animals is a bad thing. Moving on to the voice acting, Jennifer Aniston as Hogarth's mother Annie and Vin Diesel, who pulled off the Iron Giant's voice as well as Robby Benson did with the Beast's voice in 'Beauty and the Beast,' were the standouts but Harry Connick Jr. as Dean and Eli Marienthal as Hogarth also did a great job with their roles. The ending of the missile destroying the Iron Giant, a statue of him being unveiled in the park and his separate parts moving in Iceland is unforgettable and moving without being too sentimental. I can even remember calling the film's setting Roswell instead of Rockwell as corrected by my then-babysitter and it was thoughtful of the film makers to dedicate this film to the memory of Ted Hughes during the closing credits.To conclude, I originally gave this an 8/10 due to finding some scenes more memorable than others but I upgraded it to a 9 because I enjoyed watching this even more than I did when I was a pre-teen/teenager. "},{"Title":"This was originally my favorite movie of all time.","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" PlotThe entire set-up of being placed in the 1950's was a work of genius. They didn't go for the stereotypical look, but actually tried to make accurate without shoving it in your face. I'll talk more about this in the visuals. The plot starts with a giant robot crash landing onto earth. His origins are unknown and aren't important to the movie, which is fine by me. He encounters a boy named Hogarth Hughes. They become friends over-time and soon go through challenges that are caused by paranoia and military suspicion. It's great stuff (And it all makes sense).CharactersHogarth is a very likable and funny pre-teen that has a unique personality. He's described soulfully through dialogue and not directly to the audience. We find out, just as a side trait, that he keeps pets that he finds out in the wild. In the diner his mother works in, they have a minor but funny conversation about the previous pets he's brought in. Speaking of which, his voice and tone he keeps the whole film work nicely; his outbursts aren't whiny, annoying, or irritating. I can't think of another child character in a movie done as well as Hogarth. He's also very clever when it comes to finding ways around obstacles. It's a little hard to describe without going on forever, but his actions, motivations, and lines spoken are... well, just great.The Giant is a character in itself. He's come down to earth for... some mission. But due to a bump on his head, he has amnesia. So, Hogarth takes the chance to teach him and make the robot good-natured. It's a delightful story between the two characters. I wouldn't have minded if there was no action in the movie and just focused on those two. Vin Diesel is great as the Iron Giant, just saying.Oh, and the side-character Dean is the highlight of the movie... I guess?VisualsAs I already stated, the 50's look of this environment is fantastic. There's a scene that takes place after the Giant and Hogarth encounter for the first time where Hogarth is in a classroom. He's busy drawing the Giant in his notebook and arguing with other students. In the background playing on a projector is an Atomic Holocaust Safety Video. Considering it's the 1950's during the Cold War and after World War II, this is a great subtle throw-back to the time period. The people in the diner I already talked about are dressed perfectly for the period. Dean, for some reason, looks like a Greaser, while all the waitresses and waiters wear the correct attire. In a later scene, Hogarth is watching a Black & White Science-fiction horror film (Involving Brains) and eating Twinkies. What's cool is the packaging on the Twinkies is made to look old-school; it's great.SoundMuch like how the sounds the Speeder-bikes from Star Wars made lingered in my minds (And I'm sure a lot of other peoples' minds), the footstep sounds the Giant creates are so memorable. I don't know what it is about them, but I can never get them out of my head. It's part of my collective memory now. The voice of the giant is also memorable. I don't know if it's because of Vin Diesel or the editing process, but the robotic voice the Giant gives is something that might give you an eargasm. It's just absolutely crazy how cool his voice sounds.Of course, the one of the bigger reasons this criteria gets a five star is the musical soundtrack. It's one of the best scores I've ever heard. Right up there with some of John Williams' work. I'm not kidding.EnjoymentEvery time I went to my neighbors' house to be babysat, I watched this movie. I must've watched this film over thirty times. I've honestly lost track, and yet, it still doesn't get old. I loved this film as a kid and I love it now. I can't say much else but, GO WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Some thoughts on The Iron Giant","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Everyone's done the spoiler alerts and given some really good reviews, so I'll just share some thoughts I had. 1. What was Warner Brothers thinking when they marketed this work of art so poorly? 2. After about 10 minutes, the animation just fell away and for the rest of the movie, these were real people (and a real robot!) engaged in, and engaging me, in a marvelous story. 3. Any student of animation should make sure this work is on their list. Brad Bird is a genius, a master storyteller. It is no coincidence that he supplied the heart and magic of the early Pixar works. 4. During the last 10 minutes or so, there were so many emotions at play amongst the characters. As others have noted, I too was in tears by the end of it all. This is a story worth watching repeatedly. 5. The attention to detail is amazing; listen to the background sounds, there isn't just quiet in the background, but sounds that would be appropriate to the surroundings. Similarly, I noticed a number of nods to past animators, particularly Jay Ward with his simple hand-drawn characters (which were necessary because he had almost no money to work with) - like Jay Ward, and for that matter the South Park creators, Rankin-Bass, Hanna-Barbera, and others I cannot think of at the moment, Brad Bird fully understands that it was the story that mattered, not so much the animation. "},{"Title":"Best animated, and perhaps the best movie in general!","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I dare say that The Iron Giant is the most underrated film of all time, forget what the film made in box office because it truly deserves twice what Avatar made! This is the kind of movie that's hard to understand if you haven't watched it, it leaves you with a feeling you can't quite describe.. I've watched this film since i was a little boy, and not a single time have i seen it without shedding a tear. Everything about this movie is so spot on and well made. The animation, the characters, the plot, everything about is is very well made. Do yourself a huge favor and watch this whether you have kids or not, and i give you my word, you will not be disappointed.. "},{"Title":"An animated delight","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Set in 1957 when the Cold War was at its height and the Soviets shortly after the Soviets had put Sputnik into orbit people are understandably somewhat paranoid. When a giant robot falls from the sky the only witness is believed to be imagining things at first but young Hogarth Hughes believes him and goes out to investigate; he finds the huge robot devouring the metal at an electricity substation. While he is watching the robot is electrocuted and but he saves it by turning off the power. The robot appears friendly and starts to follow him home; unfortunately he causes a train crash and soon afterwards Government Agent Kent Mansley arrives and sets about searching for the robot; his only clue leads him to the Hughes household where he soon suspects Hogarth knows far more than he is letting on. Hogarth manages to hide the giant in the local scrap yard, which is run by Dean McCoppin; a friendly beatnik who uses the scrap to make his 'art'. Eventually it emerges that while the robot is friendly it has formidable defensive capabilities that could make it extremely dangerous if attacked... which is just what happens when Mansley gets the army in.This film is a real delight; it has a slightly retro look and nicely captures the Cold War paranoia and childhood innocence. The animation looked great; the characters didn't look 'cartoony' and the scenery looked great. The story is a solid sci-fi drama that, while aimed at children, can be enjoyed by older viewers. The voice actors, who include some big names, do a fine job bringing the characters to life. The story itself had plenty of exciting moments as well as a few laughs. There are also a few poignant moments that deal with death and may cause a tear or two to be shed... and not just by younger viewers! Overall I'd say this is a fine film that can be enjoyed by people of all ages. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I dismissed this movie altogether when it was first released in theaters. Basically it looked another pointless adventure film aimed for kids about a boy who encounters a robot and have to run from a bad guy. I think there were even fast food promotions for it so I ignored it like many others did. It wasn't till a few years later that for some reason, I decided to rent and watch it. Kill a few hours, enjoy the evening.I was quite surprised at what I discovered.I never expected to encounter such a rich story with beautiful animation, three dimensional characters -- even the antagonist wasn't your run of the mill cliché. I especially loved the intelligent dialogue that provided sharp insight into Cold War and even modern day paranoia. And the climax...just not something no one but Brad Bird and his team would have the cajones to put into a kids film.Many have harped on the marketing and I am piling on, Warner Bros. screwed up royally. They clearly had no idea at the time what they had by promoting it as a basic kids film instead of as a film all could enjoy and respect.It is a marvelous film, if you haven't seen it, go now. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant (1999)","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I watched this for the first time in 13 years just now. Saw it at the cinema originally, and it was truly a sight to behold. It still holds up today and the animation looks incredibly fresh. The Iron Giant sees a large robot land on Earth in the 50's. A young boy soon makes friends with it, while a government agent investigates the sightings. The robot has forgotten who he is, but trouble arises when his built in defence mechanisms may be a danger to the small town. The Iron Giant is base on the book The Iron Man written by Ted Hughes. A book I remember from primary school. This adaptation has Americanized it, as well as making it more of a space themed Sci-Fi. The book had a battle with a space dragon, something I would have actually liked to see, even if it didn't work. The 50's setting is perfect for this kind of film. It's all about friendship, and being able to make choices no matter how we were raised. The giant is both sympathetic and cute, as well as being dangerous. It's the age old case of violence begets violence. I did find certain moments rushed in the film, as animation is usually short, but most of all I had trouble associating with Kent Mansley. He just goes too haywire towards the end. This is great stuff though, with strong animation, good vocal performances, exciting action sequences, and messages about friendship, peace, and sacrifice. "},{"Title":"An underrated classic from W.B. Animation and Brad Bird","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" W.B. Animation is one of the less-successful animated companies because most of their films were box-office bombs. But they did make three classics, the first one was, Batman Mask Of The Phantasm, the second one was, Cat's Don't Dance, and the third one was, The Iron Giant.The plot is just like, E.T., except instead of an alien, it's a giant robot from Outer Space voiced by Vin Diesel. What I love about this movie is that it has great animation, some funny moments, the voice acting was good, and the movie also has some nice references to the Cold War.There's nothing else to say about this film. But if you're looking for a good animated film to watch. The Iron Giant, is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Jewel","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A 2-D animation movie with a great script, characters and old-style animation.The Iron Giant tells the story of the fall into Earth of an alien giant robot, and his relation with a naughty child who lives with his single mother in a small town in the States.The movie is set in the 1950s, during the cold war period and the space race, when aliens and robot populated TV shows and comics, and the imagination of the population. The movie is able to reproduce the mood and style of the era, even the animation style, but with all the improvements that technology has brought to animation.The characters are psychologically drawn with great talent, as it couldn't be otherwise by a Warner Bros's movie, and it is just them, their human qualities, what makes the viewer click with them and believe they are real. Moreover, the cartoons have a superb body movement, facial expression.The script is engaging and very entertaining, very funny and lovable. At the same time, the film address serious social and political issues in a simple approachable way, without lecturing You are who you decide to be, if you respond to violence is your option., it is in your hands to make your own destiny no matter what your past is, your heart is always a great power to connect with others, no matter how different they are. Great messages to pass on to children.Eli Marienthal is terrific as the little hero Hogarth Hughes. Jennifer Aniston is extremely lovable as his mother Annie (perhaps Aniston's best performance ever...),.Harry Connick Jr is very likable as the quirky Dean McCoppin, Vin Diesel very sweet as the brute Iron Giant, and Christopher McDonald terrific as the annoying paranoid Govt Agent Kent Mansley. In fact all the voice actors are terrific, and the movie is never dull, but cheerful and full of life thanks to them.The Iron Giant did not have success at the box office when first released, due to poor marketing and a lack of promotion, but it has proved to be one of the most charming, entertaining and lovable animation movies of all times, to be put together with Miyazaki's and other classics of animation because of the quality of its animation and story.A classic for both children and adults "}{"Title":"Cute, charming and funny","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is about a young boy (between the ages of 8-10) who thinks his family is a loner. So... he goes off to do what he wants to do, and suddenly feels something strange. He goes off out of the house in disguise and finds a giant (which happens to be the iron giant) who eats up metal. He then talks to his students about it, his mom, and then sometimes he just wants to teach it some things and make it stay out of the house (to not let his parents know).This movie is slow at first, but then in the middle, it's hilarious. It's really charming and a great reference to Superman. Despite all that action, language and angst, young children would enjoy it too. While the movie is endearing, beautiful enough for adults and is as entertaining and funny as it is to kids, this Sci-Fi adventure filled with angst, spies, film noir and detective themes is a joy to all ages! "},{"Title":"Turned out better then I expected","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Story The Iron Giant, a metal giant man from space, crashes on Earth and befriends a boy. A man from the government is trying to get evidence that the giant man exists and is determined to see it destroyed.Sounds really cliché and simple, but looks can be deceiving.The Iron Giant at first seems like a story you've seen or heard of so many times before. However, what Iron Giant is different at are a few things.The animation for one thing. It's a classic cartoon style, but assisted with computers. I think it worked out great for the movie.The relation between the boy and giant slowly builds up and is fun to watch. There are some touching scenes.There's also some nice humor in here. The Iron Giant is a fun, heartwarming family film.I can recommend this title to just about everyone. It's a great movie!8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Sublime animation with strong message on violence","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Lonely kid Hogarth Hughes (Marienthal) discovers a giant metal man which soon becomes the friend he as always wanted whilst a government agent seeks to destroy it.The Iron Giant brings together a sentimental story of a young lad with no friends but a vivid imagination and when The Giant comes down and the two share their first meeting, humour and sentimental emotions are flying around to make a wonderful film that is as sharp as many Disney pictures and is the first full length animation for the then relatively unknown Brad Bird.Bird would of course go on to win 2 Oscars (and possibly more) with so far The Incredibles and Ratatouille that had a subtle blend of humour and family magic, and this is where Bird began his magic in the animation industry.Based on Ted Hughes' book, The Iron Giant is scripted with an imaginative realism. It is designed around a lonely boy who unfortunately causes trouble with every pet he owns and his mother comes down hard on him when he tries to express his repressed feelings.Hogarth is a cheeky character that generates plenty good comedy in this picture. His imaginative nature makes you wish you were young whilst his enthusiasm at tackling exciting new opportunities, such as jumping in a freezing lake and going on his own adventures brings that accurate youthful mind that is scripted so exquisitely you will be flashing back to your own childhood.Like all Disney pictures, this Bird film has a strong message to portray to the younger generations. Lion King was the circle of life; Monsters Inc was child security whilst Robin Hood looked at the rich and the poor. Iron Giant has perhaps one of the strongest natured meanings at looking at life and death since Bambi. When The Giant is targeted he is triggered with a defence mechanism whilst Hogarth preaches to him about violence. It is powerful stuff that is all relative to the development of the young mind as this script looks to develop itself by looking at how to use violence and the context in which it is appropriate and when it is not. It is quite strong stuff, even for perhaps an older audience. When the Giant encounters the deer and the aftermath is very shocking. This by all means portrays the hard aspects of real life, blended with a sharp intake of science fiction.The means by which The Giant communicates and discovers the world's systems shows the contrasts with our world and the outer realms. The scope of technology the Giant brings is vastly different and we see a shocking look at other worldly technology versus the U.S Governments.The picture has its drawbacks. The humour is by no means on par with Pixar being awkwardly crude and in bad context.But significantly the rightful message is portrayed and it is a wonderfully made picture "},{"Title":"How did I miss this one!! Awesome","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I never leave out animated movies that comes out from the Hollywood, well this one was out and I didn't even hear anything about it, nor could I see any DVD on the local stores. When I saw the name in the top list of animated movies on IMDb I just wanted too see it. Not only IMDb I checked for it on many other movie database websites it was almost at the top of almost all of it name it be Metacritics, Rotten Tomatoes, Movie Web and only after seeing it I can understand why!! Really good one the story was simple and awesome the characters were remarkably fits the story and pretty much I was with movie flow shouting 'Kent Mansley' sometimes hehehehe. The movie is worth a watch if you haven't seen it, well just only I feel the movie label is too limited I had to get it from eBay from US but it was really worth it!! The movie is well better for kids as it is having good moral, the script was good with the direction of the movie sequence as Ted Hughes authored Iron Giant. Just keep up the good work!! "},{"Title":"Please do this film justice Brad Bird Make a direct to DVD sequel at the very least","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I still remember when I first saw this. I was 6, and one day my father came to me after work and said,Do you want to go see the Iron Giant with your brother and me? Naturally seeking any opportunity to spend time with him (my folks divorced when I was about 2), I accepted and saw the movie later that night. If only you could go back to a specific time, and experience it all over again.I was in awe at the film, from the time the squirrel ran up Dean's pants to the tear-jerking end where The Giant despaired over nearly losing Hogarth, went on a rampage, and in the end, made the decision that he was not a gun. That he could choose who he wanted to be, despite being sent to Earth with the previous intention of destruction, and sacrificed himself for the town. When I saw The Giant fly to the bomb, utter the word,superman, and close his eyes, I broke into tears.I couldn't stop talking about it afterwards. My brother and I obsessed over it on the ride home, and I mentally mulled it over in my mind that night. Now, about 9 years later, I saw it on the movie listings on the TV, turned it on for my 7 month old brother while I cleaned the front room, and my awe was rekindled all over again. Such life lessons about violence, decisions, and finding out who you are, is very rare for a child's movie.My heart twisted at seeing The Giant's familiar act at the end. Right after I went on the net, and found out that it was a financial failure way back when.What a horrible shame.I gave this a 9/10 because the guns kill people message got abit corny once or twice in the film, but that was the only real problem with this great movie. At least in my humble opinion.I recommend this movie for all ages, and if you haven't seen it, please do for your sake.May more movies like this come into existence. "},{"Title":"Great for all dreamers!","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one modern-day fantasy movie that is great fro all times. The Iron Giant is a touching fantasy movie that will stick in our minds for times to come. Set back in the 1950's, there a young boy named Hogarth(Voiced by Eli Marienthal) who lived with his single mother. His favorite playground is a junkyard. Then one day, he meets an alien robot known as The Iron Giant(Vin Diesel) who is stranded on Earth. He becomes friends with the metallic being and he has a ball. Especially when he gets in an old Cadillac and it's spun around like he's in a merry-go-round. Since he was his only friend, he had to protect the robot from paranoid government agents. When one of them thinks the Earth is under attack, it was up to Hogarth and his mother and boyfriend to stop the Military for making the biggest mistake of their lives. Well, the Iron Giant does his duty by stopping the missile from destroying the Earth. That's true heroism. I enjoyed this movie. Like E.T., only metallic! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Terrific Animated Take on 1950's Sci Fi","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Unlike most folks I know I really like Pete Townsend's Iron Giant album. It inspired me to get the Ted Hughes' book and read it to my kids, who really liked it. The animation in the movie is terrific (except for the faces, which are distractingly bland, especially the kid). There was clearly a dig at Disney by opening with an ocean storm as most Disney animation starts with that (i.e. Little Mermaid and Tarzan, etc.) or maybe animators just like doing storms. This is done very much like Day the Earth Stood Still, a throw-back to old '50's sci fi films with a dash of The X Files, including a satire of Fox Mulder's character. There's references kids won't get, like the Duck and Cover cartoons, Sputnik and general Cold War paranoia, which I remember quite well.Nice that there's actually some sympathetic adults in this, especially the sculptor/junk yard dealer where the Giant hangs out.But I did miss Townsend's music, even if they bought him off with a producer credit.(originally written 8/22/1999) "},{"Title":"The closest American animation can come to Miyazaki","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In 1999, The Iron Giant was a box office failure, due in large part(if not entirely)on Warner Bros piss-poor advertising campaign. Which is a shame, because this is a unique, outstanding movie.Unlike most of the animated films made in the States, TIG relies on characterization rather than on insipid humor(not that there ISN'T humor in it because there is)to propel its story, which in itself is constructed on 50's paranoia,and the damaging effects of fear. I also enjoyed the music by Micheal Kamen,the voice acting(Vin Disel actually has been in a good movie) and the ending, which I will not reveal.With a new DVD release, hopefully The Iron Giant will get some of the recognition it deserves. "},{"Title":"Hits the mark for adults and children","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is well constructed... a significant departure from the Ted Hughes original which I  rate very low.   They script writers know how to maximise the pathos and drama.  The  animation is spot on and has the subtle comic book look of the 50's. (great for the adults).   The voice casting was good.   The camera angles and  moves were excellent; if this had been  a live action movie it would have been superb to watch.  In summary Subtle, cool, funny, involving, moralistic, sad, fun, exciting.... this is one to buy on DVD and  hand down to the kids as they grow up.    When my 2 year old climbs up on the sofa, opens a cupboard, searches out the VHS tape of  Iron Giant, rewinds it and puts it on the TV, for the 5th time, you know he likes it. Watching alongside 3 to 5 year olds I had to stifle a tear at the end.   It's a father thing!    Adults will probably get a lot from it as well.  An  antidote to our modern world. "},{"Title":"Wonderful for kids and adults","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Even years after its release, I still find The Iron Giant to be a captivating movie. Animated films are making a comeback to mainstream cinema, including Hollywood big-budget computer-generated films (Shrek, Toy Story, etc.) and westernized anime films (Spirited Away, Cowboy Bebop, and others). In the midst of this, I find the retro style of Iron Giant to be familiar and comfortable. The story is a straightforward one of friendship and growth, with an ending that speaks to love and sacrifice. My kids love this movie; I love this movie; if you haven't already, see this movie! "}{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Simply one of the best movies I've ever seen. Unlike so many animated tales, this one actually teaches (both children AND adults) while it entertains. TV Guide gives it a 4 (out of 5) star rating. And it isn't even a Disney movie. By the time you finish watching this film you will have 1. laughed yourself silly; 2. smiled till your cheeks ache; 3. shaken your fist; 4. Stood on your feet and cheered; 5. Cried your eyes out; 6. Fallen in love - with a very large Robot. I hope anyone who has not yet seen it will go the extra mile and buy it, rent it, borrow it - but watch it you must. I absolutely promise you will bless the day that you do. "},{"Title":"Well-crafted, funny, and touching, with great visual appeal","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant presents a well-written and visually appealing story that works better than most Disney movies.  Set in 1957, it explores half-seriously, half tongue-in-cheek the stereotypes and the reality of G-men and the US military mindset, the cold war, and life at the start of the space age.The story is told from the point of view of the boy, Hogarth, who is a believable and sympathetic character.  A couple of anthropomorphic elements can be seen in the robot, but it's not hard to suspend disbelief since these elements are subtle and not the primary driver of character development.  The robot character is somewhat enigmatic/alien, which only serves to make the story more intriguing rather than confusing.The other characters are enjoyable, even though they are somewhat flat (to varying degrees).  The humor is not as sophisticated as, say, The Simpsons, but it's never annoying, overly juvenile, nor over-the-top as it can be in most Disney movies.By the conclusion, I found myself unexpectedly moved, thanks to the well-crafted sympathy-inviting character development.  Despite the use of some standard plot devices, The Iron Giant is certainly a movie I plan to share with my future children, and one that I will enjoy right along with them.  Highly recommended.  Overall score 9.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Normally I wouldn't even comment, but I have to respond to previous messages.  The one who said recently that guns are portrayed as power and neither good nor bad is right on.  This movie isn't anti-gun, and I'm pro-gun.Now, the other one who gave this 1 out of 10 simply because it doesn't deserve to be in the top 250 is ignorant.  If I have to put up with Requiem for a Dream at 47 or whatever, then you have to put up with Iron Giant.Oh, yeah.  And the movie is excellent.  10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the BEST Animated Films i've ever seen.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's a shame IRON GIANT, wasn't a big hit in theaters because the film is brilliant. Its a beautiful story of a boy and his robot.  If you've seen the movie, you know how beautiful it is, it also has interesting characters and a great plot. The ending is so well done and very uplifting. I loved this movie. Its brilliant. A Thanks "},{"Title":"Best cartoon I've ever seen!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen some pretty good cartoons in my time (Lion King, Beauty and the Beast). And this movie had it's typical cartoon spoilers, but most of it was really good! It really is a movie that everyone needs to see at least once. And if it ever goes on sale at your local retailer store you have to buy it! But probably is not worth paying a lot of money for. BUT YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"my favorite kids movie ever (im 30 but have a 6 year old daughter)","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i drive my daughter crazy with this movie.  she wants to watch little mermaid and all that other disney rubbish, but i just love this movie. its one of the only kids movies that is truely entertaining for adults and kids, one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Brilliant social commentary","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is simply extraordinary. It gives us a fresh and innovative view of the McCarthy era, when paranoia dictated politics and fear motivated overwhelmed our sense of responsibility and accountability.By framing the story as a cartoon and presenting it to us from the point of view of a child, the viewer is able to judge the other characters objectively for what they are. The naivete of Hogarth and the seeming innocence of the plot is a stark contrast to the probing cynicism and paranoia of the CIA.The movie does indeed oversimplify some major issues to make its point. The Iron Giant, as a symbol of ultimate good, and the CIA as the symbol of pure evil is certainly unfair. The rigid binary of good/evil, right/wrong is problematic. But it nevertheless forces us to ask questions about ourselves and about how we take the authority of those who claim to be looking out for our best interests.The Iron Giant is a refreshing tale of moral accountability and a brilliant social commentary on a dark time in American history "},{"Title":"Loved it! But, Vin Deisel?","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie kicks Bambi where it hurts. I thought the movie lacked a significant plot. But who cares! It made up for it with good, clean gags, and an ending that is sure to please anyone.Spoilers! Beware!I remember the ending like I saw it in the movie with no reaction yet when I see the movie. I break down in tears. When he is heading towards the bomb and he thinks back to who he wants to be. SupermanSpoilers! No more!Ok off of that sniffOne thing that suprised me about this is that Vin Deisel (the star of Triple X and such) Played the gentle Iron Giant. It makes my laugh still, how he can be the Iron giant one moment, and Mr. Macho Guy (no offence to Vin Deisel fans)Another thing I loved was the musical score. Imprresive, especially at the end.O. K. Thanks. see ya! "},{"Title":"EASILY THE BEST AMERICAN ANIMATED FILM EVER MADE!!!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this film opening weekend on the enormous main screen at Graumans Chinese Theatre in Hollywood California simply because I was babysitting my 6 year old brother that weekend and needed to entertain him. We sat there in an almost empty theatre(due to THE IRON GIANT'S infamous bad advertising campaign) on a Saturday afternoon with ZERO anticipation for what we were about to watch for the next hour and a half.What we did see was an indescribable movie going experience. I hadn't been moved by a movie so much in my life let alone a 'cartoon'. The next few weeks was me racing against the clock to get everyone I knew to see it before it's short theatre run was over. Everyone that listened to me thanked me for my diligence.SEE THIS MOVIE if it's the last thing you do it's worth all 86 minutes!!!YOU ARE WHO YOU CHOOSE TO BE...SUPERMAN! "},{"Title":"He can fly...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When my five-year-old brother walked up to me, tugged on my hand, and said, Come watch Iron Giant!, I couldn't say no. Little kids just do it all, don't they? Well, I can't tell you what I was expecting...it probably would disgrace the movie. Very contrary to my belief, I found The Iron Giant to be an incredible tale of friendship and love. It's not one of those sappy little kid movies...it really has meaning to it. Eli Marienthal was an excellent choice for the voice of Hogarth, also, and who knew that Vin Diesel could sound like a robot? I can't tell how many times I've watched this movie with my little brother now...it has to be on of the best animated movies ever created. It can get one very emotional also...sigh I almost cried when the robot quoted Hogarth and went to stop the bomb. Well, not too much time is left for me here, so I might as well wrap it up with a questionDo you think you can fly?Matrixchic007 rates THE IRON GIANT as a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A Somewhat Flawed Gem","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently saw this movie again on TV and my opinion hasn't changed on it one bit. A small masterpiece in every way...except for the politically-correct (read heavy-handed) way that guns are portrayed. It somewhat bothered me in the theatre, and seeing it on TV only reinforced the feeling. The only instances of gun use in the movie, including the toy one that Hogarth uses, were correct and not objectionable in the least. But the writers just had to hammer their point home. Oh, well. I found the movie a rare gem and still cannot understand why it wasn't a smash. Maybe it was over a lot of heads. I even bought a copy, despite the not-so-subtle messages. Buy it when you find it. It's definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"'Lovely Stuff' - Shakin' Stevens","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For all my slam bang special effects action martial arts killing and maiming sensibilities, I cannot fault the Iron Giant.My girlfriend is 24 and she cries every time we watch it. And I cant think of a better recommendation than that. "},{"Title":"DISNEY TAKE NOTE!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am not a fan of animated movies (especially of the Disney variety!) and I have no patience for gooey songs, anthropomorphic animals and objects (ad nauseum), but this is the best animated movie I have seen yet (saw it on TV a few nights ago). It beats the usual cliche stuff churned out by Disney Inc., and the characters are lovable without being overly cutesy. I decided to check out Atlantis as well, and The Iron Giant is far superior to that humdrum, boring Disney flick! The Iron Giant himself has the sweetest personality. He reminds me of Johnny Five from Short Circuit, another movie I loved as a kid!CONCLUSION? This movie will definitely appeal to adults as well as the kids! I recommend it!10/10 "},{"Title":"It must be one of the best","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've honestly lost count of how many times I've watched this.  It's one of the all-time favorites for my nieces, so they keep making me run it.  And I still enjoy it.Better than anything Disney's done since at least Aladdin! "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fall in love with a touching, heartwarming and genuinely beautiful film. If you have ever read and loved the Iron Man as a child please do not hesitate to see the Iron Giant. If you haven't read Ted Hughes wonderful book, do so now! Then see this film. It is rare to find a clever children's film that demands something of the younger viewer in the way that the Iron Giant does. Or one that is so rewarding. 10/10! "},{"Title":"Great movie of friendship","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A great story of friendship during times of uncertainty. With the launch of Sputnik in 1957, a giant robot comes to a small town where a little boy sees the human qualities where everybody is afraid. The lives of a small community are changed and will never be the same.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful...","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a movie I wasn't exactly looking forward to watching- I don't know why- I guess the way the studio's marketed it, it didn't look too appealing. When I finally got a chance to sit down and watch it- I was absolutely blown away. What a beautiful and heart warming story! What an amazingly talented cast of voice actors- (Jennifer Aniston as a working class single mother? who knew!) Along with the animation, and the fun music this makes for a real treat for the whole family! It's a fabulous movie and a joy to behold. Every time I see it's on TV- I usually end up watching the whole thing- This is the kind of magic DISNEY used to make but forgot how to. 10/10 absolutely beautiful- you will not be dissappointed. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Wonderful","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  THE IRON GIANT-- 11/26/99THE IRON GIANT was a total surprise. I usually skip animation at the theatre, but I made an exception on this one and I am glad that I did. I would even go so far as to put this film in my Top 10 list for 1999.THE IRON GIANT not only had a positive message, but was funny and heart-warming too. As a guy who is totally at odds with the unduly graphic, formulaic, impersonal and dumbed-down movies of this era, it was a unique experience for me to walk out of a movie feeling good about what I just saw. For example, although FIGHT CLUB (8.5/10) is easily one of the top five movies of the year, I must admit that I did not feel particularly good when I left the theatre that day. Shocked is the word that comes to mind, but good is not one of them. After thinking over the films I had seen so far this year, not  unsurprisingly, almost none of them made me feel good. Oh, I may have been intellectually stimulated, but was I encased in a field of positive energy? No. If you want a big, warm fuzzy, this film, THE IRON GIANT, is certainly the one to watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Captivating for all ages","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An animated movie with so much to offer all ages, and so well done that you'd be hard pressed not to be in tears! Set in the 1950's, it captivates not because of the animation itself (which isn't bad, but isn't anything we haven't seen before) but more because of the great script, the perfect sense of the time in which it is set, and ultimately because the filmmakers haven't pandered to the kids. They have told a wonderful story, and they have achieved what is rarely achieved in animated features - characters that you really can believe in...even if they are 100ft metal monsters!Gimmick-free and with real heart. You'll forget Disney ever existed! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of the century.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are truly no words that can describe the magic, emotion and charm of The Iron Giant.  No review could ever do this film justice; it must be seen to be believed.Everything about the film is done wonderfully and flawlessly.  The music is fantastic, ranging from retro '50s tunes to emotional orchestrational pieces.  The voice cast is marvelously talented.  Vin Diesel adds a strong, innocent voice to the title character, Jennifer Aniston and Harry Connick Jr. pull off their characters magnificently convincingly, and Eli Marienthal does one of the best child performances I have ever heard.The story itself seems formulaic at first.  Some could even claim it steals from E.T.  While it's likely that the writers saw the film, there's no doubt that Iron Giant manages to come off as a unique experience of its own. This is truly a film where people both laugh and cry.  Connick Jr. has some classic dialogue, and the ending(Which I can't remember without a few tears)is simply one of the most moving scenes ever created.Animation has been given great interest lately, with other great films like Chicken Run, Shrek, and Atlantis.  Yet Iron Giant manages to stand above them all, and may permanently stay as my favorite animated film. 10/10. "}{"Title":"TREMENDOUS! A great, great film...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being rather disgusted with what Disney has done to american animation, I felt that we may never get a great film over here again... boy was I wrong. This film is probably the single best animated film (not counting Princess Mononoke, which Disney made sure was buried before it could take foothold) to reach the big screen over here in years. Wonderful animation, likeable characters and GREAT writing set this gem apart from its rivals, and despite not being a giant box office draw I suspect its gonna be revered for many years to come by children and adults alike. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A giant classic!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a fantastic animated classic.The story has a big heart with wonderful characters. The friendship between the kid and the robot is handled perfectly.  The clever combination of smooth 2D animation with 3D animation create an attractive world of fantasy. The attention to detail is impressive and is why this movie is so engrossing.The heart of the movie is covered with enough muscles many genuinely hilarious moments and a climatic action packed finale.A fantastic must-see must-own movie. There's nothing out there like the Iron Giant.--MB "},{"Title":"disney wouldn't have made it better","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie is still fresh in my mind, so I can not order my feelings...but I can tell you that this is one of the most wonderful movies if have ever seen for a long time. The story is wonderful so are the characters... Go watch the movie if you still had not...It is a brilliant movie...and not only for kids... "},{"Title":"A Treat for All Ages","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I feel odd, adding the one-jillionth comment to a much-reviewed movie like the Iron Giant. Therefore, I'll keep it brief. The Iron Giant is one of the most intelligent, well-told children's stories I've seen in many years. It transcends age and gender and is a treat to young and old alike.  Well done, Mr. Bird, please make us some more. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like most of the people to have commented on this film I can find nothing bad to say about it.  It was certainly a breath of fresh air from all the Disney-ish cartoons out there.  The animation is of a classic style and goes together with the actors voices perfectly.  The setting, which is in the cold war culture of the 50's, is also an added bonus to the story as the fear of the Giant gets out of hand. The bottom line is that it is very enjoyable and teaches a lesson about violence and intolerance in a way that isn't sappy.  Enjoy   "},{"Title":"Better every time I see it","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was skeptical of The Iron Giant when I sat down to watch it for the first time a few months ago.  My attitude had been If it isn't a Disney film, it can't be that good, can it?Oh, yes, it can.  This is definitely the best animated film I have seen in years.  The characters were realistic, the animation was beautiful, and the plot was good enough to hold my three year-old's attention as well as my own.  And I figure that, eventually, I will be able to watch the ending without bawling.  Also, I liked the anti-gun message behind the film, and how simply it was rendered.Do yourself a favor.  Even if you don't like cartoons, give this one a shot. "},{"Title":"A great film for both kids and adults","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant wasn't a big hit in the theaters, but hopefully it will find a larger audience on video, since it deserves one. This is one animated film that doesn't resemble Disney's output very much, which is refreshing. It's just a wonderful story told very well. Set in 1950s Maine, The Iron Giant is the story of Hogarth Hughes, a bright, only child with an active imagination who is being raised by a single mom. He meets an enormous, child-like robot from outer space who may or may not be a danger to the people of earth. The actors voicing the characters are all great (especially Harry Connick, Jr. as a Beatnik scrap metal dealer), the story is very touching, and the film incorporates just enough reminders of '50s Red-scare paranoia and sci-fi influences without letting them overwhelm the story. This is a great film that viewers of any age should enjoy. "},{"Title":"A gem of a movie!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The newest animated classic for audiences of all ages, this movie belongs in everyone's video library. Funny, uplifting, touching, exciting...this is a wonderful film which, for reasons I cannot fathom, never got the commercial audience it deserved. Rent it, buy it, but by any means you MUST see The Iron Giant. This gets an enthusiastic 10 out of 10! <> <> I first posted my comments on Sept 11, 2000. Once the movie was out on video, I purchased several as gifts. I accosted strangers with kids in the checkout at grocery stores ..have you and your kids seen 'The Iron Giant'? My sister (a kid in her 40s, mind you) absolutely loved this movie -- bought the soundtrack even -- after I told her she MUST see it. And here it is, almost five years later, and how am I spending the last hour? Reading over the members' comments on the movie, relishing the praise IG has received from all over the world, like some surrogate proud parent. My all-time favorite animated movie; I wish everyone could experience it. I think I'll go pop it in... "},{"Title":"About a Machine Man","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Without doubt one of the best films of the past ten years, animated or not, IRON GIANT is a fabulous love letter to 1950s science fiction b-movies and b-fiction. The central figure, the alien robot construct, is as grand and cool a physical design for a robot as ever put on film; but then this is perfectly balanced with the character of the robot, a being who is sentient and loyal, as he understands it.The robot, befriended by a young boy who is himself a SF b-movie junkie during the reactionary '50s time period, engages the boy and the boy's beatnik confidant with his trust, allowing the film to briskly detail the Giant's advances, as he comes to understand his own nature, the possibility of becoming a deadly weapon and a monster from the boy's comic books, and his understanding of heroism and love for his friends. In a world which is dangerous for the robot, and he in turn a danger to it because he is built to destroy, rather than love, the Giant's story of coming to the realization of what and who he truly is has a poignancy that is simply amazing. It is a story of redemption as great as the classic monster icons that have inspired this movie, such as the deformed Quasimodo of Notre Dame's saving of the beautiful, wrongly-accused Esmeralda who will be executed unless he protects her, even if he must die for her, loving the unattainable beauty he loves but can never have, or Frankenstein's Monster destroying himself and his newly-created Bride of Frankenstein because they are, in the Monster's opinion, a vile affront to nature.The Giant too realizes he must do what he has to, in order not to be a monster. It is one of the grand moments in cinema when the robot faces his fate, and becomes more than human in the process. An amazing film worth seeing many, many times.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully animated, enjoyable, meaningful movie","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having heard great things about The Iron Giant, I decided to get it myself and watch it.  What I saw was a wonderful event of animation, with plenty of depth and imagination.Animation has come a long way from the days of the old Looney Tunes and Disney cartoons, and now with The Iron Giant we have a seamless merging between traditional 2D animation and 3D animation, with the Giant being fully animated in 3D.  The result was the most visually stunning animation I have seen in a while.The Iron Giant had a great story to it (being based on the book by Ted Hughes), one that was meaningful and one that allowed interaction with the viewer to use their imagination (there are questions which are not answered, you really have to use your imagination).  All the voice performances were exceptional, and really added to the characters in the film, instead of making them one-dimensional.  The Giant in particular had a lot more emotion then you'd expect from a giant robot made from iron.This is the best animated film I have seen since The Lion King, it had everything in it, from laughter to drama, from happiness to sadness (the ending brought tears to my eyes).  This is an animated feature not only for kids, but for anyone of any age.  It's a shame it wasn't given the exposure it deserved, it probably would have done a lot better at the box office.  If you're a fan of animation, or you just want to see a great family film, you have to see this.  I give it 10/10.   "}{"Title":"Didn´t expected it at all, but it is truly worth watching it.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is difficult enough to add some other brilliant characteristic that this movie possess, that somebody else has already said, here on IMDb. The Iron Giant is a really good movie, with a fresh story, out of tales, fantasies and legends. The great setting (time and place) that the story provides is so very singular for such a ment-to-be-seen-by-a-child-movie. I wish somebody would make a live action movie based on it, even though I know it would take some of the magic out of the story, but I surely hope more people can experience such a wonderful film (because... it is more than a movie, it is a film). "},{"Title":"A mirror held up to humanity","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The enigma of the Iron Giant's complex nature is a literary device to make us look at ourselves.  The Giant is a mirror of humanity; making him a space alien is a way of bringing another perspective to our human nature.  On the one hand, we humans seem to be programmed as death machines.  On the other hand, we have compassionate souls.  Which will predominate?  The key to the whole story is simply You are what you choose to be.  Your innate compassion can override your death program.The character of Mansley the bad guy is so malicious as to be actually psychotic.  His only function is to show the madness of the human death programming taken to extremes.  It makes us look back on the Cold War and wonder what the hell went wrong.  The name Mansley symbolically reflects on Man, who has allowed this insanity to run away with the human race.  The Giant's choice of compassion over death programming is inspiring and uplifting; to get that across in a movie any more you have to disguise it as a kid's movie, but this one is equally enjoyable for kids and adults alike.The technical side of this film shows the impressive advances in conventional animation, to remind us that computer animatronics are not necessarily the last word in this art form.  The most stunning light shows, however, involve weapons of mass destruction.  The Giant's seemingly miraculous ability to regenerate himself as well as whip out a mind-boggling array of destructive devices reminds me of Arthur C. Clarke's dictum Any technology sufficiently advanced is indistinguishable from magic. "},{"Title":"On my top ten list for best movie of the year","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The best children's movie I've ever seen. In my opinion, the third best movie of the year. Not as good as American Beauty and the Sixth Sense, but still a wonderful movie.I give it an A+.I liked Christopher McDonald as Kent, because by the end of the movie you hate him a lot.Anyway,this movie is very good and I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm really glad that this film has gotten such a high rating and good reviews in the imdb.  This is one of those rare films that deserves all its praise. It appeals to kids, because it's animated, but to adults too, because the script is great. There are no musical numbers or animal sidekicks that act as the lead character's conscious. This is just a well made film that happens to be animated.  Really entertaining, if you haven't seen it, you definitely should.  "},{"Title":"you are who you choose to be","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What an incredible film.  It is a travesty that it didn't do well at the box office.  Hats off to the entire voice cast---especially Eli Marienthal. He made the character of Hogarth Hughes come to life.  I was so moved by the display of friendship between Hogarth and the Giant that the ending brought a tear to my eye. "},{"Title":"In a world where Disney horrible movies rule...","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's such a shame to take a look at the BOX OFFICE link for this movie, and see that it did no money while it ran on screens in USA. Yet i see horrible films like the much over-hyped Tarzan, which is so silly it offends me, getting all the way up, nevermind it contains all kinds of Disney cliches - that female gorilla sidekick really made me want to kill her -. The Iron Giant is simply put, one of the most beautiful and simple stories ever told in an animated feature. I went to see it 5 times in my country, and each time i couldn't help the tears. Gee, this is such a very touching film. Now i know it's getting high on video rent, but you'll never experience it as in the theater. It really makes us think about not judging a book by it's cover. I just wish Warner comes up with another film like this one. Disney sucks !!!! "},{"Title":"Sweet tale of friendship","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie shows the story of a boy in 1957 (surrounded by sci-fi movies and paranoia) who finds and be-friends a gigantic iron man who is very likeabe and will remind some of E.T., except in animation.  Very nice film with some comedy on the side to help out.  One of the best kids films to come around in the past years, helped out by being animated and not with live action and computer graphics (not to mention cheaper).  A "},{"Title":"a well-written and beautifully-told story about the best and the worst that people are capable of.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The storyline is neat and seamless, and yet the underlying themes are so complex. The Iron Giant tells us - through witty dialogue and remarkable animation - what we human beings are capable of. Alas, that encompasses the entire spectrum of supreme compassion and utter depravity.  "},{"Title":"Great animated adventure","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Reminiscent of E.T., among others, The Iron Giant is a fine spectacle in animation.  It is flawless in its storytelling, style and setting. What I enjoyed more about this was the nostalgic atmosphere of the time period. I loved the world seen by Hogarth, filled with imagination and heart despite the despair and paranoia that occurred as well.  I urge everyone to take a chance on Iron Giant! "},{"Title":"A very realistic animated movie packing an emotional wallop","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I, for one, have tired of the typical Disney formula movie. The movie that has the same rags-to-riches plot, the search for self, the romantic culmination, the comedic sidekicks, etc, etc. And Disney has watered down its moral message so much to prevent offending anyone that there is hardly a moral message at all. The Iron Giant is the movie you WISHED Disney would make.The Iron Giant is set in the late 50's. The dual optimism and fear so prominent in that time period is reflected in the movie and used to great effect. Young Hogarth represents countless boys who have grown up wistfully dreaming of space fantasies. Mr. Mansley represents the fear of the Soviet Union and nuclear annihilation of that period.The boy finds the Iron Giant and is at once scared and sympathetic. The movie goes on to show how little boys are actually more adept at looking past fear than adults.The relationship shown between the boy and the Giant is one of the best demonstrations of friendship I have ever seen in the movies. This is a relationship you care about, far more so than in any of the Disney movies.And, unlike Disney, this movie takes moral stands unambiguously. The wildly careening and inappropriate grace is hysterically funny and very much believable for a young boy. And the thoughtful conversation between the boy and Giant about having a soul is filmmaking at its finest. The Giant's uncertain status-- Is it alive? Does it have a conscious? Does it have free will?-- makes one think more about the afterlife as a result.The confrontation between the Giant and the military is the one part of the movie that is action-oriented. And, like the rest of the movie, it is well-done.Unlike the Disney movies, or most any others, this is a movie that you do not know how it will end. I thought this as the confrontation started-- and wondered, will I be disappointed? Not to fear-- wow, the ending is super! It packs an emotional wallop. In fact, this ending will have you and your friends talking for days.I've been frustrated all too often at Hollywood movies for such technical brilliance but lame plots-- here is a sterling exception. The plot is what makes this movie so memorable. And not only for what it says, but for what it doesn't. Questions such as Where did the Giant come from?, Does Hogarth have a father and, if so, where is he? are left unanswered-- and the movie is all-the-better for it.The excellent story, emotional resonance, and wonderful moral messages make this a movie not to be missed (unfortunately, too many have since no Disney marketing campaign backed this film). Here's a movie truly for kids and adults.  "}{"Title":"Wonderful, amazing movie","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm pretty stingy about giving out my 10's on this site, but this movie did get one of them.  It's quite simply that good.  Anyone who misses out on it because it looks like a kiddie cartoon is sadly mistaken, as it features better characters and a more heartfelt story than most any other hollywood movie.  You'll care more about the Giant in the end than any cookie-cutter stereotype in that realistic movie you were thinking about seeing. The parallels to E.T. in the storyline are undeniable, but this film has a philosophical twang to it that in my opinion gives it the edge.  The joy of childhood, the realities of death, the possibility of afterlife, the numbing effects of paranoia-no other film deals with such difficult subjects, and is fun to boot!  Watch it with your kids, or someone you care about.  You'll like it, I think. "},{"Title":"One of 1999's ten best","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't ever want to hear a parent gripe again about the lack of quality family films these days. Brad Bird's The Iron Giant, an animated triumph about a 1950s boy who befriends a 100-foot metal giant from another world, was a complete box office failure, suggesting that unless it bears the Disney name, parents won't bother. The few people who did bother with this enchanting adventure were rewarded with the best family film of the year. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Totally a joy to watch, The Iron Giant follows the story of young Hogarth Hughes (Eli Marenthal) - a little boy who has nothing to do. Then he hears about a huge metal machine falling from the sky. He goes and searches. And of course, trouble finds him. But love, friendship and redemption also find him and he befriends an Iron Giant.This film has excellent animation, great voices and cool direction. Don't miss it!The Iron Giant would definitely be on my top 30.My rating  10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Beautiful Animated Features Ever !!!!!!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, this movie made me fell the same way E.T. did - and it still does -. The Iron Giant is a really great picture about some values that have been forgotten in most movies nowadays.  The Iron Giant feels more human, the animation really doesn't matter when you realise how awesome this movie's story is. It's really doing great here in Mexico and I'm kinda glad, because it's the kind of movie everyone should see. The final sequence is so sad you won't help the tears falling from your eyes. WB, you did a great job. I will buy this movie when it comes out on video in my country. I've seen it 4 times at the theater, and I'm planning on seeing it another 2 times at least.  "},{"Title":"Sorry - missed out from previous review the following","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My apologies - in my enthusiasm to post a review for this remarkable film, I submitted it before filling in a couple of essential details that I'd planned to check on this site.The X who plays Hogarth Hughes is a very talented youngster called Eli Marienthal (now you know why that name didn't trip off my tongue!). The Government Official was Kent Mansley, played wonderfully by Christopher McDonald.Hopefully now I've covered the omissions. Thanks for reading and giving me the chance to put right these errors - not mentioning these two actors would be doing them a big injustice as they both contributed so much to the film. "},{"Title":"A young boy finds friendship and more with a huge hunk of metal.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would have given this 10 stars, except for the underlying topic of war and the use of army power.  I think the message of friendship, understanding and acceptance came through, even for children.  Adults will enjoy it for the nostalgia (TVs with antennas instead of cable, etc.), and children will like it for Hogarth's (the main character) exciting adventure. "},{"Title":"Pure Enjoyment","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know a movie has grabbed you - really grabbed you - when you have tears in your eyes that turn into a mad grin of joy that makes you want to pump your fist into the air and scream yes! This movie is a spectacle of riches, from Cold-War parable to coming-of-age fable to a simple meditation on what it means to be a friend.  You even have one of the best, thoughtful, explications on what it is to a sentient being.  A lovely, enjoyable, fantabulous film that anyone - even a hardened cynic like me - can enjoy.My only question is - Ted Hughes wrote the original novel?  Ted Hughes, the guy who was married to Sylvia Plath when she committed suicide?  I always thought he was a jerk. After seeing this movie, I guess I was wrong.  I just hope he had the chance to see what a masterpiece they made out of his work before he died in 1999.Kudos to the voice work in this movie, by the way.  Great work by the kid and by Harry Conick, Jr - everytime I heard that voice I wanted to say daddy-o. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is truly an entertaining movie.  You really feel for the Iron Giant at times, and can even relate to his innocence.  The movie provided a constant flow that kept you on the edge of your seat.  I thought I was watching the film just for my children, but ended up looking forward to what will happen next, which is what a movie should do. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Movie","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everything about this movie is perfect.  The animation style mimics live-action filmmaking to a tee.  The merging of CGI and hand-drawn animation is invisible.  The plot is great and the acting is sublime.But more important than all this, the film is great entertainment while communicating important messages without being obnoxious.  It gently makes a comment against guns, while at the same time reminding audiences that each one of us has the ability to choose who and what we are in life. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Touching Tale","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Can it be that the best film of 1999 is....a CARTOON?  I would have to say yes.  This is perhaps the best animated feature in the past 10 years (or maybe even further back than that.)  What makes it so great?  First of all, it is a visual marvel.  The film contained some of the smoothest animation ever, with CG elements flawlessly incorporated into the traditional elements.  Vibrant colors and wonderfully expressive characters make the movie much more than a cartoon - it is merely animated life. 	The story is a gem.  The hypothetical question what if a gun had a soul? lies at the heart of the plot, and issues, of spirituality, redemption, and sacrifice make the plot much more substantive than anything Disney churns out to make a quick buck.  There are parts where I actually teared up.  Yes, I admit it, a strapping young man such as myself actually cries at films if they deserve it, and this one does.  The fact that very few people actually saw this film is very upsetting to me.  It is the perfect movie for parents to take their children to, because not only will their children be wildly entertained by the endearing, larger-than-life title character, but they as parents will also enjoy a rich movie experience - thanks to a script which pokes fun at Cold War hysteria and propaganda, among other things. 	This review might ramble, but let's wrap it up like this  This is a fabulous movie for the young and old.  If you are a parent, PLEASE show this movie to your children.  And if you don't have kids, watch it for yourself.  You won't regret it. "}{"Title":"Wonderful imaginative film","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A film reviewer on NPR said it best this is the kind of film that conservatives are always calling for Hollywood to make more of, and when they do, nobody comes to the theater.Why is this? Perhaps because the themes are deep and resonant enough for adults to appreciate. It's not just a kids movie. "},{"Title":"How can MAN be so cruel. It makes you cry. 10 out of 10!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A fantastic feeling. How can MAN be so cruel. This movie touched me very deeply, and I can't remember any other movie that made me so angry and sad about the way humans (can) think.24 years old, it's a cartoon, and it's only a machine, but at the end when the worst of all things happened I cried like I have never cried during a movie. It has been years since the tears ran like that. I don't think I ever will forget that moment.I almost missed this movie, because I regarded it as a children's movie, and even though I always go to Disney's cartoon to see the fantastic pictures, this cartoon does not have that kind of drawings. So I was lucky, that so many other liked it, because when I saw that it was in top 100 on IMDb's Top 250 I said to my self Well maybe this is worth watching, and now you know that I think it was.Before the terrible moment, there are laughs, excitement and all the other stuff that makes a good movie. I loved the scene  with the hunters that shoots a poor deer, and then looks up, sees the Giant, and cries out Oh no, it's the monster. That's so ironic as can be. I think the movie does a good job; it can be enjoyed both by kids and adults. I have already mentioned why  adults would like it, but when I just saw it, the rest of the audience consisted of children with there parent(s). I could here that the children liked it. I don't think they really understood what happened in the worst part, they didn't sound scared. And of course, as this IS also a movie for children, it has a happy ending, smoothing out on all the bad things we have just experienced. And that's good. "},{"Title":"Beyond the animation standards","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animation today seems to be focused on grabbing the attention of both children and adults.  The fact is most kids going to see a movie are going to see it with their parents, so it makes sense.  There are pop culture references, and jokes strewn about movies that fly over the kids heads, but keep the adults entertained while struggling through the movie.  But as of late I've found that all the kids get out of the movie is funny looking characters doing funny looking things, and all of the dialogue is centered on the adults.  The reason for this is the idea that kids don't get it. Some movie makers think that movies with adult themes will be too much for the child, and in turn stupify the movie.  Once this is done they have to fill it up with silly references and jokes that the parents will like.  The end result is a less than entertaining film.  Then there are the movies that say screw it all and actually focus on making a good animated feature. The Secret of Nimb and The Black Cauldron, and now The Iron Giant are each excellent examples of this.  The makers of these movies give the kids a chance to get what the movie is trying to say, and the kids do.  The political undertones of the Iron Giant may not be something that the kids will relate to and say oh look, a cold war metaphore but they understand the story and plot, possibly better than those who see what this is all based on. Too add to everything, the animation in this film is fantastic.  Great film all around. "},{"Title":"The E.T. of Animated Robot Films.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know what was wrong with me.  Why did it take me so long to see this wonderful film?  Iron Giant is one of the the most intelligent, touching, feel-good animated films to come out in a LONG time.  For that matter, why didn't anyone see this film last Summer?  A wonderful story with a great voice cast and entertaining story.  The Giant is simply an amazing character.  Not for his technical gadgets, but for his range of expressions and the ability to become thoroughly engrossed with his adventure.The messages in this film, from the Red Scare sentiments, to discussing death, freedom to be who you are, and the a little boy's perspective of what a soul is make this deeper than any recent Disney film that comes to mind.  The robot's desire to be a hero like Superman really tugged at the old emotions on my part.  The robot, even in his darker moment, was truly an innocent.I hope the low box office sales don't scare Warner Brothers off from trying something like this again.  It just makes me absolutely ill that something like Pokemon can clean up at the box office, and this was all but forgotten.  I hope it gets the praise it deserves on video. "},{"Title":"Such a Wonderful Film!!!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I encourage everyone to give this film a look.  Rarely do animated films from other studios out due the mighty Disney.  This film would have done incredible business at the box office if only the studio would have put as much effort into the marketing as they did into the actual production. "},{"Title":"This is the best of children animated films","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My nephews live in a town that has one of those 2nd-run movie theaters. This week it was Iron Giant and I really didn't think I'd want to sit through this movie.  My nephews, ages 9 & 7 insisted they wanted to see it, not because it was the rage of all the kids (no one heard of it), but because it was just playing at the theater and was a cartoon.Boy was I surprised.  I went into this movie thinking I'd catch a quick nap and instead I was captivated by this incredible movie.  Not only did my nephews love it, but so did I.  It was a great plot with an excellent storyline/moral.  Great animation too! It's not a fluke that this move has an 8.7 rating at IMDB, it should probably go higher.  Compared to some of the latest offerings from Disney, this movie outshines most of them (It was head and shoulders above Disney's Tarzan and Dreamwork's Prince of Egypt). Take your kids to see this movie, better yet, buy it for them.  This will be a timeless classic in children's animation. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best films I have seen this year.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a masterpiece.  I brought my child to see this film and found myself enjoying it more than they did.  As a matter of fact I think I enjoyed it more than anyone in the theater that day.  The Iron Giant will make you laugh, and it most certainly will put a tear in your eye.  This is the most heart wrenching and exciting tale I have seen this year.  When this movie is released on video I will be the first in line to buy it.  It not only is a beautiful film to look at, but it teaches morals like no other animated film I have ever seen (and I am a HUGE animation fan).  Do yourself a favor and buy this film when it becomes available. This film deserved a better treatment at the box office.  I only hope that video sales will help to make a profit for this great film.  If not, Warner Brothers and other studios might be afraid of losing money on other similar movies and that would be a shame.     "},{"Title":"Your child absolutely MUST watch this movie","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think by the time you reach this comment you will already know who's in it, what it's about and all. I will just explain here that you really should take your kid to this movie, especially on a big screen. It's very powerful, and very well made. It's a beautiful tale for both girls and boys.It also is very good for children to see certain realities displayed onscreen, regarding talking to strangers, even if they say they wear a badge. These days with the CPS stealing children from their homes like crazy it's good to have the child know not to get in strangers' cars no matter what they pretend to be and not feel that they have to speak to them without a parent present. A definite recommendation. I'm also happy this was a Warner Bros release because there's a nice exchange/moral lesson  about Superman that would not be there if this had been filmed by another studio. Beautiful. I cried and I'm almost 30! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my 12 yr old son and we both enjoyed it!It was refreshing to see a family movie that was not full of music and talking animals. This is one movie that will be in our video library.I recommend this to anyone with children and even adults. It is exciting,funny,moving and just plane wonderful entertainment. My son laughed so hard at the swimming episode, It would warm any parents heart to see there child enjoy something that much. Please, make more quality childrens films such as this.  "},{"Title":"This Iron Giant Will Touch Your Heart And Move Your Soul","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a wonderful story this cartoon tells. The Iron Giant tells the tale of a young boy who comes in contact with a Giant Robot from outer space. As the robot is trying to feed himself with powerline girders, he's tangled up in the live wired and unable to escape. The frightened boy (Huglow Hughes) rescues him. What follows from that point is true friendship, lessons of war, anger, parenthood, and the bound between a boy a Giant Robot with incredible capabilities. This movie is great family entertainment and should be seen with your kids or parents. Basing this story in the 1950's was a great idea, since war was just itching to happen and people didn't really have a whole lot back then. A little boy and his Mother just getting by in a small town of Roswell, ME really shows that adventure and the love of life can be found anywhere you go. The seen with the deer dying and the explanation of guns killing people were right on target. Yes, guns don't kill people. People kill people, but with GUNS. The NRA may not like this movie, but the fact that it shows parents and kids alike that guns can cause violence and bad things to happen is perfect in this day in age. The movie isn't very long, but the message it gives is worth the time of seeing it. Rent this movie if you missed it in the theater.  "}{"Title":"An unusual cartoon","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No, this is not your usual Disney cartoon, thank you! I am just getting sick and tired of Disney taking a famous story and distorting it to no end so as to make it fit its PC/singing/dancing mold! Anyway The Iron Giant is a great cartoon for kids. It includes some ideas regarding the dangers of guns that must make the NRA (National Rifle Association) furious. But mostly it is about what it means to be a thinking creature, Too bad I can't say more for fear of revealing too much. Great thinking, great images, an amazing rendition of falling snow etc... For those with kids who are still wondering, my eight years old daughter loved it. So go ahead, give your kids a treat too!  "},{"Title":"My review to use for your magazine.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Set in a small town in Maine during the height of the cold war, this film is based on Ted Hughes' children's book The Iron Man and brought to you by The Simpsons' Brad Bird. It tells the story of a giant, amnesiac robot who falls to Earth, and is eventually befriended by a local boy, Hogarth Hughes. Hogarth must hide the robot from a paranoid government agent who suspects it a Soviet weapon of war. The truth is that the robot is indeed essentially a giant gun, but hails from a distant planet and bears unbelievable firepower! Ultimately, it is the friendship with the boy that brings out the robot's compassion and humanity, and saves the town from annihilation.I liked this film so much that after I saw it, I emailed everyone on my many contact lists and practically begged them to put on their shoes and hit the theatre to support this amazing film. Why should I care? Because I am an ardent believer in supporting cinematic--or any other--efforts that one feels strongly about. And I do feel strongly about this film. The Iron Giant is one of the finest, well-written, non-formulaic, intelligent pieces of animated film I have seen in a long long time, and I watch a lot of cartoons. At the time, just a few weeks after the film opened, it came to my attention that it was not doing so well at the box office. My bulk email was a modest campaign to boost awareness of the film, because in Hollywood there is just one truth the success of a movie is based on its gross. If a piece of s**t movie does well, more piece of s**t movies like it will get made. Conversely, if an intelligent, well-written movie does not make its financial mark, that kind of movie will fall out of favour with the fatcats who make the decisions back at the studio. I personally would hate to see the entire genre suffer because The Iron Giant is recognized by a wanting dollar return and lack of ubiquitous Happy Meal tie-in claptrap. The Iron Giant is an inspiring movie that can be appreciated by adults for its genuine characters and solid story (not to mention its welcome lack of ill-placed Disneyesque singalongs) and by children for its well-executed animation and springboard for the imagination. If you can still find The Iron Giant in theatres, go see it (again). If not, it's coming out on video shortly.And if you don't want to take my word for it, I can send you the barrage of reply emails I received, with subject lines like Thanks for the great recommendation...I loved Iron Giant. "},{"Title":"hello Disney","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although parents didn't wake up to the fact, warner brothers has created the best American non-musical animated film ever. It is easily on par with Disneys best and succeeds to do what Disney does not; Tell a different story that is smart and effective.  There are no stupid talking animals, no mindless sing alongs and the story manages to get children to do more than want to go and buy the new Tarzan Swing-along alarm clock-phone-thing. I saw the film with many children in the theater, the ending made them cry and then cheer.  The children bonded with the robot and the boy and even the villain in 85 minutes.  It was as an amazing site as the film itself. Thank you Mr. Bird, I can't wait to see what you do next "},{"Title":"A parable of the 90s set in the 50s","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard about this film, I assumed that it was just a kiddy movie. But then I heard that it was much better than the usual family film grool. I finally went and saw it, and I am glad I did.Combining elements of stories like ET, BLADE RUNNER, and WARGAMES, it is a great parable about anti-violence. Set during the paranoia of the 50s, it shows how humanity creates humanity and how violence creates just more violence. It has a message for the 90s and for all time. I am glad to hear a movie be so bold as to tell us the truth -- guns kill, and none of us have to be guns. We can be people.The animation in the film is beautiful with rich colors and believable characterization -- unlike the over-done wide-eyed stereotypes we keep getting in the assembly line Disney cartoons recently. This is a real family film -- both the kids and the adults can enjoy it. And to top it off, we have a robot who becomes a Christ figure. GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Deserving of the highest commendation!  Everything that everyone else has said in praise of this movie is absolutely true!  What a great piece of art this is!  The only thing wrong with it is WB's criminal lack of attention in the marketing of this film.  How long has it been since you've seen a movie where the characters are pure, good people (and robots)?  Please, please go see it if you haven't yet.  What a delight!!!  "},{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is truly one of the greatest animated films ever made. Unlike so many Disney products, it has genuine heart and soul.It's too bad it didn't do so well at the box office.  This is how all animated films should be.  Perhaps history will vindicate it.  But in the meantime, just SEE IT!! "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Critics have raved about this movie, but audiences have been missing it. Too bad.  On the whole, the quality of Hollywood films have been on a huge downturn.  Huge, loud blockbuster films that are empty and boring.  But here's a Warner Bros. animated film that has heart, style, and all the right ingredients to become a classic.  It's already been compared to E.T. (lonely boy finds and takes care of alien), but this is no melodramatic sentimental Spielberg film.  This is fun!  Sure the kids will like it, but I bet I enjoyed it more than any of the kids in the theater.  One of the best animated films ever, and yes, more fun than Star Wars  Episode 1.  Don't miss it.   "},{"Title":"A great movie whose only fault was the distribution","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  WB distribution fell big time with this movie;  This movie could have sold two or three times more tickets with good publicity.  It is a movie you would be glad to take to see with your children and recommend to your friends.  I saw it twice at the theatre and the last movie I saw twice was Matrix because my wife did not have a chance to see it.  Definitely a buy recommendation and not one where I will wait for the video store to sell the used ones. "},{"Title":"The Best Animated Feature Since Snow White and the Seven Dwarves","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't have enough positive things to say about the Iron Giant; I just want to say that right now.  It was a beautiful film that reflects the Communist paranoia of 1950s America through a boy and a metallic alien in rural New England.  This movie is a genuine treat.  It is something that adults can relate to with the myriad of reference to 50s culture, and both children and adults will love its innocence.The film is drawn in a classical animation style like early Disney films to give the audience a feel of the time in which it is set.  Unlike recent Disney films (thankfully), The Iron Giant does not have any cutesy little friends that serve as comic relief or to create nausea for the viewer.  Instead, the filmmaker respects the audience's intelligence (both children and adults) by giving us a simple story that does not rely on embellishment to make itself more viewer friendly.  It doesn't need it.The author started with a concept - what if a gun had a soul? - and created this brilliant animated feature in the same vain of Spielberg's E.T.-The Extra-Terrestrial.  It stands as a testament to what animated films should be (it is possibly the best in over 50 years), but what's more, it stands as a testament to what FILMS should be.  I can't stress this film's greatness.  Just see it for yourself, and be a kid again.     "},{"Title":"Do yourself a great favor and see it","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For so many reasons this is a great movie. A great story, incredible, spirited animation, an engaging device to teach a wonderful moral and one of the best endings of all time. My children will grow up with this as a staple. Absolutley none of the pandering or sickly sweet add-ons that have ruined animation in the past few years. See this movie if for no other reason than to watch animation without Elton John or Celiene Dion all over the soundtrack. When a friend told me Brad Bird worked on The Simpsons and King of the Hill it made sense to me what an animation director does- he puts a heart into the work. "}{"Title":"What if a gun had a soul and chose not to be a weapon?","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What if a gun had a soul and chose not to be a weapon?That is the one sentence summery of The Iron Giant that director Brad Bird uses to capsule the concept of his new film. I saw it last night and my head has been so busy with thinking about it that I just had to sit down and send a quick note to my friends to let you know how wonderful a movie it is. It has so much love and care put into every frame and it shows. The characters are nicely fleshed out, the voice performances are wonderful, the themes of the film are so seamlessly sewn into story that it never feels preachy and most importantly, it is 100% entertaining. I went into the movie with extremely high expectations having heard others rave about it. I felt sure that I would be let down some because of the hype. Not for a moment. I was pulled in from frame one and was taken into this little boy's world until the very end. It does not pander to kids and it does not try to be cleaver with a wink-of-the-eye towards adults. The message that this story, set in Maine in 1957, brings to America in 1999 cannot be ignored.You do not need a child to accompany you to see this film but when I walked out of the theatre I was trying to think of nieces, nephews, neighbor kids, or anyone who could provide me an excuse to see it again. If you were already going to see The Iron Giant (or have already seen it) that is great. However, if reading this has put you one step closer to seeing a film that you were going to pass on then I am glad.  "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My wife and I took our 3 1/2 year-old son to see The Iron Giant this weekend. I laughed, she laughed and he laughed. Unlike the rest of this summers Kids Flicks, The Iron Giant kept my son on the edge of his seat for the entire film. No distracting songs, no stupid sidekicks, and the love interest subplot was more inferred than explicit.What the film did have was strong writing, and beautiful animation. When the film comes out on video, I hope that a letterboxed version is released. The animator's usage of widescreen format was amazing. I was captivated and had a wonderful experience.Forget Tarzan, forget Muppets from Space (I still am trying), run see The Iron Giant, and if you know someone under the age of 99, take them along for a great movie. "},{"Title":"It made me feel like an imaginative little boy again","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It made me feel like a boy again. I loved the wonder of the film, the look, the animation, and the message. It's nice to see an animated film that is both adult and yet still enjoyable by children (as well as the kid in every adult!)I'm going to buy the book and track down the Pete Townsend musical, too. Thoroughly recommended! "},{"Title":"I would recommend this movie to anyone","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a movie that I would recommend to anyone, no matter what personality type.  In my opinion this is the greatest film of the year and one of the best of the decade.  This movie deserves to be making hundreds of millions of dollars in the box office.  It is my favorite animation movie that I've seen.  Please go see this movie.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"GO SEE IT!!!   GO SEE IT!!!   GO SEE IT!!!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I would only repeat what others have said already, so just get up and go see Iron Giant now!  If you need more encouragement, then read the heartfelt and accurate reviews below.  Otherwise, make a show of support for great moviemaking and storytelling by going to see The Iron Giant.SPREAD THE WORD.....  IRON GIANT is TERRIFIC!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely a solid animation","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant boasts great animation, which incorporates both 2-D and flattened 3-D animation. The story is good, the setting and characters are interesting as well, and yes there are no songs, which is a daring move, but opens this one up to older audiences as well. I really enjoyed this film from start to end and frankly, I can't see why anyone wouldn't. "},{"Title":"Not enough films like these.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There simply aren't enough films (not movie, FILM) like this around today.  Much like this year's other great underdog, the Sixth Sense, the Iron Giant truly comes out of nowhere in a once commercialized or stupidized genre.  And both have similar storylines, namely about a boy who has something very special about him. In the film, young Hogarth Hughes of Rockwell, Maine, finds a giant robot in the woods behind his house.  With the robot apparently having lost his memory from a bump on his head, he befriends young Hogarth....actually, Hogarth befriends him.   As most reviews have stated, there are no stupid Disney-used traits at all in this film.  NO dumb sidekicks, no stupid songs, and excellent characters, including the Giant himself.  Hogarth, his mother, and the rest, all feel and act like they should from their respective backgrounds.  So no one here is exceptionally heroic, or sarcastic.   I have endless praise for this film.  It is bold and grand in every aspect.  It is my favorite film of all time, tied with the Matrix and South Park Bigger, Longer, And Uncut.  And on one last note, it would be a tragedy if this fine film is overlooked by other underdogs from this year such as the Sixth Sense and....well, so far, these are the only 2 movies this year that I have seen (with the possible exceptions of south park and the matrix) that deserve to be nominated this year. "},{"Title":"You don't have to have been born in 1950 - but it helps.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My 7 year-old daughter loved it, my 10-year old daughter told me she's too old to see it, and I'm just the right age. I was born in 1950, so I appreciated the Maypo TV commercial, I remember Sputnik being launched and I was one of those kids who was taught to duck and cover if the bomb were to drop. But the guy sitting behind me who is 7 years younger than I am (I heard him say, Hey 1957 - that's the year I was born) laughed as hard as I did, and his wife sniffled as much as I. What a lovely movie. "},{"Title":"As good as it gets","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to the Iron Giant with my youngest son, not knowing what to expect (King and I, the previous WB animated feature, admittedly left me somewhat less than optimistic).  Talk about a 180 degree turn around!  Iron Giant was the best cartoon I have seen since Beauty and the Beast.  It is likely the best film I have seen this year.  What a marvelous film.  Excellent writing, wonderful animation -- a truly memorable, moving, film experience. Iron Giant deserves to be considered a strong contender for a variety of Academy honors -- not just those reserved for animation.  Go see it -- this is moviemaking at its best.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, positive entertainment without the overkill","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought about this movie for days after seeing it with my family.  It conveys the innocence of childhood (pardon the cliche) as well as E.T. Like Toy Story, it keeps you engrossed in a simple, but engaging narrative by animation that actually augments, rather than detracts, from the story. Possibly most compelling, for me at least, it manages to transport you into the paranoid yet somehow rarefied atmosphere of the Cold War, much as the 1993 film Matinee did.I had prepared myself for the worst - stillborn plots, offensive characters, embarrassingly inappropriate musical numbers, etc. a la Disney.  When I walked out of the Iron Giant, I found myself wondering how they managed to do everything so *right* when so many other animated films get it so wrong. In fact, this is really the only good animated kids' film since Toy Story (and woe unto us when Toy Story II comes out).As a professed gun nut, I would have expected to find the movie's anti-gun message objectionable.  That wasn't even remotely the case.  The gun thing was only the toe-nail to the greater issue of self-determination, and the deliberate sacrifices that one must make to choose the path of heroism, rather than destruction.  That point is made poignant because ???spoiler??? .....................the Giant is a destroyer by nature.I also couldn't get over the way the movie made me wonder why it is so hard in film to stay away from violence when striving for heroism.  It seems that every hero has a mean streak, or is eventually forced to violence by the bad guys; for once I had no reservations explaining to my son the Giant's motivations for doing what he did.Finally, I hope that everyone sees this film.  It deserves better than it will get, and we deserve more good stuff like it.   It's not every day that you can look at the viewer reviews and see that *every* one is positive. That speaks volumes. "}{"Title":"Wonderful film!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a treat this film is! For those baby boomers who grew up on B&W 1950s Sci-Fi flicks and who spent their days with comic books folded up and stuck in their back jeans pockets, this is a must-see film.  Long-time comic book fans, especially, will be thrilled by some of the images and story points.  And oh yeah -- kids will love it too!It's a good-hearted, honest, witty, well-written, well-directed, beautifully drawn film that works for all ages.  What more could you want?I understand it is NOT doing great box office business, and that is a crying shame -- as it is clearly one of the best films of the year, and those who ARE seeing it are loving it.  I can only hope it will become such a hit on video (and in non-US markets) that it will make up for its undeserved poor box office performance here. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this animated film.While there are a few things I did not think were perfect they are too nit-picky to even mention.The moral messages were a bit heavy handed but over all what was being said was valid.I do wonder if a children's movie can be made any more without some kind of moral hitting you over the head.The characters were quite appealing and the story line is extremely well done.It does have you on the edge of your seat wondering just how it will all end.Some of the messages it imparted were a bit heavy handed for adult audiences -- and I do not think that kids would understand the whole Duck and Cover routine.  In some ways I think it tries a bit to hard to appeal on a cross-generational level.But all being said I did enjoy this movie and what it was saying to anyone that saw and understood it. "},{"Title":"A Giant Classic!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been dumbstruck by the lack of attention this gem of a movie has been getting.  It is easily the best animated movie I have seen since Beauty and the Beast and the best movie I have seen this year.  It accomplishes this by setting out on a different trek from Disney.  The story is kept moving along without the now obligatory song and dance routines and goofy sidekicks perfected by the Mouse.  Instead the animators rely on a carefully crafted script and characterization.  The main morals of the movie are You are what you choose to be and an anti-violence message that seem particularly pertinant in this year of classroom horrors.  As the director Brad Bird has said what if a gun had a soul and chose not to be a gun.  Overall, a stirring and timely classic that will stay with viewers long after they have left the theatre.  I dare say, worthy of Oscar recognition for best picture of the year.  Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" At last an intelligent animated movie that makes you stop and think as opposed to go buy a new toy.  PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE make more of these type of movies.  My kids (4 and 5) LOVED this movie.  The most intelligent thought provoking film to come out of Hollywood in at least five years. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw Disney's Tarzan earlier in the summer, I remarked that there would not be a better animated film released this year. Boy, was I wrong!!! The Iron Giant is a wonderful story, brilliantly executed, that makes its points without being preachy. I hate to use the word triumph, but.... "},{"Title":"a brilliant alternative to Disney","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In many respects, The Iron Giant has a lot in common with another excellent film that came out earlier this year, October Sky. Both films are set in the same year and feature the beginnings of the space race and the dawn of the atomic age as their respective backdrops to the main action. Each movie features young protagonists who are dreamers and outsiders of their societies and present refreshingly peaceful resolutions to their respective conflicts.The Iron Giant has a wonderful nostalgic, small-town atmosphere that is brought to life by the stunning animation that is on par with anything that Disney has produced recently. The attention to period detail, from the cheesy educational videos that Hogarth's class is forced to watch, to the way townspeople talk, is faithfully recreated and really goes a long way to drawing you into this engaging world. In some respects, the animation style of this film recalls the early, groundbreaking Fleischer brothers Superman cartoons of the 1940s with its depth of field, but without the German Expressionist influence.The real strength of this film is the relationships between the characters -- something that is often overlooked in animated films for flashy visuals and epic musical numbers. The Iron Giant has the feel of a very intimate, character-driven film with the relationship between Hogarth and his robot friend as the emotional centre but with several other relationships (like the ones between Hogarth and his mother and between him and Dean) also featured prominently as well. This is no simple Saturday morning cartoon but a strong feature film that actually has something to say.The Iron Giant is one of those rare animated films that appeals to both children and adults, that doesn't contain one annoying musical number a la Disney, and that isn't one long advertisement for a toy. In fact, this film is an entertaining, even touching, story about tolerance and compassion. The Iron Giant refuses to talk down to its audience (the usual tactic of most animated films) or spoonfeed them any answers. It also deals with real issues like death and bigotry -- pretty heavy topics for a children's animated film.easily one of THE best animated films i've ever seen... "},{"Title":"THE BEST animated movie ever better than any Disney film","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is definately the best animated/cartoon film ever. The drawings aren't as nice as say Disney, but the story is incredible. It's just one of those stories that you love. The good thing is that it doesn't have any singing or songs, so it's just the great story and plot that makes the whole movie work. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love good children's films.  They are one of the few genres left where writers, actors, and directors feel safe to tell a story in ways that honor both an audience's intelligence and desire for entertainment.  I loved *Charlotte's Web,* I loved *Babe,* I loved *Fly Away Home* and now I'm happy to love *The Iron Giant,* which goes on my shelf to have on hand whenever my friends, both children and adult, come for a night at the movies at my home.As we were leaving the theater, my friend said I wish it'd been made 20 years ago and I agree.  At the suggestion that the family find a fallout shelter once the nuclear missile is aimed at the Giant, Dean sadly replies that It doesn't matter...no shelter can protect us.  And Hogarth tells his friend We're all going to die.  Using the old duck and cover cartoon is brilliant what a contrast between that moment of boundless optimism, and the end, when reality hits!  For that reason, and for the love that so evident here between all the major characters, I wish I'd grown up with this movie.  In an ever more violent America, I wish there was just one other release this year with a line like You choose who you are.  You can choose *not to be a gun.*  One of my favorite films this year. "},{"Title":"This is definitely one of my favorite movies.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I would have to call it one of the best animated films ever. Yes, I'm including those made by Disney too. Now, I love Disney movies, don't get me wrong, but this movie has a different quality to it. Instead of having song-and-dance numbers, or slap-stick animal characters, it's just a movie. It's like a normal live-action type movie, but everything is drawn instead. I love the medium of animation, because you can do so much with it. The special effects blended much better with the hand-drawn animation in this movie, then I've seen anywhere else. In many recent animated movies, it seems like the characters are drawn into a background where they don't belong, or even fit in. This movie has restored my faith in Warner Brothers Animation. The story was wonderful, the voice artistry wasn't over-done, and the animation was nearly flawless. This movie is definitely one that everyone can enjoy without feeling as if they're watching a kiddie movie. What are you waiting for? Go see it before it's gone! "},{"Title":"Genuine sentiment without corn","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like all high quality animations, this is a movie for kids and adults.  The vividly drawn relationship between the giant and the boy is the most...human...and touching (without being maudlin) that I can remember in recent years, and that includes both children's films and so-called adult drama.  For that reason, maybe, it drew genuine emotion out of me, something that hasn't happened since I first saw Barry Lyndon (of all things) years ago.It's sad that Disney has such a stranglehold on the genre.  I was so grateful that there was not a single syrupy pop song in this movie that on the strength of that alone I might award it a 10 on IMDb.  But fortunately, Iron Giant succeeds more for what it is than what it isn't.    "}{"Title":"Best movie of the year!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is easily the best movie of 1999 -- or at least it should be.  Heartwarming without being sappy, funny without being gross, insightful without being preachy, this is a movie that pushes the boundaries of American animated film which everyone MUST see.  The only flaw on this masterpiece film is Warner Bros. inept marketing of it... "},{"Title":"Perfection?","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As close to perfect as any animated film has ever come in my experience. I'd especially agree with the comment that this movie thankfully lacks the 'preachiness'(and musical routines!) found in EVERY Disney animated film I have ever seen.Fans, old AND young, have gotten used to, or expect to be talked down to when they go see animated films. It's insulting, tiresome, and downplays the effectiveness of art come to life. Here you simply never feel that way; the story and characters are put first, not some self-righteous posturing done 1,000 times before. Thanks to all involved for reinforcing my belief that this medium still retains awe-inspiring story-telling power for those brave enough to create OUTside the lines! The Iron Giant is very possibly the best film I've seen this year - video or big screen. "},{"Title":"GO SEE THIS AMAZING FILM!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Forget Warners past films like the King and I or Quest for Camelot. They were horrible.  This is a totally new studio. Brad Bird has delivered the best animated film in years and it deserves to be seen. Dont feel like a fool after you see it on tape. This film shines in the theater and you will love it.  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll tell you, no film this year will tug your heartstrings like this one. It's animation, but not directed at kids so much as both kids and adults. My family and friends couldn't understand why I wanted to see this.  I cried my eyes out at the ending, the same way I do every year when I see It's A Wonderful Life.  It's a shame a pedestrian film like Blair Witch is getting so much attention, when you have a FILM like this being overlooked.  See it. "},{"Title":"A magnificent movie.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a wonderfully satisfying movie.  Everything is on spot.  The humor, the personalities of the characters, and the surprisingly sophisticated moral message. I have never felt so satisfied and so eager to see a movie again, since I saw the original Star Wars.I only hope that others notice this movie and pass the word along. It is apparently doing very badly in the box office, and I fear that if it bombs, animation companies might steer clear of this level of movie-making If you've not already seen this movie, then I urge you to watch it. If you have seen the movie, then you're already telling everybody about how great it is. "},{"Title":"The best non-Disney animated film since Secret of NIMH","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The best non-Disney animated film since Secret of NIMHThis film was fantastic. Kudos to Brad Bird and his team of animators. This is the best animated film to come out of an alternate studio since Secret of NIMH (not counting PIXAR's two efforts).The animation reminds me of 101 Dalmatians, and is a nice departure from what we've been seeing in animation lately. The script is smart, funny and tugs at the heart.Go and see this movie or you won't see more like it. The fate of the WB feature animation unit will be decided on the results from this movie and at this point it doesn't look good, despite the nearly unanimous great reviews.  "},{"Title":"An outstanding animated film for all ages","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw IG last weekend despite all the vaprous publicity and liked it a lot. The story was strong and not too cutesy, and the message was not too overbearing.  I especially liked the various genre references (hints of the 'War of the Worlds' and 'A New Hope' among others) and accurate period aircraft.A very refreshing change from the usual cloying Disney fare! "},{"Title":"High-water mark for animated films","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Simply put, this is the finest animated film I've seen.  Hell, this is almost a perfect movie.  Everyone employed at Disney should be forced to watch this film and rediscover what it is to create a film with real soul and emotion.  The characters in this film (especially Hogarth) truly came to life up on the screen.  The voice acting for all parts was superb. Hogarth is the first child actor that hasn't annoyed me in any way for quite some time.  While the moral message may be too heavy handed for some, this is simply a milestone film that shouldn't be passed up. "},{"Title":"More than a film...an experience!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Think about the first time you saw the original Star Wars, or E.T., or whatever movie kept you glued to the seat in awe...your heart in your throat, and your mind totally transported to another place.  This is what The Iron Giant was like for me.  This movie is made for all of us 20-something animation junkies who have been caving an intelligent, fun, emotional trip to another era.  Parents who take their children to see this masterpiece will get so much more out of it than the tykes will.  I think people who remember the early stages of the cold war (which I don't, I wasn't around yet) will watch this film with a nostalgic eye, while those of us who remember the last stages of the Vietnam War will see analogies to the anti-war sentiment of the time.  Their are many metaphors spread throughout the course of the film, giving everyone something relevant to the era of their upbringing.  Do yourself a favor, and catch this one at a later showing, you'll want to avoid all of the kiddies who's parents are too rude to keep quiet...then take your favorite niece or nephew to a matinee (but be kind enough to make them view the film respectfully and quietly). "},{"Title":"It's so great because it doesn't use the Disney Formula","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wasn't sure I was going to like the Giant.  It could have just been big and said friend a lot, like E.T., then sell a bunch of Giant dolls at Burger King.  But there's a point in the movie where you feel compassion for a robot.  An animated robot.It's not drawn in the Disney style, it's not preachy in the Disney style, and NO SONGS in the Disney style.  It's just a great story put together in a near-perfect manner.The only reason I didn't give it a perfect score was because there is a question that you have throughout most of the movie that never gets answered.  "}{"Title":"Great animation and storyline make for a wonderful film","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Iron Giant - boy befriends giant robot from space -  Part ET, part Ghandi, with a dash of Bambi.Whenever I hear a lot of positive reviews about a movie I am instantly suspicious.  I went expecting to see an all right Disney wannabe and was pleasantly surprised. The animation is excellent - a fusion of  American Pop and  Heavy Metal - and helps recreate the atmosphere of 50's (I especially enjoyed the Duck and Cover film they were watching at school). The story is thoroughly engaging for both kids and adults (however I recommend you may want to miss the early screenings - I lost a good 5 minutes of dialogue to screaming children). Best of all, it's nice to see an animated film without distracting musical numbers (don't get me wrong, I like musicals as well as the next guy) because done wrong they will handicap a movie (Prince of Egypt comes to mind.  Also, I think it considerable courage to take an anti-violence stance and say something as radical as Guns kill people (the NRA won't be endorsing this film any time soon).  This movie did not fail to deliver on any level and I will be seeing it again.Michael Eisner may want to cash in a few more of his options while they're still worth something, because if this is a preview of things to come from WB, there is a definite contender for the Disney crown.  "},{"Title":"A Film Gem","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Once in a great while a movie is released that reminds filmgoers just how powerful the medium can be.  The Iron Giant is one such film.  The fact that it is animated only adds to its magic.  The animation is absolutely superb, strongly rivaling Disney's best.  The screenplay is wonderful, all of the characters are incredibly three-dimensional (something which, alas, I have a difficult time saying about the most recent Disney films), and the voice-over acting is simply the best ever.  The young boy who voiced the character of Hogarth Hughes is a true talent - his voice coupled with Hogarth's animator's drawing prowess gives the audience the best depiction of a young person ever.  Hogarth is very honest and real-to-life, from his innocent romping and make-believe sessions to his deepest and most heartfelt emotions; at no point in the film does director Brad Bird patronize youth.  Hogarth is unabashedly human and not a boy as he should be caricature.  Not since Elliot in E.T. has a young character been so real.The character of the Iron Giant is so well drawn - both visually and emotionally - that I often had to remind myself that he was not a living, breathing human being.  In fact, the magic and mystery of this film is the fact that it took a character of cold metal and made it more human than the average person one sees walking down the street.  The Giant is a wonderful symbol of modern man and the beautiful heart that is still within him, albeit buried deeply beneath layers of materialism and aggression.  This movie is a great reminder of man's true nature - souls don't die - and the possibility that, with the help of the Hogarth Hughes within him, he will discover the Superman he truly is. "},{"Title":"Wonders Never Cease!! A++","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am constantly amazed when a really good film is released...and it is NOT from Disney!  I loved the IRON GIANT and knew the story from when (Executive Producer/musician) Pete Townshend wrote songs based on Tom Hughes story.  It was a delight to see a good movie...that both kids and adults can enjoy.  I went to opening night with a theater full of QUIET kids all the way thru.  Amazing!!  The animation was great...the voices dead on...the music set the time...the CGI stuff did NOT interfere with the movie's story.  WOW!!  Now if more companies would just do the same!! "},{"Title":"You'll walk away smiling","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my nephew to see The Iron Giant today.  I ended up cheering for the boy and the giant, applauding at some parts, and laughing out loud at others.I recommend the movie for both children and adults.  So, grown ups, grab a kid and go see it. "},{"Title":"Just what every kids wants!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great STORY movie with fun and action. My wife and I both laughed and cried, and my 3 year old son gave it the praise Good Story!The Giant has few lines and every one a gem, his desire to emulate Superman is very moving. "},{"Title":"The best Animated Film in years.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was great.  Its nice to see an animated film that avoids the cute sidekick, musical number formula.  There was no sidekick, and no singing.  Just a great animated movie for the whole family.  Its a very exciting and moving film, with a message that is just as important today as it was during the time of the Red Menace.  I would recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"Comparisons to E.T. are quite fair!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was extremely impressed by this movie.  I'd been following the hype that Harry Knowles had been giving it on his site, and it really piqued my interest.  I remembered having seen a trailer for it and finding that it looked interesting.  Anyway, I decided to give it a try and I spent the entire movie (with some notable exceptions) with a smile on my face.  This was one of the first animated films I'd seen in which the characters felt like real people.  We actually got to know them in the space of the film.  And when the film was over, I wanted to know what happened to them afterwards!  More importantly, there were no scenes I looked back on afterwards that made me think, That was stupid, or That was unnecessary, which I often feel about certain Disney animated films.  There were no bad scenes in the entire film.  As I said in the subject, this movie reminded me a lot of E.T., and while I didn't feel it was quite as good, it did contain that special magic that made E.T. an instant classic.  I only hope that this movie catches on with the public at large. "},{"Title":"take your kids, your parents, your friends.... take everybody.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow, I don't know where to start.  The Iron Giant is a fantastic film that transcends animation.  That is, it could've been done live action, but it wouldn't have worked as well as it does as a cartoon.  This movie is absolutely amazing.  I urge everybody who hasn't seen it to go see it immediately.  Probably the most moving film I've ever seen.  The ending ranks right up there with the endings of Sling Blade and One False Move for pure emotional power.  When the movie ended, I looked around and saw people everywhere in the audience dabbing their eyes.  On the way out of the theater, a father and his six year old son walked hand in hand.  The father was using his other hand to wipe tears from his cheeks.  That in itself speaks volumes for this movie.  Despite this being animation, it's a film for everybody.  And I don't mean that in a this is a film for the whole family kinda way.  You don't even have to HAVE a family to enjoy this one.  I'm shocked by The Iron Giant.  Just an insanely beautiful film.  Funny, sad, everything.... I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining animated film","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Boosted by an interesting animated style and a good script, Iron Giant is an entertaining science-fiction adventure. Though aimed at kids, the film is probably better appreciated by adults. The bad government agents angle may be repetitive, but it used to good effect and it doesn't encompass the film. Instead, the film focuses on the friendship between the young boy and the similarly innocent and child-like robot, and some scenes between them are genuinely funny. Iron Giant is an animated film like they should always be made fun and well-executed. "},{"Title":"one incredible film.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't get this movie out of my mind.  The animation, the characters, the relationship between the boy and the giant, all of it combined to make a true film classic.  This film brings back the essence of the cinema the story.  Brad Bird and friends have created something that digs at you right to the core.  I am still amazed at how the giant, this huge piece of metal, has been given a soul.  The animators and artists on this film should be recognized for their work.  Excellent film. "}{"Title":"a must see for the young and us baby-boomers","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Do you yearn for good animation and story? Tired of the extremely tired Disney formula movies with the plastic barbie and ken heroes and requisite supposed-to-be-funny sidekick character? . This movie is fresh. Probably the best animated effort I have seen in recent memory, and with two young kids and an enjoyment for good animated movies myself - I have seen a lot of them. I hope Disney is taking notes - can't remember the last time I heard applause at the end of one of their movies.This is a fantastic show for any child this summer and a must see for us baby-boomers.When I went to the preview last night with my wife and two boys (age 8 and 5) I hadn't seen much press and didn't know what to expect. The boys laughed along and got caught up in the suspense & emotion as did the whole audience. We loved the story and I got a kick out of some of the memories of the day (duck and cover...). There is a great moral overtone that is delivered in such a smooth and natural way it is not at all crammed down your throat.  "},{"Title":"An animated masterpiece","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the animated film that I've waited my whole life for America to make. It's Toy Story good. It's a vast departure from what people who've only been exposed to Disney are used to getting from their animated movies; no animal sidekicks, no musical numbers. It's extremely well-written and directed, with anime-quality animation. An extraordinary film... "},{"Title":"Breaking the Disney strangle-hold","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is one of the best animated films of all time.  It is humorous, touching, exciting, and remarkably mature.  The film is excellent for children but does not talk down to its audience for a moment.  The animation is superb and the characters are well thought-out.  Overall, a great time at the movies. "},{"Title":"A touching film for adults and children","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the Iron Giant a few minutes ago, and I recommend it highly. Great (interesting) animation style, nice soundtrack (atmospheric), funny at times, lighthearted, and yes, I cried, along with everyone near me. SUPERMAN! Can't wait for the DTS DVD.See "},{"Title":"Utterly Fantastic","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie at a preview showing today.  The theatre was 75% filled with young kids, and they were completely silent the entire time.  The audience was memerized and so was I.  I had heard this was a great movie, so I was expecting a let-down, but nothing could be further from the truth.  The animation is pure 50's Warner Brothers (read The House Of The Future/Chuck Jones).  It was the best easily the best animated movie I've seen since My Neighbor Totoro. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Needs Sequel","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the greatest Disney Movies I have ever seen, and one of the best all time movies I have ever seen. I am so captivated by the ending of this movie. Great ending, but needs a sequel, however not a cheesy one where they have to fight aliens on another planet and make it luney or anything, something that slowly reveals the origins of the giant, and how he ended up on earth and such. Also, I noticed some anti-gun feelings, but then again, would it be a good children's movie if he boy said guns are good? Give me a break. Fantastic Movie BTW, people give this movie bad reviews, but then again, I never like ANY of the StarWars Movies, so different people have different tastes. "},{"Title":"The  Greatest  Animated Film Ever.","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is amazingly subtle till the last 15 minutes.It changes is pace, tone, and message, almost like Superman changing directions in mid air. Without you knowing it.. Yet, this film stands by itself, as far as I am concerned, as the greatest Animated Film ever..This is written by someone who for more than 50 years has been a fan of animation, of all kinds, from the  The Sprit Within to Beauty and the Beast to, Dumbo, to Robots, to Triplettes de Belleville, Les, to Ice Age; to What's Opera Doc to One Froggy Evening to Duck Amuck to the Dot and the Line. Yes, I have seen hundreds of animated films, short and long..Further, I am not the only one who has said this is the best..Read as many of the reviews as you can..there are at least 10 more (possibly 20) that say that this is the best Animatated film ever, some others say this is among the greatest films ever made. And, it is. Why, because of its tone, message, flow, ease of transition, almost as if you do not notice it. In the end, there is a message, which goes past most, and it took me 3 or 4 showings in the theater, for the light bulb in my head to go on, about what Brad Bird was really trying to say with this film Snow White, may be considered by some to be better, only because it made others possible, but this is the finest, most sensitive, most dramatic, and the best Full Length Animated Film ever made. For those who read this, and if you haven't seen this, let it hypnotize you, as it did to me..and watch the last 15 minutes a few times...maybe you too will figure it out...Stuart "},{"Title":"The best American animated feature of the last 20 years","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Since the release of The Little Mermaid in 1989, Walt Disney Pictures has produced a cavalcade of animated masterpiece after animated masterpiece. That movie's success and the subsequent efforts from the same studio ushered in a renaissance of American animation. Megalomaniacal visionary Steve Jobs' belief in a small computer graphics studio, Pixar was directly responsible for the birth of the computer animation feature movie. Their list of accomplishments reads like a who's who and gave impetus to other creative forces to do the same. Since the seminal Toy Story, DreamWorks and Fox, among others, have followed Pixar's lead in that genre of animation. Yet, given Disney's pedigree and Pixar's mastery, one would be incredulous to learn that the best American-made animated movie of the last 20 years was directed by a virtual unknown (at the time) and was distributed (if you can call it that) by Warner Brothers and not any of the aforementioned masters of the art. That movie is the Iron Giant.The story of the Iron Giant is a cross between Beauty and the Beast and ET. It opens in space with a shot of Sputnik panning across the screen and something hurtling from space towards the planet. That something is the title character, a giant robot. Once on earth, the Giant proceeds to dine indiscriminately on the earth's varied cuisine of metal and steel. The Giant is befriended and spared electrocution by a young boy named Hogarth Hughes. The rest of movie tracks the two main characters on their quest to evade detection, have fun, and munch on all the metal that can be had. Along the way, the viewers are treated to a terrific parable about the futility of violence. Set against the backdrop of the early days of the Space Race, the reality of the Cold War helps to contrast the message the movie is sending.The day may be fast approaching where computers and animators can replicate the entire gamut of human emotions and characteristics and render a digital actor as realistic and compelling as any Academy Award winner. What the computers may not be able to ever do though is replicate the raw emotion that can be discerned from the human voice. In The Iron Giant, the emotions that come to the fore more often are joy, exuberance, and wonder. It is a testament to the actors involved in this feature that the characters are so compelling. Eli Marienthal voices the character of Hogarth with such delight that we can't help but wonder what has gone wrong in our world that we can't feel the same level of enjoyment. The fact that the young Mr. Marienthal is given such tremendous material only helps. Hogarth is an optimistic young man; he thinks the best of everyone and everything and one can't help but wonder if such open-mindedness is as a mechanism erected to keep out the rigors of growing up as a latch-key kid in a single parent home. And, his understanding of death as a part of life makes perfect sense when one considers the fact that this child has been subjected to the duck and cover instructional in school every year of his short life.If joy and optimism define Hogarth, then wonder defines the Giant. Voiced by Vin Diesel, the Iron Giant starts off as a enigmatic brute and transforms into an amalgam of childhood, best friend and parental figure. The young thespian gets very few lines of understandable dialog but those that he does get, he delivers with a tenderness that contrasts the mechanical nature of his character.Along with the two protagonists, the rest of the voice work is also excellent. Jennifer Aniston does a good job as Hogarth's single mother, conveying the exasperation a mother must feel when she has to deal with a bright child with an overactive imagination. Harry Connick Jr. is amusing as the beatnik scrap dealer, Dean who Hogarth befriends and who in turn befriends the giant. It goes without say that, given his philosophical tendencies, Dean is the first to accept what Hogarth has to say about the giant's benevolence. Finally, John Mahoney as General Rogard and Christopher McDonald as federal agent, Kent Mansley are also very good. The former comes across as the same sort of caring realist he played in Say Anything without the pen chance for fraud. The latter is positively delicious as a fed that has bought in to all the hype of the Cold War; he is truly drinking the McCarthy Kool Aid. In fact, if he weren't such a despicable guy who does some pretty despicable things, you can almost feel sorry for him.Technically speaking, the Iron Giant pales somewhat when compared to some of the other animated features that are its contemporaries. Even from a traditional animation standpoint, there are contemporaries whose craft stands out more than that of this film. And the main story itself is also simple. What makes this movie terrific is its heart. It gives us characters that we care for, human and otherwise and along the way of the story, it tries to teach it's audience profound lessons on fear and on violence as a solution (or, in this case, non-solution).9 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful piece of film making","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is a tremendous shame that this film has reached such a small audience as in my humble opinion, its one of the finest animated pictures to come out of the US. Sure, it does not pack the epic scope of The Lion King, but it is a very touching (but not schmaltzy) work and is one of those films that can literally bring a smile to your face that will not leave for days.Set in the 1950's, it tells of a young American boy obsessed with science fiction comics and movies, who befriends a massive, alien robot that has crash landed in the countryside surrounding his home. The two form a bond as he gradually teaches the giant about his world and the story then focuses on his attempts to keep the giant hidden from a US government official and the military. Not easy when you're a 30 feet tall, clanking mechanical marvel with footprints the size of cars.Along the way, there are plenty of sly touches. The feel of the 1950's is perfectly realised with milkshake shops, bad horror films and the sense of paranoia that came from being one of two super powers dominating the world. The animation too is beautifully done, with even the metallic eyes of the Giant displaying tremendous emotion behind them. The story at times is very sentimental, but it's also loaded with a knowing sense of wry humour and though this may be a film with a child audience squarely in mind, I defy even the toughest of souls not to feel a little choked up come the ending. "},{"Title":"An intelligent and entertaining film with plenty for adults and children","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 1957. When a Maine fisherman reports a sighting of a giant metal device from outer space, nobody believes him except for Special Agent Kent Mansley &#150; always one to hunt out any communist plot involving invasion from outer space. However the robot remains elusive to all but young Hogarth Hughes, who finds it in the woods and manages to befriend it &#150; even teaching it basic English. But with the origin and purpose of the robot unknown, is Hogarth right to accept it as a friend or should he fear it? Regardless, Mansley intends to kill it before it kills 'us'.It has been so many years since I read the book as a child, that I was pretty much coming to this with no knowledge of story or what to expect and I was pleasantly surprised by an intelligent film that is wholly entertaining and will please kids and adults. Set in the later fifties, the plot uses the iron giant as an allegory for the unknown and thus presents adults with a well-written criticism of the 'shoot first, questions later' mentality. Being a kids' film it is hardly a debating stand point but it was still intelligently enough done to keep me interested. The main plot is also interesting, with issues of death, birth and purpose all having a bearing on the story and giving food for thought later if you let it. These elements work to make quite a touching film where the giant is taught like a child by Hogarth and it becomes a very warm and likable character.None of this takes away from the film's first function as a kids' movie and as such it produces enough humour, visual excitement and energy to keep the kids happy even if the reference to the Cold War will be almost totally over their heads. The film is moving as much as it is humorous, intelligent as much as it is entertaining and the end result is a very well rounded film. Of course it has problems in that it does go where you expect it to at points, and it does lose its nerve towards the end and ducks the dark but satisfying ending it should have had, but these are minor complaints because the rest of it all works well together to form a really enjoyable animation.In a way I found it quite refreshing to have a kids' cartoon that provided warmth and intelligence for the adult audience to share in; I love stuff like Toy Story etc but their adult stuff is a little knowing and cynical at times (albeit hilariously so!) whereas here I felt that I was being given the same story as the kids and not having separate levels for them and me.The voice cast is good on paper but only a handful of them really get much to do. Marienthal is not the usual sickly sweet kid and he does a good job to make his character come across as convincing. Connick jr is very funny and provides a lot of laughs to the film; likewise McDonald's paranoid agent pretty much steals every scene he is in. I was concerned by the fact that Diesel was the voice of the robot, how would I warm to a character played by a man who struggles to bring any charisma to his other roles I wondered? However the limited dialogue and depth of his voice works well and he did a good job (although I'm sure it amounted to no more than a day in a recording studio). Aniston has little to do and her voice is not that distinctive but minor roles for Mahoney and Walsh add a sense of class with their very well known voices.Overall this is a very enjoyable animation. The plot is intelligent, interesting, moving and humorous at different points and, although some of it go over the kids' heads, it tells the same story to both age groups well.It's all over a bit quick and kids weaned on Pixar may complain about the traditional animation used for the majority of the film but there are only a few minor quibbles about this film and it is definitely worth hunting down. An interesting and entertaining family film that will stick in your mind for what it does and the talking points it leaves. "}{"Title":"best animation already made","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In my opinion The Iron Giant is the best animation ever made , this film is very beautiful, the story of friendship between human and robot is very well done here , references to Superman are excellent, is an animation that moves , and the final he flies to save human meteor made ​​me thrill me , I remember I saw this movie at school, and was one of the best day of my life , this film was part of my childhood , the film has many references beyond Superman , The film is set in the Cold War period , you pick up so much affection for the iron giant , which is impossible in the end not be moved, more clearly the robot is inspired by the greatest hero of all time , much has Toy Story , Lion King as a favorite animation , since mine is the Iron Giant . Nota 10 "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A young boy befriends a metal-eating giant from outer space. With the help of a beatnik scrapyard owner, he takes on a government agent filled with Cold War paranoia in order to save their iron friend. The Iron Giant is funny, thoughtful and has heart. The script respects the intelligence of young and old, and the under-90 minutes running time attests to the brisk pace and judicious lack of exposition. Our hero Hogarth has a child-like curiosity about his new friend, and a fierce loyalty, all the while keeping sentimentality in check. A quasi-religious theme is lightly threaded through, and an anti-war message is more more strongly foregrounded. But none of these elements detract from an engaging tale of a young boy who is bullied at school looking out for his new-found friend. A good example of what animation can achieve when the screenplay is considerate of its audience. "},{"Title":"I am not a gun.","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It is 1957 in the small town of Rockwell, Maine, and America is in the midst of the Cold War, so naturally this gives the film an aura of unsettledness and paranoia. And also naturally, children are less concerned with this, and take more risks, and their naivety leads to some unforeseen consequences. Brad Bird sprinkles a little social commentary in it too; sometimes it's delightfully light like the mock educational short film that displays the proper nuclear bombing etiquette to school children, or it's loud and brusque like the panicked way that G-man Kent Mansley defers to military action and presence whenever possible. We have the usual children's film conventions which signal themselves loudly the lone boy who is bullied and causes trouble beyond his intentions, the snappy but good natured mother who glares at him pointedly after this fiasco, and the rest of the town, adult and children alike, whom do not believe his tall tale of a giant robot from outer space. What saves it from being generic is Brad Bird's direction which creates charm and genuine childhood terror and discovery without being juvenile. He does this first and foremost in the animation. Hogarth is given due attention, especially to his facial expressions which are given a wide range of lopsided smiles, glares, creased grimaces and wide eyed stares; see as his feet motor on Looney Tunes style when he attempts to flee the robot, or a particularly lively moment where he tries to pray whilst shooing the robot out of the house (not an uncommon scansion in children's films but it is done well, with restraint and with just the right amount of humour). The same goes for the robot, digitally animated but made to look hand drawn, whom moves with a slow but endearing recklessness. In one particular moment, he is spoken to like a child, or a dog, as he refuses to stop following Hogarth. Vin Diesel's pitch dropped, monotonous voice acting is perfect for this sort of misguided character, and has helped cement the film's iconic lines (You stay. I go.) The discovery of the robot initially is handled with great nuance. Though it may be a child who stumbles across it, it isn't overly cartoonish and generates just the right amount of wonder and apprehension. The first sighting is this gigantic low angle shot of its eyes lighting up the lighting storm and it is genuinely awe inspiring and terrifying. Then later, this is replicated in his second appearance, before he gets stuck and we first feel something that resembles sympathy, and this comes easier for a child. Kamen's score is also crucial; a lively percussive based piece as Hogarth dresses up as a soldier and prepares himself for battle, thrilling as Hogarth flees and then makes his decision to save the robot, and in the finale, twinkles optimistically before flourishing in full fanfare to give us the ending we all hoped for. And finally the sound design which is just as important in building the characterisation of the robot and the initial anticipation of a non-threat; a big creaky whoosh as the robot crouches down to Hogarth's level, without menace, then a gigantic boom as it falls over onto its bottom, and the entire screen, and each layer of trees in the background shakes vigorously. It is not hard to see why The Iron Giant has become a cult classic. It does not have the iconicity or the Spielberg draw of E.T., but its story is just as touching and heartfelt. Brad Bird has in time shown his animation mastery with his Pixar work in The Incredibles and Ratatouille, but this remains an important stepping stone. Who knew that a linguistically challenged, lumbering giant robot could becomes such an endearing superhero figure? "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films of the last fifty years","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This combination hand-drawn/computer animation film was the directorial debut of Brad Bird. There will be spoilers ahead This is an extraordinary mix of two different animation techniques and it manages this amazingly well. Based on an excellent novel by Ted Hughes, though it was critically acclaimed (deservedly so) it performed poorly in its initial run at the theaters, probably because the marketing left much to be desired. It's managed to find its audience through home video and word of mouth and it now gets the appreciation it deserves.I'll just to a basic synopsis of the plot and discuss the technical aspects a bit. Set in 1957, just after Sputnik's launch, a huge robot crashes just off the coast of Maine. It comes ashore and eventually meets a young boy named Hogarth. After a series of misadventures and the robot's near destruction and recovery, Hogarth starts teaching the robot various things through reading him comic books. The robot is impressed with Superman.Needless to say, the crash of the robot and his actions draw the attention of the authorities, represented by a smarmy jackass working as an FBI agent and an Army general. Hogarth tries to hide the robot, which, given its size, is no easy task. He gets the help of a proto-hippie/beatnik/sculptor who runs the junkyard (this comes in handy, because the robot eats metal).The FBI and the military become aware of the robot eventually and through a series of misunderstandings and outright lies, the military moves to destroy the robot, even to the point of setting up a nuclear strike from a sub. The jackass government agent sets in motion certain destruction of the town, only to have the robot perform an heroic act to save everyone. The ending of the film is perfect.The technical aspects of the film are great, from a top-notch script through great voice work, magnificent animation, a perfect score for the film and the timing is excellent. The film won a good many animation awards and was lauded by critics at the time. It's a fantastic film.This film is available on DVD and was released on Blu-Ray this year (2015) in a Signature Edition, which I have yet to see. Regardless, this film is most highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Delightful","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now first off, I must set the table before we can dig into the meat of this review. This movie was not made by the likes of Disney Animation or their then-fledgling affiliate and now property, Pixar. It was made by Warner Bros. Now, in the 90s, particularly the late nineties, there were a rush of animated movies not made by Disney or any real animation company that won't happen again. It was an interesting time for animation. Not a good one, perhaps; other than this film, the best of these so-called second-string animated movies (not counting TNBC, which is stop-motion) by common judgement is Anastasia, a movie that I professionally dislike and personally despise. But an interesting one.This movie is a great example of why it never happened again. Here is one of the best movies of the year in a year that was filled with great movies, and yet it completely flopped at the box office due to legitimately horrible management by Warner Bros. Seriously; this movie was not relatively expensive (though it looks the part), and it has a very marketable premise. How do you screw that up? That's not rhetorical; I'm confounded. Yes, I'm aware Warner has a history in animation. But that's mostly in television; they should leave movies to the experts.Wow that was long-winded. Thankfully, this movie is not; at only eighty-six minutes, it flies by. You often want it to stay longer; not because it does anything incorrect, but because you don't want it to leave you. This is the kind of film where, if I saw it at the cinema, I would stay during the credits and afterwards. I would stay until they forced me to get out; that's the sort of film it is.If the animation is not as well-funded as Disney's, it does not show it. There are ambitious scenes in this film, scenes that seem to be the lovechild of 70s Disney, 80s Ghibli, and 00s Pixar. You can't honestly say that Tarzan looks like it has more money poured into it than this movie. The motion is especially eye-catching. Speed is one of the hardest things to get right, really right in animation. And yet when it is done right, there is nothing on planet Earth that looks prettier.Miyazaki is the best at this; the first time I watched a scene in the third act of Porco Rosso, one where Porco flies his plane for one last long sequence over the land and to the sea, to meet his final challenge, my life was forever changed. I'm not exaggerating; those were some of the most invocative, most profound minutes of my life. But Bird clearly takes cues from, and shares interests with, Mr. Miyazaki. It does not surprise me that the two of them are friends. And of course, thanks to him helping bring Miyazaki's works over to the West, I'm glad they are.This is a movie that gets darker as it goes along, but it does it in a smart way, a sensible way. And a way that can still get a kid-friendly rating. When I first-watched this movie, the first thing I thought of was eighties Spielberg (though without some of the sappiness.) If this isn't already, (I don't know) it should be one of those films that is in everyone's house, along with Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, Toy Story, Totoro, Finding Nemo, Kiki's Delivery Service, etc. Kids deserve to have this movie be a part of their childhood. If I have kids, I'm showing them this.And of course, it is a gift to us adults as well, whether or not we believe that we deserve it. After the first ten minutes, the transition from 2D to 3D, doesn't feel weird at all. Even more, it feels magical, like it were conjured out of some fantasy world that we only by chance get to see. The writing is stellar and shows a lot of that quick wit that would latter become a staple of his. You get a lot of great lines without the sense that they're trying too hard like you do in The Avengers.I wouldn't say the music is spectacular aside from a few pieces, but it does fit the tone of the film well. The same is true to some extent with the characters, who are my one grievance with the film. They feel too cliché and used. The good acting, particularly from the stars, Connick and Aniston, helps, but overall, he doesn't play enough with the characters. That's the main reason this film isn't as good as The Incredibles and one of the reasons why it isn't as good as Ratatouille (which also could have used stronger characters (except Ego, who was brilliant) but it is not as big of a problem and the rest of the movie is ambient enough to cover for it). And it's the reason I would give this film a 4.5 out of 5.But that's just me comparing Bird to the ridiculously high standards he has set for himself with his era-defining work. I will go as far as to say this is the best American animated film of the late nineteen-nineties not including the Toy Story movies. Better than Hercules or Mulan or Hunchback. It's a whimsical film, it's arguably the essential 'Boy and His X' film, and it is a film with something to say. If this was made after 9/11, it would be the essential post-9/11 movie. The military are the villains and its clear they are acting out of misery instead of 'For the Evulz.' But above all this, I say that I look forward to watching it again. And I believe that's one of the endorsements I can give to a film.And remember sentient robots are not guns.(P.S. This movie takes place in Bird's birth year, 1957) "},{"Title":"A Great Rusty Joint for all ages.","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A boy finds this creature from outer space, teaches it about the world, tries but fails to convince anyone about his discovery and later the government attempts to hunt down the creature. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial right? Yes, and no. Though very similar and a lot less content worries, The Iron Giant, set in the 1950s when the Russians had just deployed the Sputnik into space, distinguishes itself from E.T. by one, 100 ft. metal man. Sent from outer space to be a weapon to destroy humans, the Iron Giant is remarkably friendly to humans. He soon befriends an 11 year-old pet- addicted boy, Hogarth,who had saved him from a close-to-death electrocution during the Giants feast on the metal of an electric station. Lonely for a companion, Hogarth visits the Giant and teaches him about the world. Thus begins the mental journey of the Iron Giant into the world of humans. Meanwhile, the government is called up about some weird discoveries. They send an agent by the name of Kent Mansley to investigate. He first dismisses the idea of a metal-eating Giant as too eccentric, but then after finding his car with a huge bite and a second later vanished completely, he calls the government which instructs him to find more evidence. Immediately, Kent suspects Hogarth and after many annoying and desperate inquiries he discovers a picture of Hogarth and the Giant. The next day, the army is in their backyard. The Iron Giant, rated PG for some violence, some bathroom humor and a bunch too many swears and misuses of God's name, is both hilarious but also heartbreaking, yet unlike many animation films, viewers will find its message comparably heavy and touching deeply on the truth of death and souls. There is one thing I disliked though. Every scene all are straight to the point and are never out of place. It would could have been extended by 15 more minutes and still prove the important points. Frankly, although the story is not new to most of us, The Iron Giant easily bests the others in creativity and spiritual truth (but not all on family-friendly content). Just as Hogarth says to the Giant, You don't have to be a gun. You are what you choose to be, we should not base ourselves on what others believe and want us to be. Superman&#x85; "},{"Title":"A movie that will bring you to tears","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Now I seen this movie when I was about 5 years of age of course I didn't cry but I remember feeling angry, but as I get older I tend to cry more because I feel so bad for the poor giant. Imagine you going to a place you never been before and people shoot rockets at you because they believe you are a danger to their society. Now ask your self this, If you were in the Giant's shoes would you have still sacrificed yourself? Be honest with yourself do not give an answer because you think it is what I want to hear. None the less if you have never seen this movie, please consider renting it or buying. Also sit your kid down (if you have one) and watch with him/her. It is a great movie, till this day I cry. I also put it on for my nieces and nephews and they love it. "},{"Title":"Its heart is giant","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Would it be immature to say that the Iron Giant is Vin Diesel's best movie? Either work? Either way, he did help bring the Giant to life and was integral in the bond between a boy and his robot. The character's got personality and he was key. And not just Diesel, it's pretty much the whole cast. It's got an appealing animation style (fantastic use of CGI) and just the right assortment of memorable characters.The themes here are timeless - fate, freewill, having a soul - and the emotional wallop this movie packs is fearsome (the Giant's final word is guaranteed to bring the eyes to mist, and I mean that). and in the hands of a lesser director, this would come off as calculated schmaltz. But the reality is far from it. This is heartwarming of pharmaceutical grade.One of the best family films I've ever seen.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Iron Heart.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant (1999) Dir Brad Bird / Voices Harry Connick Jr., Jennifer Aniston, Christopher McDonald, Vin Diesel, Eli Marienthal Delightful animation for children with a title that seems to symbolize the junk yard owned by one character who creates art out of it. In this case the supernatural character has a heart. Premise is one of those boy meets robot themes where a giant robot falls to earth and is befriended by a boy but a government agent wishes to destroy it. To prevent that from happening the boy seeks help from a junk yard owner named Dean. The giant feeds on metal so the location would be perfect for hiding. Flourishing and heart warming with directing by Brad Bird. Voice talents include Harry Connick Jr. as the voice of Dean who finds art within the ugly. We know where he ends up but the character is unique in his point of view. Unfortunately Jennifer Aniston as the boy's mother who is too busy for her son, is never interesting. Christopher McDonald as the agent villain bypasses formula with hilarious pratfalls. Vin Diesel voices the gentle Iron Giant himself who goes through predictable friendship elements before a great climatic sacrifice that ends with a wink. Finally Eli Marienthal voices the curious boy who accepts and befriends this robotic companion. Strong theme regarding friendship and heroism that should be great lessons for the target audience. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Great story, but mostly boring, unfortunately","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have to say that this movie wasn't that great, but not garbage. It was reasonably good for what it had to offer, but not anything great. The first 20-30 minutes were reasonably good, but after around 40-50 minutes or so, I was almost tempted to fast forward the movie. The last 10-30 minutes, though, is when the great stuff begins. The movie starts to feel really, really nice and engaging. Therefore, my reviews are like these0-20 minutes 7/10 - Nice introduction IMO...20-40 minutes 4/10 - Meh, kinda boring to me, but watchable...40-60 minutes 3/10 - Ugh, I wanna fast forward this...60-80 minutes 9/10 - It feels soooo good... Slightly slow on some parts, though.Overall 23/40 (5.75)Pros- Nice concept- Really great last 20 minutesCons- Almost half of the movie is boringOverall score 6- "}{"Title":"Even a Geezer Likes It","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After so many responses, there's not much left to say. Except that as a geezer who lived through the 1950's, I enjoyed seeing a send-up of the paranoia of the time. If it wasn't commies menacing us, it was aliens in Roswell, NM. Plus, it may seem like a joke now, but Duck and Cover didn't when annihilation could come any moment from The Bomb. Ordinarily I wouldn't watch an animated feature since I grew up thinking that meant cartoon. However, this edition was recommended, and I ended up thoroughly enjoying it. Strange how unreal characters quickly become real. Anyway, this film reminded me of a classic in my day called The Day The Earth Stood Still (1951). Except the gentlemanly Klaatu and the laser-eyed robot Gort, the two main alien visitors of Stood Still, are combined here into the single character of the Iron Giant. However, in both movies, the adversity to be overcome is a paranoid American defense establishment. That was a pretty darn touchy topic for a Cold War 1951. The moral here seems something like getting over our cultural hostility to The Other, whatever form that might take. Here, of course, it's a giant metal robot, whose goodness turns out to embody something eternal, as its parts survive destruction. All in all, the animated story amounts to a happy surprise and a compelling one even for a geezer like me. "},{"Title":"A poignant and message-driven film that will appeal to all ages","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the many struggles that filmmakers run into when making a children's film is creating something that appeals to both the children and their parents, who will most likely be watching it with them. THE IRON GIANT is an example of one that completely succeeds in that area. While children (particularly boys) will appreciate the friendship of a boy with a giant robot, Brad Bird also manages to send up the Cold War era and provides a strong anti-gun message. For someone's debut film, I thought it was particularly impressive considering this is the same guy who would later make THE INCREDIBLES and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE - GHOST PROTOCOL. He shows a firm directorial hand and gets excellent voice performances from the talent involved. It also helps that the story is very streamlined, so there aren't any pacing issues. The story also takes a rather poignant turn in the end that is completely earned. If I had to pick a single favorite moment from the film, it would probably be the end. Overall, THE IRON GIANT is a touching children's film with a heavy dose of nostalgia for a simpler time. This is a great film that can be enjoyed by parents and children alike. "},{"Title":"Fun 1950s Alien Robot","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A boy makes friends with an innocent alien giant robot that a paranoid government agent wants to destroy.At first, I wasn't really sold on this film because I thought the animation style was a little bit cheesy. I was reminded of Don Bluth and such films as All Dogs Go To Heaven. Not that Bluth made bad films, but by 1999 we were expecting a lot more from our animators.Anyway, my concerns on animation were overshadowed by a genuinely good film with some fun characters. Not a great film, but one that light-heartedly looks at the 1950s and 1960s Cold War era. This is a satire on a child's level. In some ways, it has a similar feel as Joe Dante's Matinee (1993) and could make a good double feature. "},{"Title":"A boy and his robot","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you were a young, fatherless boy in the not-so-innocent but still portrayed as the innocent 1950's, and if you found a robot with amnesia that had powers way beyond anything you'd ever dreamed of, then this is the movie for you.With a simple yet prescient message of tolerance for all, The Iron Giant stands metal heads and shoulders above many other animated features as it concentrates on character development as opposed to showing off CGI pyrotechnics.The voice work is excellent, particularly Vin Diesel who manages to inject his character as the Giant with great emotion in only a few simple words. Jennifer Aniston as Annie, Harry Connick, Jr., and Eli Marienthal all portray their parts as people as opposed to just actors reading lines.The animation is fine, although I've seen better, but it captures the period well enough. There are a couple of plot holes--mainly about the Giant managing to keep hidden so well when he is a, well, giant--but the movie is so gripping and the music moving (and a little maudlin at times) that you just can't help getting caught up in it.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Film!","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is an underrated animation film and is just plain excellent, more so than it ever has a right to be. On paper, it's practically an animated version of E.T, but the film works despite the non-original story. It is full of substance and style with an underlying political commentary that will appeal to the adults. The kids will love the gorgeous animation (very good for a 1999 film) and the story about an unlikely friendship. I haven't seen this in many, many years until recently, but it was always one of my childhood standouts.Brad Bird's earliest theatrical film is about a kid named Hogarth befriends a giant robot from another world, during the height of the Cold War and the launch of Sputnik. Hogarth tries to protect the giant-sized robot not only from his mother, but also from a bunch of bureaucrats believing the giant is actually a spy for the Soviet Union.The voice acting is not that bad. The robot does not speak English at first, but when he does, it was voiced by Vin Diesel who made the robot seem even more lifelike. We also have some solid voice acting from the likes of Jennifer Aniston, Harry Connick Jr., and Eli Marienthal.Overall, The Iron Giant is one of those rare gems that appeal to both adults and children. The story is executed well enough against the backdrop of political and historical issues and the film is also a visual spectacle with the animation way beyond its time. Who cannot resist a film among the veins of ET, especially one that is good as this. It's a beautiful, must-see film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Very good movie!","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I cant describe it. It is one of the most underrated movies of all time. Its about a boy and a giant, which is chased by the army. First the boy (named Hogarth) finds the giant from the forest. Next day Hogarth brings the giant some junk to eat. Then Hogarth decides to hide the 16-meter thing. They cross the railroad, and the giant breaks it. Then the giant gets hit by a train.Then the army gets a report that a train crashed in to the giant. The boy becomes friends with the giant, and the boy hides the giant in the garage... or whatever... And the movie goes on, with a sherlock guy (named Mansley) who finds Hogarth's shotgun from the forest, then he visits every home.And when he visits Hogarth's home, then leaves, he's like Hogarth... HOGARTH? He sees the shotgun next to him and returns the gun to Hogarth. Then it goes on.. I'm not telling you anymore. Just watch it! "},{"Title":"A Delightful Surprise","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A box office bomb upon release (Due to dire marketing for Warner Bros who simply didn't know what they had) The Iron Giant is a great animated story, at 36 years old I sat and watched it on my own, when it was on TV and I was very entertained. Plot In A Paragraph A Robot from another planet is stranded on Earth somewhere in America, he befriends a nine year old boy, who helps keep him from the US government who are searching for him.Straight off, I need to note the similarities with this and Steven Spielbergs E.T re read my 'Plot In A Paragraph' replace the word robot with Extra Terrestrial and you have the 'Plot In A Paragraph' for E.T. It's not a bad thing, E.T is a classic and I love it, and is not exactly the same, but the ending did reduce me to tears like E.T.All the voice actors are good, stand outs are Eli Marienthal as Hogarth Hughes, Jennifer Aniston as Hogarths mother, Christopher McDonald is superb as U.S. Government agent Kent Mansley Harry Connick, Jr. as Dean McCoppin and Vin Diesel as the title character. They all strike the right note.Another thing I loved was all the Superman references. Check it out. "},{"Title":"touching and fun","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's been a long time since I watched an animated film, as most these days don't appeal to me, but this one from 1999 is wonderful and took me by surprise. Set in the McCarthy era of paranoia and commie-hating it tells the tale of a giant robot from space that befriends a young boy named Hogarth, who has to teach him human ways and keep him hidden from a hilarious as-hole CIA agent named Kent Mansley. Along the way he befriends a scrap dealer/artist named Dean, whose laid back demeanour gives the film some of it's most hilarious moments. The anti-war message of the film is simple and clear, and ties into the whole story without seeming preachy. It's great fun throughout, and the 50s small town with it's nods to atomic testing, paranoia and B-movies is very imaginative and clever. The animation is great; lots of autumnal colours and the design of the iron giant is pure 50s pulp.Maybe not the best animated film I've seen, but it's way up there, a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Classic","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Everyone loves The Iron Giant. Who can hate this movie? Its got the adventure any kid would wish, and the serious moments that leave goosebumps on your skin. The characters are energetic, and quite likable, with more dimension than the standard kid's film. Heck, it even makes me like the 1950s, arguably the dullest, most white-washed decade of the 20th century.Its funny, its suspenseful, its heart-warming...its just a good animated film in all areas. You'll love the kid, you'll love the suave beatnik artist, and of course, you'll love the powerful, mysterious, yet gentle, Iron Giant himself. Its defiantly one of those movies I'll keep returning to throughout the years. "},{"Title":"I absolutely love this movie","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the best animated films ever made. I am a 22 year old male, and this will never get old for me. It is an amazing story that takes place in an amazing time. Set in the 1950's, the Iron Giant has the best of that era packed in with it. The superstition, the naiveness, and the style. The story is heart warming and heart breaking at the same time. It is a story that every writer wishes to tell, but at a simple form so that it can be told to children as well. It is a story on how a child can get past every difference in another person/object, where adults cannot.I will watch this movie for years, and will pass it onto my children when the time comes. It is a movie that hopefully will stand throughout time, and still bring tears and joy onto the next generation.If only they would still make movies like this.. "}{"Title":"A breath of fresh air.","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 'The Iron Giant' is a breath of fresh air. At one point while viewing it I whispered to my friend seated next to me 'I am REALLY enjoying this'. The reason behind that statement is that most animated films these days seem to have been made with great skill and take us to places we could only imagine but their stories fall like a stone I have not been impressed by many of Disney's latest forays sans the 'Toy Story' movies and the breathtaking 'Hunchback of Notre Dame'. 'The Iron Giant' is not a Disney film but they could take a lesson from it. Here is a charming film that strips away the usual pretenses of animated features and flat out tells a good story.The story begins in October 1957, the night the whole world has its eyes open for Sputnik orbiting overhead. Out of the sky comes an alien from another world. A 100-foot metal-munching behemoth that is first seen eating straps of metal and eventually eats his way to the local the power plant.One of the pieces is a TV antenna belonging to Hogarth, a little boy living in a big house with his single mom. Just like the boy in another movie about a creature from space, he goes to investigate. He saves the giant from munching on power-lines and the two become friends.Naturally, Hogarth has to keep this enormous creature a secret from his mother and eventually from the government agents who come looking for it. What I appreciated most about 'The Iron Giant' was the care given to the smaller moments.Consider a scene in which the creature's hand comes off and runs around the house while Hogarth tries to keep his mother from seeing it. He opens the bathroom door and there is the hand stumbling around like a puppy with its wires wagging like a tail. Those are the kind of moments that fill the screen in 'The Iron Giant'. They aren't necessary to the story but I appreciate the efforts of the animators to take that extra step.The characters are fun too. Besides Horgarth there is a beatnik named Dean (Given a very daddy-o by Harry Connick Jr.) a dim-bulbed federal agent (Chris McDonald) and Hogarth's mother who isn't given the stereo-typical 'Go to your room' sternness but comes off as a woman genuinely concerned about her son.But I am forgetting the star of the show. The Iron Giant himself begins as a creature who doesn't understand the world that he had dropped into gradually gathers an understanding of love and friendship from Hogarth. He begins as a metal-munching monster and then understands humanity.He makes mistakes as in one thrilling scene in which he bends a railroad track just as the train approaches. He doesn't speak for most of the movie but when he does it is in a very low monotone with selective words. I also loved the look of the creature, his steam-shovel mouth and brawny frame look as if he has stepped right off the covers of those old science fiction magazines.I loved the Iron Giant for so many reasons. This is a movie trying to be different. It doesn't try to be a carbon copy of a Disney film. Dancing dishes and furry sidekicks are fine but personally I liked a movie like this, a movie with its feet on the ground and its heart &#x96; as well as its script &#x96; in the right place. "},{"Title":"Watch this with your kids.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is easily the best animated film I saw as a child. Recently having watched it again as an 18 year old, even my dad was emotionally touched by this movie.It is simply a work of art people of all ages can enjoy. The animation is done perfectly and it contains both scary, funny and emotional moments. This makes the movie complete. Aside from that, your child might pick up some important life lessons that are not common in animated movies. If you have a girl, she might not like the movie as much. The story is about a boy and there are barely any girly things in this movie. She might not relate to what is happening.I guarantee you, you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"A childhood movie at its best!","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first heard about this film, I did not know what to expect from Warner Brothers.Don't get me wrong, I loved the old Bugs Bunny cartoons but for WB to make an animated film that is based off a book seems a little unusual from my point of view.By the time I saw it on video( I didn't see it theaters, though)it blew me away! The animation is very nice, the characters are interesting, the story is well played out but I believe the one character that steals the show is the giant himself.He is very innocent yet he has no memory where he came from or who created him, but the friendship between the kid and the robot is very satisfying to look at. He learns so many thing from the kid himself but the one lesson he taught the giant is You are who you chose to be.I won't give away the ending but I will say it is beautifully emotional it will leave anyone in tears. Overall, I say this is worth watching and people should give this a watch every once in a while. "},{"Title":"An often overlooked Classic-Buy it Soon!","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Cable used to run this all the time. In 1999 WB got out of feature animation for a while, after that disastrous Quest for Camelot misfire. An ambitious feature based on the book The Iron Giant. This property had legs, and could have been a series if handled properly--it wasn't. It was a financial success, however. Intentionally set in the early 1950's around the time of such wonderful nonsense as War of the Worlds, Invaders From Mars and The Day the Earth Stood Still. A young boy finds a giant robot and at first nobody believes him. The original purpose of it was to conquer planets, as it has laser beams and sonic rays, like all good giant monsters, but all it really wants to be is friendly, like Superman. It eats scrap metal, not people. A paranoid government agent sees it as a threat to all Mankind, and an Army General and troops are sent to destroy it, of course. In the wrong hands, this would have been a terrible film, but along the way, we are treated to good, early CGI animation and a slightly-preachful storyline about being what you want to be. Mild violence (Bambi dies) and cuss-words Hell used is few times. Make this inappropriate for very young kids, but otherwise quite acceptable. Your 8 to 10 year-old will love it! The T.V.Evil-Brain Monster sequence is also a bit scary! Buy this while you still can! I have to watch my VHS First Men in the Moon a while longer, as I waited too long. It is currently out-of-print on DVD, (until Sony makes more.)! "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A giant metal man falls from space and lands in the woods of Maine. Hogarth Hughes is a little boy living in a 1950s small town. He finds the giant who has lost its memory after its head gets dented. His single waitress mother refuses to believe his tall tale. Government agent Kent Mansley has arrived to investigate. Scrap metal artist Dean McCoppin is enlisted to help to feed the giant with scrap metal.Brad Bird has created a great family movie. It is touching story with a great message. It deals with very tricky subject matters and does it with tremendous skills. And it's a giant robot with a little boy. That's the dream of every little boy. "},{"Title":"Before the The Incredibles there was the Iron Giant","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There's been some animated science fiction films we seen some good one (WALL&#x95;E) we've seen some bad one (Mars needs Moms), but one film has done it real good with some good animation and wit and charm, the film that people nowadays are discovering and that Masterpiece is Bard Bird's The Iron Giant. This is Brad Bird's first feature film to work on, and I think it's also a masterpiece too. Though there's some goofy and wried moments that the Incredibles and Ratatouille didn't had, but still has some wit and charm, I think the premise and moral is really good. Even think the characters are likable except for the villain that is paranoid making him unlikable, but I even think the Iron Giant himself is quite innocent, in a cute way, and even the animation is nice. I think its a great film for all ages. "},{"Title":"A Movie I Remember So Fondly From My Childhood,","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is a great movie with a great,heartfelt and sweet storyline.I remember this movie so well from my childhood,and I found my old video of it and decided to watch it,and it was such a nostalgic trip.I remembered how much I loved the Iron Giant himself,and today i'm also able to appreciate the more adult jokes,the beautiful animation and the fact that Brad Bird is just a brilliant director,he knows just what people like.I was very shocked when I saw on this that Vin Diesel was the Iron Giant's voice,I love him as an actor and was very surprised that he was the voice of one of my favourite childhood characters,and he did a great job with the voice as well.I would highly recommend the Iron Giant to fans of good animated films and someone looking for a good movie to watch with their family.Hogarth Hughes comes across a giant robot from outer space that he becomes very close to.He must protect the robot from the government who are seeking to destroy the 'evil' robot. "},{"Title":"Small animation, Big inspiration.","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Firstly, I want to say this is a beautiful story, a interesting animation, a deep thinking with its lovely dubbing. The outline of this story is clear and ordinary, but it will not let you down at any moment. Due to its almost perfect continuity and obvious but not boring plot, it is easy for children to follow and to wet their eyes, especially when our iron giant said Superman and then took care the bomb; just like the plot in How to Train Your Dragon (2010), it is a sacrifice in the end, however, everything will be fine at the final end.Furthermore, with this simple story which is logical but not novel, The Iron Giant really teaches us something. The unknown things are always considered dangerous and scared, it is absurd and what the author wants to throw down by this film. When Hogarth helped the iron giant to get rid of the electric cable, the next day our giant show him the friendly. Him, not it, said by a little boy shows us a warm world although it is frozen winter in the film. He is like a baby, when he is hungry, he has only iron in his mind, when he find it is interesting to jump into the water, he plays like a children; You are not him (the machine killer), you are like superman, just like teaching a child, good teaching grows up a reasonable boy.Finally, the most worth thinking about is guns kill, is this a enlightenment telling giant you are a gun of killing, wake up, or a word to tell him do not be the gun killing innocence, even though you possess the power. Actually, clues for both of them can be found, but of course, the later one is what the film wants to say.Just an cute animation, too much thinking for it...... LoL! "},{"Title":"Souls don't die","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant is another great movie by Brad Bird. I decided to watch this based on the good comments in The Animation Addicts Podcast, and I was not disappointed.The animation is pretty good, classic 2D, with some CGI here and there (I read the giant is actually made on CGI). The way they animated the robot is pretty good, the movements (sometimes being clumsy, like not being really sure how to fit in the surroundings), the voice, the fact that it barely talks, and just open his mouth to say something relevant.Overall, I think this one is a pretty good family movie, that I think adults can also enjoy (I am on my 30s), because besides of being fun and funny, touches some topics such as how we are scared of what we don't know and tend to judge before even giving us the chance to get to know something or someone. The good thing of the movie, is that it does that without being too preachy.Score (8) "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite Movies Ever.","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was probably 12 the last time I saw it. After work I saw it on the animation/kids DVD section at Target for 5 dollars. So I picked it up, remembering that I enjoyed it and thought it'd be a nice addition to my DVD collection. And now I can say that it is definitely in my top 5 favorite animated films, and one of my favorite movies ever.As a kid, I loved the whole idea of a little kid running into a gigantic alien robot and having to keep him a secret, very similar to E.T., except Hogarth's alien friend is over 50 feet tall and difficult to keep secret. When I saw it back then on VHS, I enjoyed it just as much as any other animated movie I liked at the time. But I didn't really grasp how wonderful the film truly was because I didn't fully understand what truly makes a movie great. It was a cartoon, so I didn't take it seriously as watching Lord of the Rings with my dad for the first time, and treated it as such a good, fun animated movie, but not on par with something live-action and teen/adult oriented. Now having watched it again at the age of 21, there is so much this film does, so simply and subtly in fact, that it is basically perfect.You already know the synopsis for the film, but what about the characters in the film? The best thing about all of these characters, Hogarth, his mom Annie, the agent Kent, the junkyard artist Dean, and of course the Iron Giant. The relationships between these characters are so enjoyably real and seamless, their personalities meshing, connecting, and clashing as they interact with one another. Hogarth's relationship with his mom seems like a very real mother/son relationship, and the fact that he doesn't have a dad isn't shoved in your face like most Disney movies would with dead parents not being present. It very subtly presented with a brief picture of his dad on a picture frame towards the end of the film, but by then you've already got the picture that he only has a mom and why. And the fact Kent is so hellbent on finding the giant and is constantly prying Hogarth's brain to get him to spill the beans is just hilarious at times. Hogarth absolutely does not like this guy, and has a very funny way of getting back at Kent, which I won't ruin for you. With Dean and Annie, you don't get any forced, this is awkward, kind of like you but can't say it scenes, in fact you don't see them together too much, but any moment you see them together, you can tell that they have a genuine attraction towards the other. Last but certainly not least is Hogarth and the Giant.Hogarth runs into the giant out of sheer curiosity as to what took their satellite disk one night, and is obviously terrified and yet memorized at first. Eventually he has to save the giant from being shocked to death from being tangled in some power lines but shutting the power down at the station. He loses track of the robot after that night, but decides he wants to go out an try to capture evidence that there really is a gigantic alien robot in the woods. Sure enough he runs right into him, and so their friendship begins. And through simply trying to teach him to speak and trying to lead him to a safe hiding place, you see that the giant is actually something of a curious little kid, learning and adjusting to this new world. You know he came from some faraway advanced planet, but we really don't know why or what things he is capable of (until towards the end), but you're just so drawn into how through so few words and sentences, this Iron Giant is such a wonderful character.Brad Bird and everyone who took part making this film truly put a genius effort into bringing the giant to life. Through his limited facial expressions (eyebrows, small-big bright eyes, adjustable mouth and iron teeth) and voice work by Vin Diesel, they truly make you feel for this curious, little kid giant, and the personal turmoils he has when comprehended the death of a deer, or whether or not he has a soul of his own because he has a personality and feelings. My personal favorite scene is when the giant thinks Hogarth is dead, how he gasps in shock, how his hand trembles after touching his limp body, how he just starts to whimper and cover his face in sadness, it's just perfect. The Iron Giant himself is one of the best animated characters in history, with a team of amazing artists behind him to turn a what might have otherwise been a generic robot into a genuine, connectible, and memorable character.Ultimately the moral in the end is killing is bad, and take time to love what you have around you always. People bash this film so badly for the fact that it's a robot and should not have feelings, and all the political references and connections it has in this film, and I do not believe that's any reason to bash it whatsoever. I could go on scene by scene narrating the movie and explaining what I love about each scene, but I want to let you all watch it for yourself.The Iron Giant is a solid 10/10 for me, with amazing animation, wonderful and lush characters with supreme voice actors, such as Jennifer Anniston as Annie or Harry Connick Jr. as Dean, and a simple easy to follow story that is pieced and scripted together so well, that it just comes out perfectly. As I said before, one of my favorite movies ever, and for many a good reason.10/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly incredible","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Before director Brad Bird hit the big time directing acclaimed Pixar films The Incredibles and Ratatouille, he directed a little animated film for Warner Brothers called The Iron Giant. It's a story set in the Red Scare era about a giant robot that crash lands on Earth. A young kid named Hogarth happens to find this robot and the two quickly develop a strong and powerful friendship. However, Hogarth must keep his giant friend safe as a snooping government worker named Kent tries to find out what Hogarth is hiding and whether or not it's dangerous (ie. built by the Russians). This is an incredibly moving, incredibly powerful film with a lot more to it than meets the eye.The Iron Giant starts out simple enough. It's a story we've seen before. A young boy befriends a larger than life person or thing, highlighting the innocent and non judgemental eye of a child. But this film makes this recognizable motif so powerful and so emotionally enthralling. It hits emotional chords that send chills up and down your body as the film roots itself into your heart. This is a shockingly poignant film with so much heart and a constant thread of sincerity running through it, despite it being a cartoon.This leads me to the other impressive thing about the film is the fact that it's a cartoon. You would expect it to be more in the league of some of the sillier and more light hearted Disney films like The Hunchback of Notre Dame or 101 Dalmations. Instead, The Iron Giant is much more complex and is more mature and intelligent than these films. And the cartoon element also makes it a visual spectacle that is simultaneously larger than life and down to Earth. This sincere parallelism makes the film entertaining and exciting as well as real as the story and characters connect on a very human level, even including and especially the Iron Giant himself, who proves to be more loving and more compassionate than most of the humans in this film. The emphatic realism of this film is enough to bring a tear to one's eye, and indeed it does.Don't underestimate The Iron Giant because of its simple cartoon exterior. It has a heart and a brain, and it has a surprising level of poignancy to it. This is a truly fantastic film that breaks new ground and proves just how human and just how emotionally superb a cartoon can be. This is a film that can't be missed, and must be experienced by anyone with a soul. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After some time of reluctant I decided to watch this animation movie. Hogarth is a young boy that makes friends with an iron giant who seem to be a danger to the country. USA's army tries everything to stop the giant, since they believe it's a threat to them. But, Hogarth being his friend and knowing it's not a danger at all, tries to hide the monster from the government agent-- which eventually fails. In the beginning I couldn't believe this picture would have such emotional ending, so it's a great surprise for me. The theme this film used has been done many times in movie history, but it is still a worth while and entertaining version. Those who only think about war, killing and protect from the enemies should give it a chance and maybe change their minds-- especially army people who become paranoid once they get into the corporation. "},{"Title":"You Probably Haven't Seen The Iron Giant.  Go See It.  Right Now.","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Brad Bird has directed two Pixar films; The Incredibles and Ratatouille. Both of these are big favorites of mine. Browsing through films, The Iron Giant caught my eye. I could only hope that I enjoyed this film as much as I did Ratatouille or The Incredibles. The verdict is that the film wasn't was good as either Pixar films, but is more than exceptional entertainment. In fact, this is one of the best non-Pixar animated films I've ever seen. The film opens with a gorgeously animated sequence of a futuristic vehicle flying through space, until it lands in the middle of the ocean where a boat sails nearby. The captain of the boat stares curiously where he saw the flash of light...then a giant 50-foot robot emerges from the ocean. The film only gets better from there. A young boy named Hogarth is at the diner where his Mom works long hours. The boy overhears a conversation about the Iron Giant, and wonders if it truly exists. His question is later answered when he sees the robot near a power plant, and ends up saving the giant's life. The two become friends, though the boy has to hide the giant to avoid the government (and his Mom) from finding out (Think E.T.). The film is quite funny, and it's filled with stunning animation and memorable characters. The story matches up to Pixar quality, in both heart and substance. There are a lot of tricky issues that are discussed in this film; death namely. The Iron Giant is curious about Earth, and one of his experiences is a deer being shot by hunters. The Iron Giant is traumatized by the experience, and Hogarth explains death as well as he can. Death isn't a bad thing, Hogarth says, Everyone dies. You die? The Iron Giant asks. Well, yeah, someday. Hogarth says. ...I die? The Iron Giant ponders. I...don't know. Maybe... The film is very thought provoking, and in some of it's many humorous scenes, laugh provoking. It's even a little tear-jerking at times. If you understand or appreciate anything about movies, this film should be viewed as a must-see. Something you have to experience at least once. "},{"Title":"Awesome, touching, funny, what's not to like?","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Just watched The Iron Giant for the first time in years, and let me just say this I loved it! Definitely one of the best films I have ever seen! First off, the story. A lonely boy befriends a 50 foot, metal-eating robot from outer space and has to keep him secret from his mum, the government, and the US Army. I really liked the story, it was well-thought out with lots of funny and touching parts in it. And I liked that it was set in the Cold War, because that is when alien sightings were most common. And the way the boy teaches the Giant about life and death and how killing is wrong was the part that really got me, along with the ending. Overall, I liked the storyline and the film's setting. The characters were very believable and very well-played by the actors. Christopher McDonald as the government agent Kent Mansley made a really believable villain, Harry Connick Jr as the junkyard beatnik Dean was very funny and quite cool, Eli Marienthal as the boy Hogarth was quite funny. But Vin Diesel as the Iron Giant was just amazing! I've always wondered what he would sound like if he was voiced by Peter Cullen, but Vin Diesel was superb! His facial expressions and speech made him very believable and cool. Overall the voice acting was brilliant. Finally, overall for me, I really loved this film. It's incredibly touching and very funny with cool action scenes. The acting is great which makes the characters very believable and realistic. Plus the anti-gun and the you are who you choose to be messages were the parts that really made me tear up. In total, I highly recommend this movie! It's a brilliant touching family film for all ages! "},{"Title":"Better Than Most Disney Animated Movies","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After the release of Toy Story in 1995, 3-D animation took over, and 2-D animation slowly began to fade...which is a shame, because one of the 2-D films that got over shadowed was the 1999 film, The Iron Giant. Not only is it an animated masterpiece, it is one of my favorite films of all time. Whenever I bring it up in a conversation (even to this day), people have no idea what I'm talking about; which is unacceptable. So what do I love about this film? Well....everything. I love the 1950's setting, I love how it pays homage to the atomic age of cinema, I love the characters, I love the emotion, I love adult tone to it, I love the music, the animation, the message, and...I love that it's not Disney. This movie has such a natural and balanced build to it, that I don't think most Disney films at the time could achieve. Everything about this movie just feels very natural, and the characters act/react in a way that feels real, and not so cartoon like. The emotions this film conveys are also very natural, and doesn't seem to go overboard. Most Disney films of the 90's had moments where the film was telling you Feel sad here, or laugh now. The Iron Giant has sad moments and funny moments, but they're not shoved in your face. The Iron Giant didn't have any musical numbers, cute little animals, or an over the top comic relief, but so what? To me, those kinds of things dumb down the film (not always) and weakens it in the long run. The Iron Giant didn't need any of those kid movie gimmicks; and the result is a kids movie that gets better with age. It's a shame that this movie didn't get the same attention as films like The Lion King or Beauty and the Beast, because to me, it really is one of the best 2-D animated films of all time. it is highly underrated, i highly recommend it, check it out. "},{"Title":"It's a shame this enchanting animated film never found a bigger audience","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" While the story is familiar (kid meets alien/ monster/ outsider, and befriends them, understanding they're not the threat the grown up world thinks), Brad Bird brings humor, freshness and heart to the sub-genre that lets this transcend into a terrific movie. Set in a cold-war paranoid America of 1957, the titular creature cash lands from outer- space, with a knock on his giant metal head leaving him with amnesia about his purpose or history. After being saved by a 9 year old boy, a series of at first comic, then later more serious adventures begin. There's some very funny jabs at the cold war mentality, and some terrific, unusual supporting characters, including a mom more interesting and complex than you find in most cartoons, and a local wanna-be beatnik artist who joins in to take the giant iron man's cause. I love the look they designed for the Iron Giant himself, there's something wonderfully retro and almost art deco about him, and they do a great job of bringing heart and emotion to this gigantic metal creature. By the end I was shocked at how moved I found myself. A lovely, well told, fun fairy tale that is as much for adults as for kids. "},{"Title":"Wonderful! An animated classic.","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A truly enchanting film that has so much to offer. From it's witty but gentle lampooning of 1950's cold war hysteria. To it's classic looking animation style, which brings to mind story books and Disney films of years past. It's snappy pace and careful script mean that it's likely to hold the attention of it's younger viewers. Most importantly it's story is a heartfelt retelling of a very old one, the misunderstood monster. But it's warm and uplifting take on this makes it all the more a thing of wonder, it's obvious that the making of this movie was a real labour of love. A must see for animation lovers of all ages, sure to stand the test of time as a true classic family movie. For those of you who might be put off by the Vin Diesel credit, don't worry it could have easily been anyone, the robot thankfully isn't much of talker! "},{"Title":"It came from outer space!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A boy makes friends with an innocent alien giant robot that a paranoid government agent wants to destroy.This film is really good. It's almost like a childhood memory that every time you watch it, it's a different experience. This may be one of my favorite animated movies of all time. The Iron Giant illustrates friendship in a somewhat odd way, with a robot from outer space. The writing and the voicing is almost perfect and the whole animation thing wears away a little after you keep watching. It feels like a real movie with real emotions and that's what it is. I swear the ending is chilling and emotional to see. But the film bonds together the two in the most unique way and the kid shows the Iron Giant rules and lessons about the world they live in. So that pretty much sums it up, this film is a beautiful experience with a heartwarming friendship that is so interesting to see unfold. Aside from being animated (not really that big of a problem, especially how you just forget about it) this film is a must-see. 8/10. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Brad Bird Movie's","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Definitely my favorite movie that Brad Bird has been a part of. This is like what I would imagine a Steven Spielberg cartoon movie would look and feel like. It has elements of what made E.T. so lovable, but also some really original concepts about friendship. There's also the whole 50ft tall Vin Diesel robot thing going on. Even though he has about five lines of true Dialogue, you can tell it's the shaved gorilla strength under the chrome dome 100% of the time. I love the atmosphere of this movie, it really nails the 50s sci-fi feeling perfectly. The animation looks great and I kind've wish more movies looked like this, especially since cgi cartoons dominate all now. It's just a really great movie that will stand the test of time, unlike a lot of its contemporaries.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Great little Story.","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies growing up as a kid and i recently watched it again and it still has the same impact on me as it did back then, the art and the jokes are wonderfully done wrapped up in a neat little package. I was surprised to see the amount of big stars that were involved in this movie such as Jennifer Aniston, Vin Diesel, Christopher McDonald, and John Mahoney just to name some and performances from all are admirable.The idea behind the movie also allows us to imagine what might be out there.. and also explores a lot of real morals e.g guns r bad. Long story short if your a fan of WB and animation in general this is a must see and is appropriate for all ages. "}{"Title":"The Iron Giant has a big heart","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of the most fantastic yet emotional animated films I have ever seen. Warner Bros. did an amazing job with this the director Brad Bird who directed The Incredables he really knows what he is doing and the writer Tim McCanlies wow can he write a story. This is adapted from a book also called The Iron Giant to be honest no clue if this follows the book at all. So the story starts out with this little kid who is watching movies at night he hears a noise and well finds the Iron Giant and he saves him. This story is great because through out it this will show how the boy and the giant really care for one another.The Iron Giant only wants to be a super-hero like Superman but people in the 50's hell people now in days will freak out and the government will try and kill it and experiment on it. This brings a lot of heart to the story on one end it is a giant monster film yet on another end it is a story about an outcast who is just trying to figure out who he is.At the end of this movie you truly get to see how bad-ass the Iron Giant really is he could've been a unstoppable monster but since he has the boy he is the likable giant. This may not be everyone but this movie gets emotional at the end I teared up it has such a good ending beginning it is a must see. So if you haven't seen this movie because you think it is for kids you are wrong this is for everyone. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I just finished watching it again. About 10 years after I first watched it. It triumphs over E.T. without a doubt. In short,it is an emotional entertaining, fun and well thought out animated movie whose storyline is not broken by dumb singing and dancing parts. The character personalities are realistic and somewhat stereotypical,but prevent the viewer from having no opinion on one or the other. The animation could compare to the best there are,and possibly the only thing that would get on anyone's nerves (because I know that it always got on mine) Is that the origin of the giant,it's purpose and background are never even hinted at. "},{"Title":"Solid animated feature with devastating conclusion","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film took me completely by surprise. For most of its running time, its a decent if unspectacular animated feature showing the relationship between a giant robot and a young boy. The era is the 1950s and cold war paranoia is at an all time high. The film is highly critical of the various investigative agencies. However, what really works is the ending. It is very emotional and makes you re-evaluate the entire film. The voice work is unremarkable and there are no cute talking animals or light-hearted pop culture references that currently plague most animated feature films. Worth watching.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hogarth as Protagonist","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In The Iron Giant, I would argue that Hogarth is the protagonist of the film. Simply put, his enacted choices are what drive the plot and develop the overarching theme&#151;hence the film's dictum, Your choices make who you are. He is introduced to the viewer as an adventurous young boy who relishes at the chance of having a close friendship, even while at the cost of driving his hardworking mother bonkers (like when he chooses to befriend a squirrel).His main objective is to satisfy his need for friendship. The inciting incident that leads him on this journey is when his television short circuits and interrupts his horror film. Committed to find the fiend who stole, or should we say, ate his antenna wire, Hogarth plunges into the forest and discovers the iron giant. When he makes the conscious choice to save the robots life after seeing him entangled in a web of electrical power lines, it is here, whether he realizes it or not, that his once balanced life becomes unbalanced. After all, to befriend the giant is to introduce a heavy weight, both physically and metaphorically, into his life; thus tipping the balancing scale. Hogarth, however, is up for the challenge. His thirst for friendship surpasses the weight of any obstacle that might thwart this desire of his. Soon the giant begins to follow him where ever he goes. Hogarth is now faced with an enormous obstacle&#151;to hide the giant while protecting him from a paranoid government detective. One obstacle after the next, a special bond is created between Hogarth and the giant; one that truly exemplifies the meaning of the word 'friendship.' With Hogarth's continual choice to befriend the giant, the plot is further developed and the audience learns that the giant is much like Hogarth himself&#151;one who has a soul that feels and thinks. This significant plot point may have never been revealed unless there was a character like Hogarth who extended an unprejudiced love towards the giant&#151;a love that seemed to lack in the rest of the city because of their fear of 'otherness.' The audience also learns that the giant is a volitional being who can choose whether to be good like superman, or bad like Atomo. This is revealed, once again, because of Hogarth. With Hogarth's help, the giant learns not to act like a weapon of destruction, but rather as a friend to mankind. This idea is particularly emphasized at the crisis/climax of the film. As Hogarth had originally sacrificed the safety of his life when saving the giant, the giant now returns the favor at the end of the film by sacrificing his life to save both Hogarth and the rest of the city. This you could say is the film's meatball criticism one who lays down his life for the life of his friend is truly a friend indeed. True friendship is found in sacrifice, not selfishness, be it ever great or small. Is Hogarth's objective obtained? I would say yes, for it is the robot's memory that will forever live in his mind as the best friend he ever had. "},{"Title":"Just a great family film","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have truly enjoyed this film since I first saw it many years ago. It manages to entertain to the fullest, and not a single scene is too stupid or annoying for the average audience to watch. Adults, especially those growing up in the 50s or 60s, will relate well to this film, knowing what it was like to grow up during the trials and uncertainties of the Cold War. The Iron Giant tells the story of young boy Hogarth Hughes befriending a gigantic metal robot who has crash-landed on the earth from space. The government is suspicious, as usual, and wants to destroy the robot. Hogarth teaches the robot the truths and choices of using his powers for good rather than evil. What makes up this film is a very fun collection of humor and suspense. The humor is top-notch, from Hogarth saying grace and trying to hide the robot's missing hand at the same time to Hogarth's hyped-out experience after drinking espresso. It is also compelling and touching, as Hogarth and the giant must make choices and learn lessons throughout the film. What an enjoyable film. Worthwhile for just about any family audience, and just about anyone in general.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"I Am Not a Gun. I Am Superman!","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Actually just today I finally watched this picture so I actually watched first The Incredibles and Ratatouille, of course both directed by Brad Bird too. I liked this one more than Ratatouille and probably as much as The Incredibles. It has a story based on the friendship and that story is pretty known, this time the background is great so that basic story works in a perfect way. Everything happens in 1957 and as you know everything turns around that Iron Giant (voice of Vin Diesel). The human protagonist is a kid, Hogarth Hughes (voice of Eli Marienthal), who is influenced by science fiction movies and comic book stories -and MAD magazine- and who is going to have the first real contact with the Iron Giant, when he was already the theme in the conversations of the people in the town. The mother of Hogarth (voice of Jennifer Aniston) is use to hear him talking about those stories so when he talks about an Iron Giant she is not very surprised. It is a story of friendship first so the robot is practically a little kid, a really unique one, since he is learning everything, showing enthusiasm on that but of course you can't just make your friend a giant robot who needs metal as food and thinks that he just can remove a train track any time he is hungry (look at the character who was on that train, he looks a little similar to Marty Scorsese!). That's a truly big problem and of course Hogarth will have some problems if his mom or any other person meet his new friend but of course he will find some good people that will understand the robot, of course once they are calm after the obvious shock for meeting the Iron Giant. Actually he will only meet one person and his name is Dean (voice of Harry Connick, Jr.) and he is a really cool character, the opposite of Kent Mansley (voice of Christopher McDonald) who is the classic investigator of a mysterious and ridiculous case that first is making fun of it but once he is affected in a direct way the robot will be no more a joke and it will be a true objective as a product of the paranoia. At this point the Iron Giant turns to be a King Kong and since I haven't meet a person who feels good by watching the end of Kong here nobody will be with the army and here our Giant turns to be a real amazing robot that by then has already the S on his chest - A really great character that delivers even really hilarious moments.The voices are simply good. Is easy to recognize the voice of Jennifer Aniston here but is not the voice of Vin Diesel. For me is still strange to see him in the cast. I really dislike his performances. Anyway, the animation is really terrific and in the end this is a magnificent picture with great and very likable characters. I promise you that your family will love it and with its story it won't be a surprise if your girlfriend cries near the end, believe me. In short, The Iron Giant is one of the best films of 1999.PS reading some comments for this film I found specially one that gained my attention. On that comment one of the things against this film is that it is anti-gun, anti-hunting, etc. In my opinion you don't need s*** like guns. I loved this film!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great for the Whole Family!","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie when I was younger. Though I was too young to be hearing the mild swearing in this film, it still cracked me up.THE IRON GIANT is set in the late 1950's in Maine and focuses on a 9-year-old boy named Hogarth, whose mother is a waitress at a diner. Hogarth is just at home while Mom is working the late shift when he uncovers something in the woods a giant robot-like figure with its food source being metal. Hogarth meets the giant again and the two become friends. But everything out of the ordinary (and outta this world) always attracts the U.S. Government. Throughout the film Hogarth must try his best keeping his new friend a secret from everyone else, keep it safe from an annoying government agent who happens to have rented a room in Hogarth's house, and teach the Giant itself about humanity and how important life is.THE IRON GIANT is a great movie for any generation for any movie night when nothing's on. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who is willing to watch a great cartoon with its own humorous filled-with-adventure plot. "},{"Title":"Not your typical animated cartoon (That's a good thing)","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, I am REALLY NOT into animated kids movies. I was years ago, and this was my favorite movie ever way back in the day. I am embarrassed to admit that I actually watched this movie today, even though I haven't seen it in years. But it is definitely not as bad as those silly little cartoons.The voice acting is brilliant. Jennifer Aniston was amazing! And I usually hate her. Harry Connick Jr. is clever and sharp, as always. I don't know who did the voice of Hogarth but that is one amazing little kid. And Vin Diesel as the Iron Giant......oh yeah!!! The story is incredible. And so are the characters. That's why I watched this movie today. I don't like it as much now as I used to. But then, I was obsessed with it years ago. Aside from the animated kids feeling, the movie is brilliant. Just not for young adults, I guess.7/10. I should rate it even higher but that would be too embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Much to admire","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a movie especially for boys. As a kid, it's just fine to have friends your own age, but younger kids know that hanging out with cooler, older teens is what you really want. The last thing my teen brother wanted was a kid pestering him. But I did have an older cousin who hung around with me one summer. That was a great summer. Here Dean McCoppin (Harry Connick Jr) is the human friend that hangs out with adolescent Hogarth, much as Connick did in Little Man Tate. Already that's a fine idea for a movie. As in other Brad Bird movies, the value of friendship is the whole show here. I'm completely open to that message. But bigger than any big brother, is the 100 foot tall Robot. Before there was Michael Bay's Transformers, there was this giant, retro, CGI robot. The giant is a simple soul who is perfectly sweet until hidden wires are tripped. The giant doesn't even learn why he does it, much as in human personalities. To say any more would be to crush this movies slight story.When I first saw this, I liked a lot of it but had some minor qualms about the ending. I really wish there was a moratorium on bombs launched in the final ten minutes of a movie (for the next 20 years). Fresh endings would then have to be devised. I really wanted this imaginative movie to also be as clever in it's major conflict and resolution as it had been everywhere else. I still like it, but it seems like the middle is lacking stronger scenes. As it turns out, scenes were cut from the film. I thought I'd never say this about a film, but it really craves a one minute montage showing some silly moments where the robot-Hogarth friendship intensifies.The smooth-moving CGI robot is inserted into more typical animation. Animators know that any object without a hard outline is difficult to animate conventionally, and so they take advantage of the CGI to make the giant's eyes two big hazy, expressive floodlights. All the voice talent provides good work, which results in the closest I've seen to acting in an animated movie. But even the largely silent giant has very nicely-observed behavior that contributes to his character. Disney's much more conventional attempts to get 2-D characters to act have been downright awful and d.o.a. (Hunchback, Pochahontas). The be whoever you want to be message here, while a cliché, is such a soft-sell that a single word (Superman...) at a pivotal moment, may make your eyes well up. It's really nice to see an animated movie that hasn't been overcapitalized and upsold like Disney's cynical 90-minute product launches; and one without their self-inflated need for instant classics; an urge that neuters any decision that might result in a unique or creative moment. This movie also spares audiences the obnoxious post-Genie hyperactivity and movie-ruining--freneticism that has made other Disney movies after Aladdin obnoxious and desperate (Hercules, Tarzan). I'm not a big fan of Bird's Disney work, though Monsters Inc (friendship again!) was very nice.I'm glad I re-rented this. "},{"Title":"Friendship. Love. Respect.","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Friendship. Love. Respect. Growing up. These are the themes that run throughout THE IRON GIANT, an Oscar Award winning animated film from 1999. Kids films without substance are very familiar to most parents, but The Iron Giant hearkens back to a time when family and friendship meant everything.Although unusual in the sense that a boy named Hogarth (voiced by Eli Marienthal) befriends an alien robot simply called The Iron Giant (voiced by Vin Diesel), this animated feature still teaches kids the responsibilities of friendship and how devastating it can be to lose one.The set-up is common in that we see the military and government agents as bumbling morons who misunderstand the intentions of something as large and as powerful as a nearly indestructible robot. But understanding eventually reaches them, too, through the actions of Hogarth and his new alien buddy.More interesting than previous animation films for kids, this one shows not just the upside of this friendship, but the dangers ...as well as a fatal ending (sort of). Parents should be prepared to comfort their kids when The Iron Robot launches himself into space in preparation to save his best friend (Hogarth). The words Superman are uttered as The Iron Giant makes contact with the powerful and deadly rocket, and I'd be willing to bet that there's not an adult out there with any heart that won't swallow hard at those words.But there are plenty of fun and funny scenes to counter the more stark ones. Watching fellow humans complain to the local constabulary about suddenly absent mouthfuls of trucks, towers, and other metal munchables is pretty comical, as is a great scene where The Iron Giant does a cannonball jump into a favorite swimming hole of Hogarth's.A fun and serious film with themes that most parents will find a positive influence on the pliable minds of their young ones. "}{"Title":"A different approach in animated films.","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is Brad Bird's first directed animated film.I saw this movie in theaters back in 1999. And I was blown away by how nicely done this movie was made.It's taken place in the late 50s. The Cold War was still at large, Sputnik was still active in space and made millions of Americans fear about Nuke attacks from the Soviets.On one stormy night in the Atlantic Ocean a meteorite comes landing into the eye of the hurricane. Only this isn't a meteorite. It's a artificial giant made out of iron. A boat navigator spotted the giant at sea and couldn't believe his own eyes.Meanwhile in a small town in Maine. We're introduced to Hogarth, a 10 year old kid who wants to own a pet and lives with his single mom.Hogarth lived a very simple life right until he over hears the boat navigator's story about the invasion of the giant. Which later on he'll try to hunt down the unimaginable invader on earth. Little does he know that soon he'll be the luckiest kid on earth.Iron Giant is a one of a kind animated movie. Nothing compared to your average Disney movie. It's one of the best animated movies of the late 90s in my pointer view. I recommend it to those who are animation lovers or like movies set in the 50s or have a retro look to them.It's rated PG for Sci-Fi violence and some material not for Kids under 8 or kids who aren't mature to see a PG movie. "},{"Title":"What seems big and evil may not be (SPOILERS)","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is set in an era when the Soviet Union was seen as the evil empire, the greatest threat to our way of life.  But at the same time, our government's efforts to stop communism made it an enemy to anyone who seemed the least bit sympathetic to the Soviets or other horrible outside forces.  In fact, we now know the Russians were probably no more evil than we were.  And that was the case with the alien monster who landed in this world, in a small coastal community.  People saw the UFO, and it was reported to the feds. The government sent a bumbling agent with all the personality of a Las Vegas lounge singer, who could comically fake sincerity and a helpful attitude, or sternly remind uncooperative adversaries just who they were dealing with.  The one witness who actually saw the monster, a young boy, saved the monster as it tried to eat electrical transmission towers and a substation.  He did something a child should never do  walked into the substation and turned off the power.  From there he and the monster became friends, and he received help from a beatnik junk dealer/artist who also became a potential romantic interest for the boy's single mother.  Naturally, the boy has a hard time convincing people that what he saw was real, and when the federal agent shows up, he tries to cover up what he knows.  It's a nice story with lots of trivia that requires paying close attention, and the animation is incredibly detailed.  Spoilers follow  The townspeople want to destroy the monster once they find out about him, and when conventional weapons do not work, the military tries a nuclear solution.  In this way, the movie parallels our real experience with the Russians  if we used a nuclear weapon, we could end up destroying ourselves.  To their horror, the townspeople learned that by killing the monster, they would kill themselves and do away with their town.  It would have been too late, except for one final heroic act by the monster.  MAJOR SPOILER  Or was it the monster's final act?  Despite the bomb's being nuclear, we see a hint early in the movie of just how there could be a truly happy ending.  "},{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is one of those movies that comes along every 3 years.  a great adventure for the whole family.  it follows hogarth, a lonely boy in the 50s, who is fatherless and lives with his mom.  he discovers a huge iron robot thing (or an iron giant!) and befriends him.  really sad in the end, always makes me cry.  animated movies always make me cry, like the lion king, the prince of egypt (when the spirits kill all the innocent children for not having blood on their doors) and this movie.  i really recommend it.  it's really well done and very touching.  it also has a good lesson.  guns kill.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The best animated film to ever originate on U.S. soil!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my daughter and a few of her cousins to see this when it was in the theater, and now my 2 year old loves to watch it on DVD.  This is one of those rare films that I can watch over and over and during certain scenes I still feel a wave of emotion overcome me.  The backdrop for this movie, the last 1950s, makes me long for a world where the Internet is not king, where there isn't a McDonalds and a Starbucks on every corner, where our kids aren't jammed into schools with 4,000 other kids on a regular basis, where crime isn't the standard instead of the exception.  This movie does almost everything right.  It tells an incredible story, and while certain messages can come across too heavy handed for my tastes, such as the references to guns, 99.5% of this movie is perfection in every way.  I've seen some people complain about the use of foul language in this movie, to which I say to these people to realize that to wake up, foul language is a part of life, and the more you ban your kids from it, the more they'll use it when you're not around (Yes, your kids.).  This movie was a complete and utter failure at the box office, which is nothing if not a travesty and a slap in the face to good, hard working animation houses while we keep dropping $8 a pop to see fluff like Lilo and Stitch and countless sequels to Disney movies in which the originals weren't very good in the first place.  People treat movies like Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, and Toy Story like some sort of gods of animated features, while Iron Giant surpasses them all in every way.  Will we ever see Iron Giant on an Imax screen though?  No, Imax is apparently reserved for second rate mainstream junk like Fantasia 2000.  It's sad that we live in a society where fans of Walker, Texas Ranger are the norm, and where a few lightly sprinkled 4-letter words can take an increidible movie into the dumper.  If you have never seen Iron Giant, you owe it to yourself to experience it, not from the eyes of a religious zealot who only sees the world as church, car washes and private christian academies, but from the eyes of an American, someone who loves the world and takes everything in life as a challenge instead of trying to whittle away the bad things. "},{"Title":"A contemporary classic","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The biggest cinematic travesty of 1999 was that this sweet, compelling and sometimes sad film was virtually ignored by moviegoers. The Iron Giant is the story of a lonely young boy and his friendship with a giant robot that is programmed to destroy. Set in New England during the 1950s, this film includes many period details that strengthen the story's theme of choosing one's own destiny. The first-rate voice work is provided by a cast of well-known actors such as Vin Diesel, Jennifer Aniston, John Mahoney, Harry Connick Jr., Christopher McDonald and, in a standout performance, Eli Marienthal. A must-see for children and adults. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Animated movie ever!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animated films are normally inhabited by cutesy animals, or quirky, irresponsible humans.  Not this film.  This is well written, and the voice acting is superb. Disney take note, please give us a break with the talking animals and singing teapots. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended--even if you don't normally watch animated films.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an excellent film in every way--animation, story, voice talent and message. A twist on the original story by British poet Ted Hughes has the Iron Giant coming to Earth from outer space, which adds an interesting subtext to the early 1960s space program culture. The Iron Giant makes a great companion film to another wonderful movie October Sky, as they both delve into the conflict between discovery and fear at the beginning of our quest for space exploration, something viewers born in and after the '60s know very little about.  "},{"Title":"An American Classic.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is truly one of the greatest animated films ever made. It's the story of Hogarth; an imaginative, young boy, growing up with out a father, at the height of the 'red scare.'  When he crosses paths with a alien robot fallen to Earth an amazing friendship, adventure and education begins.This is a heartfelt, E.T.-like tale which should be a classic in every child's video collection.  It teaches of acceptance, non-violence and true friendship while never hitting you over the head with morality or gitty music numbers.  But what makes this film even more amazing is that it is just as entertaining for adults, as it is for kids.In 1999, two classic animated films were released; one by the goliath of animation, Disney, and the other by Warner Brothers.  Toy Story 2 went on to gross over $200 million, while The Iron Giant grossed only $23 million. America missed this film while it was in theaters, but we have a second chance on video.  Get this film for your children... for yourself.  I assure you, Hogarth and his Iron Giant will win a permanent place in your video collection and your hearts.  "},{"Title":"Rich storytelling","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a very rich detailed story with great casting and excellent visual presentation.After seeing this movie I read the original book; and this is one case where the film version actually surpasses the original concept in story detail, characterization, and subtext.I love the political allegory inside this seemingly simplistic tale.  And the details of the plot are magnificent, as is the visualization.  A true masterpiece all-round. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A perfect film. There is literally something for everyone. Comedy, explosions, celebrities....comedy!Set in 1950's America, little Hogarth meets an Iron Giant who soon becomes his best friend. Then comes the government, and a very hilarious government official who Hogarth has to hide the giant from.The film has a very '50s feel, and is perfect in every way. The dragon in the book is replaced by a nuke, and the bleak British setting is replaced by a hip American setting. I would recommend it to anyone, even John Major might crack a smile at this. "}{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as expected","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I decided to watch this movie when it came on Cartoon Network. I had heard a little about it but hadn't actually seen it. From what I'd heard and seen (mainly trailers) it didn't seem to be all that bad of a movie, but I was skeptical at first. On the surface, it looked like a kid's movie, much like a lot that were coming out at that time, mainly from Disney. I was pleasantly surprised. I found the movie to be quite enjoyable. The animation was excellent, and very reminiscent of older Disney movies (I myself am not a fan of the new style Disney is using.) The characters were fairly well-developed and fit together well and the movie had a really good plot. The only thing that kind of made me mad was the stigma that guns are bad, they kill people! It's not the guns, it's the people who pull the trigger or who use them improperly.  Unfortunately, there was nowhere in the movie that I could see improper usage of them. At any rate, the movie was certainly a good animation, and I wouldn't mind watching it again. I give it a 9 out of 10, its only fault being the anti-gun bit. "},{"Title":"Best Animated Film I have ever seen!!!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney should take note!!!  The Iron Giant is an example of animated cinema at its best - Warner Brothers did not resort to cheesey characters, corney gimmics, and trite characters, instead they created a wonderful, whimsical storyline about everyones boyhood fantasy, which can be related to by anyone of any age.  I am not going to bother repeating the same accolades which people before me have posted, all I will say is that The Iron Giant is unlike any animated film I have ever seen, and it deserves the attention of even the most mature and jaded of movie-goers!  A stupendous film! "},{"Title":"Artfully crafted animated feature; appropriate for everyone.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   Circa early 1950s/1960s during the cold war, young kid finds a giant metal robot in the woods, which, despite being made by the government as a weapon of mass destruction, has a gentle personality of its own. The film has standard Hollywood components (evil scientist that wants to destroy the main character, Kleenex-getter moments, etc.) but the animation was wonderful, combining expertly drawn and contrasted 2D and 3D imagery. Enthusiasts of short and feature-length animated films should not miss it.  "},{"Title":"Disney take note!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Every decade or so, a studio produces an animated work that reinvigorates my trust and affection for the medium. Having been aware of the source material, via Mr. Townsend's operatic opus, I am awestruck by the final product. If only the original creator had lived to see this masterpiece! Rent it, buy it, OWN it! As good for Adults as children. Superman..... "},{"Title":"One of the greatest American animated films ever","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i loved this movie.  great story.  great insight into humanity and characterizations.  great artistic style.  The only reason i gave this movie a 9 instead of a 10 is because i honestly think that this film would have had a deeper meaning and more impact if the iron giant stayed dead in the end.  not that i hated his character, rather i think the giant was a great character.  the giant is actually one of the purest and most genuine of characters.  i wouldnt want him dead in real life, but hey this is a movie with deep overtones of social duty and tolerance (also a very fun and entertaining movie too!).  the giant's sacrifice has the potential to bring out the best in all of us, but his rebirth invalidates all that.  his rebirth just lowers the film back to the status of a simple kiddie flick where everything just ends up being good. "},{"Title":"This is how movies should be made","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If there was ever an animated movie that completely surprised and overwhelmed me it's definitely this one. Besides awesome animation and great voice casting this movie possesses a fresh and very funny story that does not set into the usual Disney cliche but successfully keeps it's own approach till the end. And it's exactly these kinds of movies (the one's that catch you off your guard, simply surprise you in the most positive magical way, that make the best, well, movies. It deeply touched me in a way that I can only wish other movies could and I am not he least surprised it has found it's place in the IMDb's top 250 movies of all time. A movie that had to be so unjustfully overlooked at it's release in the states (or at least I presume) that it simply fell into oblivion. Well, no matter, it will ALWAYS be one (possibly THE one) of my favorite and most treasured movies of all time. An impeckably, positively magnifficent 10+/10 "},{"Title":"The Vin Diesel Effect IS HERE!!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Vin was totally right for the voice  here.  The movie is animated and very emotional.  There were times when I was reminded of the way I felt when watched ET for the first time.  There are many similarities between this  movie and many other NON ANIMATED movies that portray racism and isolation.  The poor robot was so likable.  I mean, this is the first time I have ever been so touched by a cartoon and I am 31 years old!  Rent this, or better yet BUY it.  It is a huge success in my book. "},{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Rating 9.8/10 Explanation A movie with one or two flaws but is as solid as a boulder covered by a concrete four-inch slab.And it is. While some of the drama could have been replaced with some more half-assed gags, it still probes off real human emotions, not any cutesy Disney s***. The animation isn't the greatest little thing known to man, but still looks brilliant. The voice talent is pretty good. Some real gruff and grit in the characters.In conclusion, buy it. You'll miss a great movie if you don't, and I don't think anyone wants to miss a movie they like. "},{"Title":"Cartoon Masterpiece","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was an excellent, intelligent, and ultimately touching animated film.The animation was excellent, and the movie sent some good morals...The movie was also, quite sad and although i didnt cry my sister , was reduced to tears. This movie is great and will live in your memory for a long time. "},{"Title":"magical...*possible spoilers*","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film. I love how it captured the magical spirit of 40s sci-fi. I can't explain it, but there was this overwhelming feeling of nostalgia as I watched it. It left me with this bittersweet feeling. I felt loss and sorrow, but it wasn't a negative feeling. It was like having touched the most fragile parts of humanity and realizing those were your parts. I think the feelings were amplified for the time period than the actual content of the movie. It's funny since my parents were just born in the 40s and I wasn't even around. I thought the most touching part was the homage to superman. I thought it was interesting that this alien's desire to emulate a fictional alien made him more human. It was because Superman has always embodied all the very traits that as humans we strive to posess. His desire to be like Superman meant he yearned to be good, although programmed only to do harm. The animation was beautiful. I am really leary of people who didn't understand or enjoy this film.  "}{"Title":"Heavy Metal","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is encouraging...and surprising that a film like this was ever made.  It is obviously very family-oriented.  It focusses on a bygone era.  It has no mass destruction, no death, no profanity, no sex.  It tells the simple story of a boy with an imagination and kind heart who befriends an Iron Giant from outer space.  The story is simple, yet says so much about people and fear of those things that are different.  The film, however, is just not for children, it is for adults as well.  It breathes nostalgia of a time when the life of a child was full of science fiction films of the fifties, great comic books like Superman, and the seeming impending doom of the atomic bomb.  This film is exquisitely animated in an animation we seldom see anymore.  The characters are richly drawn and the voice-overs are perfect in both timing and choice of artists.  There is also a gentle, sometime low-brow humour throughout the film that helps bring back the memory of what is was like to be a child.  The friendship between the metal man and the young boy is poignant, funny, and tearful.  Chris MacDonald does an exceptional job as the voice of the government man more afraid of the inexplicable and the unknown than of his own personal corruption.  A funny, very moving film! "},{"Title":"A great animation for children of all ages","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I fondly remember the short book this movie was based on - Iron Man, which I got from the school book club when I was about 10.  Even coming back to it as an adult it is a great book that engages you emotionally and spiritually. The movie starts the same but becomes completely different about half-way through, which is usually a recipe for disaster.  However, in this case they have updated the story for our times and, if possible, maybe even made it better.  Get this out for your children and watch it with them.  "},{"Title":"Really good retro-style animated film.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The reviewer from my college paper (whose favorite movie is supposedly Natural Born Killers) considers this the best animated movie ever, over anything by Disney or Hayao Miyazaki and apparently over anything by Ralph Bakshi--the same sort of superlatives that have been lavished on Shrek by young and false animation buffs simply because the movie is hip and irreverent.  The heart of animation is not cheekiness--it is a stylized reality, something we are in danger of losing with the current trend of photo-realistic computer animation and digital film (though the Final Fantasy trailers show that there are some in the CGI field that still believe in creating fantastic shots, even if the early dialogue screams Titan A.E.).This is not a problem in The Iron Giant, because the filmmakers only draw the giant (and other rotoscoped objects) on computers, then literally paint them (a la The Great Mouse Detective's Big Ben scene). The effect is that the computer animation blends well with the traditional cel animation, leaving us in peace to enjoy the beautiful retro-style animation.  Even more important, the story (even with its obvious reference to the X-Files in the form of Kent) stays true to the time they are in, unlike most Disney pictures these days.  This does seemingly make the movie drag, but we are compensated with an atmosphere almost completely devoid of cynicism and mean-spirited irony. This is as close to the feelings of wonder and innocence evoked in E.T. that we are likely to get in animation--save for My Neighbor Totoro, which might be a little too innocent.The only real problems I have with this movie are some glaring and unforgivable continuity errors, exemplified by the filmmakers indecision as to what season the movie should take place in (the movie takes place in less than a week, but we see Hogarth diving into a(n admittedly cold) pond in one scene, then later there is a snowstorm). "},{"Title":"Now THIS is a good cartoon!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie the first thing that popped into my mind was `great, another cartoon'.  But it wasn't just another cartoon.  This is probably one of the best cartoons that I have ever seen.  It didn't get a lot of publicity and bombed at the box office.  I can understand what people were thinking though because I didn't want to see it either.  Just because Dreamworks or Disney didn't make the movie, no one wanted to see it.This is a cartoon that actually had morals and wasn't just about singing and entertainment.  It's more of a teen and adult movie than children's movie because children may have a hard time understanding some of the elements of the movie.The voice-overs were great.  Eli Marienthal isn't the best actor but he does a great job in this voice role.  Maybe he should stick to voicing roles because he is very good at them.  Jennifer Aniston is the last person whom you would expect to actually be able to put feeling into a voice-over but she does well too.  Christopher McDonald is perfect as the paranoid army soldier.  He always plays mean jerkish roles anyway so this is really not a change for him.  And Harry Connick Jr. did a pretty decent job, seeing as though he never has had much emotion to his voice.The animation is spectacular as well as the effects.  There is a great story and I wish there were more cartoons like this out there that could teach children lessons while entertaining them.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful stuff","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was very impressed with the film. The kind of yarn I loved to see as a boy (The Invisible Boy, The Day the Earth Stood Still, etc.) Fun to see it was set in 1957, the year before i was born.When I get a DVD, this will be one of the titles I shall buy.A labour of love. Drips with quality. Good character animation, and some very clever use of cinematics. I wanted to see this one at the movies when it came out, but didn't. I could have sat through it, I thought, but dragging the kids along seemed a bit far fetched, so I give it a miss.I am very glad I eventually saw it on video. Do you want to know who chose the film?My 4½ year old son. We watched it together and both thoroughly enjoyed the experience.I just loved it when the Giant lets loose against the threatening forces. That scene was a little strong for my nipper, but he could sit through it as I was beside him.I am looking forward to seeing it again one day./Soup  "},{"Title":"Simply Outstanding","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Disney wouldn't have the BALLS to do this type of movie.  It is one of the most strikingly beautiful animated films ever made.  It is about a little kid who finds a robot who was built as a weapon but with the help of the kid learns he doesn't have to be.  That's a VERY basic description, but it does NO justice to the movie.  There are A LOT of themes to the movie, and a lot of good old fashioned morals.  In addition, this movie is NOT a silly kids-only movie.  Almost anybody can understand the message, and laugh at the antics.  The ONLY problem I have with it is the lack of support it got from Warner.  Come on guys, with this kind of quality, you CAN best Disney no matter WHAT kind of roadblocks they put in front of you.Disney take note, this is a wake-up call.  It is time to produce QUALITY animation, not just something that will sell your merchandise. "},{"Title":"In my top 5 greatest films","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my little sister to the cinema in the holidays, and expected to have to sit through some Disney/Pokamon regurgitated frustrating annoying kids movie. Instead, we saw The Iron Giant and I was enthralled, at the end I walked out on a cloud of air, rapt in what I had just seen. My sister, however, said it wasn't fast enough and she didn't like it as much as Inspector Gadget!!!This film has stayed with me, it takes the book and works it into a beautiful story with so many hilarious bits. It really made me think about the cold war and weapons etc. I just loved the character of the giant, his eyes were so expressive. I have bought the video, and will force my family to see it as it is something not to be missed.I think it is more of an adults/ older children's film, because of deeper layers. However, I am sure some kids will love it too. Disney should take note, it is the parents who pay, and maybe they should do a film the parents force their kids to go to, it's so good, example The Iron Giant. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"High-art, thy name is Iron Giant","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant had to be the best of the first three WB animated movies.  I liked the flawed but enjoyable Quest for Camelot, (hadn't seen the WB animated King and I, was that movie any good?) but Iron Giant is now the one to best.  The story involves a young boy named Hogarth Hughes (voiced by Eli Marienthal) who likes science-fiction, late night movies and MAD magazine, and later, befriends a 100-foot tall, metal munching machine, and needs keep him safe from those may report him.  Meanwhile, Agent Kent Mansley (Christopher McDonald) is aware of a giant metal beast and believes it might be a threat (designed by who?  The Chinese?  The Russians?  Martians?  Who?)It's not a silly little kids' movie.  It's one the whole family will grow into liking.  Also, I can't picture Disney making this movie, at least, not w/o (some or any of) the following retro '50's stuff (ie. sock hops), Hogarth wanting to hide the giant and impress a girl he has a crush on, Hogarth having an obligatory comic relief in the form of a pet (his mom doesn't want one) and presence of heart.  All current Disney movies seem to have all of the first three, but none of the last one. What angers me, though, is the fact this movie bombed at the box office.  I hate it whenever an animated flick bombs just because it seems like the only reason being is it wasn't made by either Disney or DreamWorks.  Maybe if only a LITTLE bit more advertising was put in...However, I contain boasting rights to this movie.  In August of 1999, I could've been a sucker for hype and Happy Meals.  I COULD'VE seen the snoozefest Blair Witch Project.  I COULD'VE paid for that Happy Meal disaster Disney's Inspector Gadget.  What did I pay for?  WB's The Iron Giant.  And I know I got my money's worth.  If you haven't seen it, my suggestion is to buy it.Rating 12 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I realize I'm merely adding my voice to a huge throng that is largely in agreement here but when a movie is this good I cannot stand not saying something about it if given a chance.   The story is the well tread child befriends outsider plot, mixing E.T. with Short Circuit in roughly equal amounts.  But the presentation here is top notch.  None of the characters, not even the bad guy, are distorted caricatures. They're all human, believable and very well voiced.  Even the robot, despite his fantastic nature is believable as a character too.  And a very likable one at that.  Despite his size and mechanical form, he is very emotive.  His gentle nature even helps drive home the point of the movie that those which we are told are dangerous are not necessarily so.  Violence, fear of the unknown, tolerance, friendship, sacrifice and more are all presented for your consideration with a grace and subtlety Disney would do well to study.  I can't even recall a Disney film in years being brave enough to take on some of the subjects explored in this film.  And it's still fun enough to entertain young children.  A couple of scenes made me laugh harder than I've laughed in a theater in a long time, only to be followed by a thought provoking moment that didnt' feel at all disjoint from the rest of the film.   I saw this film when it first came out, and saw its brilliance immediately.  I was terribly disappointed when Warner Bros. gave it such short shrift when it looked like it might not draw the kind of crowds Disney features get.  Some supposedly savvy people there should be ashamed that they could not see this for what it was.  But I suppose it is not the people who know films that make those sorts of decisions, unfortunately.A visually appealing, well acted, stunning film. "},{"Title":"Not Atomo, Superman!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Who wouldn't like this one?  I watched it on DVD with my son and then again that same day with my husband and all of us loved it.  It wasn't the formula-ed animated movies we're used to seeing and yes, I almost cried for him.Vin Diesel has the perfect voice for this one.  He should go far. "}{"Title":"Second favorite movie of 1999","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It pushed all my buttons.  The emotions were genuine and subtle.  These days Hollywood simply can't let audiences react for themselves.  They have to hit us over the head with the emotions they want us to feel.  The Iron Giant made me laugh and cry, often at the same time.  The treatment of the villain was also quite unique.  We were allowed to laugh at him a lot.  I'm also SO glad this wasn't a musical.  Maybe the Disney people can look at the success of this film with jealously because it didn't fit their unquestioned animation formula. Oh, by the way, my favorite movie of 1999 was Topsy Turvy.   "},{"Title":"Precious metal","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  7 of the comments after this one are mainly negative and the other 246 mainly positive (most of them ecstatically so). On Amazon.com, IRON GIANT has 2 negative comments and 222 positive ones (almost all ecstatic). On Epinions, 6 comments are negative and 171 positive (and mostly ecstatic).   So, if you see the film after all this you might be disappointed. I was, after reading the Rotten Tomatoes page (62 positive reviews out of 64, and most ecstatic - in a dignified professional-critic way of course). Seeing it at an empty theater with no one to share responses didn't help either. I wrote off its fans as mainly Disney-haters.Well...that was dumb of me. IRON GIANT survived my hype-overload letdown, repairing my impression of it bit by bit till I realized all those gushing over it were on to something. There's no other animated film quite like it - it isn't as ambitious as, say, PRINCESS MONONOKE, but that's partly what makes it so interesting, how it turns a typical Hollywood boy-with-a-hidden-friend story into something magical. It isn't perfect, sure - I'm an animal-rights champion and even I didn't like the hunting scene - but it's still wonderful.Seeing this movie garner such admiration after its humiliating theatrical death is like seeing a high school wallflower blossom into a gorgeous adult who has to beat off suitors with a stick. It deserves it. No wonder Ted Hughes loved its screenplay, different though it was from his book; he died right before its release, and they co-dedicated it to him onscreen. Imagine how embarrassing that would have been if it had stunk. "},{"Title":"A startlingly good animated film that seemed to come out of nowhere. Amazingly well done.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is an animated film that probably did not get the attention that it deserves because it was not made by Disney. When I saw this movie, I did not know anything about it and I didn't expect much from it, and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. The story involves a young boy who discovers a crash landed (?) robotic giant in the woods near his home, where he lives with his single mother. Despite the predictable ending and the rather unoriginal story (Cool, my own Terminator!), The Iron Giant is a heartwarming tale of friendship and family that provides excellent entertainment for all ages. It is unlikely that the giant is able to learn so much about humans (emotions, soul, acceptance, life, etc), but that's beside the point. I mean, they never even hinted as to where the giant came from, who made him, or why he was endowed with such jaw-dropping artillery. Is he some sort of alien Bicentennial Man? Even though the giant's entire background is left a mystery, the film is still able to tell a wonderful story. Let's just hope they make a sequel in which the giant's home is portrayed more.The cast was also excellent. In particular I enjoyed Harry Connick Jr.'s performance as the endlessly tolerant Dean McCoppin, and most of all, ironically enough, Christopher McDonald as the government agent Kent Mansley. Christopher McDonald almost always plays a jerk of some sort in all of his movies (Happy Gilmore, Dirty Work, and SLC Punk, to name a few), and he was endlessly amusing in The Iron Giant (...no, Bob, big things happen in big places. And the sooner I fill out my report, the sooner I can get back to them.). Great stuff.The Iron Giant is a movie for all tastes. I strongly believe that anyone who didn't like this movie did not give it a fair enough chance, because it was just so well done. It is one of those rare films (especially animated) that has an ending that virtually forces you to smile. You can't walk away from this movie unhappy, it is touching, it's fascinating, it's entertaining, and it should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Somewhat cliched but extremely worthwhile","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, this movie had a lot of cliches - a dangerously insane government agent, irrationally violent military men, evil hunters killing innocent woodland creatures, etc. - and Hollywood's standard anti-gun rhetoric, but otherwise this is a wonderful movie, with a quite non-cliched ending.  I especially loved the references to Superman!  Those sequences where the Iron Man imitates the Man of Steel were my favorites. "},{"Title":"Excellent (Warning! Spoilers)","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the greatest animation film I have ever seen.  I have seen better animation, but no other animated movies can compare to the dialogue, story, and all around greatness of this movie. I love the way the Beatnick is shown as Hogarth's father figure throughout the film, and how the Iron Giant is shown as Hogarth's first friend.  This is the first film ever to make me cry at the end, and I must commend any movie that can make me do that. "},{"Title":"An extraordinarily fine science fiction film hidden within children's animation fare - don't miss it!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  On The Iron Giant video box is an excerpt from The Tuscon Citizen movie reviewer The best animated film of the decade.... I wholeheartedly agree. Problem is, why doesn't the rest of America? The film apparently grossed one sixth of Toy Story's gross and, as a more expensive film than Toy Story, its profits amount to far less than its cost to make - i.e. it lost money.This film's lack of popularity is the same as the lack of popularity of Columbia Tristar's Indian in the Cupboard. The underlying cause of this is found in the fact that, unlike Toy Story, Star Wars etc., Iron Giant and Indian In the Cupboard are films with more intelligence than pizzazz, consequently causing the mainstream public to not be as interested in patronizing them into blockbusters. Neither film is difficult for any child over the age of 5 to understand. It's just that films that are even the least bit intelligent cause them to achieve the IQ of a book, and that translates to box office failure. Never mind that The Iron Giant is in a league of the greatest films ever made; it's just not cute or cool enough for profitable merchandising.Within this fact lies the nutshell of the problem with American entertainment. That is, basically there's not enough respect for intelligence. The film industry is not to be entirely blamed, however, like junk food chains are not entirely responsible for American obesity. For if the people are too stupid to know what's good for them, one may rest assured that someone will come along selling what's bad for them, and they will promptly eat it up. America is Pinocchio and certain of Hollywood's producers are the sly fox & company who lead Pinocchio to the children's prison hiding behind a carnival front. But the Iron Giant - he thinks he's Superman, and he really is this time. That is, his movie is really a saving grace in a tide of less intelligent fare. In terms of Pinocchio, this 100 foot robot is America's fairy queen.That said, I should say what's so good about this film. Problem is, there's so much that I don't know where to begin. This is one of those animation films, like Cats Don't Dance, that uses animation's strengths - such as that it doesn't have to rely on live actors, sets, lighting etc. - to its greatest potential. There isn't a single second of dead space in the entire film. Moreover, the script is impeccable and, as the opening page reviewer eloquently stated (read it; it's a fine, poignant review), what's left out of the story line is a boon for the audience's imagination. This only works if the script is good & adequately performed. It is, with exceptional attention payed to timing and witty dramatic effects. Not special effects, mind you - this is animation, and it doesn't need those. I'm talking dramatic effects, such as hints at plot twists, perfectly hip slapstick set-ups that aren't dumb & dumber like so many Jim Carrey bits, intelligent jokes & asides on religion, morality, nationalism, the beatnik culture, the science fiction comic strip genre so popular in the 50s (which is the setting for the movie), and many characterizations, all perfectly realized and all of which entertain & bring the audience into the action and keep us happily interested and wondering what's next. This is a definition of fine drama; it works in any of the dramatic genres, and it is undeniably what every intelligent human being desires from dramatic entertainment. In my humble opinion, the producers of this film thus understand the most basic, important elements of drama, and are therefore rare geniuses of dramatic production, on the level with Shakespeare, Rogers & Hart, you name it; even the music was as finely orchestrated and whimsically placed in cues as Bernstein, Copland & Stravinsky would have accomplished.Indeed, everything in this film was better than anything one should have expected from a children's animation feature. This apparent mis-match was surely its death warrant at the box office. But once again, time will reveal the true genius from the flash in the pan. The Iron Giant is a supreme classic, the product of film making geniuses. Its sentimentality made me cry, its fable made me rejoice, its subtle slapstick left me grinning and, perhaps most importantly, it allowed me to attend a film, and later many video replays, with my young son without having to feel that I was taking my son to some tawdry carnival that would lower his intelligence & impress upon him low expectations of humanity. If all American children's films were this good, America would truly be the great nation it is cracked up to be. "},{"Title":"One great movie","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the type of movie that Disney SHOULD have started making YEARS ago.  Instead of all the cute characters and song and dance numbers, here is a movie that is actually about somthing.  The Hogarth character was a kid who we all wish we were.  And the giant was a great character.  The story about a iron giant who was made for war but wanted to be nice is compelling, and the ending had me crying.  Another thing, the animation in this movie was SUPERB.  It is some of the best animation I have ever seen.Disney does not take chances like this anymore.  They used to when Mr. Disney was alive, but not anymore.  This is a movie that takes chances.  Fox is truely making strides against the evil empire of Disney. "},{"Title":"A Magical Animated Picture.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I went to see this, I thought, this movie is just going to be another Mulan, a crappy try-hard animated picture. But, I was wrong. The Iron Giant was a naturally joyful animated picture, in fact it is one of the best animated movies I saw last year. The voice-overs are well done, the direction and writing were good, while the cinematography, cgi's and intelligence of the movie really bring it together.The Iron Giant is an absolutely delightful picture that everyone will enjoy, and everyone should cherish.Rating 10  "},{"Title":"Warner Bros' priorities leave something to be desired...","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  That features like this and Cats Don't Dance should be treated so poorly by Warner Bros (in the case of the latter it wasn't even released to UK cinemas) while Space Jam and The Quest for Camelot had the red carpet rolled out beggars belief. But I can understand why it had difficulty being sold; here's an animated feature without any song-and-dance numbers (all the songs are '50s numbers heard on radios or TVs), no merchandisably cute characters, nothing to mark it out as a traditional kids movie, and no trademarks like Disney has. They clearly think Western moviegoers aren't ready to sit through non-Disney-wannabes, and given that it flopped both in America and here they may be right (although if only the marketers had a clue...). This film is quality almost from beginning to end (the first few minutes were a bit weak setting up the story, but it soon finds its feet), although it may be a bit too sophisticated for the viewer who can't move beyond The Flintstones or My Little Pony, and it definitely can't be accused of patronizing its audience. Genuinely moving, sometimes very funny and always involving, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Warm, Entertaining, and funny family movie.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a terrific family movie. It offers great entertainment, morals, and great action. It's also an animated movie which kids can enjoy, even if they're trying to have a taste for more adult movies. Parents will love it, too.PLOT 8 DIRECTION 9 SCRIPT 8 ANIMATION 8OVERALL 8.5FOR THE KIDS 9 "}{"Title":"A really likeable little film","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not as cute as a lot of other animated movies although it has it's fair share of moral lectures. The graphics are well-done and the voices fit the characters well. I found the environments to be believable and the end not too typical. 8)All in all a film to check out if you don't mind animated movies. "},{"Title":"the iron giant","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i thought this film was one of the best animated movies i had ever seen,, i was pleasantly surprised... when i saw the trailer i thought, oh,just another crappy cartoon but when i saw it i changed my mind instantly. i give this great movie (10-10) "},{"Title":"This was great","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You will like this one, I knew it would be good but was surprised at just to what a high level they have raised the stakes in animation with Iron Giant. Sure it borrows from ET a good deal, but then that borrowed from Lassie and a hundred other Boy and his Dog stories before it, too.I was knocked out by the animation, characters(Beatnik Man was good-Connick was right on the beam), so was the kid, the govt baddie and Jennifer Aniston. Thought that they modelled her character's looks after her a little, and that helped.They got the '50s look to it right, the music, cold war era paranoia, Maypo ads and what not. I felt that they put a lotta heart into it, and enjoyed the scenes with the boy explaining a soul to the Iron Giant on the starry rooftip quite alot.So it used a little Christian symbolism and themes, so what? A huge chunk of the country is exactly that-and will agree with what is being said.Being from Maine orig, I got a kick outta them setting it in my state, too.I am sorry Warner's kinda threw this out there without pushing it the way they oughta, it is a classic and will be around for some time to come I think.***1/2, very very good, right there with Tarzan and Beauty and the Beast. "},{"Title":"A remarkable achievement","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The great director Don Bluth once said, I'm not sure the world needs any more movies right now.  But if a man is going to go ahead and make one, surely the film he makes ought to offer something to the audience.  Apparently, Brad Bird agreed with him, for The Iron Giant offers everything you could want in a movie  adventure, comedy, drama, and even a few tears.  The animation, music and voices are on par with the story.  Perhaps the greatest achievement by the animators is making the CGI and traditional animation blend so seamlessly that you forget that the main character is computer-generated.See this film, and see it in its letterbox format to fully see the giant's physical relationship with everything around him. "},{"Title":"A good movie with one significant flaw","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a good movie, but falls short of great due to the ending.The movie shows the destructive nature of fear and hate in a compelling fashion.  It is also funny. The ending is quite beautiful, at first, as our hero sacrifices himself for the good of humanity.  Unfortunately, he is brought back to life to please the kids the film is aimed at.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"nifty animated tale","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A young boy, living in suburbia with his single-parent mother, befriends a friendly outer space alien he finds in a nearby forest and teaches him to communicate while hiding him from both his mother and the diabolical forces of the uncomprehending military industrial complex bent on the interloper's total annihilation.Sound familiar?  Say one thing for The Iron Giant  if you have to model your tale on an earlier film, you could do a lot worse than Steven Spielberg's timeless masterpiece, E.T. - the Extraterrestrial.  The good news too is that, derivative as this new film is - it plays at times almost like a scene-by-scene remake of the previous film, - The Iron Giant is quite a charmer in its own right as well.  It is a rare pleasure to see an animated film so rooted in the real world.  So many of them take us to such exotic places - for the obvious reason that animated films, by their very nature simply CAN, - that all too often we feel distanced from what is taking place on the screen before us.  By setting this film in the recognizable world of 1950's America, the makers establish a tone of unfrenetic charm and tranquility that plays well as a background for the sci-fi elements of the tale.  The film also becomes a beautiful reflection on the strange coexistence of scientific idealism and trepidation that took hold of the imagination in that early era of space exploration and nuclear gamesmanship - an uneasy amalgam that found its way into many of the science fiction films of the time.The dialogue in the film enhances the gentle tone of the story without resorting to either maudlin sentimentalilty or sardonic cynicism. Hogarth, the boy, is simply a curious, well intentioned young lad, a bit smarter than most perhaps but not a budding genius (one of the wittiest lines comes when he bemoans the fact that other boys tease him because he is so much smarter than them when really the only difference is that he STUDIES).  The Iron Giant manages to instill a number of such subtle life lessons as these without straining the point or becoming pedantic about it - although the guns kill theme, obviously designed to infuriate NRA members, does come across as a bit heavyhanded.The use of widescreen yields a number of tremendously beautiful moments of visual splendour, and the giant himself is especially impressive.  Again, though, the animation is always placed at the service of the material;  we are not subjected to a barrage of meaningless flashy images for their own sweet sake.  The Iron Giant may feel overly familiar - and it will never replace E.T. as the definitive version of this story - but it is definitely a film well worth seeing, an animated film that will indeed appeal to audiences of all ages.    "},{"Title":"Very entertaining animated film.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation is well-done, the story is good, and there are lots of funny spots.  Definitely worth seeing, especially for adults who enjoy fantasy. Overall, however, I did not find it as good as, say, Disney's Tarzan animated movie, and gave it 7 of 10.The DVD has a making of feature which adds to the enjoyment of the overall 'film' package. The DVD Dolby 5.1 sound is very well done. "},{"Title":"Great cinema","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film was really great. I watched it because our son wanted to do so and I do not regret any minute of the movie. Good animation, full of details and feelings, this is the way one wants to be entertained. This is not only a child`s movie, its a movie for all the family. "},{"Title":"A refreshing break from the animation mold many of use are used to.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  No show tunes, no side kicks, mild language, Nice break from what has been etched into many of our minds if almost all your viewing of animation if from North America.  Most animated movies that are released here are family viewing aimed more at the children then the adults, enough show tunes and comic relief to keep the kids involved and little enough to keep the adults involved.  I too can enjoy a Disney movie but probably wouldn't be able to sit through a marathon of them.  The Iron Giant was different.  The language was harsher then a lot of cartoons but nothing that wouldn't be aired on TV, this didn't shock me but I watch a lot of animated films where this stuff is nothing compared to what I've heard said in them.  The animation is nice and smooth, and the characters act realistic enough.  Most of the humor wasn't very deep but still made me laugh in many scenes.  One of the things I didn't like about this movie was then fact that the antiwar message was imposed a little to strong around the end.  Also showing that the films that tell you to duck and cover during a nuclear attack will have no chance of protecting you.  Still it's overall a good movie and would recommend it to anyone.My review 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"You won't believe your eyes, but you'll believe your heart","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was visually beautiful and at some points, astounding but what I absolutely loved about it was how moved I was after watching it.  The characters were very real, despite them being animated (and who says animation isn't as valid as live-action...I argue that it can surpass live-action) and all, including the Giant, were lovable.  It doesn't preach anything to the viewer, either.  I also like how the movie combined classic design/animation with high-tech visual effects of the movie.  Superb.  Oh, yeah, and the kids will enjoy it, too.Miss Tran "}{"Title":"Harry Knowles is never wrong","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant has a dazzling veneer of very pretty animation.  But unlike, say most Disney movies, the gorgeous color is nothing compared to the film's meaning and substance.  The movie has so much to say but never gets tripped up on itself.  It comments on war, humankind, prejudice, and paranoia all using the fable of a mysterious iron giant who Hogarth saves from electrocution.  A lovely movie to show your kids and to watch yourself.  I'm sure you'll get something out of it. "},{"Title":"Could All Animated Films be this Good?","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was another film from last year that was under advertised and yet was an amazing accomplishment.  The story itself was written well and had an interesting thought process.But the actual dialogue made this movie great.  Harry Connick, Jr. and Jennifer Aniston added great personality to the characters.  They almost seemed life like.The character design was also wonderful.  The art and the pacing of the film really gave it a wonderful feeling.  I wish all animated films could be written and created this well.The worst thing was that no one saw this movie.  It was so good.  It would appeal to children and adults alike.  I cried at the end.  Not too many movies do that to me.  Go rent it now if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Much More Than a Cartoon","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sometimes when watching an animated feature, I spend my time saying, What great animation.  When this happens, I wonder if I am doing what the producers wanted me to do.  Like so many things, should I be so enamored with the technical part of the movie that I am distracted from the content.  As I watched The Iron Giant I realized I had forgotten it was an animated feature.  Don't get me wrong. I knew the enormous title character was animated, but the relationships among the characters and the intelligence of the script caused me to forget that these weren't actors.  The movie is filled with tender moments, especially as they relate to our feelings of our own mortality.  What I enjoyed is that the grownups aren't treated as garden variety bad guys.  Even the military, which is nearly always portrayed as evil, finds itself in a contradictory position--having to go on faith.  The animation is wonderful, but so are the performances.  No spoilers here, but I think the ending is a lovely tribute to the spirit of the life force in all of us--even those of us not made of metal. See this.  It is one of the better movies of the year. "},{"Title":"A cartoon that feels like a real movie","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  People say The Iron Giant is just an E.T. clone.  Here's a little secret...this film is much better than E.T. ever was.  It's an animated film that should make the people at Disney feel inadequate.  It's not sappy or corny, it doesn't talk down to its audience and it feels like a real movie.  I forget that I'm watching a cartoon when I watch this movie, and that's definitely a big part of why it's one of 1999's very best films.  The animation is simple but beautiful, the characters are charming, the voice characterizations are fantastic (especially Christopher McDonald as Mansley and Harry Connick as McCoppin) and Michael Kamen's score is a revelation.  The Iron Giant is a first-class piece of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Must See Movie","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not going to reveal much, but this is a must see movie.It is not a kiddie flick. It's a wonderful, fresh movie with lots of heart. Excellent in every way. It's worth buying right off! If you don't want small kids to hear certain words (damn Hell) don't let them watch it. My 5 yr old LOVES it and doesn't repeat those words.  There's some really touching scenes. It's just wonderful.  I can't say much so I don't ruin it for anyone! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best animated film I've seen.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This one will take ya by surprise.  Bought it on DVD on a friend's recommendation, and I don't regret it one bit.  Extremely enjoyable story.  The character's are wonderful.  And the drama in this film doesn't come across the least bit campy like it does in other animated features.  Hats off to the creators. "},{"Title":"Great blend of CGI and classic animation","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This animated flick is the best animated movie I have ever seen, and I have seen such great ones as The Prince of Egypt, Tarzan, The Lion King, Toy Story, Beauty and the Beast, Akira, and much more. The characters are actually believable and every single scene has a meaning, and is entertaining. Without being preachy, the story gives a great message as well.  "},{"Title":"Simply put, one of the most beautiful stories ever told on film","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Because it didn't raise a huge ruckus in it's theatrical release, I'm betting that almost everyone forgets The Iron Giant come Oscar time...but they shouldn't.  Oh I'm sure that it will get nominated in the Animated Feature category, but I doubt we're going to see this film's name in either of the categories where it belongs - Best Screenplay and Best Picture.  The sad thing is that this is probably more likely going to be due to a lack of an attempt on the part of Warner Brothers to push the film as a Best Picture/Screenplay nominee than on the unwillingness of the Academy to nominate it in those categories.  Warner Brothers will I'm sure make at least a token effort to outperform Disney's Tarzan marketing juggernaut, but I won't be suprised if it doesn't even occur to the powers that be to float this as a Best Picture/Screenplay contender.That said, the Iron Giant is, without a doubt, the best film of 1999, and probably one of the 10 best stories ever told on film.  The animation is typical Disney-esque fare, and if there are technical categories for animated features there's no reason to think that IG should win an award in one.  What carries this film is the writing, both story and screenplay, and wonderfully performed voice acting.  Take special note of Vin Diesel (yeah...Vin Diesel) as the Iron Giant.  I don't know how much easier voice acting might be than regular acting, but in this case, Diesel nails it.There's the usual spate of grown-up jokes thrown in to keep adults entertained, and the robot's Cool Quotient is right up there with iMacs.But when you get down to it it's the simple yet perfectly told story that make this film great to watch.  "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't really notice the similarities to E.T. while watching it, but now I can see them.  Still, I found this to be a much more entertaining movie.  The animation was superb, the story was sharp and the giant's technology was awesome.  It's really a shame this film didn't do very well in the box office.  Hopefully it will make it up in video and DVD. "},{"Title":"My favorite film of '99","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is more than a great animated film.  It's a great film, period.  I'd put it in my own personal top 10 of all time.  I've seen it 6 or 7 times now, and it never ceases to be affecting and genuine.  I agree with the reviewer who said that there's not a single wasted line or scene in the thing.When the final frame rolls, I dare you to not be moved in some way, shape or form.  It's just a beautiful, beautiful flick.I can't recommend it more highly. "}{"Title":"Good entertainment all round","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This wasn't what I'd expected at all.  I haven't seen a general certificate film for years through frustration at the corny over commercialised cynical tripe dished out by the Disney corporations of the cinema world, but I really enjoyed this animated feature.A small boy befriends an alien killing machine robot and changes his ways in 1950s USA, with all the paranoia over the Russians, the Cubans and Nuclear War in the background.This is a delightful little story as the boy and his mother have a government agent move in on them and bully the boy, Hogarth, as the army tries to destroy the giant alien machine.Most enjoyable was the comical parody of the 'duck and cover' informational films, which was quite funny and almost Ren and Stimpy-esque. "},{"Title":"Caught me totally by surprise and was great!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I bought the DVD without any knowledge about the plot other than it had a giant robot and a boy in it. duh. The film just completely caught me off-guard and it was absolutely great. There were no disney-like let's all sing and praise moments and it was completely believable + the voice actors did a great job. Although the film is a bit short it still packs in everything it needs and the end is very touching.  "},{"Title":"The BEST film of 1999","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've just watched the DVD version of Iron Giant.   I found the story line to be one of the most cliche' plots in all of animation.   There is an obvious anti-gun message that is rather silly and ineffective.   Then there's the all too familiar kid without a father theme that Hollywood beats like a dead horse.    Hardly the sort of stuff that makes for a great film.   But, worst of all, it is filled with logical and factual errors that stretch the already thin credibility of animated flicks.Despite all that, I just loved this movie!Of all the films I've seen in 1999, this is definitely the best of the lot-- animated or live action.   And I say this just having seen Toy Story 2 a few weeks back, which is now my second favorite film of '99.  Iron Giant kicked it out of first place.   (You know it's a bad year for movies when your top two favorites are animations...)   Flaws and all, this film has more heart and emotion than any other 10 Hollywood films of 1999 combined.The film takes place during 1957.  We have a story about a boy named Hogarth (without a father, of course...) who finds a giant iron robot from outer space while searching the woods for invaders from Mars.   After being initially scared to death of the creature, he quickly realizes the robot is not out to harm him- and so, in short order, the boy befriends him.   The rest of the movie deals with the boy's efforts to hide a 100ft. tall robot from the local townspeople of Rockwell, Maine and the United States government.While there's nothing cliche' about a boy taking a walk in the woods and discovering a huge metallic robot suffering from amnesia munching on the local electric power plant, the ...boy meets awesomely powerful yet benign creature and quickly befriends him while everyone else wants to kill him... plot has been done too many times to count.    Yet the film's writers, directors and animators take us down this well-traveled path in such a way that new life is breathed into this most ancient of fairy tales.   For that feat alone, the movie is deserves every drop of praise it gets.The film is a parable of the atomic age.   The fears and paranoias of the time are summed up in the government agent sent out to find the giant robot, Kent Mansly.   He's a walking, talking tribute to the red under every bed mindset.    The innocent and fun loving target of his paranoia, the boy Hogarth, contrasts Mansly.   Hogarth is about the best portrayal of a red blooded 50's era American boy that's ever been put to screen, despite the fact that he's a simple drawing.Iron Giant should not be mistaken for a mere kid's flick.    Parents will like it as much if not more than their children.   The message of the film is one of love and self-sacrifice, the kind of thing most of us want to instill in our kids.  In it's own way, Iron Giant' is a kind of Saving Private Ryan for children.Ultimately, this is a love story between a boy and his robot.   Yes, it sounds silly, but you'll have to see it yourself to understand how the writers & directors pull it off.  There is a moral to this film, or I should say, morals.  The morals are not heavy handed or preached, but they are expounded upon by the actions of the characters themselves.   My favorite lesson had to do with  peace through superior fire power!But don't take my word for how good it is. My four-year-old son watched the DVD three times in a 24-hour period, and watched it every day we had it for the seven-day rental period.  I believe it's now his new favorite film.  We judge how much he likes a film by the amount of times he asks to see it again.    The last movie he wanted to watch as much as this one is A Bug's Life.Interesting note Iron Giant, along with Toy Story 2, both pay homage to good old Sputnik -the first ever satellite launched into earth's orbit. It's neat how these two rather unrelated stories both deal with the significance of that event.Don't bother renting this film.   Just buy it the next time you see it on sale.   We've already decided to make the Iron Giant DVD a permanent part of our collection. "},{"Title":"What a Great Story!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow.  I loved this movie!  The animated details, from the subtle character nuances to the transformation of a 50's-style mechano-man to a futuristic cosmo-weapon are thrilling!  You truly care about the characters, and the whole nostalgic feel hits the right chord!  Hard to believe it's not made more of a rustle at the box office, since it received 15 nominations at the 1999 Addie Awards (Animation's Oscars)!  Tarzan, in comparison, received 7 nominations!  I only hope people will rent the heck out of this movie, because it deserves to be seen! Great Job Warner Bros!  I can't wait for your next Feature Animation!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I liked this movie.  I try to be objective about it, but at least part of me likes this movie because it's an animated feature that isn't Disney and doesn't conform to the horrible and (at least i think) destructive formula that Disney has decided that our children are best served.This movie had brilliant visual effects.  Beautiful, awe-inspiring, altogether wonderful visuals.  Some nice touches of realism too (Hogarth being knocked down into the giant's palm as the giant stood up was a nice touch).  The voice talent was excellent on all fronts, and the direction, just wow.That being said, I have to take exception with the ending.  The ending took an incredibly powerful scene of personal sacrifice and goodness and just plain cheapened it.  The natural theme of the story is heroism.  The giant's heroic act, which would have perfectly completed the movie, was near ruined by the final scene.It almost seems like the ending was tacked on after the story was complete, because otherwise, I really don't see any point for the dialogue about souls not dying.  It seems like this was meant to soften the blow of the giant's sacrifice, but because of that (insert expletive) last scene there's no sacrifice to lessen!So, when I watch this movie, I find it best to stop the tape right after the statue scene and pretend the rest never happened.The only other issue I have with the movie (and it's a small one) is the hunter scene.  Those hunters are put in a bad light for killing the innocent little deer, and if they were sport hunting, they should be put in a bad light, but if they were food hunting, I think the movie was overly harsh on them.  Though we like to pretend we aren't, we are still a species that kills animals to eat and survive.Overall, though, a real good movie.  Highly recommended, etc, etc.  Just think about the ending a bit before you swallow the happy pill.thanks for listening, joe "},{"Title":"What a joy","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's such a relief to see an animated film that goes against the annoying elements of Disney the Broadway music and songs, the irritating comic sidekicks, the heavy-handed morals. It's become such a cliche that kids aren't being entertained like they used to (don't fear TARZAN, though, a wonderful movie).I knew I was going to enjoy this movie's retro 50s-like animation immensely, but I was surprised how much more I enjoyed. The movie isn't concerned how life-like the characters are, because ultimately it's the actions that make them more realistic than how they appear.Eli Marienthal's voice is incredibly convincing as the young boy Hogarth and the title robot is the most enjoyable and friendly creature to watch since E.T. almost twenty years ago. The Iron Giant is voiced with mechanical authenticity by Vin Diesel who marvelously makes the audience not only believe but love and sympathize for this colossal metal man. There are also good (voice)performances by Harry Connick Jr. (who sounds like a cajun Bruce Willis here) and Christopher McDonald (who I was convinced was Tim Allen). One of the great moments are when Hogarth teaches his new mechanical buddy about Superman, and the Iron Giant decides he wants to be a hero.It is almost inevitable for a movie like this not to have a message, but the great thing is that not only is it a good and heartwarming message, but it isn't handed to us in a heavy and literal way. Guns are bad and they are only used for killing. Near the end I almost felt ashamed that I was starting to get a bit misty. But that doesn't matter, it only shows how great this so-called children's movie actually is! "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's too bad that The Iron Giant didn't do better during its' theatrical release.   Here we have  an intelligent, and entertaining film about a boy who befriends a giant robot from origins  unknown.   The characters are not dumbed down in anyway, and there is no need to break out into  song as many recent animated films have done.  We are carried along by the story and the  curiosity about what will happen next to Hogarth and his giant friend.   One of the best  sequences in the film is toward the end when the Giant and Hogarth are knocked out of the sky.   Once they land, the Giant shows more emotion and range than many living actors can muster.   The result is a scene that's full of power and emotion.  The climax of the film is fitting, but I  can't say what it is, you have to see it for yourself.  A great film to show to the entire family.           "},{"Title":"Excellent, thought-provoking animated feature.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally, finally, finally a worthy alternative to the ruthless, cookie-cutter Disney stranglehold on feature animation; this film is not only thoughtful, entertaining, and technically excellent, it avoids all the assembly-line pitfalls the Disney features have fallen into lately.  No lame comic relief (and even better, no Rosie O'Donnell), no attempts to update the story with a nineties twist, no terrible songs, no multiple story climaxes . . . in short, everything that's wrong with Disney push-button dreck is right about THE IRON GIANT.The story is told simply, with very little extra embellishment, and with genuine warmth, humor and sincerity, so it's a shame more people didn't see it in the theatres (but, honestly, those are probably the very reasons they didn't).  The main character, Hogarth, is a likeable little boy, realistically portrayed.  It's a credit to the filmmakers that they didn't feel the need to have the character be hip, flippant or disrespectful, a sad trend in movies.  He's very much like a real little boy.Forget TARZAN, with its main character surfin' through the jungle with his Brooklynite talk-show host gorilla sidekick for painful comedy relief (where's the relief from the comedy relief, I'd like to know), and do yourself and your kids (and your brains) a favor, and check out this underrated gem.  We took our kids to TARZAN, and they couldn't tell you a thing about it (I'm sure it's blurred together with all the Disney flicks since LION KING), but wouldn't stop talking about THE IRON GIANT. An absolute treat. "},{"Title":"Gushing praise for best animated film in years!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was my most favorite movie that I have seen the past 5 - 10 years. Superb animation, excellent choice in voice actors, music was cool and totally hip. Loved the 'bot. Ever so 50's. Great pacing, extremely emotional. This is how an animated film should be done. The big boys should be paying attention.For a movie to have me say to my fellow macho movie attendees in the theater, I'm not gonna cry... I'm not gonna cry as the movie approached its powerful climax, well.... 'nuff said. It made the adult in me feel like a kid all over again.This film is a keeper for the DVD or video collection. All hail Brad Bird and his crack team. They made me a happy man.I just want to know why Warner Brothers didn't give this film the publicity it deserved. They dropped the ball on this one! "},{"Title":"This movie is superb","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is clearly my favorite movie of the year.  I don't quite go for animation so I was skeptical.  This movie won me over hands down.  I don't cry easily during movies but I could not help myself with this one.  The relationship during the idealic 1950's between the boy and his pet robot was truly the best piece of script writing to come along since ET.  This movie is a must see not only for children who it is intended for but for adults who have lost the imagination of children, this movie will take you back. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1999!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had put off seeing this movie thinking that would be just another children's flick that was going to insult my intelligence and sell toys. When I was near tears at the end I realized that I should have caught this one in the theaters, or at least in letterbox edition.The story is a basic formula, and been done a 1000 times, but never with this grace, style and sense of timing.  The comedy is pushed to it's absolute limit, another joke could not be pushed in anywhere without disturbing your flow through the story.  Which is one of the most beautiful parts.  You can't help but love the characters as you laugh with them.This is no Disney movie (it's better), and parents should really be careful showing this to their kids.  The comments it makes on American society, especially on the mentality of America in the 1950s, are rather harsh and blatant.This movie should be up for the Editing, Directing and Screenwriting Oscars'.  I doubt it will be, but it truly should be.This is a must see movie you should fit into your viewing schedule.  Forego a Thursday night in front of the boob-tube and rent this one.  "},{"Title":"Another ignored classic","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the most frustrating things about Disney's stranglehold on the animation industry is that when a truly great animated film does come along, fans ignore it in droves.  Such a case is The Iron Giant. Many people are blaming its poor showing on Warner Bros lack of advertising, which is ridiculous. I dislike the idea that unless we're inundated with Happy Meal tie-ins and action figures, the film is under-advertised. There certainly was adequate advertising for this film; it simply wasn't in titanic Disney proportions.The Iron Giant is, no exaggeration, one of the best animated films of the last ten years. As a childhood fable, as a view of fifties foreign paranoia, as a statement on violence, it works perfectly.  There isn't a single flawed scene from beginning to end. And it proves conclusively that animation can work without cute animal sidekicks or overwrought musical numbers; just a great story, brilliantly timed comedy, and some truly touching moments.The combination of cel animation and computer imagery is seamless, with each technique used to its best effect. The voice-acting is top-notch, with Christopher MacDonald particularly good as the paranoid government agent. Having not read the book myself, I can't vouch for the film's adherence to the original story, but I highly recommend it to any lover of animation.Incidentally, lest you think it's purely for children, I watched it with a group of men over thirty, and we all loved it. Let's hope this film gets the discovery on video it was denied in the theater. A solid 10. "},{"Title":"Great for Kids and Adults","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why was this movie a flop in theaters?  Probably because there wasn't a complete toy line, collectible card game, and Burger King tie-in to coincide with the release.  It's really unfortunate too, because The Iron Giant is one of the few movies of recent years that is great for kids.Blending traditional cel animation with a completely digital character (the Giant), this movie is a feast for the eyes.  The story, while simple, contains so many levels that both children and adults will find something of interest.  Children will react to the story of a small boy with a robot for a pal, while adults will see how the movie mocks the Cold War paranoia of the 50's.There are no musical numbers.  There are no talking bears or raccoons.  Just a good story that is backed up with excellent animation and a big heart.  This movie is one of the best animated movies of the decade, and hopefully audiences will discover it on video. "},{"Title":"The power to engross EVERYONE","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently saw The Iron Giant on video, and as usual with most kid-targeted movies, I was half-expecting it to be an embarassment. Well, everyone should be pleased to know that this movie is not targeted at any specific age group! The best film-makers know that great animated movies should appeal to everyone; just adding on the word animated does not automatically equate to a movie for kids only. The strongest asset of The Iron Giant lies in the writing. EVERY character is nothing short of believable and realistic, and there are several fairly strong  including guns kill and souls can't die. This may sound trite when taken out of context and put on paper, but the delivery of these in the actual film is anything but. How often do we get animated features like this, that depart form the traditional formula and deliver truly positive messages, all without turning preachy?     In addition to the dramatic elements, there's a good share of successful comedy. The whole superman element is amusing, and several other parts (including the bit where the Giant decides to emulate Hogarth's cannonball dive into a lake) are worth laughing out loud for. Also, in what is a VERY wise decision, there are no musical numbers and no obligatory comic-relief characters. Inserting either would hurt The Iron Giant's overall flow greatly, as the script and voice acting are intelligent enough to deliver the entertainment on their own. Finally, just to compliment things, the visuals are really cool. I clearly noticed changes in style throughout; the backgrounds, foreground objects, and characters all have their own distinct look and feel, making the environment suitably lush.          The bottom line? Well, I would reccomend THE IRON GIANT to anyone, regardless of age. Hands down, this is the best animated film I've ever seen thus far. RATING **** (out of ****) NOTE THAT I WILL USE A STAR BASED SCALE FROM NOW ON. "},{"Title":"The most loveable movie in years!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is probably the best animated feature since The Lion King. And it's certainly a lot more! The story is wonderful, the animation very good (not Disney, but not everything has to be), and the voicing is perfect! On top of that you have the fantasies of a kid, only in this movie they are real.The Iron Giant is a movie for the whole family. It's filled with laughs, sadness, a great moral and characters that you immediately fall in love with. I cannot recommend it highly enough. This is a ten, and you'll want to see it over and over again! "},{"Title":"See this film.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Without a doubt, the best animated picture I've seen.  That's what makes it so surprising to learn that it hasn't grossed that much.  But beyond having one of the best endings I've ever seen, serious moral issues are raised. See this movie, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Top flight family entertainment.  Adults will also love it.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a kid I enjoyed the Marvel comics scifi stories of the late 50's and early 60's.  Of these, undoubtedly the best was I Fought the Colossus.  I always fantasized that I'd see it on screen and  that if I had a billion dollars, I'd produce that story as a movie.  THe Iron Giant, while not quite the same, comes close to fulfilling that.  The Iron Giant, while perhaps not top flight in the animation aspects, is a first rate story with a timeless theme and a great morality play.  It provides a sense of realism in character depictions that has rarely been equalled in animated films.  Its only weakness, surely forgivable, is that it sometimes uses a sledgehammer to hammer home its message.  This will rank as one of the top animated films in history.  One anachronism for the eagle eyed  a 1959 Cadillac in 1957! "},{"Title":"My 4-year old, Hannah says, The Iron Giant was cool.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My 4 year old daughter, Hannah, says that the Iron Giant was cool, but was also a sad movie. I liked how The Iron Giant got to the forest. I also liked how the Giant and Hogarth got to be friends. Hogarth just learns that the Iron Giant won't hurt him. He's a good friend. That's so nice. "},{"Title":"6 year old, Jacob's review","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I Liked the Iron Giant. They tried to hurt him, because they didn't understand him.  That's not nice.  You have to try to get to know someone. Do you know what else?  I don't like all those songs in Disney movies. This was a good story without so many songs, and it made me interested for a long time. "},{"Title":"A delightful and imaginative family film!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's hard to make a family film in the 1990's.  If you do not have the name Walt Disney placed before the title of your family film, it's usually a sure bet that your movie won't make much money in the box office, but the film will do well in the video market.  But every now and then there is a family film that rises out of the juvenile and childish ashes and shines brightly on the faces of both the young and old.  In 1995 Universal released that family film, and it is titled BABE.  In 1997 Fox released their family film titled ANASTASIA, which was both spectacular and fantastic.  Now it's Warner Bros. turn, and their film is called THE IRON GIANT, which isn't only the best family film of the year, but one of the best movies of the year. THE IRON GIANT takes place during the Communist scare of 1957. It's the animated tale of a young boy named, Hogarth Hughes (voiced by Eli Marienthal) who is kind, smart, and intelligent.  Hogarth lives with his mom, Anne Hughes (Jennifer Aniston) who is a waitress at the town's popular diner.  One night while Hogarth's mom is working late at the diner, Hogarth is up late at night watching t.v., until the  reception goes bad.  Hogarth sees that the antenna for the t.v. is missing, and there's a trail leading out to the woods.  Out in the woods Hogarth sees a 100 foot tall metal robot that's made of metal, that is at first eating the metal off of a electrical power station, until the robot gets tangled in the power lines and is getting electrocuted.  Hogarth, with sypmathy, turns off the power to the station and saves the robot.  It is then that the young boy and the robot become friends. Meanwhile, one of the fishermen who's boat crashed into the robot while it crashed landed on earth, calls the government and they send over government agent Kent Mansley (Christopher McDonald).  Mansley believes that the robot will pose a threat to the people and sees that it must be found and destroyed.  So Hogarth decides to hide the robot in the town's junkyard run and owned by beatnik Dean McCoppin (Harry Connick Jr.).  It's only a matter of time that Hogarth teaches the Iron Robot the ways of life, before agent Mansley finds the robot. Parents complain that Hollywood needs to make more family orientated films.  Well, Waner Bros. (a Hollywood studio) had made the ideal family film, and sad to say, nobody is seeing it. While parent groups are in meetings bashing such films as MATRIX, WILD WILD WEST, AMERICAN PIE, AUSTIN POWERS 2, and SOUTH PARK; they are guilty of not letting their children watch a great movie like this.  Instead, these guilty parents are letting their children become lab-rabbits and let them be exposed to such adult orientated films as the ones I meantion above, and then go to meetings and rallies to protest the films that shouldn't be viewed by young children.  Or maybe these parents don't really want to see a children's film, and would rather see a film that they would want to see, and bring their children along so they can spend the money on refreshments and not on some baby-sitter. That's a shame, since this is a excellent family film, yet like ANASTASIA, it's not pulling in much money into the box office.  Perhaps it's because that children would rather see talking animals than an animated person, that would explain on why BABE was such a big hit (but please, DO NOT let them watch the upcoming TNT film ANIMAL FARM, that will traumatize kids for years). What I personally liked about THE IRON GIANT is two things the cute homage to the life-style of the 1950's, and the humor. First the homage, this film really makes a nice and witty look at what life was like in the 50's.  From the cheesy Duck & Cover films, to the witty satire of the sci-fi/horror films. Then there's the humor, where nothing is offensive, but it's still funny and clever.  No wonder, THE IRON GIANT is directed by Brad Bird, who has made some of the funniest animated t.v. shows ever.  Including the AMAZING STORIES episode of THE FAMILY DOG, THE CRITIC, KING OF THE HILL, and my favorite, THE SIMPSONS.  I think Disney is missing out on not having Brad Bird work for them, he would turn Disney's animated films from cutesy to witty, and hopefully less musical numbers. But since THE IRON GIANT, is still playing in the theaters, go take the kids to see it!!!  And if you don't have any kids, go see it anyways!!! I would rather take kids to see this film than INSPECTOR GADGET. The critics would also agree with me, but people don't like to listen to critics.  But it's the critic's that people should listen to when it comes to a family film, since most critics reccommend BABE, ANASTASIA, and THE IRON GIANT. It's a really touching and nice family film that comes out every so often that will entertain both the young and the young at heart.  And I forgot to mention, the animation was great!!!!  ***** (out of five) "}{"Title":"9 on a scale of 10","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am 46 and I went to this movie with my two daughters 7 and 9. That's their ages, unlike the Voyager borg 7 of 9.Anyway, I digress. The movie was great. I thoroughly enjoyed it. It had a great story, excellent animation, and outstanding voices. What else could you ask for? The surprise was that it was as much an adult story as one for kids.One thing though. I thought the Dean character was supposed to be Joey on Friends. I even thought it was Matt Blanc's (I think that's his name) voice. See if you think so. Apparently not, however - Harry Connick Jr.I see that 87% of the voters gave this movie an 8 or better. You will like it. "},{"Title":"Excellent, Does WB support the Iron Giant?","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far one of the greatest animated films I've ever seen. It has a solid story and well developed characters. However, I'm surprised to find that the Warner Bros. store has a limited amount of toys and I've not seen that much promotion on the WB television network (It's been all Universal's DD). Do they have so little faith in this movie.I understand that there two previous animation attempts were both poor, but I think in light of the public enthusiasm, this movie could be really big for their animation studio. "},{"Title":"Touching Film","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A few thoughts on this film-it was beautifully animated, had a nice score, and a deep story for an animated film. The Iron Giant is on par with ET in his heart and both me and my 6 year old were in love with this character the moment he hit the screen. Wonderful touches of the time period and overall a great message in this film. Highly recommended for any age.  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried...","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been telling all my friends about this film. It touched me in such a way that when I got home from seeing it, I was such a weeping wreck, my friends were all looking at me funny! But this movie DOES NOT manipulate your emotions in the way a Disney film does. I enjoyed this movie a lot more than Tarzan, that's for sure. No cutesy sidekick characters or schmaltzy musical numbers! Yay! This film does not insult your integrity. It has a theme that anyone young and old could relate to and enjoy. I love the way it really made me FEEL emotion. The Iron Giant is a film I will keep close to my heart always. If only everyone could have an Iron Giant in their lives... the world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"surprisingly entertaining kid's movie","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I recently had the pleasure of seeing the Iron Giant with two members of LA's animation industry and was pleasantly surprised by a movie I had heard very little about.This is an excellent movie. The characters are real and engaging and the plot, while fairly straight-forward is tight and fast moving. The script is well written and its so nice to see an animated character reveal themselves through dialog and action rather than a musical number. Billed as kid's movie, the story is never dumbed down and was very enjoyable for us adults. The animation and color are first rate, but the movie shines as it take full advantage of the freedom of camera movement and editing the medium offers.We walked out of the theater, and my friend's first comment I think is the best review I've heard yet, I wish we could make films like that at Disney!Yes the boy befriends kind hearted monster story has been done many times, but not this well since Spielberg brought E.T. to the screen in 1982.I would recommend to anyone this under-advertised movie, which so far this year, has the strongest exit polls of any other film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful (see http//movies.yahoo.com)","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Awesome. Completely. Not just in the colloquial sense; this bit of cinematic art is truly jaw-dropping, eye-popping awe-inspiring. Although I am an avid fan of anime, I appreciate any well-crafted animated work.Of course, all the wonderful drawings cannot make up for a poorly designed or implemented storyline. This was a wonderful script with a tear-jerking ending. Yah, it was predictable. But it still grabs your heart and shakes it.For me, the tears came from beyond the storyline. For years I have waited for cartoon animation to meet and exceed the art shown in mags like Heavy Metal and the old Marvel and DC comics. For some years, anime was the closest thing to this reality for me. Disney, although beautiful and close to home, still does not ring with the intensity that The Iron Giant did for me last weekend.The only flaws? Inappropriate language and the ever-present anti-gun message. My my four-year-old and seven-year-old kids are aware that both are not acceptable in our house and we discussed them on the way home. I was able to make the save and explain to them (again) that not everything they see on TV or in movies is okay to repeat or to believe.It did give me the opportunity to repeat my message Guns are NOT bad. Guns DON'T kill. Have you ever seen a gun jump up and shoot someone dead? (giggles from the back seat) No. Someone holds the gun and fires it. People can act badly sometimes and people decide to use guns to kill. Got it?)  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great screenplay, innovative CGI technology  that makes the CGI character blend in better.  But the hand-drawn animation and background  art are mediocre. Overall, lots of fun and a  must see. "},{"Title":"Fine Animation","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is the best surprise film of the summer.  Intelligent writing, comedy that is actually funny, and a strong message all come together to create a good film experience.  The film loses its way a bit at the end by going a little too over the top with the boy's relationship with the giant, but otherwise it is even-handed and emotionally restrained.The best part of the film is that it is not afraid to state its political beliefs.  The Cold War was a waste of people's lives and times.  The boy is fatherless, in fact, because he was a pilot who died in Korea (we can assume).  The methods that our government provided us for protection were all lies, such as the Duck and Cover film that must be seen to be believed.  Best of all, the film is strongly anti-gun.  The giant, like all of us in our insane country, can be a gun.  He chooses not to be and chooses not to hurt others.  It is a choice we can all make by saying no to guns and gun violence.  The military and government officals suffer some well-deserved put-downs, and the hero's friend is a subversive beatnik artist.  What could be better than that?  The real reason that Warner is not promoting this film is that it fears that its strong political message could create a backlash against the company.  Instead, they put their money into Wild Wild West and its humor based on race and disability. Better to reaffirm those who hate than encourage us to love. "},{"Title":"praise for the best film of the year","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is THE best film of the year hands down.  I haven't seen a movie that's taken me on such a ride in a VERY long time.  It never has a bad moment...and runs the gamut of emotions.  It makes you smile, laugh your butt off, sit on the edge of your seat and cry.  Simply the best of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"The Best Animated Film Ever Made","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've always shied away from Disney animated films. Racist stereotypes, puerile plots, inane musical numbers, and useless animal sidekicks. What a revelation The Iron Giant is! Forget E.T. This is BETTER! There is nothing gratuitous or forced about this film. All of the characters are fully realized. Especially the relationship dynamic between Hogarth and the Giant. The story never misses a beat, and the characters are real people. Including the Giant. Adults will get as much out of this film as younger film goers.Foget the Warner Brothers' shareholders this film deserves to be supported by the public for the pure cinematic experience that it is. See you all at the tenth viewing! "}{"Title":"That's One Small Step for Animation... One Giant Leap For WB","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't say enough good about this film. No songs and no stupid sidekick, just an old fashioned story with great animation, humor, sadness and joy. The retro 50's look was a big hit and the voices seemed to fit perfectly. Was the animation as good as Tarzan... maybe not as a whole (but the giant was super!); was the story as good as Tarzan... better imho.I can't believe I actually had a tear in my eye (my girlfriend was sniffling of course) and at the end the whole theatre was applauding. I've read WB is taking a bath on this feature and it just doesn't seem right... this is so much better than Tarzan. I'll have to see it a few more times to help WB out, and I don't even have kids! This was truely a magical animated feature.Randy "},{"Title":"A real treat.Well done, a good message and very entertaining","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A true family movie.  My 4 & 5 year old grand daughters loved it, and my wife and I thoroughly enjoyed it as well.  The animated characters are generally well developed.  The animation quality is superb and the story is engaging.  It is not overly complex, nor is to too preachy in delivering its message of non-violence.  I feel it is a rare movie in that it works well on many levels.  If possible, see it in a theater that can properly reproduce the fine audio track which is loaded with low frequency energy. "},{"Title":"This is a real science fiction film.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This comment contains very general, minor spoilers.This is a real science fiction film for a change. Star Wars, for all of its mind-blowing special effects, is just pulp magazine nonsense. And Star Trek, besides being nonsense, seems to have degenerated into a cloying soap opera. But _The Iron Giant_ is a wonderful example of the boy finds strange alien artifact, boy nearly sacrifices himself to save strange alien artifact, boy is saved by self-sacrificing strange alien artifact variety.This is also a beautiful film. The animation is as good as anything the Disney Studios have turned out, the character design is more interesting and the story is better than anything Disney has managed to come up with in years. And, it is an animated film, supposedly meant for children (though I am sure most adults will enjoy it thoroughly), that is not a musical! Hurrah!Since the world has not come to an end, we can only hope more studios follow suit in upcoming animation projects. (Don't misunderstand, I am all for songs where appropriate, but I have become incredibly weary of songs being shoe-horned into every feature length animated film ever made in the US, just because that's the way eveyone else does it.)  "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When this movie ended, I couldn't get out of my seat.  You see, tears were pouring down my cheeks and I didn't want anyone in the lobby to see me. They may have thought it odd to see a fifty year old man crying.They began as tears of sadness about three minutes before the movie ended. It was a bitter-sweet sadness and I could easily have brushed them away. But it was the final scene, the last few seconds of the film, that did me in.If you've seen Places in the Heart, you know what I mean... a final, defining scene that is so uplifting, so utterly transcendent, that it becomes a transforming moment in your life.The feeling remained with me long after I had hurried out of the lobby and into my truck.  I believe it was about the time I was pulling into my driveway that I realized, Hey, this was only an animated feature, for pete's sake... an animated feature, and it has touched my life deeply.I intend to tell all my friends about this movie.  I want them all to see it.  A movie this wonderful is just too good to pass by. "},{"Title":"Run, don't walk to see it!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is without a doubt the best, most intelligent animated feature from America since Fantasia. The single best endorsement I can think of is that when I drug a friend to see it at a matinee showing last week, there a bunch of kids in the theatre directly behind us. Not only did my friend ( a 37 year old pharmacist), really enjoy it, the kids really loved it too. The story isn't dumbed down in any way, it doesn't insult an adult's ( or a kid's either) intelligence by resorting to cutesy comic sidekicks  i.e. Jar Jar Binks, Terk, or Scrappy Doo. The Iron Giant is just flat-out a good movie that happens to be animated. "},{"Title":"An intelligently-realized and provocative movie for children and adults.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a wonderful rendering of Ted Hughes's 1968 story, The Iron Giant.A meteorite falls to earth. But it is no mere meteorite; it is a 100 ft. tall metal-eating giant robot, sentient and sensitive. It is discovered by Hogarth Hughes, a young boy who lives with his mother. His father, possibly a jet pilot (photo in frame), is either dead or has divorced his mother. After the initial shock and fear, Hogarth befriends the iron giant, and slowly, almost without realizing it, teaches the giant about ethics and morality (that we all have souls, that souls live on forever, that it is wrong to kill). Trouble comes in the form of a government man who, displaying the paranoia of 1950's America, sees the giant as a potential threat.The animation is reminiscent of Don Bluth's work, without the insipid, treacly and gratuitous musical numbers. It portrays children, in particula r Hogarth, realistically, and reminded me of the innocent sweetness of the children in Miyazaki's films, My Neighbor, Totoro and Kiki's Delivery Service.The blending of computer-generated and traditional animation is virtually seamless and artfully-done.The scripting is at once funny, intelligent and bittersweet without being maudlin. I loved the wonderful attention paid to details The Duck and Cover cartoons were accurate and hilarious; Detailing, even down to the F-86's, period jet fighters, was amazing; The subtle homages paid to other sci-fi genre TV and films such as Johnny Sako and His Giant Robot, or the cobra-like martian death rays from War of the Worlds.Inevitably, some will compare this film to the book by Ted Hughes. While director/screenwriter Brad Bird may have taken liberties with the original storyline, I think the movie carries the gentleness and intelligent spirit of Hughes's book. The film didn't talk down to children, nor was it heavy-handed in its message, like E.T.High praise for this film and for Warner Bros.!! Let's hope it raises the bar for mainstream American animation. "},{"Title":"Evokes emotional response like no adult movie can...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...but maybe that's just me.  This movie rocked.  It made me laugh really hard, and all the jokes were clean!  I saw this movie with a 5 year old kid, and it enhanced my experience so much just to hear him laugh at the funny parts and to see his eyes widen at the huge metal robot.  But enough of the dialogue is designed to keep the adults' attention that you don't have to be a child or have a child to enjoy it.  A nice, simple message that everyone needs to have drilled into them over and over again, and the robot is SO COOL.  It makes me want to go out and buy a toy. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Gem","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wonderful animation, great storytelling, superb direction and voice acting. This film is obviously a labour of love. All the kids in the theater were laughing as hard or harder than the adults and there was a genuine round of applause at the end.I just can't understand why nobody seems to know about this truly amazing film - aside from the irongiant.com website, the only support i've seen is a weak trailer that gives away major plot points. Warners marketing has fumbled badly on a film that deserves at least a fraction of the care that went into its creation.  "},{"Title":"This is a great flick, and it's not just for kids.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had heard nothing but good about this movie, and it's all true. Well written, witty and visually impressive, this may be the best animated movie I have ever seen. My 6 year old daughter liked it, my 13 year old son liked it, and I liked it. It never talks down to the audience. For those who, like me, grew up on cheezy B science fiction flicks, check out the subtle John Agar tribute. "},{"Title":"Spread the word!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't add anything to what has already been said so eloquently by others. I only want to encourage everyone to be a missionary for this movie! It doesn't deserve the poor box office it has received so far. I don't think Warner Bros. knew how to sell this gem, but we who have seen it DO know what to tell others. Spread the word to colleagues, friends, family, waitresses, the stranger who calls to sell you new long distance telephone service while you're eating dinner...It is so apparent from everything going on in our country and around the world that the film's message of tolerance and conquering our violent impulses needs to be seen by everyone. Aside from that, this is just a wonderful, well-made, thoroughly enjoyable film that will appeal to everyone. I went to see it with a group of people ranging in age from 6 to 70, and everyone was moved and entertained.We all remember movies from our childhood that still resonate in our adult lives...movies that, in a way, made us who we are and will always be a part of us. Wouldn't you feel better knowing that THE IRON GIANT was one of those movies for our next generation? "}{"Title":"Visual style 10......Story 3","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the many rave reviews posted on this website contains the comment I could watch the film time and again just for the animation.  In my opinion, it is the beautiful visual style ALONE that makes this film work and makes it enjoyable.  Had the animation and design been as bland and pedestrian as the recently released The King and I, few movie-goers would be as fond of the film.  In fact, I think it would be a bomb.The characters are certainly likeable, but too one-dimensional to rise above being mere character types.  We learn virtually nothing about them, other than what they are up to in the present moment.  It's as if they have no existence, no thoughts, no life at all other than what we happen to be seeing up there on the screen.  There is no depth to them that would suggest that their lives and their world extends beyond the edge of the frame.There's the precocious boy (Hogarth) that knows more than the grown-ups, the flustered but loving Mom who tries to understand her mischievous son, the friendly adult (Dean) who's really young at heart and serves as an ally to the boy, and on and on.  And how convenient that Hogarth lives on a farm where there's a big barn, suitable for storing a large robot.  How convenient that Dean works in an iron-filled junk yard and makes art out of iron--choices that come in very handy when one has a large iron robot to contend with.What I'm objecting to in this film is what I see as a lack of fresh ideas in the story and the script.  Clever, original thought has been sacrificed (as it usually is) for the same old cliches.  As a result, there were almost no surprises in this film.  Young people who aren't as familiar with the cliches will have a ball, I'm sure.  And adults who enjoy re-visiting the cliches that are comfortably familiar will love it, too.  But for those who want to be impressed with new perspectives, or delighted with clever surprises and unexpected turns in the story, this film will not satisfy. "},{"Title":"An animated feature for everyone. Yes, EVERYONE.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies of the decade.  I can't ever remember a film that made me want to run back to the theater ASAP and see it again. I usually don't see movies in the theater more than once, but I'll see this one at least a few more times.  Go see it! You'll love it! "},{"Title":"How can this movie be so good?","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to The Iron Giant knowing nothing about it. I did not see any trailers and avoid TV (why watch the boob tube when you can spend the time at the movies?), so I knew only that it was about a giant robot. I have had a thing for giant robots since childhood, which usually results in me going to see crap like Robot Jox. I am also a fan of films that satirize the '50s.The first few minutes of the film established that it was going to be a superbly animated film, if nothing else, although I've seen it twice on two different theatres so far and both time the first scenes in the small town were jerky and out of focus...luckily whatever caused this was not apparent for the remainder of the film. The first minutes up through the scary (for kids) scene at the power distribution center in the woods resulted in many younger kids in the audience screaming to leave the theatre. But then, even they were caught up and were very quiet for the rest of it. PARENTS this is probably not a good film for kids under 5 years old (empirical observation).Other reviews have pretty well covered the material, but I will highlight what worked for me. 1) anti Disney-formula 2) no songs 3) no cute animals or sidekicks 4) fine artwork 5) inspired storytelling & script 6) straight forward yet dead-on vocal work  from the actors 7) amazing character development for the robot 8) it made me weep from both emotion of the story and joy at the quality 9) the audience was not distracting since they were all totally absorbed in the storytelling 10) great satire on many levelsWhat did I dislike? I hate the simplistic 'guns are evil' concept. The scene where the hunters run off after killing the deer, yet the kid forgets them and instructs the robot that it is the gun on the ground that did the killing. Luckily, the film corrects this later on, establishing that the real problem is with the foolish people who want to shoot anything they don't understand (the robot in this case), while the robot who is clearly designed to be a fearsome weapon is able to gain a soul through his lucky interaction with a totally unprejudiced boy and use himself not as a killing machine but rather as a heroic character. This is one small gripe for one really fine film. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This could be the most underrated movie EVER!  Do NOT judge it by the trailer. Drag everyone you know to this flick, sit back, and enjoy some true cinematic (and animated) excellence. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the Year","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is by far the best film so far this year. It is not just a great animated film, but a great film, period. It is a shame that not many people have ventured out to see this film. Do yourself a favor and go get your tickets now before it disappears due to poor box office earnings. Take your friends, take your family, take a stranger... you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Great animation, great story... sinister anti-gun message","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really liked the movie, but it was spoiled by the blatant anti-gun message which was a major part of the plot.What burns me is that these are the same industry elites who proudly proclaim that movies and TV do NOT influence children and teens when the issue of the day is gratuitous sex and violence. But I guess it DOES influence them when it is a politically correct gun message ??!! Hollywood Hypocrisy at its finest...But hypocrisy aside, I loved the movie and so did my kids. I will see it again for sure!! It is witty, clever, and has some great characters. "},{"Title":"great great enjoyable film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I loved this movie. Emotionally powerful, elegantly written, many genuine laughs, charming but not sugary or formulaic like certain mouse-driven productions. (and no songs or dances or cutesy marketable sidekicks, thankfully).i not only cried several times, but my boyfriend did, too.  I wish even a tenth of the movies out this summer had the care and skill in them that Iron Giant does.Please see Iron Giant and send a good message to Hollywood about making good movies. "},{"Title":"Superman...","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow.It's all true folks. Go see it. Don't be ashamed if you don't have a kid in tow, either. Great characters, a cool look, and impeccably directed, not to mention a compelling and moving story.For some odd reason, the only movies that have ever really got me choked up have always been cartoons...Dumbo, Snoopy Come Home, etc., and sure enough, this one turned me into a blubbering idiot, too.Brad Bird and WB have created one for the ages! Purge yourself of all DisneyDreck(TM) and go see this film.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie...","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warner Bros have done a great job at not promoting this movie.However as all the other comments testify it is a must see. It is the first animation I have seen for a long time that is not condescending to adults or children. It is a beautiful, well-told, moral STORY. Yes, a real story and a message. It is suitable for just about all ages.The animation is not quite up to recent Disney/DreamWorks efforts - but this is a minor point given that overall the movie works so well.This movie gives me faith that Hollywood can still make films worth seeing. 9 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Forget about Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've never written an online commentary about a movie I've seen but this was THE ONE I *had* to write about. For the first time in years I actually cried at a movie. For the first time in years I've actually cared about the characters in a movie. The line I am Superman.. still brings tears to my eyes. As all the other reviewers have said before you *must* see this movie. You will want to own it once it comes out on home video. A classic in every sense of the word. Disney needs to learn a lesson. "}{"Title":"You are what you choose to be","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some people might perceive this as a mild spoiler as I discuss the plot and internal themes...Quite a surprise. This was one of the best movies that I've seen in years. I was especially impressed with the theme, as stated above, that You are what you choose to be. I perceived it as part E.T., part Short Circuit, and part Terminator 2.The comic aspect of this film had me in stitches, particulaly the loose hand in the bathroom. It also had a couple of priceless visual references to other films; my favourite being the jittering teacup from Poltergeist.What came as quite a surprise was that this very capable exploratory, and very lethal war/invasion machine was self-aware. He saw the value of life and made a conscious choice that he did not want to be a destroyer of life. And it was delightful to see that although he had a destructive instinct, he chose to resist it and be what he wanted to be. It thrilled me to no end that he was determined to prove that I am not a gun.This movie is a must-see and I thank my five year old son for coaxing me to buy tickets for it. "},{"Title":"Woah... I'm gonna go back for more!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  WOW! I'm blown away by this movie! I went in expecting your average-ordinary kid and his sidekick flick, but I was wrong! I've never seen such emotion portrayed in the animated format! It's one thing to make drawings move realistically. Disney and others can all do that! But these guys, they made their drawings think and act! They really came to life before my eyes! I actually felt sorry for the robot! I walked out of the theater with a new perspective on life!I'm disappointed by one thing only the fact that this movie will surely pass from the box office within the next few weeks. Nobody is watching it! The movie's making absolutely NO money! (well, that's according to hollywood's standards)GO OUT AND SEE THIS MOVIE! MAKE IT INTO THE CLASSIC IT DESERVES TO BE!!! "},{"Title":"Over-hyped, yet still very, very good","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  We've seen more than once that a movie which is universally raved about can tremble under the weight of its own good press.  IMHO, The Iron Giant is a movie that has been over-hyped.  I would say, for instance, that The Prince of Egypt, from every conceivable angle, is a far better animated movie.  A person could afford to miss IG; I don't think anyone should miss PoE.Having said that, I still join the chorus in praising IG.  It is really a very good cartoon.  The animation and artwork are all you've heard, yet done in a 50-ish graphical style.  The plot is interesting, and moves right along.  While I don't appreciate the one-sided guns-are-all-evil (and so are hunters, depicted as the descendants of the men who killed Bambi's mom) message, I do enjoy the skepticism about arrogant government agents, and the more complex depiction of the Giant's personality.  (The latter harkens to Karloff's Frankenstein, a monster not by his own choice.)Go to the movie for a good time, not expecting the Second Coming of Christ, and you'll find your money well-spent. "},{"Title":"This is not just an animated movie, this is a great film","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just because it is an animated movie, a lot of people are going to think that it is just for kids, but that couldn't be further from the truth. This movie is for everyone.  If you are tired of the all the Disney crap that is release every year, go see this movie, because this is the direction that American animation should take from now on.  The closest movies that I think could be used to described The Iron Giant would have to be Miyazaki's since they all take place in a reality which is not quite our own but is close enough for us to identify with it and its characters.  This a movie that every movie fan should see, because movies like this don't come around often enough. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie; humor, suspense, good story & great animation.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie got an ovation when it was over; something that does not happen very often here in Orange County. It contains the unusual combination of a very good story plus subtle moral lessons. It takes place in Maine in 1957 and has a nice selection of popular songs from that time. The facial expressions on the Iron Giant were excellent. Children will especially enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"I get choked up thinking about it.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As for all the other comments I've read here, I agree whole-heartedly. The last time I remember a film hitting me this hard was Schindler's List. It's warm, funny, engaging and so utterly HUMAN.  I do get choked up thinking about it and the power of its simple message long after the fact.I recommend it to everybody, 2 to 102.  You must see it to believe it. And I think the Academy should, too.  Bravo Brad Bird! and congratulations Warner Brothers. "},{"Title":"Better than Tarzan, by a wide margin","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is such a wonderful movie.  The story is excellent and the animation is quite good.  It lives by no formula, (ala Disney).  No Broadway medleys, no comic sidekicks.  Just good characters and good storytelling.  Five minutes ago, I looked at the box office reports, for opening weekend, and I feel like weeping.  Iron Giant was so much better than Tarzan, and worlds above Wild Wild West, and yet it has made less than five million for it's first three days.  This is horrible.  I pray that it makes a come back, for if it proves unprofitable, Brad Bird may not get another crack at it.  You can blame WB's lack of promotion for it's failure at the box office, not Bird.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Amazing! SEE THIS FILM!!!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to this film with high expectations. I read dozens of glowing reviews, and was very excited about it. At the same time, the reviews were so enthusiastic that I was skeptical. I expected it to be, at the very least, entertaining. What I got was more than entertaining. It was truly a thing of beauty. I was sucked into, and swept away by this film, more than ever before. I have never been so emotionally affected by a movie in my entire life. While I certainly understand that not everybody will get as much out of it as I did, I know that this was one of the single best films that I have ever seen. You owe it to yourself to see this movie! "},{"Title":"This is what Disney cartoons SHOULD be...","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Without question this is one of the best films I have ever seen.  It  does without all of the normal Disney junk of hokey songs, dumb sidekicks, and cute animals and has real characters and a great story.  The animation is so excellent that you forget that it is a cartoon.Whether you are 6, 26, 46, or 86, go and see this film.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent and well-written.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally, an animated feature that understands the premise that  story counts for more than animation wizardry.  This film  assumes you have a heart and a mind.  My five-year-old loved it  and I loved it.  It's funny and appropriately weighty (great  Cold War context) without being preachy or stupid.  Skip  _Tarzan_ and see _Iron Giant_. "}{"Title":"Take the kids or go alone!!!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was an awesome movie!  I don't think I can say that enough.    From the trailer (which doesn't do justice to the movie) I had already decided that I'd have to endure it for an hour and a half simply because the kids wanted to see it.  Thank God for my kids, because without their insisting I would have missed the best animated movie I've seen since Toy Story.  A quarter into the movie I'd already decided to buy the movie the minute it's released on DVD. There's a lot of humor that might be lost on kids, most of it related to period satire.  However, my 4 year old son laughed throughout the movie, and afterward told me I'm the good giant robot, Momma (Do I see us buying Iron Giant Merchandise? You betcha!)  I felt that the movie was like a nostalgic trip to my own childhood.  I remember when Superman was THE hero to be, and the difference between right and wrong was clearly defined. Finally, in this day and age, who can argue with a movie that advises You are what you chose to be. and with a hero who proudly proclaims, I am NOT a gun! "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant is a Classic.  It will live in you Forever.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film, this gem, moved me so much, that I'm tearing up as I write this.  For once in your life, believe the hype.  It is genuine.  This is a great film.  Children and adults will love it, and it actually has something to say, about violence, about our choices in life, about how paranoia can blind you, and about not being what others cast you as being.  If Warner Bros. does Superman, they need to watch this movie REPEATEDLY before they get a script.  If anything, this film evokes the true feelings of those comics.  You MUST see Iron Giant.  If you let the summer go without making this film a success, the studio mentality has won.  We can't allow that. "},{"Title":"Best American animation I've ever seen","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is probably, bar none, the single best film I've seen all year.  I'm going to be one of the ones who has advance-ordering on it for video.  It's that good.They do a great job of drawing you into the story... the characters are all incredibly consistent, and the robot is gorgeous, both as art and as a character.  (And I /loved/ the tip of the hat to Giant Robo!)I was just saying on Tuesday - having never heard of this movie - that I wished they'd release Giant Robo on the American silver screen.  This is close enough for me. ) "},{"Title":"An instant classic.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A terrfic, rich, and thoroughly entertaining film. A perfect blend of Sci-Fi themes you've seen before but never presented this fresh. You never feel cheated. Amazing animation, and a MATURE approach to the proceedings which Disney would never do. An instant classic.Nick Nunziata  "},{"Title":"Disney can bite me","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron GiantTarzan brought Disney animation back to working order this summer with it's rich animation, terrific narrative songs, and a specific attention to what made the previous Disney blunders fail both critically and financially. Tarzan still played by the tired Disney rules, but they are learning. With Warner Brothers animation, they seem to be taking more risks with their own product. From the cross-promotion antics of the lively Space Jam to the noble failure of Quest For Camelot, The WB has been fighting mightily to grab the animation crown of recognition that sits rusted on top of mount Disney. With Iron Giant, Bugs and company jump miles ahead of any cartoon competition (except for the South Park feature) to create a timeless, and nearly flawless, animated feature. You just know you're in good hands when director Brad Bird's past credits include a stint as a writer-director on the genius animated show The Simpsons. That show often goes out of it's way to parody Disney animation and others of it's ilk. Bird knows exactly what trappings to avoid and what emotional buttons to push. It is this knowledge in the end that makes Giant so effective. The story, based on a children's novel entitled The Iron Man, is set in 1957, just as the cold war was getting warm. Hogarth Hughes is a precocious 10 year-old boy with big dreams trapped in a paranoid society in deep fear of the Red Menace. His single mother (voiced with honey by Jennifer Aniston, who's name is misspelled in the end credits) works long hours to pay the bills, and Hogarth is often left alone and lonely. When an iron robot crash lands on Earth one stormy night, Hogarth discovers the Giant and quickly befriends the dazed and confused robot. Soon after, a government agent (another sneaky Christopher McDonald acting job) learns of the Giant's appearance and sets out to destroy the Giant without ever truly understanding that the robot means no harm. One of the first things that director Bird gets just perfectly is the tone and color of 1950's America. Now, we've seen this period time and again in movies, just not this accurate. The threat of Russian invasion hangs in the air like an old sock. The kids watch duck and cover reels in school. The government, having been burned by Sputnik, experiences the itchiest trigger finger know to man. All the Leave It To Beaver type material is represented in this film as well, but for a movie aimed at 10 year-olds? Warner Brothers and Brad Bird deserve much credit for keeping this cartoon more cerebral than any in recent history. This is one good script and story, told with zest and intelligence. I also applaud the simple notion of keeping the Giant's origins a mystery. We never know where the Giant came from or what it's purpose in the grand scheme of things inevitably is. With every film wasting time spelling things out for the audience, Iron Giant asks you to just use your imagination. What a notion.Using period pastels and detailed architecture, it is the look of this animated feature that truly thrilled me. So used to current Disney animation am I that to see a cartoon in the widescreen format literally makes me weep (even if it ends up being the lame Super 35 format). Giant easily is the best looking cartoon to come around in decades. It looks like they spent 3 years on each shot. Bird and crew create a unique looking film that seems to be born of the comics and the animation itself of the day. With five o'clock shadows on the men, deliriously wrinkled faces of the aged, and the scary waistlines of the women, Giant is spot-on with it's drawings. I could watch the film time and again just for the animation. It makes up for some iffy drama that occupies the film's 2nd act.To see a film like Inspector Gadget, with it's relentless delivery and shameless corporate plugs(I know Giant will have a merchandising landslide, but the film never feels like a 90 minute toy commercial), make a killing at the box office, it's imperative that a film like Iron Giant be known. We need more story-centric cartoons like this. I'm embarrassed to admit that I felt an outpouring of emotion at the end of the film. It's rare to get an animated feature that engages the crowd with lovable characters without being so calculated. It's even more rare to get an animated film that has no songs to drown the narrative. Iron Giant is told clean and true. The bittersweet climax (reminiscent of the traumatizing Fox And The Hound) left me thrilled with Iron Giant even more. This is one good animated film that should finally put Warner Brothers on the map. I strongly recommend it. --------------- 9/10  "},{"Title":"Ted Hugues would have been proud","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see the anime The Iron Giant last Sunday. This was 6,50$can extremely well spent and it was a very good surprise for me because, let's face it, the TV ads doesn't make it justice.The characters are extremely well developed, although the villain tend to be the caricatural type, but, I insist, only him. All the others characters are sounds and credible. The story is simple enough to be understood by young children, and yet, at the same time, is complex enough to draw the parents into it. It is a good thing that The Iron Giant didn't go through the Disney studios because they would have destroy those two basic elements characters + story to accommodate their own simpleton standards.Technically, even if the movie looks like having been made in the 1960s, it is not. The use of lights and shadows give it a real 3 dimensional look that wasn't seen before the computer effects. And contrary to the American version of Godzilla, the giant doesn't change size from one scene to the other. Also, the use of the Japanese style big eyes help a lot to make the emotions go through each characters. Even the robot, which tells a lot by itself. By moments, you completely forget that the characters are drawn; they just become real.As for the humor, it was not tone down to little children. They were not the adult kind à-la-South-Park either. It was often satirical and you have to be at least 20-years-old to really understand some because of the history behind them. I had some tears twice because I laugh too hard in my seat. The look of the soldier at the end is an anthology piece alone.I believe the creator of The Iron Giant died during the making of the movie, so he didn't saw the final product. He would have been proud. My greatest hope is that the sequel (if there is one as I hope) will keep this high level of quality in storytelling, characters, humor and audience-intelligentsia.I cannot encourage you enough to go see it on a giant screen. "},{"Title":"Finally we seen a reprieve to the Disney monopoly of GOOD animated movies.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Finally we seen a reprieve to the Disney monopoly of GOOD animated movies.  Where others have tried and failed, Warner Bros. has found the right mix of great animation, a very good blend of adult and children humor, and a engaging story and NO SONG AND DANCE ROUTINES!!!  In the past WB has slid past Disney with all our favorite cartoon character, Bugs, now they sneak past them again. This will be a classic I guarantee. "},{"Title":"Touching story of a boy and his giant outer-space robot","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, the boy-and-giant-robot theme has been done before (Gigantor, aka Tetsujin 28), but here the plot is new and well-constructed.  It even has a message or two.  It's pitched to the younger set, but adults will enjoy the cold war jokes (the film is set around 1960).  Good characters, especially the robot; a very good mix of laughs, pathos, and explosions.  The animation is Disney-like, blending in computerized effects seamlessly.  The mix of art styles is interesting  the giant robot is art deco; one character (Dean the beatnik scrap dealer) looks like he came from Eightball; the rest look like they came from The Little Mermaid.   "},{"Title":"A US animated film that's not a musical but excellent anyway","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw this film at a sneak preview. What a great film. And no Disney holdover from the 40s musical either. A small town in Maine is visited by a big stranger from another world who befriends a lonely little boy and teaches a lot of people a lesson or two. Wonderfully written. The robot's character is spot on great. I'm going back for a second helping when it's released nationally. As an aside, check out all the in-jokes and characters. Many of the situations will be recognizable by people who lived through that whole cold war era of the 50s and 60s. Duck and cover...indeed! "},{"Title":"I Am Not A Gun....","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the most well-written films I've seen, in this or any year. The script is like a perfect seashell- all the pieces fit together and you wouldn't want to change a thing. The underlying themes are perfectly integrated into a subtle story about tolerance and love. I hope THE IRON GIANT is remembered at awards season. "}{"Title":"Best animated film in years!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great character animation and a very intelligent script make this an absolute delight.  Very much an anti-war; anti-government fable...sometimes a bit too much so, but on the whole a great story with a message.  Very funny and NO CRAPPY SONGS!!!!!!!!!!  Kudos to those who were able to make an IRON GIANT a truly likeable character with personality. Much intelligence and humor that will be appreciated by an adult audience.  "},{"Title":"Really impressive and vastly superior to a lot of other animated films.","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked The Iron Giant, I liked it a lot. The film, surely, has to be recognised as one of the last, great two dimensional animated films that the Americans made at the back end of an era. If we formally acknowledge that the new 'era' of animation is, or was, from 1999 onwards predominantly three dimensional from an American perspective, then this is the last great film of that time. Here is an animated film that does not rely on purely the visual, even if they are as impressive as they need to be and opts for story telling and emotional involvement more than anything else. Sprinkle on a little bit of Cold War paranoia and you have The Iron Giant, a period set character study of a human being and a creature not of this world.The film is one of which it is difficult to not just sit there, and stare in both wonder but more importantly appreciation at what's being presented to you. While both colourful and atmospheric, I was most impressed with director Brad Bird's attention to character detail when it came to the animation. It's the little things; the way in which the Iron Giant himself moves around in the manner in which he does. The Iron Giant is big and hulking but its presence is juxtaposed with the very fragile and delicate relationship he has with a young boy, who is established to be pretty desperate for a friend or companion early on. The Giant's presence and traits are comparable to the only villainous character of the piece, an F.B.I. agent who's grossly smaller than The Giant but seems more threatening despite the height difference and jolts about in an urgent and jittery manner giving off an entirely different feeling to that of the large, lumbering but friendly robot.Bird's work here reminded me of Nick Park's Wallace and Gromit series, a series which I feel has since partly been inspired by The Iron Giant. There is that knowing feeling behind the production; that setting in the past and that referencing to what the filmmaker enjoys or grew up enjoying, indeed The Iron Giant's tag-line is 'It came from outer space!', maybe a nod to Hollywood science fiction films of the 1950s and 60s that dealt with the fear of impending Communist-related invasions. The link is uncanny &#150; a giant robot the most antagonistic character of the film, believed to be Russian, sent to 'the good ol' U.S.A.' in order to destroy the nation from within.The hero of the title is a nine year old boy named Hogarth Hughes (Marienthal) and lives with his mother Annie (Aniston) and in a desperate attempt to prolong some sort of relationship with another being other than his mother, he brings home little animals not exactly fit for household domestication. The establishment introduces this fact and acts as a good introduction to post-modern artist, working in a time not ready for the post-modern, Dean McCoppin (Connick Jr.) who's a friend and ally for them later on. After some other initial events, a large robot voiced by Vin Diesel, who merely has to supply some grunts and other such noises that eventually turn into synthesised words, comes into contact with Hogarth and they strike up a friendship following a train-wreck.Enter F.B.I. agent Kent Mansley, played by Christopher McDonald in the sort of slimy role you'd associate with him, in all his paranoid glory. I think initially, we don't really mind if Mansley gets his prize. He makes some enquiries and asks about but he's just doing his job. We know about as much about it as he does and it hasn't really earned its place in our hearts but it's not until Bird brilliantly brings together both the Giant's friendship with the boy and Kent's gradual obsession with the capturing of the robot until we veer more into a thought process that demands we don't want to see him get his man.Echoing what Bird sets up at the beginning, The Giant acts as a fatherly figure for Hogarth; wearing a constant smile on his face and vastly becoming one of the friendliest non-human components to a relationship involving children we've seen on screen. From the Cold War era sci-fi films of the 1950s onwards to Spielberg's E.T. and Cameron's second Terminator film, the referencing and inspirations flow and flow. Additionally, the other feelings I got amidst all this harked way back to comedy of the silent era and the use of heartfelt music and shots of character's reactions while humorous exchanges were played out &#150; it seems Bird's knowledge and love of cinema-past knows no end.Despite this phenomenon of a giant robot landing on Earth and a child taking a likening to it, the film looks at the identity of the robot more than it does anyone else. As a grey and hulking thing, is possesses neither the colour to place it into any particular category nor the necessary intelligence to place it within another. What reminded me of the second Terminator film apart from the obvious fatherly connotations was the scene in which the boy teaches it the difference between good and evil, and the poor kid uses all the facilities available to him, which peak at mere comic books, to give this creature some sort of identity and how he can be 'good' like Superman instead of 'bad' like the typical 'destroy the world' aliens &#150; perhaps a reference to more recent blockbusters like Independence Day which rely on flashy visuals, hostile aliens and zero logic. The Iron Giant is the opposite of this and is vastly superior. Towards the end, there is one lump in the throat moment and I don't think the immediate ending does the film a disservice. The Iron Giant is truly a special animation for children and adults alike. "},{"Title":"I think we all agree....it's about time for a sequel","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" After just finishing watching this wonderful movie with my wife, and 3 year old and 10 year old little boys, I wanted to see if a sequel was contemplated.Unfortunately, it looks as if Warner Brothers is intent on making two mistakes....first poorly marketing the original, and then failing to see how this movie has been embraced by thousands who know better than their marketing department and see the value of this simply inspiring, heart warming film.It's amazing to me that to contrast the talent that made this movie with the clumsiness that marketed it. Simply astonishing.Sadly, I doubt we can get Warner to see the error of their ways and to make an investment in a sequel. But at least I can add my words to the chorus already here so that folks who are contemplating purchasing the movie are reassured that they will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" For a cult cartoon, this is a really good representation and kind of re-imagination of Ted Hughes's popular book about The Iron Man, or Iron Giant. Hogarth Hughes is a young boy living just outside the town of Rockwell with his Mother Annie (Friends' Jennifer Aniston). One day he discovers something extraordinary, a giant man made of iron (The Fast and the Furious's Vin Diesel) that only eats metal. Hogarth and this giant become really good friends, they also befriend scrapyard owner Dean McCoppin (singer Harry Connick, Jr.). Unfortunately, United States Government Agent Kent Mansley (Flubber and Thelma & Louise's Christopher McDonald) suspects Hogarth of looking after a monster, and the army soon gets involved. It won BAFTA the Children's Award for Best Feature Film. It was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and it was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Very good! "},{"Title":"I cried! Three times!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Aww, what a gorgeous film. The animation is pretty, it's well written, and the Giant is perfectly portrayed, so much so that I cried at the end. Twice. (If you've not seen it, I won't spoil it). Then I cried once more when I'd left the cinema.I'm not sure what to say...Hogarth, the main little boy, is a little bit annoying. But I'm not a fan of child actors, even animated ones.That's how good it is.Watch it! Watch it now! I command it! "},{"Title":"Not Just For The Kids...","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" THE IRON GIANT (3+ outta 5 stars) Fantastic animated movie about a young boy who forges a friendship with a giant metal robot that comes from outer space. It's the '50s and people are a little paranoid about all things being Communist plots... so his existence has to be kept a secret... especially when a zealous government agent comes to town and starts to believe some of the weird stories he keeps hearing about giant metal men. A convenient metal scrapyard run by a friendly Beatnik provides a great hiding place... but can he stay hidden when the US military comes out in full force to find him? Very well-done story... with a conclusion guaranteed to bring a tear to your eye. Voices provided by Vin Diesel (as the Giant), Jennifer Aniston (as the boy's single, working mom), M. Emmett Walsh, John Mahoney and Harry Connick, Jr. as The Beatnik). Written and directed by Brad Bird who has since gone on to bring The Incredibles to the screen. "},{"Title":"The Hero With A Thousand Pieces","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Like all great stories The Iron Giant works on a number of different levels. In the simplest sense, it's a first-rate adventure story for kids with a nice balance of action and humor. There's a moral to the story but very little actual moralizing and none of the groan-inducing variety. The artwork and the music use familiar elements without falling into cliché. But there's more. The Iron Giant also works as a re-telling of myth, combining elements as old as storytelling itself. In Joseph Campbell's landmark book, The Hero With A Thousand Faces, he shows how certain themes are constantly recurring in mythology, religion, psychology and literature. Campbell's work leans heavily on the writings of Carl Jung, who believed that these ideas are part of our human heritage and understood on a deeper level (often without our awareness). While this may seem like a lot of baggage to be strapping onto 90 minutes of family entertainment, it works. Furthermore, poet Ted Hughes, the writer of the story on which the film is (loosely) based, knew his mythology as well.While a small book could be written on the themes running through The Iron Giant it's important to avoid the this = that sort of allegory found in Cliff Notes and high school English courses. The giant does not stand for this or that figure in religion or myth. There are elements of Osiris, the Egyptian figure whose body is scattered and re-assembled and Iron John, from the European folk tale collected by the Brothers Grimm and the subject of Robert Bly's generally misunderstood book. There are lots of interesting twists on the classic themes. The character of Dean functions partly in the Iron John role and partly as the Old Wise Man. This figure is often a wizard in folklore (think of Merlin or Gandalf) but the writers turned him into a twenty-something Beatnik sculptor. The list goes on and we haven't even mentioned Hogarth. If this all seems a bit too much like a Required Reading list or a homework assignment ignore this and see the movie. If, however, this all sounds interesting, read Joseph Campbell and see the movie. Ten or twelve times. "},{"Title":"BEAUTIFUL ANIMATED MOVIE FOR THE SUPERHERO GENERATON !!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I SAW THIS MOVIE WHEN IT WAS RELEASED IN THEATRES WORLDWIDE. NOW I'VE SEEN THE DVD ( bought it )AND LOVED IT AGAIN FROM START TO FINISH !THIS ANIMATION HAS IT ALL.  MOVING STORY , FUNNY SITUATIONS AND VERY GOOD ANIMATION .EVEN SOME INCREDIBLE LOOKING ACTION SEQUENCES WITH A GIANT ROBOT )I'VE SEEN ALMOST EVERY MAJOR ANIMATED MOVIE (WaltDisney , Warner Bros. , European Animated Movies ,  Dreamworks ... ) AND CAN SAFELY SAY THAT  THE IRON GIANT  IS ONE OF THE BEST.  I STRONGLY RECOMMEND YOU TO BUY THIS MOVIE ON DVD.  YOU'll WANT TO WATCH IT OVER AND OVER AGAIN.  IT's THAT GOOD ! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is about a young boy named Hogarth who lives in 1950's Maine with his mother. He happens to go out one night and he finds an iron giant..hence the title. He first is very scared, but then he realizes the giant has a good heart. So then Hogarth befriends Dean who likes to make art out of metal. Hogarth hides the giant at Dean's house when Hogarth finds out that Mr. Kent Mansley who works for the government wants to destroy the giant because they feel that some country sent him to destroy the world. The Iron Giant likes to eat metal so where they put him was a perfect place for him to hide. Other problems occur between Hogarth and Mr. Mansley because they go through great lengths to kill him. What I thought of this film was that it was very beautiful. I had a tear in my eye when The Iron Giant saw the deer that died and the giant had feelings for it. I also was sad when the giant thought Hogarth was dead. I felt what the giant was going through. I liked the character of the iron giant because he risked his life to help Hogarth because he really loved him. The ending was also very sad because (BIG SPOILERS!!!!) The Iron Giant killed himself. ***1/2   "},{"Title":"Another ignored classic","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the most frustrating things about Disney's stranglehold on the animation industry is that when a truly great animated film does come along, fans ignore it in droves. Such a case is The Iron Giant. Many people are blaming its poor showing on Warner Bros lack of advertising, which is ridiculous. I dislike the idea that unless we're inundated with Happy Meal tie-ins and action figures, the film is under-advertised. There certainly was adequate advertising for this film; it simply wasn't in titanic Disney proportions.The Iron Giant is, no exaggeration, one of the best animated films of the last ten years. As a childhood fable, as a view of fifties foreign paranoia, as a statement on violence, it works perfectly. There isn't a single flawed scene from beginning to end. And it proves conclusively that animation can work without cute animal sidekicks or overwrought musical numbers; just a great story, brilliantly timed comedy, and some truly touching moments.The combination of cel animation and computer imagery is seamless, with each technique used to its best effect. The voice-acting is top-notch, with Christopher MacDonald particularly good as the paranoid government agent. Having not read the book myself, I can't vouch for the film's adherence to the original story, but I highly recommend it to any lover of animation.Incidentally, lest you think it's purely for children, I watched it with a group of men over thirty, and we all loved it. Let's hope this film gains the recognition on video it was denied in the theater. A solid 10. "}{"Title":"Great ending!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the best cartoon i've ever seen. And i´ve seen a lot!It has so good graphics and so on. But the best thing is the end..! You sit and almost cry, but then surprise!! OOooww!! Its amazing! "},{"Title":"Morally flawed masterpiece","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great animated movie, certainly the best I have seen. The animation, a nearly seamless mix of traditional drawn cels with a 3D CG creature, is first rate. But what really shines is the story. The writing is sharp, and so are the voiced performances. But I give Iron Giant an 8, rather than a 10, for two reasons.First, beginning with the 'Bambi' scene, the last third of the movie is stained by typical Hollywood politically-correct bigotry. This was entirely unnecessary to the story. Why the film makers chose to deface their own creation this way is their business, but it angered me. Maybe they were betting that most viewers are too naive or too stupid to notice a little gratuitous hate-mongering. Maybe it was a condition of their getting funded by a big Hollywood studio. Maybe it was an element of the original book (which I have not read), but if so, it should have been changed to fit the rest of the movie, rather than being left in place to scar it.Possible SPOILER follows... Second, at the climax, there is a hole in the logic of the plot large enough to fly a phalanx of iron giants through. I refer to the way the giant chooses to deal with the seriously anachronistic missile warhead, given the capabilities he has demonstrated moments before. Are we supposed to believe that this earnest good-hearted giant has been miraculously transformed into a weepy-eyed Hollywood parlor pink? I don't think I can willingly suspend that much disbelief. But enough complaints. Despite its flaws, this is a wonderful movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A profound art film for kids and a cartoon for intellectuals","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Big time spoilers!Most any Hollywood film can be reduced to a one-sentance description of it's essence.  While the deceptively simple ingredients that made the Iron Giant could easily have made a typical formula product, such as a really cool movie with lots of explosions about a kid who makes friends with a misfit giant robot, this film is something profoundly more unique.  The sentance that director Brad Bird used to describe the essence of this film was a gun that learns to love.When the Giant falls from the sky into the life of Hogarth Hughes, it brings with it chaos, war, fear, greed and exploitation.  It is the objectification of the base animal instincts of humanity, posessing unlimited power for technological destruction, but innocent of good or evil like a child.  Nobody knows where it comes from- was it made by the Russians, or god?  Hogarth wants to keep it for himself- Dean, his friend the existentialist beatnik artist, wants to hide it and pretend it doesn't exist- the government wants it destroyed- and Kent Mansley, the main antagonist, has such a competitive lust to conquer it, he'll wreck families, whole towns, and even himself to do it.The conflict climaxes at the point of an impending nuclear strike. But the Giant, programmed as a weapon to destroy what attacks it regardless of any other consequences, has discovered it has a heart, and it chooses to step aside from it's destiny, and sacrifice itself to save from death the people it loves.  It's a jesus-like sacrifice, but instead of serving god's will, this is a choice of free will, a humanist message that's open to interpretation but wonderfully sincere.Where other great films use many of these ingredients- deep psychological insight, mythic-poetic archetypes, socio-political allegory (the cold war), great humor and entertainment (squirrels in the pants)- they might end up being insubstantial if they lack the biggest ingredient in the Iron Giant, heart.  It makes me cry every time I hear the Iron Giant's last words.  Besides those things, it has universal appeal.  As a family oriented cartoon film with lots of jokes and pop culture references, which was a commecial failure due to executive mismanagement, this film proves that the value of creative expression is independant from terms like low art and the value measurements of commerce.  It's a work of art first and a commercial product second.  Compared to the current wave of dissatisfyingly hollow, ideologically self-reflexive, corporate-mythmaking computer-generated blockbusters about living toys and dream factories run by friendly monsters, this film should be the standard to judge all future animated features by.  "},{"Title":"A great picture","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lovely animation and a simple but involving story. I enjoyed the voice overs and the feeling of purity and innocence that the woodland scenes invoked in me. And best of all, no sex to pollute young minds. Well done to all concerned! "},{"Title":"Truly Magnificent","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is now a couple of years since I saw The Iron Giant, but I simply have to review it, because just love this movie. When I first heard of it I thought Well it's just another cartoon... Well...it is a cartoon, but also unique. Because first we have great animations, which of cause is a plus, but then we have the theme about the friendship between the boy and the giant, which makes it wonderful. And the fact that its not just a cute traditional cartoon makes it in to my top-twenty movies. (And I've seen a lot of movies...) But the reason that is so great is that it is simply hilarious. It has so many funny moments, so you want to see it again when it has finished. So what I am trying to say is; watch if you haven't, and if you have; then watch it again!My vote 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Iron Giant does things in a big way","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the BEST of the independantly animated movies!! The story flows from begining to end with nary a bump. I was very impressed by this film. I wish people would take the time to watch this. It isn't your typical animated childrens movie. Many adults will like this film too. It is a strong statement of what could happen if we don't watch what we're doing. We tend to overlook how our comments and actions are received by others. SEE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Enormously Cool","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was a very cool cartoon movie to watch because it is not a silly cartoon. It's not like those other cartoon movies like Doug's First Movie or Recess. In the Iron Giant there are some serious parts like when the Iron Giant saves the town (Rockwell, Maine) from a huge missle or when Hogarth saves the Iron Giant from being electricuted. I doesn't seem to be a real kiddy cartoon but at the same time it is funny. Hogarth Hughes is hilarious especially when he put a little something in Kent Mansley Coffee to give him have diarrhea. You need to see this movie, you will enjoy every second of it! "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Scrolling through the comments for The Iron Giant, I found so much praise for this simple, beautiful film that it seems unnecessary to add another glowing review. So why am I writing one anyway? Because it's the kind of special movie you feel compelled to rave about, no matter how many others have already done so.What Disney has done to animated film the past decade is evil. They've churned out increasingly soulless, formulaic movies that exist solely to bleed every last penny from parents. They take their children to the theater, pick up cheap tie-in toys at the fast food joint, trek to the toy store for more shoddy ancillary crap, and buy the video so their little drones can sledgehammer the pointless sludge that Disney has to gall to call entertainment into their skulls by watching it 72 times. (Not that it bugs me or anything.)Thankfully, The Iron Giant is the complete opposite of all this. A quiet, touching film filled with delights both large and small, its heart is as big as its brain. It's got a gentle, thoughtful essence that most movies of any kind simply lack.I am late 20s with no kids, and rather cynical (if the Disney rant didn't clue you in). I watched this film with my wife, and we both melted. If you have kids, this is a must-see. Even if you don't, I still recommend it. It's clever, well-written, thought-provoking, and it will resonate with anyone who has a sense of humor and empathy. Give this film 90 minutes and it will give you reason to believe that there are still people who use animation to make something special, not just make a profit. "},{"Title":"There are no words...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are a ton of things I want to say, but they've already been said by the many other fans of this beautiful, joyous, touching, funny, moving, deeply humane film. This will remain among my favourite films until the day my mortal coil folds, and one of the best films I am ever likely of having the pure joy of watching. Eat your heart out, Walt 'Nuff said. ) "},{"Title":"technically very well put together with good anti-violence message","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  1st watched 12/11/1999 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Brad Bird) Animated film about a giant mechanized alien who comes to earth in peace, but is soon hit with earthlings who don't feel the same way.  Similar story has been told before(IE... E.T.)but technically very well put together with good anti-violence message.  "}{"Title":"This Movie Forever Raises The Bar,,Almost Perfect.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was So impressed with this movie,I have to say that it and Gladiator were (are) the only movies I have seen in 5 years that did not disappoint me,,,and this does include Perfect Storm and Prince Of Egypt. I am hoping for a sequel of the same emotional quality,,yet I cannot see how.I believe this movie raises the bar some. "},{"Title":"Among the best, most heartwarming animated films of all time","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow!My kids are deep into their Disney years and we welcome any well animated, well scripted non-Disney film.  We're not anti-Disney, we'd just like to see something off THEIR formula.  Problem is, there aren't many high quality alternatives.  The Iron Giant is a notable exception  the animation, storyline, direction, characters, and voices are superb.  You won't find a bad or campy bit of dialogue in the entire film.This is a well-written, uplifting story which pulls you in without resorting to maudlin stuff.  By keeping the number of core characters to a minimum, the film-makers allow us to learn about the players and see their personalities unfold without resorting to cheap dialogue tricks.  Despite being animated, the characters seem real (my oldest asked me if it was a true story - a previously unheard of question about an ANIMATED film).There are few other animated films which captivate my children in this way. Even the adults in our household give this one a big 10!Bravo Warner Brothers!  My kids are waiting for the sequel. "},{"Title":"OOPS!!!  Nearly Forgot","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ** I don't know that this is allowed; if it is, it's a P.S. that goes with my other comment made just a few minutes previously.  I forgot to mention two of my favourite scenes in the movie.  One is when Paranoia-stricken and completely insufferable Government entity  Kent Mansley appears on the scene of a chomped-up transformer substation. After a few infuriatingly condescending remarks to the locals and jotting a few scathing remarks into a tiny notebook, he gets into his car to drive off, presumably to find the Big Stuff he was only just so helpfully (?) explaining to the locals.   ** It's at this point that he discovers exactly half the passenger side of his vehicle has been bitten off and he jumps 10 feet or so out the driver's door, producing a noise that sounded a lot like ohmyGOD!!!!Before he can make a coherent further statement the rest of the car disappears, apparently meeting an identical fate (the Giant must have been a bit peckish at the time). ** The other was when the Giant imitates Hogarth's rather unimpressive Banzai! leap into the lake and, of course, causes a fair-sized tidal wave. ** I happened to notice Dean McCoppin, sitting on a bench behind the inevitable newspaper, was still sitting in, and holding onto, his bench while being tumbled round by the water and watching an intersting display of fish swim by.   ** He finally lands in the middle of he road, looking rather like a drowned cat.  A truck pulls up just then and a brief exchange ensuesHey!  Without turning his head Dean looks askance at the truck driver and says carefully Yeah? The driver then says, somewhat unnecessarily, You're sitting in the middle of the road!  Without moving even slightly Dean again answers identically, except with considerably more force YEAH??  At which point the driver mutters Allright... and drives off.   ** The second time I saw this scene I cracked up laughing.  You really just simply MUST see this movie -- period.  You'll have no idea what you're missing otherwise.     "},{"Title":"Life-Changing","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ** You will almost certainly *never* be the same after watching this movie.  However you may have felt when you began watching it will be altogether different when the film is over.  It changes nearly all one's perspectives. ** And -- it simply makes one feel very, very good. ** This is, to put it bluntly, the sort of movie they simply DO NOT make enough of.  Period. "},{"Title":"Nearly perfect animated film","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a great film on several points. FOr one, there are no pointless musical numbers. For some reason, American production companies feel that all animated films must have musical numbers. This film thankfully has none.Don't read further as the next comment is a possible spoilerI would have given this movie a 10 had it not been for the cop-out re-assembly ending. This would seem to be the only concession to the mass market in this film. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Animated Films Ever","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a film about a boy, his beatnik friend, his mother, an insane G-Man and an Iron Giant from outer space in a small town in the 1950s.  The film is beautifully directed and the voicing seems to have a depth and character that I can never remember seeing in any Disney film.  It is in many ways a re-telling of one of the greatest sci-fi films of all time, The Day the Earth Stood Still and is just as powerful, intelligent and moving.  It is with out a doubt one of the best animated and sci-fi films ever made. Klatu Viratu Niktu (I hope I spelled that right). "},{"Title":"A movie that will make you feel like a kid again.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  In an age of Pokemon and Disney snoozers like Pocahontas, animated movies aimed at the 6-12 year old demographic are usually limited to eye candy at best.The Iron Giant is an exception to this trend. I simply cannot say enough good things about this movie. The animation is incredible, the story, while nothing too revolutionary, serves as a basis for a great message.The movie is filled with some great moments that are cute, while not cloying. The action, such as it is, is handled well and does not glorify violence.Perhaps most refreshing is the lack of wisecracking animal sidekicks and musical numbers that Disney has made so popular.If you're a parent, rent this one for your kids. If you have any amount of childlike wonder remaining in your being, watch this movie. It will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Just for kids, of all ages","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a wonderful story, and is recommended viewing for the young and the young at heart. I enjoyed watching it with my kids. Feel free to get the whole family together and enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"If it weren't for the animation I would give it a 10!!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Which is basically it. When you compare this type of animation with (dare I even mention it) Disney you feel quite let down. The people are unrealistic but this can be tolerated because they are stylised, which is fine if you like that sort of thing. Some of the backgrounds ARE beautiful especially the sea and snow, it is also nice to see how the weather and seasons slowly change throughout the film. The main problem (as I see it) is that some objects, especially the cars and quite noticeably the tractor looks 2 dimensional. This is the first time I have ever noticed this on ANY movie. I suppose it is because the quality of animation does not match the background.The actual robot is computer animated but because he is put into a movie with low quality animation you simply don't notice it, instead the robot looks like he was drawn with great care by a skilled animator (with normal animation) and then placed in TV quality animation.But I am afraid I am just being picky the quality of animation is unlike don Bluth or Disney but it is effective. After 10 or 20 minutes you forget about the animation and fall in love with the story.This is one movie where the STORYLINE TOOK PLACE OVER THE EFFECTS AND ANIMATION. Which is a nice change especially since the horrible trash Disney produced last year with Tazan. This is what made it such a pleasure to watch. It is a touching film in which I dare anyone to view and not feel compassion for the giant robot with a big heart. The animators did a noticeably good job at making a ridged iron face show warmth and love .(WARNING THE NEXT FEW LINE MAY CONTIAN MINOR SPIOLERS DEPENDING ON YOUR OWN POINT OF VIEW)The part when he prodded the dead dear and when he thought the boy was dead was quite frankly a masterpiece of effort. It is this sort of atmosphere that so many modern animated films lack. The LAND BEFORE TIME showed this depth of sadness and it can be seen with this film as well. To really enjoy a happy ending you must first feel sadness and pain. This is how I feel anyway a sad part in a film is essential for getting it's audience to care about it's characters. I gave this movie 9 out of 10, because I really do think the quality of animation (not the style the quality) could have been improved.But the best comment I can make on this movie is this- I asked my little 7 year old brother whether he liked the movie or not and he said `I WANT TO SEE IT AGAIN' . He had never said that about any movie he has seen. So I can think of no higher praise for such a brilliant movie.  "},{"Title":"Great family movie for all ages!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of 1999, I was disappointed that it was ignored at the Oscars.  The marketing of the movie is definitely to blame, the theatre was almost empty when my wife and I went to see it!  It's great that the movie is reaching an audience on video, I recommend it to all my friends and co-workers.  All have thanked me for pointing them to this very entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"It's not your typical cartoon, but it's not Heavy Metal either...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought it was great.  There was actually a lot of adult humor mixed into the story, which was a nice touch.  I liked it a lot, actually.  The animation was great, and the Giant himself was incredible to watch.  The animators did a great job of making him appear absolutely enormous, but not threatening. "},{"Title":"One of the most significant movies of all time.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great story,incredible animation, and a lesson for all of us to learn. My highest recommendation for everyone to see this movie. Thank you Pete Townshend,you are truly an inspiration for all of us ! "},{"Title":"Fun to see for All Ages","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great retro film of the 1950s; nice to see a coherent plot, even if it was fairly familiar. I'd like to have seen more on Hogarth's Dad (only piece was a picture suggesting he'd been killed in Korea).Overall, I think just about anyone would have at least felt they got their money's worth in seeing this picture. "},{"Title":"Watch out Disney!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw a preview screening of the Iron Giant. It was the best animated movie I've seen out of the US in a very long time. The animation is incredibly beautiful. The script is tightly written, and the sound design is impeccable. It is great for the whole family. Go see it as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"The best animated film for all ages","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" as a twenty-something year old man my favourite films include the likes of Reservoir Dogs, The Usual Suspects, Seven and I hope soon to see the Wolf of Wall Street. However, I have fond memories of my childhood, the days of Toy Story and Disney Classics. I say this to give context behind me stumbling upon The Iron Giant today on television. I partly remember really liking it as a child so I put it on in the background while I did some work, but within 5 minutes I was completely engrossed as this film is fantastic.This film is about a giant metal robot that arrives on Earth in the 1950s for unknown reasons and a boy who finds him and befriends him. The two form a heart-warming bond as the child tries to protect his new friend from a paranoid government official. This is set against the backdrop of the cold war and the suspicion and fear that came with it. I wont spoil any more but this film is so emotional I'm not ashamed to admit I felt a few tears once or twice. The story is very simplistic yet it touches on a number of ongoing political issues, most importantly that just because we don't understand something, doesn't mean it's a threat.Despite gong into these themes, the film never feel like it's preaching or talking down to the audience, and fortunately it came before the era when everything had to be very PC so don't expect anything like this film to be showing any time soon.To sum up my short review, this film is a must-see even for those who don't like animated films, I don't usually watch them but this is definitely an exception. This is a film to watch with your family on a wet weekend day when you're in the mood for being cosy. I think children will enjoy the aforementioned giant metal robot but the film goes so much deeper than that, making it possibly the best animated family film I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Best animated movie i ever watched when i was a kid","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of the best animated movies out there, not just for kids, but for adults too. It has humor, action, meaningful themes, and is just enjoyable all in one. If your looking for a good family movie - this is it right here <3 -good family entertainment -hardly any bad language -funny -you will have feelings towards the iron giant by the end of the movie, you will see what i mean ( the giant and the main character (Hogarth) just make the movie that much more mezmorizing. -set in the 1960's-1970's with sputnik and the astronomic space race era. - teaches both adults and children a valuable lesson. This movie is the best animated movie i will and have watched for sure. "},{"Title":"Probably the best animated film ever made","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I can't really think of the adequate words to describe how amazing this film is,I am truly left in awe after watching it,something I never expected from an animated movie.The Iron Giant is...flawless.The story is very compelling.The characters - very well developed and the animation is very good too.When there is humor,it's actually very funny, even for older viewers. This is one of the few animated films that will be as interesting to kids ,as it would be to adults.You will find that the story sucks you in very quickly.I will admit,I nearly cried in the end. This is,in my opinion, one of the best animated movies ever made,sadly it never was a big hit when it was released.The Iron Giant is a must- see,regardless of what age you are. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The Iron Giant When metal falls out of the sky, it usually means a decommissioned satellite has reentered our atmosphere.However, NASA had nothing to do with the falling space scrap in this animated-feature.Sneaking out one night, Hogarth (Eli Marienthal) comes across a mile high automaton (Vin Diesel) that has crash-landed near his home.Fast friends from the get-go, Hogarth invites the affable android to live in his barn, unbeknownst to his mother (Jennifer Aniston).Later, when a government agent (Christopher McDonald) starts sniffing around, Hogarth hides his machine with an artist (Harry Connick, Jr.).When the army shows up, however, the destructive nature of the mechanical mammoth is finally revealed, and put to the test.An ode to 1950s sci-fi, The Iron Giant is a sturdy structure of stimulating story telling, vivid voice work and astonishing animation.Unfortunately, thanks to oxidization, after the first rainfall, Iron Giant's going to look more like rusted out muffler. (Green Light) "},{"Title":"TISSUES!! I NEED TISSUES!!!","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had heard, from viewing the page on the IMDb for this movie, that this was something special, but I never got round to actually seeing it. Thus, when I found it being shown on TV, I didn't hesitate and got settled in. Being 22 I thought this would be too kiddy-like for me, what with being a Western cel-animated film. On the contrary, I think that my age (22) let me appreciate this film more than what I would have when I was 17 when it came out.This film entertains on all levels, whether you're a grown up or a kid or a grown up kid. It's not dumbed down for anyone, it's quite smart and truly heartwarming and emotional. Not to mention cool, especially when......ahhh, no spoilers here, just go see it yourself.I think this film also has a moral message at it's core, that of trying to understand things that we don't, rather than taking drastic action from being afraid. The message is really only apparent towards the end, but I think it's definitely there.In short, see this movie. Make sure you are have tissues handy though!  "},{"Title":"Giant-Sized Fun","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a good, imaginative animated film.  I had a few friends who raved about it, and like most folks, I didn't see it in the local tri-plex, but on DVD from my local Blockbuster.  It was thoroughly entertaining and beautifully animated from beginning to end.  Is it as great as some folks have raved?  Honestly, the storyline is not that memorable.  I liked the Iron Giant, but I understood the perspective of the Government Agent that is trying to destroy the Giant, after all, it's a huge alien creature wandering around rural Maine destroying property and terrifying people (even though it has a good heart).  Still, cynical as I am, I couldn't help liking the Giant and wanting him to make it through all of the trouble he got in.  Kids could watch this, the story is simple enough.  If I hadn't read it on the credits, I wouldn't have recognized Jennifer Aniston as the mom or Vin Diesel as the Iron Giant.  Anyway, good, clean Giant-Sized fun. "}{"Title":"Interesting and entertaining animated film.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Just a quick comment to let you all know how much I liked 'The Iron Giant'. This is an awesomely non-computer generated and more traditional animated film from those folks at Warner Bros. It is set in the 1950s during the cold war, and it has great characters like Hogart Hughes (voiced by Eli Marienthal), and the robot Iron Giant itself (Vin Diesel). The best character was for me was the villain in Kent Mansley (voiced by Christopher McDonald) who was a typical stereotype of that era. Jennifer Aniston, John Mahoney and Harry Connick Jnr also provide the voices for the supporting characters. 'The Iron Giant' is a very enjoyable film with a great overall message with reasonably deep subtext if you think about it for awhile. All in all, animated films usually work for me in general, even though I'm an adult. I'd recommend 'The Iron Giant' for kids for the characters and story, and for adults for the overall message within it. **** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Well-meaning, partial success","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  We all like happy endings, but this one is an insult.  It's so obviously a blight on an otherwise fine story that we can't even take pleasure in it.  Why is it there?I said it's a fine STORY; as far as the telling of it goes, something is lacking.  I'm not sure animation was the right medium for it.  It's fashionable to decry Disney's reliance on such things as fairytales, fantasy, anthropomorphic animals and musical numbers - but these, after all, are the kind of thing that can indisputably be done WELL with animation, and there's nothing wrong, surely, with making sure that form matches content.  But animated science fiction like The Iron Giant never quite works.  (No, not even when it's done by the Japanese.)The giant itself is a masterpiece the precise angles of every spring and hydraulic chamber have been calculated by a computer, then outlined so as to match the hand-drawn characters ... indeed, I get the feeling that the giant could not have been portrayed any other way, which, I'm afraid, means that the film was doomed, since when the humans are drawn and animated and characterised so as to match him, they don't have any life.It's a noble, honest attempt (apart from the ending), pleasing to look at and certainly worth seeing.  The extravagant praise heaped upon the film at the time of its release is probably due to the fact that it HAD just been released, and people hadn't had time to forget it.  Surprisingly little time is required. "},{"Title":"Excellent film.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Cleverly made animation feature film. A nice balance is made between the cutesy warm fuzzies and the more serious message aspects of the film. Neither aspect is allowed to overwhelm the film. This excellent offering is enjoyable by all ages (a hard thing to accomplish these days ). A clever mix of C-G animation and traditional Warner Bros style animation makes for an impressive look on screen. Great voice characters by all the cast ( but I think Harry Connick Jr steals the show as Mr Cool Dean McCoppin ). Best of all it has a great story-line and snappy dialogue. The DVD version includes behind the scenes material for the buffs. Fresh , snappy , cool - what more could you ask for ? Enjoy !    "},{"Title":"This film was only 10 minutes long...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  .OK, I was riveted.  I will keep this one short and sweet since it has tons of comments already.** Warning, contains a spoiler (reference to dialog) **The social commentary on McCarthyism was great.  The story grabbed me from the first frame and kept me the whole time.  Yes, the antagonist was a caricature, but this is meant to be a children's film. Christopher McDonald as Kent Mansley was a real treat.  Of course, after the 20th or so time he says `It's a trick'/'It's a trap', you just want to strangle him. Technically, this is top-notch film-making.  The CGI was seamless and impressive.  The voice acting was wonderful.  It all added up to a treat for all ages.  The message was well pitched ( . judge not. blah blah.) and did not fall into the hackneyed category I mock in parentheses.This film goes on my `you should see this at least once' list. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Best animation movie of the 90s","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To say this movie is a masterpiece is an understatement.I have only one DVD an it's this one.  Great animation, great story, great CONSISTENT scenario. Can't say that with most Hollywood movies animated or not.  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Except for some bits of languages, the worst being Kent Manley's Screw our country! I wanna live!  And the Anti-Gun message (Guns kill. Don't be a gun!) It was a pretty fair movie.  They don't state that guns kill only if people make them.  People kill.  But I'm digressing... The animation was much better than most present day animation.  Also, the time set was good for the story (1960's)  Well, I only can write 1,000 words, so it can't be a whole essay.  My favourite characters were Hogarth Hughes, his mother (Jennifer Aniston), and Dean McCoppen (Henry Connick, Jr.).  The Giant (Vin Deisel) was good, too ;) All in all, not too bad.  The setting is in Rockwell, Maine. "},{"Title":"Gentle giant","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a really well-scripted, well made movie with  animation quality as good as that from Disney.The story is not exactly ground-breakingly original; misunderstood creature from space lands on earth, befriends child and has to avoid paranoid government officials, but it is told in an understated gentle way that is winning.Just to prove that you can like this film and like Disney, I am a great fan of some disney films despite their formulaic approach and I would never presume to call children who like disney films drones (unlike one reviewer who of course by their own admission has no children). This different styled film sits right up there with the best of Disney and will be a welcome addition to any library of classic animated and/or childrens films.I would say that the last fifteen minutes or so would, to me, disqualify it from being a very young children's film. I originally bought it for my four year old girl but, after viewing it first, decided to put it away for a couple of years. Then I'm sure it will become a regularly viewed item in our household.  "},{"Title":"Great animation movie, but not only","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the best animation movie I ever seen. The storyline is very nice, the Robot is fantastic (every movement, every sound he makes while moving is perfect).  It's a beatiful story, with great characters and funny too.You have to see this film! "},{"Title":"Now one of my favourites.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rent movies, i rent A LOT OF MOVIES, i rent them within a week of coming out, but sometimes due to various reasons, the odd movie gets missed - but i will eventually rent it some time later.The Iron Giant was one. On DVD Animation looks great, i love the style of animation in The Iron Giant, but with any film after an hour no matter how visually stunning, or how good the sound is - you'll have got used to it, now the story has to be good enough to keep your interest.I'll keep this short, and say The Iron Giant is in my Top 10 films of all time, and that's saying something. WARNING Do not avoid this film....  "},{"Title":"A perfect movie (and all that that implies)","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant deserves it's place in the top 250. I love Disney films, but there's not a one that can touch the clever humour, or emotional range of this wonderful film. It's perfect viewing for kids, but adults will find value in the 50s references the duck-and-cover educational film, the B-movie about the killer brain and the hepcat played by Harry Connick Jr. With beautiful animation (how did they get the robot to be expressive?) and a clever script, this film is absolutely unmissable.  Ted Hughes would have been proud.  "}{"Title":"An enourmously surprising kid's movie","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThis was a kid's film,and,as such,I probably would have forgone it,had I not planned to watch it with my younger cousin,who,for reasons out of my control,was unable to make it.I guess I could watch Bicentennial Man with him next weekend,given it's release date is this week.But,granted I'd already spent £2.50 on the rental fee,I might as well at least get my money's worth and watch it.The film earned a lot of good reviews,and,on this occasion,I'm not really surprised.This is an intelligently done family movie,combining some of the darker overtures of Animal Farm ,with the standard pacing of your regular kid's film.I've probably seen better,more up-to-date style animation elsewhere,but the devil really lies in the details with The Iron Giant.The giant robot itself is the best animated movie droid I have ever seen,and the script skillfully lets it spout a different range of emotions each from ushumour,pity and understanding.The young Hogarth is slightly repetitive,but he has some great other characters to play with,like the excruciatingly snoopy FBI agent,and the individual beatnik,though the mother character is slightly underused. The Iron Giant manages to do both it's aims extremely well be an entertaining kids film,and be an intelligent piece of post cold war propaganda,almost on a par with The Day The Earth Stood Still.It's this film with more humour,and more social observation.The robot definitely steals the show,thoughthe effects,it's unintentionally misfiring attempts to mimic Hogarth,and it's sad ending all contribute greatly to making The Iron Giant the splendid film it is.Highly recommended.**** "},{"Title":"A joy from start to end","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went in to see this film without expectations, and came away very pleasantly surprised. This enchanting family movie has all the right ingredients. It's funny, clever, well written, the characters are likeable, and there's an important message in there too. Though essentially about the relationship between the young boy and his robot friend, there are questions raised about the army, about war and the battle between good and evil.I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and the ending is one of those rare things theses days. A genuine tear jerker. "},{"Title":"Superb family film","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film was a real surprise.  So rare today to see a film with wholesome morals and not dirtied by the usual Hollywood filth.  Very good for children and adults - I recommend it heartily for people who are sick of their kids watching the usual trash.  I also enjoyed it myself! "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of animated features?","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warner Brothers was trying to cut it's 1999 losses from the monumental flop Wild Wild West, and ended up putting very little money in the promotion of what may be one of the finest animated features ever made.This is a tragedy, since the film has so much to provide. It is insightful, touching, whimsical, and nostalgic. And there isn't a single musical song-and-dance number or annoying sidekick in sight. The perfect film for the family, including the adults. The kids will associate with young Hogarth, especially if they feel they don't fit in. The adults will appreciate the touches of nostalgia for the 1950's and early 1960's.The animation is top quality. A brilliant fusion of cel and CGI creating a sense of realism and depth that you don't expect from a cartoon. The vocal performances, especially from Harry Connick, Jr., are flawless.My only complaints are the anti-hunting/anti-gun message and the slightly sweet ending that seemed to be written as an obligation. But these can be overlooked when the quality of the work is taken into consideration.Many say that Orson Welles' Citizen Kane is the finest American film ever made, but it struggled at the box office, and wasn't appreciated for it's genius until many years later. I strongly feel that The Iron Giant will follow the same path. Years from now, this will be the standard that animated features will be judged by. I can only hope that the support of this film on video this will spark a new interest in animation as a serious media, as Who Framed Roger Rabbit? spawned a new interest in animation in general. There are a great number of serious animated features produced in Japan, and there is no reason why this cannot happen in the USA.Part fantasy, part morality play, The Iron Giant is a remarkable work. It didn't get a fare shot at the box office, but it may reach it's intended audience on home video. If you're going to buy the VHS copy, get the widescreen edition. Yes, it IS that good! "},{"Title":"This movie is the best movie I have ever seen.","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is an amazingly awesome movie.  When I saw this masterpiece, I was very pleased with it's smooth animation, good story line, and well-done voice acting. If you haven't seen it, go rent it right now, because, I guarantee, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Take Everyone You Know, and Even Some You Don't","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is phenomenal.  In an age where special effects and on-shelf marketing deals override a good story in a well crafted film, this movie proves that less is more.  This film employs intelligent humor and wonderful imagination.  This instant classic also has a terrific message for kids ages 3 and up. "},{"Title":"Movie of the Year!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Its frustrating how people laugh when I try to convince them to watch this movie. It is, by far, the best movie this year. In parts touching, in parts laugh out loud funny, this movie is uplifting and reassuring. left me with tears in my eyes. "},{"Title":"The Gun who chose not to be","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the most brilliant animated films EVER.  I pray that WB makes more films like this and not like Quest for Camelot (ugh).  It's probably the only animated film in a long time in which I shed a tear.  Disney should make more films like this.  A good animated movie doesn't have to be musical.  This one is clever, beautifully animated and was pulled off quite well.  This should win an Academy award.  I just can't believe good films like this don't do well in the theater.  I hope it does well on video (like the Nightmare before Christmas). "},{"Title":"A major accomplishment in animation, and story-telling","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"     Why this wonderfully realized film didn't get a bigger publicity push from the WB, is way beyond me. This film is a gem. A beautifully crafted and imaginative script, terrific voice-overs, and an animation style that seamlessly integrates traditional cel work with computer graphics. A must have for any animation buff, and a must see for all. "},{"Title":"Buy this movie!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Based in part on the high praise posted on this website, I bought this movie on videotape the first day it became available.  I had high expectations, and this movie met all of them.  Forget the fact that it's a cartoon -- this is one of the best movies I've seen.  It relies on a time-honored formula take a simple story, and tell it as well as you can.  I can't think of a single wasted line or scene in this movie.  Most of all, I can't wait until my two boys (3 and 1 1/2) are old enough to ask me about all the questions this movie raises, and to be as moved by the story as my wife and I are. Only regret is not seeing it on the big-screen.Note to Brad Bird -- your movie will still be watched and loved years after the name Pokemon is long-forgotten.  Thank you. "}{"Title":"Great Animated Story not from Disney","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a great animated story suitable for kids of all ages.  It has a strong moral message yet is fun and entertaining.  I think it captured the paranoia of the early cold war (late 50's) quite well that only the adults would appreciate.  I give the movie 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"souls don't die","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this is the best animated movie i have ever seen.it is more tragic than the lion king,have many laughs,and the story is very well written,and made. the movie have many phrases that may stay in my mind for a long time ,like souls don't die. the ending is completely awesome and impressive 9/10 "},{"Title":"Catch it before it leaves the theater!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant has some of the best animation and one of the most adult stories I've seen from a U.S. firm in some time. Much of the animation was so smooth it must have been done on a computer - but it wasn't intrusive; it just made the story flow better visually.The sole complaint I had was that there were kids in the theater whose parents had never taught how to behave in public. It was bad enough that the kids talked but even more inconsiderate that their parents were holding conversations with them!So, aside from the danger of young kids in the audience, the Iron Giant is about as good a show as you're likely to see this year. And please see it in a theather - you'll lose a lot of the visual scope of the film if you wait for it on video. "},{"Title":"Had so much more potential","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Obviously somebody decided to not try and make the movie more interesting to the adults.  Another 10 more minutes of character development and this movie could have been compared to Lion King.There were very few ups and downs.  No playing with your emotions.  That's what I expect from a movie.However, I do expect a sequel.7/10 "},{"Title":"A classic that will be long remembered","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a truly amazing film!  I succumbed completely to the charm of this cinematic gem!  In this summer of big budget disappointments, the Iron Giant is a breath of fresh air.  The story is simple, yet compelling. The movie is imbued with a sense of wonder that doesn't diminish with repeated viewings.  The Iron Giant is a classic that will endure for a very long time! "},{"Title":"The Best Film of the Summer","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It has everything the other movies wish they had.  Here's a sample1) Intelligence 2) Smart Humor 3) amazing visuals 4) great voice-acting 5) a moral without being preachyAnd I'm not even a WB employee!  "},{"Title":"Great Film, I hope it does well","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Iron Giant was indeed a great film. As much as I love Disney, I hope they take notes and get rid of the stupid animal sidekicks. Tarzan could have been one of their best since Beauty & the Beast, but for two things stupid animal sidekicks and Trashing the Camp a worthless number that slowed the pace down. But this is not a review of Tarzan. Iron Giant had wonderful characters that lended humor when called for without idoitic gags, tears (Yes, I was nearly crying at the end), and boundless joy that made the audience feel uplifted and like they were a kid again. And it was rated PG.A side note to parents, at the screening my husband & I went to, there were a lot of kids (we do not have children at this time). The parent who sat beside us had a boy about 7 or 8. the child was asking a lot of deep, good questions that the parent did not have time to really answer and discuss with the child. So, a word of warning... if you have young children you may want to screen this movie by yourself and then take your child. This does not mean that this is NOT a good movie for kids, I just think you need to enjoy it too and give yourself time before or after the movie to discuss issues with your child.The animation was super and way beyond Warner's last attempt with Quest for Camelot. I look forward to their next movie and hope it will be as entertaining as this. I give this movie four thumbs up (my husband's two and my two!). I really hope it does well in the box office.  "},{"Title":"Animation the Old-Fashioned Way","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 'The Iron Giant' is a very loose adaptation of Ted Hughes' 1968 children's classic 'The Iron Man'. Whereas the original novel was a poetic and lyrical fairytale that read like modern mythology, Brad Bird's movie is a straight up sci-fi movie in the vein of 'E.T.' Set during the era of the Soviet launch of Sputnik 1 in 1957 and the ensuing Cold War panic, the whole thing looks like the kind of movie that Disney used to make at the time, all beautifully painted backdrops and hand-drawn characters. The evocation of the era is very well done, with a careful and detailed eye for period ephemera and styling. It's a gentle and affectionate movie with a distinct lack of the knowing, adult-oriented, pop-culture referencing attitude of most recent animation. But this back-to-basics approach, while refreshing, seems a little too simple, too naïve, and too superficial. It's a good movie, and one I would encourage children to see, but a lot of rich potential was sorely missed. "},{"Title":"Not bad but overhyped.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched it on HBO and I don't know why people think this is one of the greatest animated features made because it was just decent. I don't even think its that great. And the whole don't kill and you choose who you are stuff felt like it was so forced and written by the mpaa; i felt like i was being preached to by some school teacher. I also thought the remarkable convienence of the off/on lever on the power generators was soo funny. And boy did I cringe alot when the giant acted like an idiot. I also thought it was funny that the flashlight on Hogarth's gun was strapped so close to the gun's nozzle that if he fired it he'd blow out his flashlight. Also, when kent finds the gun, its broken off to say hog hug but later we can see it reads hoga hugh. I also don't understand the bump on the giant's head, I mean when he goes nuts, pops out but then he's still able to calm down without the bump so its like what's the point of the bump when it doesn't affect his behavior?On the plus side, IG is well animated, I liked watching the characters Annie, Kent, the General. I thought Hogarth, Dean, and the Giant's characters had some likeable moments and dislikeable moments. The premise is interesting and executed well. Its a change from what Disney has done. The ending was pretty cool to watch but I hadn't a clue why Annie and Dean got with each other so quickly since they never really developed romantically in the movie. It seems like they were slapped together just to make the audience happy (I felt the same way about Toy Story 2 but I don't even want to get into the details of how that has an unresolved ending). Overall, I give the movie a C+. If you want to see a real animated movie with an anti-violence theme, go watch Hayao Miyazaki's Nausicaa. "},{"Title":"A Lesson that Ought to be Learned by American Animators","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I did really enjoy this film, but it is also a good example of why I think American animation is far inferior to Japanese animation. And I am talking solely about the animation (i.e., character design, movement, and scenery), not the story complexity. There is no doubt that the stories of Japanese animated films are more complex than those of American animated films. The Iron Giant's story is basically taken straight from E.T.Anyhow, watch how mannered the designs of the characters' faces are in this film. Check out how large Hogarth's ears are. And check out how exaggerated the characters' movements are. This becomes staggeringly unrealistic very quickly. It begins to look, well, just plain goofy. People don't really look like this. They don't make these sorts of expressions.People always complain about the eye size of Japanese anime characters. Their eyes are big for a simple reason which was stated in ancient Rome by the neo-Platonist philosopher Plotinus the eyes are the windows of the soul. The sculptors of the later Roman Empire always made the eyes on statues enormous, just like the Japanese animators do. Most human expression comes from the eyes, so Japanese animators made the eyes on their characters bigger.What most critics of the Japanese anime eye-size have failed to notice is how large the American animators have made the eyes on their characters. The Americans are obviously learning something from the Japanese. Disney animators have said that there is not a work day that goes by where they do not watch parts of films by Hayao Miyazaki. These films have influenced them greatly. But what American animators have missed in the Japanese animation is that the other pieces of their characters' faces are extremely downplayed. Their mouths, ears, and nose are all very small. Humans express much less in these areas of their faces than the characters of American animated films. This over-exaggeration has occurred in all Disney movies after The Little Mermaid, The Iron Giant, The Road to El Dorado, and I can even see that this is a problem in the upcoming animated flick Titan A.E. It is a big problem, and it must be solved.As for the film itself, after I got around those technicalities, I was  quite touched. I liked the anti-violence theme a lot. I think it is a very good film for children. I give it an 8/10. "}{"Title":"A treat for the whole family","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What le roi et l'oiseau (Jacques Prévert and Paul Grimault,1977) did against tyranny,the iron giant did it against wars.OKay ,the ending of the movie does not promise us the end of all wars on earth as in Ted Hughes ' book ,but the scenarists found excellent equivalents.They did not betray Hughes's spirit whose purpose was first pacifistwhat's the use of building huge weapons when a dragon coming from outer space makes them useless?So you will find no monster in the movieit's pure human evil;it's a human hand which pushes the button that will kill and destroy.The part of Hogarth in the book is relatively minor.Hence the necessity to develop his character and to give him a personality.He's got only his mother (whereas in the book he had a whole family)and he's called Hughes of course.Hogarth is a wonderful little boy and he makes with the giant a team that will appeal to everybody.We also meet the scrap's owner and Kent who was made from start to finish by the scenarist with talenta true villain,a coward,a deceitful man,all his scenes with Hogarth are great!Elements which happened at the very beginning of the story are deftly used in the film the reconstruction of the robot for which the seagulls play a prominent part .The pictures are often remarkable ,with nods to old sci-fi movies of the fifties .Hogarth in the hands of the giant recalls the young bird which the robot takes in le roi et l'oiseau.I will tell the childrenif you 've seen the movie,read the book!if you've read the book,watch the movie! "},{"Title":"Good Simple Entertainment.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  A youngster in a simpler time befriends a metal giant from outer space in this likeable little animated feature. Naturally the giant looks dangerous, but is as gentle as a newborn kitten. A U.S. government agent feels that the being poses a threat to national security and should be destroyed immediately. The film has a lot of heart and just enough intelligence to make for an entertaining experience for all ages. The animation is subtle, causing the viewer to pay more attention to the fine story. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"SWELL!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Boyoboy, movies just don't get much better than this. I have yet to encounter anyone who didn't fall in love with it. I was a big fan of Frankenstein Jr. as a lad, so Hogarth riding on the Giant's shoulder really resonated with me, though I guess he really looks more like GIGANTOR than Frankie. Anybody notice that Hogarth looks sort of like Frankenstein Jr.'s pal Buzz?Fave scene -- Iron Giant, his arms oustretched, making a noise of satisfied joy as he drinks in the beauty of the woods. Also, when he feels bad, absently flipping a car-hood as a human might flip the lid of a music box.  "},{"Title":"Shame on Warner Bros!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a great work of art and entertainment. From the first frame, the amount of love and hard work that went into making this film is highly evident. That's why I say shame on Warner Bros. for making this great movie and not doing EVERYTHING in their corporate power to insure its success! One of the few good movies in 1999, and it gets buried. Go figure. "},{"Title":"GO SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  WB did a HORRIBLE job with the previews and trailers for this movie, but go see it anyway!  It's well worth it!  The movie is a billion times better than the trailers make it out to be.THIS ONE IS SPECIAL!!!This movie has heart!  It has a soul!!  It's not some cheesy, formulated musical put together by a bunch of executives...IT IS AWESOME!  This movie is a classic!!! "},{"Title":"WB finally makes a great film and nobody knows it exists!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It took me two weeks to finally get out and see The Iron Giant.  I had been reading internet hype and was expecting a lot from this film.  It was a fantastic film and it angers me that Warner Brothers didn't do a better job putting this film out there.  This is a gem of a picture and come Oscar time should really be considered. "},{"Title":"Best SF picture of the year -- maybe the decade","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Forget STAR WARS, ignore THE MATRIX, skip DEEP BLUE SEA.  The best science fiction picture of 1999, bar none, is this quiet and well-rendered story of a boy and his robot.The animation is good if mostly understated -- technical highlights are the opening starfield and storm at sea, as well as the sequence in which the Iron Giant finally shows its full range of abilities.  But what shines is the writing.  Brad Bird and Tim McCanlies have produced what may possibly be the best screenplay ever written for an animated feature film.  As good as a few of the Disney features have been, and as good as Fox's recent ANASTASIA was, this is better.  Add a solid, effortlessly smooth ensemble of voice performances, and you have a story that viewers will remember and return to with pleasure.Look for THE IRON GIANT on awards ballots -- and not just for animated films or SF movies.  The term classic is overused, but this is a movie that deserves the label. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie that doesn't deserve to fail","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Unlike the animated bombs that Warner Brothers has released over the last two years, the Iron Giant does not deserve to fail. Unfortunately, it seems that Warner Brothers thought that it would, and therefore didn't put any effort into promotion. I saw the film the day that it came out, and I was so taken with it that I had to have a memento of some kind. But there was nothing. No books, no toys, no posters. Except for an advertising campaign that seems to have peaked two weeks ago, publicity has been almost zilch.All of this is a shame, because this is the best animated film I have seen in years. Brad Bird has crafted a fully realized world from the fifties, and set it in the animation style familiar to those times. There are shades of Lady and the Tramp in the large lines and fluid movement that the human characters exhibit. More telling than any technical aspect, though(including the amazing computer-generated giant), is the script. This is a beautiful one. Simple enough for children, but aimed at adults, the movie had everyone in the sparsely populated movie theatre laughing and cheering.This movie should be seen by everyone it can. It's a shame that a story this wonderful can be ruined by a simple lack of promotion.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining and heartfelt cartoon version of E. T. and Star Kid. *** out of ****.","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  THE IRON GIANT (1999) ***Starring the voices of Jennifer Aniston, Harry Connick Jr., Christopher McDonald, and Eli Marienthal Directed by Brad Bird. Running time 87 minutes. Rated PG (for animated violence and mild language) By Blake French	The Iron Giant is much like a cartoon version of E. T The Extraterrestrial and Star Kid. It is an effective, empathetic journey into the life of its characters. Although the film is animated, it keeps a mature edge on its concepts. There are no outrageous characters, over the top musical numbers, or a bombarding number of shallow, unbelievable happenings. This is an animation in which children will enjoy for its message, but also adults because of its qualities and depth. If we were to replace the cartoons with real people, that would be possible here. That is how down to earth this movie is.	The story details the life of a lonely boy named Hogarth Hughes, who is about nine years of age. He lives a very dual and boring lifestyle with his mother, Annie. He has made a hobby of gathering animals from the wild to be his household pets. His mother is a very busy individual, working full time as a waitress for a small town coffee shop.	This is a fabulous, descriptive opening. We learn several elements about the characters, structure, as well as the movie's style. We learn that Hogarth's single mother is extremely busy and has little time with her son. We also see that due to the significant time this child spends alone, he has a great imagination. This is the internal problem, that Hogarth is somewhat lonesome spending all this time by himself. This film has well-developed characters, better than some more adult movies.	One day, while alone in the house watching television, something happens to Hogarth. His electrical power supply to his TV set goes bad. In a desperate attempt to fix the problem, he climbs on the roof of his house to discover half his antenna has been bitten off. What could have done this? The first clue is the massive footprints leading into the woods. Whatever made these prints destroyed everything in its path. The thing that caused the destruction, technical difficulties, and placed colossal holes in the ground, is a massive iron giant from space who has recently crash landed on earth. Hogarth quickly greets the robot and makes friends with it. The story propels from there after we see the humanity and gentle attitude of the android whom we share empathy with and are able to understand and relate to. The first act is solid and clear cut, proving to us that this is not only a well-animated cartoon, but also a well structured one. 	The film introduces the external problem when an insane detective places his nose where it doesn't belong and discovers the gigantic metal creature. Hogarth is forced to keep his robot secret so that it is not taken away. This detective's purpose in The Iron Giant serves as more than meets the eye. His motives are understandable and developed, although shows signs of existing as a plot device rather than a real character. Also, he is used to increase the line of dramatic tension as he grows closer and closer to finding the robot. This is a very sufficient and well-written character who contributes to a lot of positive material and many possibilities for the film.  The only problem I had with the film is how it never actually explained what the iron giant was. It is an amazing creature, able to heal itself, shoot out lasers, contribute in conversations, and yet we never know how it is able to do these things. Did it come from another plant seeking help for its dying race? Is it on a mission to gather important materials for its existence? Perhaps the android was built by a cruel human inventor on earth but was overtaken by the size of it ands thus allows it to escape into space and become lost--leaving the iron giant no choice but to return to his home where he discoursed along the way and crashed. The possibilities are endless. Too bad the filmmakers took such a shallow look at our title character, otherwise, this would have been one of the year's most entertaining family films. Brought to you by Warner Bros.  "},{"Title":"Origin Of The Iron Giant (spoilers)","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The review says how the origin of the Iron Giant is unknown (even to him).But it's not true.A deleted scene from the movie (included on the DVD) shows what the Iron Giant was intended for, if not the specifics of his creation.The Iron Giant is dreaming and his dreams are broadcast to a nearby TV. It shows an army of Iron Giants (in weapons mode) marching on a planet. They start destroying everything in sight. Then we see the Iron Giant (the one who comes here) look at his shadow, a precursor which hints at his destructive potential. Then the Iron Giants use their chest weapons and the planet blows up.At this point, the Iron Giant wakes up and the dream stops. The only thing that is not specified is how he came here (or why). "}{"Title":"A simple story with a great message.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise this movie was!I missed it in the theatre, but after hearing so many positive reviews of it, I was happy to pick it up at the video store last night, and I was not disappointed.This is a simple story with a very strong and definite moral you can choose who you want to be.  What a great statement for a movie to make!Do yourself a favour and see this one.  I generally enjoy kids' movies, but this one is a particular favourite of mine.  I haven't seen one I liked this much in a long time. "},{"Title":"An adventure film with a message","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is a wondrous family movie. It's animated but not a child's cartoon. This is an ET-style fantasy in which a young boy befriends a giant robot from outer space and teaches him about life among us humans. Young Hogarth Hughes works to keep his over-size buddy from being discovered by his loving Mom and the US government. The movie is set in 1957 Maine, and it nicely evokes the paranoid atmosphere of the cold war era. People assume the robot is a secret weapon of the commies, but in the end the giant saves us all from nuclear disaster. The animation is clean and lively. The giant moves with a mechanical fluidity thanks to computers, giving it a different look versus the hand-drawn human characters. The director of this film is a former producer/writer on The Simpsons and King of the Hill, but here he refrains from the biting cynicism of those shows without crossing over into the sentimentality of most Disney movies. There are no cute animal sidekicks, no musical numbers, no happily ever after. But The Iron Giant is a smart, sweet must-see for animation fans of all ages. "},{"Title":"Succeeds brilliantly as entertainment...fine animation...","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There was a preoccupation with paranoia about invasion from aliens that permeated all the science fiction in the '50s. This story builds on that fear by giving us an E.T. sort of encounter with an alien, in this case a super-sized piece of metal called THE IRON GIANT, who is saved from extinction by a little boy who pulls the Off switch when it appears the Giant is about to be electrocuted.It's stunning right from the opening scenes, animated with fresh originality and voiced by some expert actors (HARRY CONNICK, JR., VAN DIESEL, CLORIS LEACHMAN and the little boy voiced by ELI MARIENTHAL).Not only is the story engrossing, but there's a humanization of the creature from outer space that defies description. The animators manage to make his thought process apparent with minimal dialog and you can really feel for his emotions when he is asked to perform a noble act (at the climax) in order to save mankind from a fate worse than death.There's an effective background score by Michael Kamen, without the songs that seem to irritate some devotees of animated films, and it moves briskly at a pleasing pace that should keep young and old riveted to the sometimes magical events.Briskly entertaining and well worth watching--among the best of the animated films based on pure fantasy. The very expert voice-overs make the characters seem amazingly real. "},{"Title":"Man As Giant","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a pleasant way to start the year.  A fun cartoon, but one with just that edge of intellect.  And more!  It provoked the is it as good as the book discussion amongst my boys which even dragged in the most street conscious of them.  It was a joy to watch.  Bearing all this in mind, does my opinion actually count?  Probably not.  I'll just add that I couldn't decide whether it was Laurie Anderson or Mr Blobby providing the Giant's voice.  Oh Superman!  Makes you think.Ron  "},{"Title":"Nice moral and ending, but cold, distant and uninviting","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought the characters in this movie were charmless.  It had kind of a dark, distant feel for me, and it never drew me in.  But you can't argue with the message of non-violence presented in the movie, or its emphasis on personal responsibility.  Other pluses are the animation, and the nice ending. "},{"Title":"typical Hollywood PC movie","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Typical politically correct Hollywood drivel with the usual cardboard cut out good guys/bad guys. Nothing original here, just good art work. Otherwise, morally and intellectually, boringly predictable.Guns and gun owners bad - peace and peaceniks good! Soldiers bad and artsy types good!! My god, shocking! Unpredictable! Who would think a Hollywood movie would have a message like that!! And such original, unexpected characters!! wow!Another common observation is this is not really a children's movie, at least not younger than 10. Some of the scenes are too intense for younger children.The cinematography is very good. The pan scene of New England in the fall is worth the price of the movie, as are the opening scenes. Some good voice over work as well.So, predictable Hollywood drivel executed with Hollywood's usual artistic professionalism and excellence. If you love the drivel you'll like the movie. "},{"Title":"What are you people talking about?","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a nice little film. Ok the animation quality isn't bad and the story is kinda nice - but this doesn't deserve it's ranking in the top #250 or the 8.something rating it's currently running at. An innocuous film for the family it is simply way out of its league against some of the films it is ranked higher than! I hope that we will see some more voting and a rationalisation of the position of this film. My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but I very rarely like animated kid movies.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The animation was awesome! But after that I found the movie to nothing original. In fact, this movie used one of my all time pet peeves that many films use. That pet peeve is the likeable child trying to hide the robot from adults. This absolutely gets on my nerves! If a child can handle being aware of the robot, then he shouldn't be afraid to share it with adults. I hate it when a film uses the ploy that only the child will understand and not the adults.Just an average 5 rated movie. Not bad, but not good either. "},{"Title":"Great visuals wrapped around a horrendous infantile morality play","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is beautiful, and full of neat details. Visually, I'd give it at least an 8. There's lots to love technically, the sound is great, the characters really work, and there are a lot of laughs. Unfortunately, the story is wretched at best, and actively evil at worst. The message is hypocritical in the extreme. Where Spiderman told us (rightly) that with great power comes great responsibility this excuse for a moral tale says that with great power comes nothing but danger, and suicide is probably the best course of action. All violence is bad, and we can all choose what we want to be; even giant killer robots can be transformed into giant pu$$ies by the miracle of a small boy's love and friendship. Barf. As a moral tale, this is hypocritical and irresponsible garbage at best. The boy solemnly lectures the robot about death, saying guns kill as if that's a bad thing. They mourn the death of a deer at the hands of evil hunters. But the boy is not a vegan, nor is his mother. So killing is okay as long as someone else does it, at a distance. That's amoral hypocrisy, nothing more. It gets worse- obviously the Iron Giant is a symbol, and he is the hero of the story, because he is the only character who changes. What is he a symbol for? Well, for Man's destructive and flawed nature. But the Iron Giant is obviously and explicitly a creation of something- he's a built artifact. So this implies a Creator metaphor; we're talking about God as Creator here. But God in this story is flawed, defective He built a good, tender, sensitive creature and made the mistake of encasing that gentle soul in the form of a weapon. Or, He built a weapon and made the mistake of giving it a tender heart. Either way, God is flawed. Worse, the giant killer robot can't even distinguish a toy from a real threat, and thus self-defense is portrayed as unacceptably dangerous. And the only way to remedy this flaw is for the unfortunate creature to nobly sacrifice himself rather than taking responsibility and using his tremendous power for good. The message is therefore ultimately Satanic God is bad, and you're better off dead. When good people (and robots?) refuse to take their power, bad people take it by default. After all, a key component of evil is the lust for power over others. When evil has convinced everyone that the only acceptable method of resistance is pacifism, disempowerment, surrender, and suicide, then evil has truly won. Have we really fallen so far that we no longer know how to fight the good fight? Do we really think that all violence is bad? Have thousands of years of culture, morality, and civilization really been swept away by a few decades of propaganda? The fact that this artful piece of toxic amorality has gotten so much acceptance suggests that much has been lost. The film is worth seeing as a pretty film, but I'd recommend sitting down afterward and discussing the values and lessons here with your family, in a critical way. I sure as hell wouldn't plunk my kid down in front of this with no discussion, because it's a powerful piece of propaganda that needs deconstruction. Or just destruction. "},{"Title":"Didn't Get It","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was flipping through the dial and saw that the Iron Giant was coming up next.  At first I got excited from all of the positive word of mouth I had heard about the film.After 30 minutes of this movie, I was completely baffled. I would have to say this was okay at best.  The little kid was so happy and enthusiastic that it made me nauseous.  I sat there dumbfounded that adults would be so swept away with this.  There was the obvious symbolism that can I am sure is mentioned by other users.  Making a cartoon artsy doesn't make it good.  It should first have an entertaining, non-nauseating plot. See it if you want but don't have high expectations. "}{"Title":"Not for KIDS, but still an OK movie.","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie surprised me. After reading the reviews online I thought this might be a great movie for the kids. Wrong! There are several instances where the characters use colorful language that kids under 14 probably shouldn't hear. Check the Parental Advisory page here on IMDb for the exact words and occurrances. You'll be surprised. We watched about 15 minutes of this till the first who the hell popped up then decided it wasn't really the show for us. No wonder it bombed at the box office. I'd have walked out had I been sitting in a paid-for seat with my kids in tow. It's sad too, because the wife and I watched it later and it was a decent movie. Maybe they should change the marketing strategy when something like this is released so it's NOT specifically targeted to younger viewers. It'd keep us *real* parents from having to stop the movie midway through. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Iron Giant is just a naughty,little, box office type of movie. It may have changed the way people see the animation genre, but it offers only little. The story itself may not have enough imagination to carry on this movie. Dirty, useless, non-unique are the words to describe its animation. These are the lows of this film but there is more. The highs for the Iron Giant comes to its script and voice acting, but this may also be its weaknesses. It is not too great, it is not too good. But the Iron Giant is a very good sci-fi film, its about a robot helping this boy, it is really a good plot. Unfortunately, the film does not depict this kind of genre, it slows to a kiddie PG cartoon, that's why I did not like this film. There are better films like Shrek, but I advise you do not watch this film. I give this film a 2/10.  "},{"Title":"Family entertainment takes a dive for the worst.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  At the preview for The Iron Giant, my kids could barely hold their excitement.  They've seen the commercials and knew several of the characters already.  In advance, I had warned them that there weren't any sidekicks or catchy songs as they've been accustomed to.  By the end of the film, their eyes were downcast...and it wasn't from sleep-deprivation.The film isn't all that it was hyped to be.  Much of what you see in the commercials is the whole film...why go to the theaters?  The commercials tell you everything!  Moreover, the story isn't widely original, either. If you've ever watched We're Back, Pete's Dragon, All Dogs Go To Heaven or E.T. (all children/family movies) then you've already watched this film.  It's the typical plot about children who find an amazing discovery, keep it a secret, abuse its powers, and learn to extend beyond their own feelings.  For my children, probably the most damaging to the plot, however, was their dislike of the giant itself.  There wasn't enough to connect him with the audience which undermines the emotion the rest of the film builds on.  Without the connection between such a key character, the audience loses interest.Furthermore, the movie's animation barely matched with current releases. There weren't as many lush color tones or smooth-running lines to make the film visually appealing.  Don't get me wrong, Warner Brothers has had great animation in the past (although its last ventures Quest For Camelot and The King and I were complete flops).  If they'd only stick with Bugs Bunny, they'd have the works played out in their hands.  Space Jam was wildly successful, plus the shading and colors of old characters brought new life to their persona.  In several aspects, Space Jam was far superior from animation to plot, aesthetics to witty lines when compared to The Iron Giant.  Where past Warner Brothers animation aimed toward the family, The Iron Giant aimed for the commercial.  Several times, the topic of Superman (a character which Warner Brothers owned) was brought up.  Soon, we'll see Superman figures lined up with the corny Iron Giant banks and toothbrushes.Lastly, there's the objectional material.  For the first time in my life, I saw the main character of a cartoon, feature-length movie use the restroom. The use of the bathroom is all too common in live action films, but they've begun to pass surreptitiously into cartoons.  Why does such a scene need to take place?  All in all, the film relays an anti-government atmosphere. The main characters are always on the run while officials heartlessly chase its victims.  I admit, several children's books are perfect for Hollywood. This one may have been one if taken from a different approach. "},{"Title":"I must have seen a different movie","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Both of my kids got bored with this movie.  Not to mention that I was disappointed that my kids wanted to leave in the middle of the film, because I was hoping to catch a quick nap.Whatever.  I'm glad everybody else liked it.  We left and got our money back.  (My kids also couldn't make it to the end of Star Wars 1, so they have some amount of taste...) "},{"Title":"Good idea, poorly executed","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a cheesy, simplistic cartoon with explicit political undertones. On the plus side, the animation and voice acting are very good. Overall, I would not recommend it however.*** SPOILERS AHEAD ***A massive mechanical humanoid-shaped machine decends to 1950's era Earth, from parts unknown. It is befriended by a fatherless young boy and pursued by a paranoid government official. The machine's personality is one of innocence and child-like curiosity when it first appears. While the machine is friendly at first, it has a darker side that lurks beneath, and is capable of wreaking terrible destruction when provoked. The political message is way too strong and spoils the mood of what should be escapist fantasy. In the end the machine overcomes its aggressive tendencies and sacrifices itself to save others. The ending, however, completely ruins the heroism of the giant's sacrifice.Possible plot hole If a speeding train managed to almost knock the giant's head apart, how could it possibly have survived the nuclear explosion at the end? If it was almost electrocuted by the power station at the beginning of the movie, how could its circuits have survived the EMP from the nuclear bomb? "},{"Title":"Best 250?","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While there is nothing particularly poor about this film, there isn't anything particularly great about it either.  How can this possibly rate with the best films ever made.  That simply is not the case.  Top 250 films, surely not! "},{"Title":"decent animation, but thoroughly outdated Republican fantasy","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a kids' movie that you shouldn't take kids to see.I. It glorifies violence.Ia.The main character is considered good, yet he too easily starts shooting at everyone in sight. Ib. Deaths of people are trivialized Ic.The young boy, Hogarth, is armed with a (BB) gun...as is the (sympathetically portrayed) eponymous character.Id. The death-by-hunters'-gunfire for a deer is trivialized with some illogical nonsensical philosophy Ie. Like Brad Bird's other obscenity, The Incredibles, the theme is might makes right...and good guys are allowed to respond to problems, even little problems, with extreme violence and subjectivity.II. It pushes religion down your throatIIa. there's a saying grace scene at the dinner table, complete with mentions of a god and Satan. No thanks ! IIb. The robot is told that good living things have souls, and souls never die. *koff-koff*. It should be noted that this weak reasoning is meant to console the robot after he witnesses a deer being shot dead. Must've been one of those eeeeevil, Satan-worshipping soulless deer, huh?In short, this is a hopelessly twisted Republican/Religious-Right morality play, and puts the senseless in senseless violence.I plan to steer clear of this director's future films. "},{"Title":"Can You Say, 'Left Wing Propaganda?'","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The good and the bad of this animated film are extreme.THE GOOD - Bright, beautiful colors make this film a real visual treat. The 5.1 digital sound provides great audio, too, with surround coming out of all five speakers and a sub-woofer, especially when the huge iron robot walks, really makes the sound dynamite. THE BAD - The story is disgusting, beginning with the annoying lead kid who, in typical Hollywood style, lies and deceives and yet is the hero.The film is chock full of liberal leanings such as anti-FBI (no FBI agent would be this bad), anti-gun (guns kill is repeated over and over), anti-hunting, anti- authority, pro-Communist, pro-rebel, etc, etc. All of the Liberal mindset. A lot of this preaching comes in the name of exposing the 1950s paranoia, according to the director of the film, who verified my opinion in an accompanying documentary feature on the DVD.Throw in the fact this is an animated film for kids yet there are a dozen exclamations of the God's name and very little humor and you have a film suited only for ACLU types. "}]