[{"Title":"Robin WilliamsThe Best Medicine","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"63 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In my opinion,Robin Williams is at his best when playing characters much like himself.This film is based on the life of the real Hunter Patch Adams,a man that Williams himself says that he closely relates to.In the medical profession,it is easy to become hard nosed and so wrapped up in treating the sickness that it is all too easy to forget that there are actual people behind the sickness.We are taught by Patch to treat the person first,because when you do so,treating the illness becomes somewhat easier.Sometimes people don't get better,but treating the soul to a laugh or two can lessen the pain and suffering.Sometimes people die,and while the people that loved them suffer and grieve,the suffering and grief are eased somewhat by the knowledge that their departed loved ones no longer suffer.This role was tailor made for Williams,and he is supported well,including another overlooked performance by the late Michael Jeter as a squirrel fearing mental patient.Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Touched my heart","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"64 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I watched this movie, it was truly wonderful and has been every time I've watched it since. Patch Adams delivers a powerful message of how to just be silly and break the rules when it's in the best interest of everyone around. He knew in his heart that all the patients needed to laugh. Laughter is after all the best medicine anyone could ask for. But Patch knew how to be serious and when to be. How he treated all the other students, faculty, nurses, and patients truly inspired more than just me, but many people I know. His way of life is one that I recommend for anyone.Robin Williams give a 5-star performance in Patch Adams. He is a genius in creativity and comedy, but knows how to bring every aspect of a person's life out on the screen. I know that he is just playing the role, but he wraps you entirely into a movie and makes it seem like he is the man.I recommend this movie to all...young and old. It's a winner forever in my heart. "},{"Title":"Laughter Is The Best Medicine.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"56 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is the remarkable true story about a man determined to become a medical doctor because he enjoys helping people. The medical community though do not like his methods of healing the sick patients, even though everyone else appreciates and enjoys what he does as he is the only one who can do so. Robin Williams stars as Patch 'Hunter' Adams and he does a brilliant job as always. He's an amazing actor and *really* funny too. Other good performances, come from Philip Seymour Hoffman and Monica Potter. Patch Adams is a must-see and I give the movie a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Not-That-Sugary Look At A Good-Hearted Man","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"45 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are a lot of sugary clichés I use - in a nice way - to describe this story about a doctor with a good heart who truly believes in the healing power of laughter. Based on a real-life person (who looks a lot wackier than Robin Williams, who plays him in this movie), the story has its usual rebel fights-the- straight-laced-establishment cliché but is a warm, sentimental film that can't help but make you feel really good when it's all over. It's hardly all sugar, either, as there are not only frustrations but an immensely-shocking tragedy in here.For a nice family movie, the profanity and sexual innuendos are a little much, so I don't think is one for the kids. (They wouldn't like it anyway.) Adults shouldn't mind. The language isn't that bad, anyway.Patch's remedy for not only sickness but to get-the-girl is humor. It takes him awhile but he softens the hard-shell woman he's after (Monica Potter) and even the super stiff-ass roommate (Philip Seymour Hoffman) in the end. This film is tailor-made for Williams and his great sense of humor and ability to ad-lib. He has a lot of funny lines in here.There is one little kid in here who's smile is one of the best I've ever seen on a human being, and I wish the boy had more scenes. The touches of sentimentality he brings, along with the laughter, is wonderful to see and heart- warming, to say the least. This is an inspiring story with comedy and romance and drama. That's what makes it so effective a good combination of genres. One minute you're laughing, a few minutes later you have tears in your eyes. A wonderful story, nicely acted and nicely told. "},{"Title":"Middle Vintage Robin Williams","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No one is more evangelistic than the newly re born. Beware the ex smoker, the ex drinker, or the ex mental patient because he or she is likely to be painfully over enthusiastic, especially to the yet to be reformed.Patch Adams is loosely based on a real character who, feeling suicidal in his twenties, admitted himself into a psychiatric institution. He soon emerged convinced that loving kindness will heal most ills, or at least make the disease more palatable.The real Patch Adams entered and passed medical school in the 1970's and opened an alternative medical facility called the Geshundheit Institute which, if you can believe the film, offered free treatment of a sort; the sort that uses drugs pinched from the local hospital.Enter Robin Williams as Patch Adams. If laughter is the best medicine, you're a bit of a Robin Williams fan and you enjoy a big dose of Hollywood fantasy, then this film will please you greatly.He begins the film bedraggled and of course much older than the real Patch. He's depressed and might kill himself so he puts himself into the hands of the doctors.He's locked into a room with a fellow patient called Rudy (Michael Jeter) who is crouched on the bed terrified of imaginary squirrels. Patch blows them away with imaginary machine guns and a doctor is born!Cut to the medical school where an army styled dean (Bob Gunton, who played the warden in The Shawshank Redemption) is determined to turn his students into doctors; creatures far superior to humans. The stage is set.This is classic Robin Williams territory. He plays the well meaning, very funny, inordinately warm human being who bucks authority and who appeals to the better instincts of those insensitive individuals who are in power. We've seen this before in Good Morning Vietnam, Mrs. Doubtfire, When Dreams Might Come and Good Poets Society; his kindly uncle persona. Williams has made this territory his own.Patch Adams works the magic well. It's laced with terrific Robin Williams one liners which are often absurdly funny and lots of gently humourous slapstick clowning, largely to do with props such as enema bulbs as false noses or bed pans as shoes.There are a succession of set pieces; the most unrealistic of which is the crashing by Patch with student friend Truman (Daniel London) of a Meat Packers convention; the most amusing of which is a wonderfully outlandish welcome for a gynecological convention; the most annoying of which is the wooing of a young medical student called Carin (Monica Potter) by the very middle aged Patch.A middle aged lover for Patch would have been a pleasing variation on the old geyser gets young bird theme which is so popular.And then there's even a court scene (in a hospital!) thrown in with an appropriate audience of cancer patients and you can be sure that you've been asked to leap through just about all of the appropriate hoops, but so what! Robin Williams can make this sort of stuff work pretty well.Patch Adams is Robin Williams at his middle aged best. It's not as anarchic as Mork And Mindy, as energetic as Good Morning Vietnam, as sad as Dead Poets' Society, as funny as Mrs. Doubtfire or as wishful as When Dreams Might Come. But Patch Adams is pretty funny and reasonably intelligent. "},{"Title":"Great film!  Just a hair off center, but still well in the bullseye.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"36 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  During a family day at the movies over Christmas weekend, most of my family picked You've Got Mail.  But I pretty much detest romantic comedies, so I picked Patch Adams instead.  How much did I like it?  I went and saw it again the next day, dragging the whole family with me this time.Don't let the previews fool you this is not a comedy.  This is a very moving drama based on the real life of Hunter Patch Adams and his trials on the road to becoming a doctor and attempting to revolutionize the health care industry by creating a free hospital in West Virginia (which has come to pass and is presently being constructed, or so the overlayed tagline at the end of the movie claims).Williams delivers a stellar performance as Patch, who practices Laughter Is The Best Medicine and entertains and amuses hospital patients in an effort to befriend them and ease their pain.  So as you can imagine, Williams' clownish personality and humor seep in and bring an incredible vibrance to the character.  His performance alone is worth your ticket, but the supporting actors (Philip Hoffman and newcomers Daniel London and Monica Potter) also deliver great performances and add a lot to the story.  The plot is well done (being partially written by Adams) and the story may inspire you.My only major complaint about the movie (and why I say it's a hair off center) is the very stereotypical and uber-evil portrayal of the dean of the medical school, who has a vendetta against Adams but for which a real reason is never given.  (This could be attributed to Adams' hand in the scripting, but I doubt it.)Beyond that, this movie is very enjoyable, very touching, and very award-worthy.  If it doesn't show up at least a couple times at the Oscars I'll be very disappointed.  But just go see it for yourself.  And if you don't cry at least once before the end, be worried; there is probably something wrong with you.If you enjoy the movie, you may also want to check out the book by the real Patch Adams, entitled Gesundheit! Bringing Good Health to You, the Medical System, and Society Through Physician Service, Complementary Therapies, Humor, and Joy.  Amazon.com carries it (as should any other reputable bookseller). "},{"Title":"Drama that tried to be funny?","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that the critics missed an important aspect of this movie, as did many viewers who have commented before me.  Too many have claimed that this movie was a drama full of comedy, or a drama that was trying to be funny.  Whether the critics think it achieved that goal or not, they missed an important point.  The point is that Drama and Comedy are not two seperate things to be combined.  A movie shouldn't have to combine the two.  The two things are already combined.  This movie attempted to show that there is comedy and laughter inherent in the drama of our everyday life.  If we can find it, it can help us through the drama.  This is the reason we cry when we are happy and we cry when we are sad.  All emotions are part of something bigger and they are more similar than we think.  I think that's part of what Patch Adams is trying to say.  "},{"Title":"You'll Love Him... Or Else!!!","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"39 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams is a movie so blatantly awful, so boldly outrageous, that I find it much more offensive than even the most disgusting hard-core pornography. This film is Evil, from beginning to end, and should be avoided at all costs.This is a feel-good true-story biopic, with Robin Williams portraying the titular doctor... right? Wrong. This movie is Robin Williams Goes to Med School. Any attempt at portraying a real person is instantly forgotten, as Williams' manic needy comedy overtakes every sequence, from the absurd opening at the mental institution to the rebel without a clue university years...Love ME!! Laugh at ME!! VALIDATE ME!!! shouts Robin as he riffs his way through classes... watch him light up the sickly faces of sick children as he desperately searches for any device to elicit a laugh from the audience. 'Medicine is important,' Patch postulates, 'but what a doctor really needs to know is how to make his patients laugh.' Bullsh!t. What can be said about a movie that makes a mockery of doctors and nurses who spend lifetimes studying and toiling in obscurity to heal and cure in order to praise a clown with an enema bulb on his nose? The movie doesn't just ask you to love Robin Williams... the movie insists you love NO ONE ELSE! Characters are either ineffectual pawns (his Jewish nebbish of a best bud, the patients) or villains (Bob Gunton) who stand in the way of Patch's violent, oppressive comedy. A terminal cancer patient throws Patch out of his hospital room, insisting he doesn't want to be cheered up, but Patch will have none of it! He dresses as an angel and sneaks his way back in and beats the man over the head with jokes until he finally relents... Patch wins! This movie is all about hostility disguised as comedy... you have to laugh or Patch will destroy you!Smarmy, schmaltzy and sometimes infuriating, Patch Adams crosses the line by sanctifying its subject and refusing to consider any other point of view... Phillip Seymour Hoffman stars as Patch's roommate, a serious-minded med student who wants nothing more than to study and graduate. He has the best line of the film when he angrily declares If I'm sick and I have the choice between a pr!ck doctor and a clown... I WANT THE PR!CK!!!I do too.GRADE F "},{"Title":"Yuri Zhivago he isn't","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps Williams finest effort to date. I laughed till my sides ached, and maybe even shed a tear or 2, but I won't admit to actually doing so. Liked that big shock the film produced a little over half way through - totally unexpected. If I had a problem at all with this picture, it would be that it is a tad pat, but I still thought it was excellent. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I could not have disliked this movie more.","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (****Spoilers****)This is my number 1 worst movie of all time. It was so soppy and over sentimental it literally made me feel nauseous. I loved Robin Williams in Good Will Hunting (one of my favourite movies) this movie has pretty much put me off him forever. I found the character of Patch so completely annoying he made the movie impossible to enjoy. The part when he is about to kill himself and finds meaning in life again from a butterfly and the scene where all the children come in to the court room with clown noses on were the worst.The sad thing is that the fact that it is based on a fairly remarkable true story, And could have been done so much better. This is in my opinion jointly the fault of the screenplay and of Robin William's over-acting.I give it a 1 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"What a jerk","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams just can't seem to shake his stage persona and it is all over this film. After about 15 minutes into Patch Adams I wanted someone to put him in the hospital. Laughter is a good thing but if I am dying of cancer or whatever, the last thing I need to see is some jerk dancing with bedpans on his feet or swimming in a pool of pasta. Just give me a copy of Mad Magazine or a Petter Sellers movie. If the real Patch Adams was really like this he should be committed.The ending of this movie made me want to cover my eyes with embarrassment, when a bunch of little bald sick kids come to Adams defense wearing red rubber clown noses when the hospital he was working for was trying to kick him out. Give me a break please! Get those sick kids back to bed and Adams put away. "},{"Title":"A good movie, with a great performance by Robin Williams","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have never seen a movie with Robin Williams that I haven't liked. The man is a comic genius and a great actor as well. He uses both of those characteristics in this movie.Patch Adams is the true story about a doctor who works really hard to entertain the patients. I think it is awesome that a guy like him really existed and tried to make everything fun. The movie follows him from medical school all the way up through the rest of his life. It follows his relationships with his friends and his workers.This movie is good, but not as good as many other Robin Williams movies. It never gets boring though, and it always stays entertaining. I'd say this is for anyone who likes Robin Williams, or for anyone who wants to see a funny movie. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, Hollow, Condescending and misleading  .........","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams begins with the goal of telling us the story of a great man who once pioneered a very innovative way of curing and healing. This idea was to incorporate a holistic approach to treat patients through compassion , social interaction and humor.This movie completely destroys this beautiful concept. It portrays Patch Adams as a person who helps patients but has a feeling of superiority over them as well as his peers. The rest of characters also have the sole task of telling Patch how nice and great he is and do not have any existence of their own. The female lead nicely summarizes this feeling of condescension when she says, These people that we're helping,they'd have nowhere to go. Now, for the technical aspects of the film, the story runs like a headless chicken , the dialogues are very repetitive ,meaningless and clichéd, the editing is poor with one abrupt scene giving way to a completely unrelated one. The director seems to have a very flawed opinion of Patch Adam's life by seeing him as just a funny doctor. The acting by all the actors is pathetic. Robin Williams looks confused and tired on the screen. His great screen presence and joie de vivre  evident in movies such as Dead Poet's Society and Good Morning, Vietnam is completely lacking.Monica Potter as the female lead is awkward and seems to suffer from a guilty complex we are never given any clue about. The rest of the actors also fail to impress.Overall , Patch Adams miserably fails as a biographical movie. My advice to you is to avoid it like a plague if you can.... "},{"Title":"Great Movie but then saw it a second time...new opinion!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seven out of ten for a good watch, but Patch Adams took things a little far as without 'the establishment' he'd just be another Dr. It is the big bad guys in the medical establishment that allow him to be 'the odd one out' the larrikan, the odd ball, the FUN GUY and play the fool.If we ALL acted like this as medical students imagine how the health system and things would REALLY be like? About the death of Carin (there was no Carin in real life, they added her as a love interest for the movie) although a young man did die when Patch was setting up his institute in a very similar way.It's all fun and games until someone dies huh? Patch took it just that little bit too far and a med student lost his life and chance to pursue it. I liked the movie to start with but watch it again and have a think, a real hard think.....I've worked in terminal care and no one would ever want a red nosed fool to come bedside and talk about their demise, also kids with cancer are usually too tired to appreciate a clown..... Have you ever come out of surgery feeling terrible? How would you like a goofball wearing a red nose dancing and singing around you? I'd deck the idiot! As entertainment the film delivers but the second message gained from further watching shows you not only how impossible it would have been to get a swimming pool of noodles for a dying eldery woman to swim in and although he does a lot of good in the world one must remember there would be no non conformists without conformists in the world. I got the feeling that if the nasty medical establishment said No Patch would say YES just to be different. There are limits and in medicine they should be based on close Dr/Patient relationships.Second viewing I gave it a 4 out of ten as the whole butterfly metaphor went a little far. In a way it's almost a Disney Story where the good guy (Patch) beats the bad guys (Every other Dr) and someone dies along the way.I've heard great things that the real Patch Adams does but then again would you want a clown at the foot of your bed whilst dying or a moron dressed like an angel? He'd be kicked out in real life these days.Just my 2c worth, Pete "},{"Title":"Laugh away your ills.","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams is based around the true life story of Hunter Adams, a very interesting man, who, after becoming suicidal and committing himself to a mental hospital, found a new lease of life and wanted to help people. Enrolling at medical school to become a doctor, Hunter became a flag waver for the laughter is the best form of medicine train of thought. Something that simultaneously irked his superiors and garnered a lot of patient support. A fascinating tale is given the Hollywood treatment with Robin Williams slotting into the role of Hunter Adams.Not only is Patch Adams a fascinating story in itself, the reaction to it, pro & con, is also of high interest. I first ventured into this film a couple of years ago, believing it to be the devil's spawn. That belief was born out of the disdain brought down on it from the revered critics of the time. It's also suffered kicks a plenty from many a film fan during the advent of internet movie sites and the snowball effect that comes with such communities. I revisited the film just this last week to see if my initial positive reaction to the film still held. It did. What I found out was something I never knew the first time that I watched the film, namely it was well regarded enough to be nominated for awards. And not some by the bye magazine awards either. Williams was nominated for best actor at the American Comedy Awards and the Golden Globes, while the film itself was nominated at The Globes in the best picture category. It should also be noted that the film was a success at the box office. Made for $90 million, it's Worldwide gross in theatres was $203 million, and it was the number one box office film in America at Christmas 1998.Why do I tell you these facts? I do so because sometimes the reputation of a film is distorted, such is the case with Patch Adams. Look, It's not a masterpiece or anything, it's an odd mixture of humour and drama and for Williams haters it's a definite no no. But it still has something for the discerning viewer. It's a film that is loaded in the protagonists favour, I mean who in their right mind could not side with the guy who makes the kiddies on the cancer ward laugh and cheer? Exactly. Things are further loaded by the portrayal of Dean Walcott by Bob Gunton, it's all snarling pomposity of the highest order, the suit you just love to hate. Then coming in from the side is Philip Seymour Hoffman as jealous swot room-mate, Mitch. Make no bones about it, the makers here are telling Hunter Adams' story; thus the other side of the fence is barely given any credence or intelligent debate. That's an itch that will not go away, but it barely stops Patch Adams being an emotionally driven, and potent, viewing experience.If you have not seen it then you now have the facts to hand, it wasn't a bomb, the kind of lead balloon release that some would have you believe it was. It's divisive for sure, and, yes, it has problems that us fans are fully aware of. But maybe you will become a fan too? Williams is on full tilt animation mode, able to make one laugh and make one cry all in the confines of one little movie. And the ending, coming after the roller-coaster has done its run on the emotional track, is itself a form of medicine that you just can't get from the chemist. 7/10 "},{"Title":"predictable and irritating","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As with all Robin Williams show these days, this show tries to be heart-warming and inspiring. Unfortunately, it isn't. Gone are the good ol' RW shows like Dead Poet's and Mrs. Doubtfire. This show tries too hard to play by this formula and it turns out cliched. I could predict everything that was about to happen. And the bits that was suppose to be touching (like when he placed the red thingy on his nose to amuse his patient) were really corny. The supposedly extremely 'difficult' patient was not so difficult considering how he was so susceptible to patch's lousy jokes.Patch's persistent way of chasing Carin (monica potter) was equally annoying but as with all things else, she eventually became impressed by him and she became his steady. I hope this isn't considered a spoiler coz it is too very obvious since the very beginning.The themes in the show are pretty common. Like daring to be different, to stand up to what u believe in and unfortunately, these overly discussed themes are the basis of the show and it ends up tragically superficial.I couldn't bring myself to support Robin William's character but i wasn't really against him either. Just simply, annoyed. ) 3/10. "},{"Title":"atrocious, nauseating, reprehensible","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was absolutely terrible!  I loathed it thoroughly.  It was emotionally manipulative, exploitative, sentimental, sappy, saccharine, formulaic, aaagggghhhh!  I can't go on long enough how much I hated this film.  How could Robin Williams agree to make such an awful film?  I wish I could collect my thoughts together well enough to coherently explain what was so bad about this, but I am just so angry at this movie that my emotions cloud my mind.  Vomit! "},{"Title":"I liked Patch Adams, it is a heart warming and funny movie.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Patch Adams it is a funny movie. It is also heart warming which makes this movie not only a good movie, but it is my favorite movie. I feel that Robin Williams is an incredible actor. He makes this movie very realistic. I like movies that are based on a true story and this is one of them.  "},{"Title":"Very wonderful film!!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My husband and I loved this film.  We laughed, cried and felt warm and fuzzy all over!  Very well made film.  Robin, as always did a great job with his part.  His co-actor/actress were very good too.  The movie made us a part of what was going on.  I want a doctor just like Patch.  To bad there aren't more doctors like that. "},{"Title":"A mis-cast cinematic flop","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of Patch Adams is an interesting one, and in parts mildly funny, so I am glad I spent the short time it takes to watch this film.Unfortunatley the interesting topic is let down by the casting.  Admittedly Williams is an amusing guy, if you like that kind of thing, but as a romantic lead, I don't think so.  The fact that he gets a beautiful blonde is so unrealistic its actually the funniest part of this film, as Williams inane antics are nerve grating after 10 minutes. The film did make me cry, but the end was so rushed and unexpected it was hard to accept it as real, the film needed more time to gather momentum and explore characters to make the viewer believe it.I would never watch this film again, but it is worthwhile watching it because it's based on a true story, and it is very interesting learning about the work the real Patch Adams did.If that doesn't interest you, then don't bother wasting your time on this. "}{"Title":"About as Funny as an Ugly, Hairy, Flat Ass","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The awful night my brother's girlfriend at the time suggested we go see this movie she said Robin Williams was the lead and that it was based on a true story. I wished I had better sense then* too** trust her judgment. Mr Williams wasn't a favourite of mine but I had seen Mrs Doubtfire and liked it. I felt just like the dean Walcott throughout the whole ordeal. Clowns have a function in society, there*** job is to entertain children. Hospital patients with serious illnesses deserve to be treated with austere dignity and a quiet environment. I was waiting for someone to shout fire so I could dart out of the theater and put all the nonsense behind me. The real Patch Adams should be a real jerk, I want his license to work in health care revoked. Instead we make a film costing millions of dollars about the clown. At last we were on the streets and I wanted a big apology from the person who got me into this mess. With a deep, philosophical sigh, she observed, Robin Williams has an ugly, flat ass! *Intentional error **Intentional error ***Intentional errorExplanation for the intentional mistakes Idiots make these same mistakes so many times that I have come to the conclusion that they should be intentional. Therefore I'm jumping on the bandwagon. "},{"Title":"  Why is a doctor treated with such reverence, we often  forget he is Human ","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams has so many films in his resume, it is very difficult to choose which one he believes is his best work. Like a true artist, he gives his talent to every role and each plays a part in his greatness. This movie for instance, I believe will become his crowning achievement. The film is called  Patch Adams.  It is based on the real doctor who offers to share a real love of medicine with anyone who chooses to become a doctor. His seeming ambivalence towards established rules and protocols and his unorthodox manner in treating patients is irritating to Dean Walcott (Bob Gunton) who tolerates Adams until he can summon enough evidence to expel the Excessively Happy medical student from the school. Although the role is a direct shadow of Williams's career as a comic, it is also a mirror image of his soul when he displays his sorrow and despair. It is during those touching moments we can see how much the master comic suffers for his character. When viewing this fine film, be prepared to journey with Williams through the happiness and tragedies his character experiences. An excellent example of an artist at work. Easilly recommended for all. **** "},{"Title":"Not a fan.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Patch Adams with a packed house of weeping idiots in a magnificent state-of-the-art theatre with luxurious seating and an awe-inspiring audio system. I'd much rather comment on my surroundings during the show than give this trash any of my time. But, I digress.Manipulation. As a writer/director myself, I understand that it is imperative to manipulate our audience to an extent. The unforgivable mistake the producers of Patch Adams made is not only crossing a line of manipulation, but ignoring it all-together. Any good director pulls the emotions of the audience to the direction he/she wants, and he/she does this without the audience feeling like we are being toyed with.The score in Patch Adams assumes the audience is dense. As if I don't realize it's sad when a main character dies, you decide to smack me in the head with some overly melodramatic sappy music. As if that weren't bad enough, let's reiterrate that it is a sad moment with a poorly CGed butterfly. And, for giggles, let's have our living main character stand on a cliff's edge (not because it is an established reflecting point for him, but because it looks good and it reinforces the concept of isolation and sadness.) The layers of this obvious manipulation are so thick, I couldn't help but laugh out loud.What angers me so about Patch Adams is that it insulted me - in every frame of every reel. It also angers me that modern audiences on one hand are astute enough to cherish great films that do not insult their intelligence, but on the other hand go out in droves to see this drek. I suppose I wish audiences would scream at the screen when Godzilla copies scenes from Jurassic Park or when Patch Adams creates two giant paper mache legs in one afternoon (it can't be done, folks... it's just bad!)Money drives this industry. Audiences spend the money. Audiences spent 100 million on Patch Adams. What is the incentive for Hollywood to stop making this c***?  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his worst","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Robin Williams.  He is a gifted, hilarious comedian.  He can make a joke about virtually anything that makes people laugh.  I love his movies. Dead Poets Society is my favorite, while I also love Mrs. Doubtfire.  But this movie just disappointed me to the utmost degree.  Why?  Because Robin Williams couldn't carry it.  It was the same old formula someone who differs from the norm is discouraged to succeed time and time again and eventually succeeds.  I think that this film tried too hard to work on all levels.  It was like a big mixing pot... add some drama here, mix in some comedy and classic schtick, and... viola!  A bad movie. "},{"Title":"People are WAY to liberal with the 7's and this movie proves it!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 7! For Patch Adams! NEVER! Even if I were Robin William's son (and needed him to make more money for my herpes that he gave me) I STILL would give this movie a ONE! OK people, brace yourselves... WHEN Robin Williams does that whole stream-of-consciousness thing he does, it sucks. He is only (rarely) funny when he can be tempered by a good director (see Fisher King NOT Ben Damon movie). But when he is allowed to explore HE SUCKS! ANd Patch Adams proves it! Its full of Laughs and tears with so much sentimental schmaltz, it almost makes you vomit. Literally, puke up your twizzlers. It is now my mission in life to find all the people who give these movies 10's! See, I gave it a one, but someone must have given this movie a 10 to counter my one. I would expound but I'm too annoyed! SEVEN! You people should be shot! Terrible Stuff! "},{"Title":"Self-righteous drivel","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most self-indulgent movies ever made.  It takes simple principles that most people agree with and makes them its mantra, over and over again.  If only life were that simple.  There is no real humour here, merely ridicule.  For the same basic premise with far better execution, see William Hurt in The Doctor (1991). "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen all year","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you took every Robin Williams movie ever made and threw them all into a blender, this horrible mishmash of treacly sentiment and overwrought melodrama is what you'd get.  The plot points made no sense, the theme was flawed, and the score -- the score! -- I thought I'd never hear a score as overblown and ridiculously flowery as the one in Legends of the Fall, but Patch Adams' really takes the cake.  Need tears?  We've got violins!  Need laughter?  We've got piccolos!  If this movie becomes successful, I will completely lose faith in American society.  Does that sound like hyperbole? Perhaps.  But so did the entire movie.  I shouldn't have paid $.05 to see this piece of trash, much less $8.00. "},{"Title":"This movie should become a camp classic","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the mother of all melodrama, the holder of the most sappy sentiment and so painfully bad you have to smile.  Patch Adams has to one of the worst films of 1998, if not the decade.  You would think word of mouth will give this film an early death in theaters, but no...it was box office hit.  This movie is so deceiving, it makes me want to vomit in terror.  Patch Adams comes across being all audience friendly, but look at what your laughing at.  Everything is pure nonsense.  If you're thinking of watching this, consume as much alcohol before your viewing as possible.  "},{"Title":"This is heart warming???","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch  Adams is a dumb, corny, manipulative piece of celluloid that overflows with cheap sentimentality and tired cliches.  I have a feeling the medical institution isn't quite as cold and humorless as this film makes it out to be.  To be fair, the first half of the film isn't that bad, what with William's jokes, but when things get serious and predictable, it goes nowhere but downhill from there.  "},{"Title":"Manipulative tripe","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why can't we reserve the 9 and 10 stars for the truly great accomplishments of movie history?  Okay, maybe Patch Adams made you laugh and cry....but would you place it at par with the best films ever made?For my part, I *loathed* Patch Adams.  I neither laughed nor cried.  Even my normally sentimental mother thought the story was contrived and manipulative.  This is the kind of movie that has me checking my watch after the first 20 minutes, and every 10 minutes thereafter.Better to give your money to a worthy charity than sit through this tripe. "}{"Title":"Ham","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone else sick of contrived story lines and thin plots used as opportunities for Robin Williams to ham it up for 2 hours?. His act is tired and formulaic, he is a sad parody of himself.. They should have just cut the bull and named the movie 'Robin Williams'. This way, they could have 'RW 2', 'RW VII'. etc. and the studio could drop the pretense that they have a story to tell and stop fooling movie goers into coughing up $7.00 to see Robin's tired stand-up act. Yech.  "},{"Title":"Worst film of 1998.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is the perfect film for anyone who has never seen another movie in their life (particularly Dead Poets Society, since there are strong connections, i.e. Robin Williams as misunderstood Christ figure, pointless death of major characters, cheap emotional manipulation, etc). There is no plot point that any observant film-goer won't be able to call in advance.This movie is shameless, particularly the ending, which makes me fume just thinking about it.  (Don't read onward it you want the surprise of realizing what the ending will be five minutes into the film.)  Okay, so there's a courtroom scene.  In a medical drama.  Okay, so you might not have a problem with that.  But here's the charge against Patch in said scene  Practicing medicine without a license.  Guess what?  He's guilty!  He is running his little hospital ILLEGALLY!  He's guilty!!!!  But nevermind that, cuz here come all those little kids Patch made laugh....and look!  They're all putting enema bulbs on their noses to look like clowns....just like their felon hero, Patch.  Hmm...those kids....none of them have hair......so I'm guessing they're all on chemo or radiation......meaning it probably isn't very safe for them to wander into a courtroom (in their hospital gowns, no less).  Somebody get these kids and IV, quick!  Oh, and Patch isn't guilty, cuz he makes people laugh.  Somebody get me a bat.I don't disagree with Patch's approach to medicine, putting a human face on each patient and alleviating their pain with a little humanity, but next time, put that approach into a film that doesn't try to convince me so shamelessly. "},{"Title":"Insult to anyone with an honest, mature sense of life","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Using filming-by-numbers formula and screenwriting trickery, viewers are expected to embrace a brilliant man depicted as a deeply disturbed med student with an irrepressible Ha-Ha Complex, who feels compelled to sanctimoniously violate dying patients' dignity and sacred space with the justification that laughter brought on by slapstick and clownish humor takes their woeful minds off their afflictions--much like prescribed drugs do, much less indiscriminately, without the potential for sudden cardiac arrest or asphyxiation. Realistically, in several of the scenes depicting Adams heroically for rousing entire wards to laughter, a good percentage of the patients in the scene would suffer in the long run because of the excitement, while some might actually die. This is a film that makes fools of its viewers.  "},{"Title":"One word sickening.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  1 out of 10Patch Adams is the worst piece of Oscar-bait I've ever seen, complete with tear-jerking deaths, pompous speeches, and (attempted) uplifting triumph.  Too bad the movie is essentially nothing more than an oddball who acts like a god to all things involved in the medical profession.  Attempts at creating sentimentality are contrived and even cringe-inducing.  Anybody else felt a little shocked when Adams spouted out synonyms for death at a man near death?  Anybody else felt a little stupefied at the (unintentionally) hilarious portrayal of the medical system as nothing more than incompetent, money grubbers? Anybody else felt a little cheated when you realized Monica Potter's character existed only as a romantic interest whose sole purpose is to make us cry?  Anybody else felt like laughing during Adams' overdone climactic speech, complete with sick children on chemotherapy who seem to have found the time to come to court?  If you said no to any of the above questions, then director Tom Shadyac struck a success in emotional manipulation.   "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE OF THE YEAR","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had high hopes for Patch Adams because it was starring Robin Williams, but I was extremly disappointed.  Not only was he manipulative, he was a total jerk.  If I go to the hospitial, I want to be cured, I do not want to have some middle aged guy who committed himself to a mental hospital and feels that to make you better he has to make you laugh to help him get rid of some inner demons.  I do not recommend this movie to anyone.  The jokes were dull and were used in movies 10 to 20 years ago.  The camera angles were stolen from Mr. Smith goes to Washington.  If i was on the medical board to decide on his medical licence, I would rather give it to a chimp. "},{"Title":"An highly unbelievable and unlikely drama.","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, I know this movie is based on the real life of Patch Adams but all the events in the movie feel over-the-top and highly unlikely that they really occurred. Its the reason why the dramatic scene's in the movie simply didn't worked for me.First of all, I couldn't even always sympathize for the main character Patch Adams played by Robin Williams (sometimes he's a bit over-the-top in some dramatic scene's but overall he gives a very solid performance.). I mean seriously, Patch Adams really pushes it at times and simply goes too far in his methods. I even found myself on the side of Dean Walcott (a very typical Bob Gunton stereotype role ala The Shawshank Redemption and Glory.), at times. It is not a good sign for a drama when you couldn't even always sympathize for the main character. This alone is already a reason for why this drama is a failure.All of the events in the movie felt highly unlikely and unrealistic. No way you can convince me that some dying 70 year old could be entertained by a bunch of balloons. Yes, there really were some 'dramatic' scene's in the movie that simply made me cringe. Its the kind of drama that is really embarrassing to look at. The drama in the movie is very childish and way too cliché. There even is room for a misplaced, unneeded and highly unbelievable love-story.The music by Marc Shaiman is also a reason why the drama in the movie doesn't work. I mean I'm sure that the score is great to listen to outside of the movie (I mean after all, it was even nominated for an Oscar.) but in the movie itself it simply doesn't work. It's such a stereotypical and over-the-top drama score! Basically it's the same tune over and over again in every of the 'dramatic' scene's. It was really distracting for me at times.It's funny but in the few scene's that he's in Philip Seymour Hoffman truly absolutely the show. How long before this guy will win his Oscar? Yes every scene that he was in was a highlight for me. This movie is really a waste of a great cast. Its not the cast their fault that the drama doesn't work, I think its director's Tom Shadyac, who manages to deliver the drama in an highly unlikely and unbelievable manner. He should stick to making comedies, me thinks!A big failure as a movie and drama in many ways...3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I'd Hoped, But Watchable","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams stars in a semi-biographical comedy-drama film costarring Daniel London, Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Bob Gunton. Directed by Tom Shadyac, it is based on the life story of Dr. Hunter Patch Adams and his book, Gesundheit Good Health is a Laughing Matter, by Adams and Maureen Mylander. Plot In A Paragraph In the 1970's medical student Hunter Patch Adams starts to illegally treat patients at a hospital using humour as a medicine. Williams is his usual self and he is well supported by the rest of the cast especially Gunton, Potter, London and the always brilliant Philip Seymour Hoffman. However Michael Jeter who I love, is not given as much to do as one would hope. My only real problem with this movie seemed to be more of the same of Williams going in to a stuffy environment and shaking things up, and being looked down upon by his peers, but loved by those he helps. I wanted this to be as brilliant as Dead Poets Society and Awakenings and I love Robin Williams, but think he over shadowed the real Dr Hunter Patch Adams who I think deserved a better movie of his life achievements. It does have its moments, and is not without its laugh out loud funny and touching moments and of course Williams remains as watchable as always, but this just didn't hit the mark for me, despite the movies best intentions. "},{"Title":"Laughter is the way forward","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams was at the peak of his creative powers when he made this film and it is perhaps fitting that it really shows off all the sides to his talent.Patch Adams is in many ways the perfect Robin Williams. It has heart, it has humour that lets Williams play to his strengths, and most importantly it tells a good story. One minute you're laughing, the next you're close to tears - only very good films have that power.Yes, perhaps it goes a bit heavy with the sentiment but you get behind Patch every step of the way and the film acts as a wonderful reminder of the talent that Robin Williams was.I didn't expect to enjoy Patch Adams as much as I did, but it fast became one of my favourite of Robin Williams' films. "},{"Title":"Don't critique a film entirely on its tone when you have a fantastic performance at its core","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams's biggest problem as a film is its tonal unevenness, which is a glaring attribute in the film's first fifteen minutes. Sometimes, it wants to crack jokes and laugh at a man who is catatonic (which, admittedly, makes for kind of a funny scene), and at others, it wants to rub sentimentality in your face in a way so hamfisted it's difficult to feel any real emotion. Writer Steve Oedekerk and director Tom Shadyac craft the film in such a strange and tonally inconsistent manner that real emotions are hard to distinguish from ones the film is trying to make you feel, and once you realize that, Patch Adams can never be a truly effective film.However, it is not by any means an awful, vile film, as some have said. Robin Williams is simultaneously surprising and unsurprising, as he hits comedic heights and achieves dramatic success in a role that requires a whirlwind of exhausting energy all around. He plays the titular character, who's real name is Hunter Adams, where we see him commit himself to a mental hospital in the opening scene of the film (for reasons that are never really explained). In the hospital, Hunter interacts with many interesting characters, while also finding ways to annoy the hospital personnel for his often off-color attempts at humor.After he is released from the hospital, Hunter, now going by the nickname Patch, goes to medical school and tries to predicate his career off of helping those in upsetting situations by making them laugh and improving their mood by putting on something of a comedy act. Understandably, this upsets his peers, who are working to possess a stone-cold, serious attitude about their studies and work ethic, and his professors, who see his tactics as goofing off and discarding the seriousness that drives the medical field. He frazzles the nerves of not only his perfectionist roommate (Philip Seymour Hoffman) but his dean (Bob Gunton), who finds his methods to be infuriating beyond belief. Patch winds up meeting the attractive but unfriendly and frigid Carin (Monica Potter), who is attending school to learn and not socialize or try and form a relationship. Patch understands that, but wants to become friends with her because he sees her potential in the field, as well as somebody who attracts him for her beauty and her drive.Patch winds up concocting the idea of a medical hospital built on personal friendships, humor, connections, and listening to patients rather than diagnosing them and leaving them without a possible outlet for conversation. He rounds up Carin, along with some other compassionate and wise individuals, to possibly kickstart a hospital predicated off of that specific thesis. Williams is unbelievably talented as Patch Adams, energetic, manic, quietly-thoughtful, doe-eyed, and fun. Make no mistake, however, for the character is wise in the medical field, but believes the field needs to possess more human characteristics rather than identifying and referencing patients in numeric terms. As an actor, Williams bears an uncommon amount of energy in his performance, cycling through every emotion a man can handle and doing it with such fierce conviction. His ability to be joking about a catatonic patient one minute, and then interacting naturally with a young cancer patient the next shows diversity and talent on a grandscale for Williams as a character actor.The issue with Patch Adams, however, is its tonal unevenness, and while this cycle of complex emotions is handled effectively by Williams, it is not displayed well through the film's editing and writing. Several scenes, especially ones that are handled with different tones and moods, feel like vignettes and do not connect well when edited together. Consider the first fifteen minutes of the film, showing Patch's life in a mental hospital. Scenes that handle what seem to be depression, humor, and receiving advice are spliced in together, one-after-another, making for a film that cannot find its own tone and stick to it. Understandably, there are a vicious cycle of feelings when handling a film about a doctor working in a hospital, but few have been this jumbled in terms of conjuring up a consistency.Furthermore, the emotional manipulation Patch Adams commits is severely noted; this was indeed my biggest fear entering this film blindly, fearing that, being a film about dealing with the inevitably of death and suffering, as well as being a film also attempting to engage younger viewers, it would too sappy and sentimentalized. My assumptions were unfortunately correct, as Patch Adams is cloying and frustratingly basic in its emphasis of every emotional scene it houses, playing emotion-dictating piano music letting us know when we should cry and when we should be happy. With that, Patch Adams is a mixed bag, commendable for its core performance by Robin Williams, but also contemptible for its tonal inconsistency and emotional manipulation practices. While watching the film, you may find the film bears qualities that make it hard to completely despise, but it isn't until the inevitable ending rolls around that we recall there also is a great deal we can critique.Starring Robin Williams, Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman, and Bob Gunton. Directed by Tom Shadyac. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In arguably one of his best roles, the late Robin Williams portrays Patch Adams, a man who decided to make his life about helping others. Adams believes that patients need to be treated not just for their physical ailments, but also for their emotional well being. He also believes that like freedom of speech, healthcare is an inalienable human right that should be provided to everyone. This is a film that was written specifically for and with the help of Robin Williams. While Adams himself admitted that much of it was inaccurate, the film fulfills it's message, by using an extreme mix of emotion and humor. While watching this film you'll go between tears of laughter and tears of sadness, in a film that will really hit home with a lot of people. This is what Robin Williams was known for, he told his stories and got his messages out, while at the same time entertaining and inspiring people to be the best that they could be. If any other actor had played Patch, it probably would have been a slow moving drama, that just made everyone sad, but Williams made the story one that made you think and it sticks with you. As it recent weeks it has come to light that Williams himself was sick, and this may be the reason he took his own life, I can't help but wonder if on that night, had he watched this film, would the outcome have been different? "}{"Title":"6.5... yeah, right. I Think Some Reviewers Just Need to Laugh a Bit More","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After finishing Patch Adams I did as I always do after watching a movie. I went to IMDb to see what other people thought. And man was I shocked. A 6.5 out of 10. How is that possible. For those who don't know, I have a system for my reviews.An 8 is a film that perfectly fulfills every film obligation. So the story sets itself up properly, creates some characters, those characters undergo some changes, all loose ends are tied up, essentially all that good stuff. A 9 is awarded when a film surpasses those obligations with something exceptional. Patch Adams has that x-factor. It makes you feel really good inside. Which means the film succeeded in terms of creating an emotional response.THE GOODThe script is solid. Every character is casually introduced and returns later. I hate it when characters are introduced and just disappear. It takes a very detailed look into the brave undertaking of challenging the establishment.The film pulls at your heart strings. It's beautiful score amplifies every dramatic and heart-warming moment a tenfold.Robin Williams' performance is amazing... mostly because he's just playing himself. And that's a good thing in my opinion. With his recent suicide, you can really see more into the character he portrays as a reflection of himself. RIP Robin Williams. THE BADWhat irked me a bit is how they didn't mention the girl he fell in love with again at the end. They just kind of forgot to re-visit such an important character for almost three quarters of the film. I suspect there's a good reason why, since the script was solid in all other instances. Either way, this minor fault is nothing to worry about.VERDICTI really enjoyed the movie. I think you should always look at a movie in terms of what it wants to accomplish. This film set out to be a feel-good comedy-drama. It succeeds in all three of those fields. If you don't hate excessively happy films, check out Patch Adams (the excessively happy thing is a joke from the movie in case you're wondering).9/10 "},{"Title":"Well-intended, but not great","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well-intended, but not great. The basic premise was interesting a doctor revolutionizes medicine through humour and being kind to patients (yeah, outrageous!). OK, not entirely original, even though based on a true story, but the story seemed interesting enough.However, the application of the idea is a bit lame. Everyone in the story gets stereotyped, either as a do-gooder or a grumpy establishment, no-to-progress type. The constant confrontation often seemed unnecessary, and overdone. This said, it is not all bad. Robin Williams, in a role made for him, makes the film entertaining. He is maybe a bit too over-the-top at times. A bit more balance would have been in order.Maybe if this was made as a pure comedy, rather than trying to mix comedy and idealistic drama, it would have been great. "},{"Title":"This is untrue to Patch Adams.","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie sucks. Here how it sucks. It make no sense and has nothing to do with Patch Adams. The film stars Robin Williams as Patch Adams. Who gives a great performance. The start with Patch going a hospital for crazy people. After being there for awhile. He decides to become a psychiatrist. But then he goes to doctor school. That doesn't make any sense. He also has romantic relationship with one of the students. In real life That was a men and they did not have an relationship. It also make him out to be a clown. In real life he actually study and talked his patience. And use real medicine on them. The only thing good about this movie is Robin Williams performance as Patch Adams. "},{"Title":"The Nostalgia Critic Did It Best.","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every Wednesday I tune in to the very popular internet critic The Nostalgia Critic. His most recent episode was a review on this film. Once the review got started I knew I had to see this movie to believe it. And This movie is sick.The film is a true story about Hunter Patch Adams played by Robin Williams who wants to help people feel better by sneaking into a hospital and practicing medicine without a license.Why is this movie so sick? Because of a few reasons, But the biggest reason that I can Put in here is that the female love interest was created entirely for the film. And this is the only spoiler I ever want to put in a review, The female character was murdered in the film. And there's your problem, WHY WOULD YOU FABRICATE A LOVE Interest FOR A TRUE STORY?!!? Now Patch's friend was murdered in real life but not at the same time, The same way and even the same gender as it was put in this film.Now this is pretty funny The real Hunter Adams Does not like this movie very much and you can see why.There is not anything more I can add to this review that The Nostalgia Critic has already added to this movie. I am perfectly fine with adapting a true story and adding a little humor to it, but the way they do it in this film is so sick and disgusting that this is no way an accurate portrayal of the real Hunter Adams. My advice is stay away from Patch Adams.You can donate to Hunter Adams' hospital at Patch Adams.org(No Spaces) and you can check out The Nostalgia critics Patch Adams review and see more of The Nostalgia Critic at That Guy With The Glasses.com (No Spaces)Rated PG-13 For Some Strong Language And Crude Humor.1hr 55min/115min.1/2*/**** "},{"Title":"Robin Williams performance is brilliant.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am still wondering when Robin Williams became a great actor.  I can not believe that this is the same guy who was in Mork and Mindy, Popeye and Moscow on the Hudson.  If justice prevails, Robin Williams will be considered for an Oscar for his performance in this movie.  I have never seen another actor pull at your heart strings and make you belly-laugh during the same movie like Robin Williams does here.  Robin's performance is so strong that it never seemed like he was acting. It was as if I was watching a hidden camera fixated on Mr. Adams.The movie itself was a very strong one.  It consisted of a good story, and I really cared for these characters.  But nothing seems to stick out as much as Robin's performance.  Do yourself a favor and rent this movie. "},{"Title":"A classic example of.....","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...why American films are said to be primarily made for twelve-year old boys and girls.A talented actor like Robin Williams should concentrate on what he does extraordinarily well (comedy) and leave the things that he does not so well at all (drama) on his wish-I-could list. As the saying goes, better let people believe you have the potential than go and prove otherwise.As for one of the movie's motherhood messages, OF COURSE it would be nice if doctors made health&happiness as well as sickness&treatment their primary target. But given that our willingness to invest in medical services does not allow the medical profession to do BOTH, I think that the needs of people who are sick come before the needs of healthy people who wish to remain so.Our century old medical traditions are shabbily defended by discredited characters in this movie. How easy it is to dismiss the fact that the 'silly' traditions of conventional medicine have doubled the lifespan of those who abide by them! As to whether those added years are happy years, well, is it too much to expect that individuals be responsible for SOME aspects of their lives ? "},{"Title":"Manipulation","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like Robin Williams so it bothers me to say so, but I really didn't like this movie.  Sure there were some funny scenes (how could there not be with the clowning of Williams) but the movie itself was VERY manipulative and tried to pull every last tear out of every eye in the audience.  All movies dabble in emotional manipulation to one extent or another, but when it goes to the level that Patch Adams does, I begin to find it offensive.  Oddly enough, another recent film that does the same thing is What Dreams May Come, another Williams vehicle.  2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"        See it Stat.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a good film folks. The critics are a bunch of bozos. Robin gives a wonderful performance. The movie clicks in its own way. Film has a good script and a decent cast.Better than Waterboy any day.This film makes you THINK.A wonderful concept huh Adam Sadler???????????/ "},{"Title":"biased but enjoyable","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a feel-good movie with nice intentions but somehow the message got muddled.  Robin Williams really plays well as an outrageous character and as a person who cares a lot.  The film uses every sappy and cliched moments for the audience to like it. However, I'm not sure which message the movie wants to point out laughter is the best medicine or doctors must care for their patients.  Robin Williams displays the former message pretty well.  But doctors aren't all that cold and as in the case of Patch's roommate, we do know he cares for his patients.  In a scene where gynecologists are visiting the hospital, we see Patch has setup a mock of legs where the middle area is the door and watching the doctors enter the hospital is like that famous scene in Look Who's Talking.  It was funny, but I realize also that I wouldn't want that joke played on me. In the generally panned courtroom scene, we see Patch making a speech where he is being tried for operating a clinic without a license.  He talked his way about improving the quality of life for the patients while skirting the issue that he was illegally operating a clinic. From some of the comments here in IMDB, I think the problem with Patch's character was that his way (supposedly laughter is best medicine) is put too much like a gospel.  What we mostly want is that there are people who care for us (much like what William Hurt's character in The Doctor wanted) and treat us well.  We don't really care about any dumb jokes, we just want to be happy and cared for.  The less fortunate ones like the kids in chemotherapy would benefit more from Patch's clownish ways of entertainment.  There's nothing in this movie relating to Make a Wish Foundation, so I wonder why the hell the old woman in the movie must wallow in noodles just so she will eat. Although you could fault the movie for its overly constructed plot, you'll still end up enjoying it.  You just wish for less bias in the story. The verdict 3.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"It's the best thing....","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly believe that this is a very good movie.. it takes you to see what the world is really facing and how a man is trying to make a difference...through laughter... and after watching this movie it makes me feel like we should do something to help out the needy... let's make a change and laugh our way through the rest of our life!!  "}{"Title":"Shameless audience manipulation delivers film D.O.A.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Surely I sit squarely in the minority on Patch Adams, but I found the film to be cloying, simple-minded, and utterly predictable from the opening credits.  Robin Williams does his typical (to quote a friend) moist leprechaun routine, vacillating between treacly sentiment and inspired improvisational hijinks.  I consistently felt I needed a doctor, as the urge to vomit nearly overwhelmed me a number of times during the screening. Period detail is weak (a few pop tunes and some wide collar shirts attempt to do the trick), and Bob Gunton slogs through the thankless task of playing another cardboard villain so thin you could easily slide him through a mail slot.  Monica Potter resembles Julia Roberts so much it becomes literally distracting to watch her.  "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly bad film","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS**This is a movie which is very uncomfortable to watch. Robin Williams plays himself, but as a middle aged medical student. He doesn't take it seriously though, and seems to think clowning around in front of patients is better than treating them. That's nice for a movie and all, but if real doctors did that patients wouldn't go see them nor would they get better. It's irresponsible and extremely unprofessional. Of course, we're also meant to believe despite the fact he acts like a moron and never studies, he's consistently aces the exams.But the creepiest part of the movie is the forced romance between Patch and another student. Now I don't know how old the real Patch was at the time, but watching 45 year old Williams sleaze onto and harass Monica Potter, who must be at least 20 years younger than he is, is very uncomfortable. And even though it's clear she finds him offensive and wants nothing to do with him, he persists, and she magically has a change of heart. Great message to send to sleazy old perverts out there, keep harassing those young girls until they give in! And hearing her awkwardly told story about how she was molested as a young girl makes it extra creepy that a middle aged fart is trying to get her into bed. But they kiss at the end of the scene and then do just that, get into bed! I have a feeling this part was rewritten by the author, who is funnily enough the real Patch Adams himself.*** SPOILER ***Soon after, we have the twist. Poor Monica Potter gets killed by one of the patients from the free clinic she and Patch started. The same guy that Potter earlier said was creepy, which is a great way to tell everyone out there that guys who are unfortunate enough to have that creepy look are actually probably murderers. So Patch Adams cries for a little while about it, after all it was entirely his fault, but then he decides to forgive himself for it and go on acting like a clown. Way to p*ss on her grave Patch, obviously you didn't learn much from her death.*** END SPOILER ***The movie ends with a typical Robin Williams performance arguing with a board about the ethics of medicine, which is completely embarrassing and irresponsible, giving a stupid speech about healing people to a bunch of peers who obviously know a hell of a lot more than he does. And then Williams decides to turn up to his graduation wearing just a robe and his middle aged butt cheeks hanging out the back. I'm sure patients in a real hospital would love to see their doctors walking around dressed like this, never mind the serious hygiene problems this would have. Patch Adams is just a immature, unlikeable jerk. End of story.I hope Robin Williams doesn't make any more films like this, at least not with this level of reckless irresponsibility. Frankly it's one of the most manipulative, disgusting and badly written films I've ever seen, even if it tries to pass itself off as a feel good romp. It's anything but that, I'd call it a feel sick disaster.  "},{"Title":"A Pile of Trite Cinematic Devices","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I suppose this movie had good intentions and those involved with it honestly considered it to be an uplifting story about the human spirit. However, it was typical manipulative Hollywood fare and left me with a queasy feeling in my stomach. Instead of telling the true story of Patch Adams, silly plot devices have to be inserted, like the woman who is murdered and butterflies that inspire hope. Hokey, trite, and silly. I agree that hospital care should include actual doctor empathy and involvement with the patient, not just medicine and clinical checkups, but this movie failed miserably in communicating it because it had to resort to overused Hollywood theatrical devices. In Hollywood, it is not enough that there are real cancer patients who are suffering, they have to insert the tragic murder of a blonde protagonist to squeeze tears and cash out of movie-goers. The manipulation in this movie and others like it make me sick. "},{"Title":"God no","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a film so manipulative, that you can't help but cry at the depressing sight of what you're seeing. Sure, it's well intentioned, well acted but it's about as phony as you can get, the material is so cloyingly sentimental that you become angry with the film. The lesson taught in Patch Adams is that laughter is the best medicine. Could it possibly be any cornier? Halfway through Patch Adams I cried, literally, at how awful the movie was. To me, it wasn't predictable, because I was actually surprised at the cliches the movie had used. Patch Adams is a cruel experience, just like having a clown in front of you dancing like an idiot as you're dying a slow, terrible death. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Overdone","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This story concept has been done too many times.  Cute as Williams might be, he can't make up for the fact that this is another similar good feel film similar to the likes of Mr. Holland's Opus.  Not one of William's more memorable roles.  Better choice would be The Fisher King "},{"Title":"Proof that box office receipts don't reflect quality.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As an online movie critic, I get an average of a letter a day from someone who says this movie has changed their life. In my opinion, this is an all time low for Robin Williams. By accepting this role, he admitted that he is truly a one-dimensional actor. The story of Patch Adams is an exceptionally bland tale of a doctor who thinks he is right and everyone else is wrong. Of course, the filmmakers want the viewers to side with the rebel. Williams' character is no more than a clown recycled from Good Morning Vietnam, Dead Poet's Society, and Good Will Hunting.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams's Reattempt for mushy I'm a good man feeling from audience.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, all. I cried during the movie. In fact, tears are jerked out in every Robin Williams's movies. Why? Why is such a versatile and hilarious actor so typecasted. 'Patch Adams' is a mediocre film, but what made me more sick was that Robin Williams was playing the same character from Awakening, Good Will Hunting, and What Dreams May COme. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had arguably the worst screenplay of any movie this year.  The screenwriters seemed to decide they could take it easy and just let Robin Williams be funny. "},{"Title":"plays on emotions and humor","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Patch Adams' stars Robin Williams in the role as a doctor who uses humor to liven up the hopes of his patients. The story follows this character through some ups and downs in life and in his career as some people do not approve of his techniques. The film uses Williams' style of humor along with his sensitivity for his fellow humans. In the role, Williams is good because it is a typical role for him. However, the film is too long and cannot substain its message. Better editing may have helped, but I think that a lot of it was down to the script (Yes, I know it is based on a true story). That said, if you enjoy films about people and/or work in the medical environment, you can probably relate to this, and it probably has a deeper sense of meaning. I just got bored of it quickly, and I always find Robin Williams to be a little annoying. "},{"Title":"Who needs a doctor?","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For whom was this film made? For patients? doctors? audience? robin williams' fans? or real patch adams? I'm sure none of them would have got it. It failed every target miserably. If I was in the hospital with him, I would have laughed not because he entertained me, but because felt kind of responsibility for his efforts (being a kind person).  Poor patients, mean doctors, wrong institution and GOOD and RIGHT Patch Adams. It was so preachy and biased that whenever he does heroic acts, I had goosebumps all around my body. I'd rather give them an injection. Called 'sophistication'. Is life that simple? shame.      "}{"Title":"A bad attempt at a moving drama","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I walked into this movie, I was expecting some awesome Oscar worthy work by Robin Williams, and by the movie itself.  But what I saw was a very bad movie disguised in previews as wonderful and touching. This is your same old Robin Williams movie he has gotten in a habit of doing.  You know what I'm talking about?...Those he's not your average _______ movies. They're getting kind of old.  I mean, what's he going to do next, play a lawyer or something that isn't your average lawyer or something? Anyway, back to the movie.  It was poorly done, especially with the whole thing with the girl that Patch likes.  The girl is like 20 and Robin Williams is like 40 something...That's what really sucked about the movie, it was all like everyone hates them, but then they find his lovable, amusing side. Well I thought that was a load of crap, especially when that fat guy was all like yeah man, got Patch (well he didn't say that, but he acted like it).  And perhaps the worst scene in the whole movie was the part when the little kids walked into the courtroom with those damn red nose things.  What the hell?...Was that not like the most unpredictable piece of crap you had ever seen?...The only reason I gave it a 4/10 was because it had some scenes when you felt sorry for those kids, but that's about it.  Don't see this movie if you're smart enough to notice that Dead Poets Society and Good Morning Vietnam were practically the same exact thing as Patch Adams.  "},{"Title":"Insulin Please, Doctor","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story is so saccharine, the swelling violins so lugubrious(from the first minute of the movie!), and Robin Williams'sperformance so insufferable that I sat there rolling my eyes fornearly two hours.  There are a couple of laughs but the picture notonly tugs at the heartstrings, it wears them out.  An embarrassingaddition to the filmography of some superb actors (Philip SeymourHoffman, Peter Coyote, Josef Somer and others).  Unfortunately arather typical entry on the filmography of the star, Mr. Williams. "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie hoping that it would just another funny comedy.  Boy was I disappionted.  This film sucked.  Robin Williams gives another mushy, overly dramatic performance (anybody remember Mrs. Doubtfire?).  I don't know about anybody else, but if I was terminally ill and some loser dressed up as a clown came in acting like a moron and tried to make me laugh, I wouldn't be very impressed.  I'd be ticked off actually.  But that's just me.  This film couldn't decide if it was a comedy or a drama.  Now that isn't always a bad thing (American Beauty pulled it off wonderfully), but the makers of this film obviously didn't know what the heck they were doing.  Anyways, I give this movie a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"True life story?","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently bought the DVD of Patch Adams, and, after watching the movie was some what impressed by his hard life. After all, the girl of his dreams dies. She has had a horrible past with hints of abuse etc.....But afterwards, I listened to the directer's notes about the story. So much of this movie was poetic licence. Patch Adam's did not have a girlfriend who was murdered. Admittedly, in real life Patch Adam's best friend, a male was murdered, but why not tell this true story as it happened - not try to pull heart strings by making up a female who never existed. Throughout the story, the directer talks of scenes that they invented to make the movie more interesting. After listening to how much of the film was poetic licence my view of this movie has gone right down. "},{"Title":"Forced Plastic Happiness","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie just tries too hard. The soundtrack and every scene was so overly done that it seemed almost surreal. I couldn't believe any of it, and it's about the real Patch Adams! I would have liked this film better if they could have showed us more of a true story of this man, I kept tripping over all the theatrics. Robin Williams is such a talented actor and comic, how did he get pigeon-holed in so many of these sugary tear-jerker type roles of late? It was like Awakenings with a heavy dollop of sacchrine. I'm glad he's refocusing his talent back to the comic stage, hopefully with some introspection he'll be back on the screen in roles better suited to his wonderful talents. How about some indies?  "},{"Title":"Overdone, poorly acted true story.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The opening of the movie finds us reading the words, Based on a True Story, but Patch Adams feels like a movie with a wildly out of control comic as its lead.Robin Williams plays a real-life medical student named Hunter Patch Adams, who dreams of giving his future patients a better quality of life.  He prances around and makes patients laugh and feel good about themselves to make them forget their pains.The message in Patch Adams is a nice one, but the actors don't make it real.  The big payoffs feel cheap, especially a key speech by Williams late in the film.  One of main problems is the screenplay, which doesn't really give us much to care about. Everything happens in such a set-up way that nothing feels right.And so, this is not one of Williams' shining hours.  Compare his work as a doctor in the wonderful Awakenings (1990) to this and it's night and day.  "},{"Title":"The road to hell is paved with good intentions","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The heart of the movie, I'll grant on good faith, is in the right place. The brains of the movie, however, are nonexistent.  This is an insulting and absolutely shameless piece of work, with Williams doing his iconoclastic song and dance *yet again*, head to head against the usual cardboard cut-out, authority figure villains.  There are so many singularly ridiculous (and somewhat surreal) scenes in this movie, it's hard to know where to start.  Perhaps Williams curing a patient by dumping her in a bath of noodles?  Or the seriously ill children showing up in med school court (!!) to show their support for Patch, shiny red rubber balls on each of their noses? "},{"Title":"Don't see it.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  * * I went into this movie expecting some of the usual Robin Williams gags and touching sentiment, but instead I got tripe. The first hour of this movie seems to be an excuse for childish, not very funny humor.  This is followed by an hour of preachy speeches on how our medical system is wrong.  I'll admit, I did laugh sometimes and did agree with Dr. Adams on some things, but overall, the script was terrible and the overall presentation was pretty bad. "},{"Title":"Great commentary about the problems with the medical establishment","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film was great at making most doctors look like ruthless snobs who care more about their title than their patients.  In reality, most doctors probably are not like this.  But it's based on a true story! you say. Yes, BASED on a true story.  Probably the fact that the dean and professors at Patch's school found his actions illegal is true, but that does not mean that all other humans were worms to them.  The film should have focused more on Patch's endeavors to reach out to patients and less on the supposed downfalls of most doctors.  More appropriate and true to how the system works would be to show the corruption in pharmaceutical companies and how their control effects the teachings at medical schools.  They're the real culprits; the doctors are only a result of them. Besides that, the movie was pretty bad.  It was very predictable and despite Williams excellent acting, a lot of the scenes seemed awkward and out of place.  I would recommend seeing it if you like throwing up.  It's sick to see another mediocre film that follows the same patterns of every other film and can't have a higher level of humor than funny faces and perverted jokes.  Yeah, this one ranks up there with Meet Joe Black.  All the great cinematography wasted on a poorly developed story.  "},{"Title":"It makes me sick and I don't want to laugh","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams use to be one of the finest American actors of the eighties. But in the 1990's, he seems to make a lot a very bad movies in his choice of roles. This could be just O.K., an honest film, but I think the people, say in 30 years, will look at that and laugh a lot. Not of the jokes of Williams or the funny parts (There are funny parts? Really?) but because of two awful parts of this film  sentimentality and the music.  Patch Adams simply hammered me with incredible doses of sentimentality. There is too much of it! A lot of times, there are too much cliche.  When Williams is saved by a butterfly, near a beautiful post-card landscape, my girlfriend and I starts laughing for 15 minutes.  Now the music  big orchestral effects all the time! Melodramatic, invading syrup music even in funny scenes (There are funny scenes?) This is Hollywood at his worst, one of three ugliest American movies of the 1990's (the others ? Stepmom, Meet Joe Black.)  Please Robin! Try to think a little bit! "}{"Title":"I would rather have my feet gnawed off by lemmings than sit through that movie again.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams was, quite frankly, one of the worst movies that I have ever been forced to sit through.  Unfortunately, most people seem to have been duped by the phony feel-good style of this abominable movie into believing it somehow worthy of their attention.  The two hours that I wasted sitting through Patch Adams would, in retrospect, have been much more pleasantly spent if, instead of going to the theater, I had asked an army of miniature lemmings to gnaw off my feet at the ankles, sans-novacaine.  I nearly had to leave the cinema after the first hour of sappy idiocy that oozed out of the pours of the film.  Robin Williams' multiple speeches on the ills of the medical world nearly made me vomit on my paramour.   "},{"Title":"Critics were right...","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On reading on this very site so many positive comments about this movie I thought OK, maybe indeed all those bad reviews were undeserved, let's give it a try... it really wasn't worth it. Something like a most awkward and commercial mix between the Awakening and Dead Poets Society, I can find nothing to save this movie from being among the worst of the year. Williams looks like nothing but a pretentious clown, all the characters are pathetically shallow, including the love interest who only gets really interested in him the day he gets a much better grade than her (and the whole love story is that romantic and touching)... It might have been possible to make a somewhat deep and touching movie out of this story, but this one is a complete failure, and certainly a disappointment for whoever likes quality Robin Williams.  "},{"Title":"Overly-simplistic activism + tired old material = BAD FILM","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Easily the worst film Robin Williams ever did.  This film is really one long propaganda picture for the extreme left to champion health-care reform. I don't oppose making political points in pictures, but the film simply doesn't have the depth to support the point it tries to make.  Such statements as the diner employee's lamentation I think the government should pay for my health care, are not only baldly political and highly oversimplistic, but are not examined with the thoroughness or balance that such a topical issue demands.So, taking the failure to address the political issues intelligently into account, all this film leaves you with is a severe boredom.  If you've seen ANY Williams film before, or watched even ONE episode of Mork and Mindy, you'll have deja vu.  This is the same tired, old junk that Robin Williams has been doing for years.  And if you like the freewheeling comedy he's typical for, go rent Aladdin, because this film doesn't bring anything new to the table. "},{"Title":"American movie making at its worst!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most awful and not funny film I have seen in years.  I wanted to leap into the screen and choke Robin Williams. There were lots of people in the theatre laughing but they were all the types who would not understand a great movie like Gods and Monsters.  If given a choice of a night in jail or sitting through this garbage again, I would choose the former.  "},{"Title":"Utter. Waste. Of. Time","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Patch Adams' is one of the worst melodramas I've ever seen. It's cloying, trite, and coldly manipulatize. While I have no doubt that Patch Adams and his philosophy, I have serious difficulty believing his life was ANYTHING like this movie.This movie is so... conventional. It goes through all the motions of melodrama, and I didn't care. There's so much sap in this movie that I started to feel ill in the final act. And there is one scene that just made me mad-the pointless death of a character I will not reveal. This scene and the aftermath is so badly handled that I wanted to rip the film apart. Everyone in this movie gives their worst performance of their career. Everyone except Phillip Seymour Hoffman. At least he remains unscathed. Robin Williams gives, and I know this is hyperbole, one of the singularly worst performances I've ever seen on film.'Patch Adams' is bad. Bad bad BAD! I hated it. "},{"Title":"AWFUL!!!!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so disappointed in the audiences that liked this boring melodramatic comedy.  The story went all over the place. The same hospital patients in the storyline after a year...did these people live in the hospital?  Doesn't this guy ever study ...maybe he should have been shown studying or at least reading a book!  This guy was portrayed as a total goof....I wouldn't let this guy around me with a stethoscope!  I want my money back!!!!  "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE TERRIBLE TERRIBLE TERRIBLE TERRIBLE","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I feel VERY sorry for people who have given Patch Adams positive criticism.  Why?  This story is based on a true life story and it completely makes it false.  Why tell a true story in film when you can't tell it right?  Here's some reasons why Patch Adams is terrible.1) Now supposedly Patch Adams makes his way to University of Virginia Medical School straight from the institution.  No, can't happen, especially at Mr. Adams' age.  How is the university with the top medical teaching in the country supposed to accept Adams just out of the blue?  Wait, doesn't Adams have to go through community college first?  Yes, then a four year college, THEN University of Virginia medical school.  But NO, the film never explains the progress.  It automatically assumes Adams was so successful that it didn't need to be explained how he got accepted into University of Virginia.  2) How are we supposed to believe laughter is the true key to medicine when it seems every patients can be cured by laughter.  WHAT?!  What kinds of patients are these?  Probably just ones with physical injuries.  I know that for a fact that autistic children wouldn't respond to Robin Williams' Patch Adams.  It's just not possible.  The patients just get instantly cured by Williams' pranks.  How is this possible?  Nothing is ever explained, it just happens.  God, Steve Oedekerk is a terrible writer.3) Why is Patch Adams in such an opposition in this film to doctors?  What from his mental institution experience with doctors?  Bah.  The fact is, you need a doctor who can treat you with the right prescription medicine and treatments.  You DON'T need the fictionalized loony Patch Adams in the film.  Stay AWAY from him as far away as you can.  Now there is a Patch Adams in real life.  I'd rather be interested in hearing about how he was able to do his laughter for medicine in his patients versus this film.  As a film based on real life, it's the worst ever made.  Again, read these words and remember them... if you can't tell the true story right, why tell it at all?  STAY AWAY FROM THIS FILM AT ALL COSTS!  Avoid it like the plague!Zero starsBy the way, Siskel & Ebert couldn't have said it better in their reviews of Patch Adams. "},{"Title":"Bad humor is not the best medicine","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Is it possible to be obnoxious and funny at the same time? Yes, I believe it is. But Patch Adams is just obnoxious while thinking itself not merely funny, but noble as well. Robin Williams has played this sort of character before, the compassionate rebel, in other films based loosely on true stories, like Good Morning Vietnam and The Dead Poets Society. If this film doesn't work as well as the others, it is because it oversimplifies what otherwise would be an attractive theme, namely that doctors should strive to improve the quality of their patients' lives rather than to postpone death. I wish there would be a movie that expresses this idea in a nuanced and believable fashion. Here, it's nothing but cheap shots at the establishment.One of the major problems is that Patch Adams just isn't very funny, which undermines the whole point of what he's doing. I laughed during one scene involving a catatonic patient, but most of the time I just sat there looking about as stone-faced as the pretty medical student Patch flirts with. Considering how awkward and obtrusive most of Patch's jokes are, it's a wonder the movie never considers the possibility that the patients might not be amused; indeed, even the most irritable ones eventually succumb to his charms. If the real Patch Adams was truly like he's portrayed here, I doubt he'd have had any success with his method. Perhaps the doctors who opposed his behavior actually had a point, and weren't simply the stuffy, anal-retentive stereotype this film shows them to be. This film seems to exist in a one-dimensional world where comedy automatically means dressing up as a clown and doing unsubtle slapstick, and where the only people who fail to appreciate such antics are those totally lacking in any sense of humor, not to mention humanity. In a particularly ironic scene, a fellow medical student played by the wonderful actor Philip Seymour Hoffman gives a heartfelt speech about the harm in Patch's failure to follow procedure. I actually found Hoffman's argument a lot more convincing than the movie wanted us to think.In my experience, I've met a variety of medical professionals ranging from those who only seem concerned with the technical aspects of their profession to warm, funny individuals who care about their patients' feelings in addition to their health. The latter can be accomplished without acting obnoxious, arrogant, and immature like Patch Adams comes off in this film. I couldn't relate to the film because both sides seemed too extreme, and there wasn't the slightest hint that a broad middle ground exists. It was like having to choose between fascism and anarchy.Eventually the film resorts to an implausible, manipulative plot device so as to give the Patch character a moment of doubt which the situation hardly merits. Or, at least, he's doubting the wrong thing. What he should be doubting is not whether humor itself has a legitimate place in the medical profession, but whether his particular brand of humor does. The movie's ideas are stronger than its execution, and at the end Patch gives an inspirational speech that actually impressed me. If only the rest of the film lived up to the strength of his words. "},{"Title":"Screenplay Needs Patched.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams (1998) Dir Tom Shadyac / Cast Robin Williams, Monica Potter, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Bob Gunton, Peter Coyote Based on the true story of Hunter Adams who is self admitted into an institution due to suicide attempts. He is overjoyed when he helps a patient and aims to become a doctor himself. He is given the name Patch after he fixes a leak in a coffee cup. Too bad that he couldn't fix the leak in the screenplay. Familiar plot with an unnecessary scene involving a meat party that serves no other purpose than for Adams to don the white overcoat. The film seems as a take on One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with an ending that is contrived. Directed by Tom Shadyac who deals with characters of odd behavior who struggle in their place in society. He previously made The Nutty Professor and Liar Liar. Robin Williams is carrying the film as someone who goes from depressed state to reaching a purpose. Monica Potter serves only as a love interest who will meet tragedy. Phillip Seymour Hoffman is flat as Patch's roommate. Bob Gunston plays the stereotypical dean who dislikes Patch's practice and basically has a stick up his ass. Peter Coyote plays a patient whom Patch attempts to cheer up but only succeeds in pissing off. We are given much insight into this individual that deserves better writing. Laughter can be a solution but not when your story is full of clichés. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Some nice bits but its drowned out in silliness","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams is the most Robin Williams Robin Williams movie I've ever seen. Unfortunately, the cute premise far overstays its welcome and we miss our disbelief which we have to suspend at the door. Williams is typically fine - not nearly as fun as he is in superior work Good Morning Vietnam or Mrs Doubtfire - but solid. Monica Potter sleepwalks through the movie with a sour face and little else, whilst Daniel London contributes next to nothing. For me - what a non- shock - the standout is Phillip Seymour Hoffman, whose furious monologue at his fun-loving slacker roommate is startlingly profound and out of place in what is otherwise a dull screenplay.The film stays about forty minutes too long, with Williams and the always good Bob Gunton having the same argument every three or four scenes. Lots of slapstick comedy makes for a good return on investment but does the story of real life Hunter Adams a great injustice. The final scenes play out like a far less well executed version of Scent of a Woman, which feels completely flat despite having much higher stakes. A comparison with Billy Madison would be more apt - and not in a good way. "}{"Title":"Not the Real Patch Adams...","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Over here in Holland, it is no secret what this movie has meant to me. For that, I will always cherish this movie.But let's be honest about it. This movie is not a true portrayal of the real Patch Adams. After seeing this movie, I studied the real Patch Adams, wrote to him, met him and spent time with him.The movie is actually nothing more than Robin Williams in a doctor's suit clowning around. Steve Oedekerk wrote the script and Tom Shadyac used that as his bible, not the books and works of the real Patch Adams. Bevause of that, this movie in storyline is Steve Oedekerk's book class about Patch Adams' book 'Gesundheit'. This movie was Tom Shadyac's first 'reality based' comedy, as he said in interviews. Nice try on Shadyac's side. But everybody in this movie is trying too hard. In the role of Patch, Robin Wiliams is funny, clownish and generous when he's feeling good, but over-dramatic and completely rude/anarchy when beaten down or worked against. That's not the real Patch Adams.Patch himself describes his portrayal as a kindergarten version of himself, which I think is the best way to describe the movie version of Patch. Clowning around, having to deal with issues on a personal level is what we see in this movie. No show about Adams' serious and generous side as a worker for world wide peace, politics and a better health care system.In this movie, Robin's Patch is more just Robin Williams performing a one man stand up comedy many times. On the scene with the meat, for example. Or when welcoming the gynaecologists. It's all funny, but actually nothing more than stand up comedy and the relationship with Patch's message about health, commitment, etc. is not present. The movie depicts just brief moments on those matters, like Robin's speech in the sort-of courtroom.In 2012 Patch told me a new movie was in development about him and his extreme wisdom. The late Robin Wiliams would not be in it, which is of course naturally now after his tragic death.Don't get me wrong, this movie is of value for me, I just think they could have done a way better job... "},{"Title":"Patch as a alternative healer","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like the movie very much. It's really fascinating to watch a guy (doctor) who works really hard to entertain the patients. I like the way Patch's hard work, towards the people, how he made them laugh, even though they looked hopeless and was tired of everything. I like his thoughts and the way he believes towards the healing power of laughter. Patch knows exactly how to handle the patient. He knows, medicine is not only the method to get ride of illness. He knows the value of laugh. He makes fun of everything. But he knows how to make people laugh and also to be serious when it to be. It was really heart touching when Patch jumped, screamed and rolled around and made those innocent children laugh in the children's ward. Climax is super, where Patch gets be who he really wanted to become and children got theirs wanted entertainer doctor. It's good to know that Hollywood still can produce awesome movie with no sex and violence. This gave me an idea about how to get closed to patients instead of diseases. Patch's way of getting closed to patients is just genius. That's what Patch does in the movie, where he actually made patients laugh so easily and when that was not possible, he used another method for it and made them smile or laugh anyhow. After watching this movie, I get a clew about, what can I do, when I once come out in to this real world and work with people in upcoming days. I give 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"loverly movie","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams has always been one of may fevered actor, and in this movie he has ones Again proved that he is one of the greatest actor there is, i am talking about his performs in Patch Adams. The movie shows have a smile can help people there are sick, but also that too be different, and stand out of the normality norms isn't always easy, and the person has to be a Little brave, to have the guts to be different, in the movie wee follow Patch and see him trying to make are differences in other people's live. In the start of the movie we are following Patch Adams there is committed in a mental hospital because he is depressed an cannot see anything good in his live, he is meeting some People in the hospital we meet his room mate there in hes mind se scrolls so he is afraid to go too the bathroom, Patch is helping him so he can get too the bedroom, after that Patch see the meaning whit his live and get out of the hospital. Efter years we se him as a student ind Medical school, and that is weer in the movie it all begin. "},{"Title":"The changes in our way to treat sick people","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams I really liked the movie, it's showing how important it is to do what you believe in. The importance of believing in your self. Sometimes you need to do what others don't believe in, to proof them wrong. And that's what this movie is all about. Do what is right for you as long as it does something good for others to. But it is also showing that the right thing, is not always the happy safe thing to do, because the main character falls in love with a woman from the school, and just when things gets really good between these two, something bad happens to her. It makes him leave the place he built up, because for a moment he can't see how this place can be right and good anymore. I love how the movie shows the effect of a hospital clown, how much happiness it brings to both children and adults! What it takes to help people, that it's more than just the right medication and getting healthy without fever. It's also the mental part, connecting with these people by talking to them, listening to them and show them you really care about them, and not just the physical problems. What this man did for our health care system is magnificent! He changed the way we saw the sick people, and how we need to help them, how happiness can heal a sick person, and make them motivated for changing their lifes. I just really think it's a good movie, you will get a good idea of what has happened in our health care systems, and how the nurses and doctors looked at patience before, and what's changed and how it's changed now. The main character is Robin Williams, and he plays the character so well. "},{"Title":"The unique doctor","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film Patch Adams interpretation of a true story about this unique doctor. The massage the man Patch Adams sends is amazing, he is so lovely and caring, especially for the children. He want's to be a doctor, but not only one who gives patients a good or bad message, but either so he wants to give them a good course. He wants to help people by bringing humour and fun into a world full of frustration, sadness, anger and dead with the patients. It's is truly fantastic that the world uses this new perspective today as film illustrates. Even thought at the time Patch Adams first try these new methods, many older doctors and teacher at medical school questions this way of treating sick patients. He sees the whole human being instead of only the disease, and he wants to create a better connection between nurses and doctors. He changes the hospital world to something better for all people. Robin Williams plays the character to perfection. When that's said I maybe sometimes think he's to much. That the fact that the medical school have rules, and he time after time breaks them without further consequences. That everybody, literally everybody shows up when he's in court. Sometimes I felt like he wanted to be better than everybody else. The film made me feel happy, sad, frustrated and angry. I give it 8 stars and I recommend everybody to see it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think the movie was so amazing. The actor Robin Williams is the perfect guy for the role. He is a funny, sweet and intelligent man.it really inspires me, that one man can go so far with his will to have humor in to his work, and actually go so far with it. It's truly amazing that he, on his own hand, discoveres how importent humor is. And today we know so, because of him. That is simply fantastic! He was in Denmark for about a year ago, and I think that is exiting, because here in Denmark, we use hospital clowns SO much. Specially with kids who is sick. It was really cool that Denmark have had a visit from him, so he could see that he has made a huge difference. I think the movie is simply great. It's a good teaching movie, that everyone can learn a lot of. "},{"Title":"A movie you just must see","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think that the movie was really instructive and super good because At the beginning Patch Adams inserts himself , to a departments of psychiatric, where he finds out how good humor is to come in contact with patients. I seems it's very thoughtful , that for the time they did not look at patients as a human , but more as a thing to be nurtured and then send at home or die. After he had been admitted , he began at Veginal Medieal Univerreity to become a doctor , but he would not be any doctor , he would like to be a doctor with humor. He did not like the way that the traditional doctor was, that was a doctor who would keep the forms and be professional and not have anything personal in it. I really like the way that Patch Adams think , because all people have the needs to communicate with others, and have a sense of humor in their course so not everything is so seriously. The scene where Patch Adams accidentally go in to the departments of children, because he did not have to be seen by Dean Walcott. This scene it's really good, because it tells a lot about how sad children can be, if it gets too serious. I really liked the way that Patch Adams came in contact with the small children. I also really like the scene where Patch Adams open his own hospital, where there is room for everyone, even those who needed to talk. It was very fascinating how all the patients responded to the treatment they received. They were much more pleased when they left the hospital. I think it was because they were trying to help them in the best way . I can certainly recommend the film to anyone who really likes a good movie with Robin Williams. It also gives a lot of thoughts after watching it. "},{"Title":"Patch Adams  lovely Movie","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Adam Peach is a relevant movie for people under the public health service. This movie shows the viewers, Adams journey through his dreams. Adam went to a psychiatric department, because he tried to commit suicide in the last. The viewers thinks that he is so miserable and unhappy at the department. We all thought that his life was over, and that he probably will be there for the rest of his life. He started to help the other people in the department. In the hospital there was this therapy group where Adam makes fun about this man that have some kind of a disease where one of his hands where up all the time. I thought that was so funny myself! Adam started in a medical school because he wanted to help other people. Adams life then chances when he finds out that in medical school, the main work is to save the client from dying and not see them as human beings. Adam tried to make his classmates understand that having fun with the client is the main thing, but no one believed him. The best part of the movie is when Adam attended to be a hospital clown. He made a lot of fun things! This is where the viewers sees the joy in the kids eyes that was in the hospital. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams as Patch Adams is amazing","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like the start of the movie where Patch Adams has committed himself into a psychiatric hospital. While he is in there he finds out that he can turn illness into humor. So he leaves the hospital to be a doctor. I like the turning the movie takes, because it show that if you want something you can achieve it. The period after he starts on Virgina medical University to become a doctor, is a turning point for Patch, you can see that he is struggling with different issues. Having a roommate who does not like him, and chasing after a girl named Carin, who does not show him any affection in the beginning. It gives a good insight in the reality, that you don't get everything in the beginning.I love the part where he is fooling around in the hospital, to make children happy. you can see that he is committed to what he does. He meets a lot of resistance from the dean, but it does not knocks him out. He fights for it. I also really like the part where he gets the house and start the Gesundheit institute, his dream is starting to be a realize. I also like the passion that occurs between Patch and Carin, the passion that goes from no affection, to totally affection is lovely to see, you can see how Carin gives herself to Patch, and that is very touching to see. You can see that they really love each other. Robin Williams acting in this movie is marvelous. He plays the role so amazing, I felt captured from the start to the beginning. "},{"Title":"Patch Adams  lovely Movie","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Adam Peach is a relevant movie for people under the public health service. This movie shows the viewers, Adams journey through his dreams. Adam went to a psychiatric department, because he tried to commit suicide in the last. The viewers thinks that he is so miserable and unhappy at the department. We all thought that his life was over, and that he probably will be there for the rest of his life. He started to help the other people in the department. In the hospital there was this therapy group where Adam makes fun about this man that have some kind of a disease where one of his hands where up all the time. I thought that was so funny myself! Adam started in a medical school because he wanted to help other people. Adams life then chances when he finds out that in medical school, the main work is to save the client from dying and not see them as human beings. Adam tried to make his classmates understand that having fun with the client is the main thing, but no one believed him. The best part of the movie is when Adam attended to be a hospital clown. He made a lot of fun things! This is where the viewers sees the joy in the kids eyes that was in the hospital. "}{"Title":"My review -","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Patch Adams (1998) was very good. It showed how some people struggle to get their education. It shows how karma Works, because Patch did so much good to help other, and at the end he got what he wanted. It really made me think about how blessed we actually is, and that we have to thank god for every minute that we live, and that we have to help each other. The movie was a Little bit to long, and sometimes it became to much, but i enjoyed it, and i was positively surprised. I will and have told my friends about it. I wish that, it was a little bit longer at the beginning. But still, the movie was great, and I can describe how much I loved it. I rote this review because my teacher gave us this as an assignment, but I'm glad to do it, if it can make people watch the movie. Enjoy it, and have a good time. "},{"Title":"UnFunny, Empty, and Blah. But Thank God For Robin Williams.","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Patch Adams long ago. Only once so long ago I don't even remember it. I felt like watching it on Netflix and I can see why I would forget it. I don't regret seeing it, but it is not good. I, for one, wouldn't call it bad. But I can see why others would.Patch Adams is based on the true story of a zany doctor of the same name who broke all the rules and used humour to treat his patients. Aside from loving Robin Williams, this movie has a great premise. When people are terminally ill will little hope for survival, that's depressing. Luckily, Patch Adams comes in and makes the death less painful. Maybe I used poor word choice, but you get the idea.The movie opens up with Williams in a mental institution and it is unclear why he is there because he is seemingly normal. After seeing that he has a knack for making fellow patients happy, he enrols in medical school. Patch just wants to help people, only people in their third year and above can actually do the hands-on practise. So Patch breaks all the rules and becomes a clown for the hospital patients to enjoy. When he is being funny for this sick cancer children, they are enchanted by something glorious entering their lives. I personally didn't find it funny, but the whole concept was great.The hospital likes him, but the school doesn't as he is constantly disobeying procedures. As he uses his comedy more often, the realism tends to slip. Hospitals are full of grouchy and mentally ill people. Sometimes, humour doesn't work with certain people. I know that if Patch were trying to use his goofy comedy on me that I wouldn't like it. That's the problem with this Patch uses too much goofy kiddie humour. He builds a free hospital in the wilderness and it is not shown very well. He eventually sees that his humour is not 100% useful, but people love him anyway. Good thing some sense was knocked into him, but it was too late! As I said, the movie has a good concept but is not executed well. I wasn't underwhelmed, I really do think that this movie was simply an empty bore. Plus, the movie isn't funny which is a shocker. The only thing remotely funny was when Patch entertains the children. He isn't an out of control wild man and that's why he isn't funny, Robin Williams was just given a blah script. And that brings me to the star of the film the late great Robin Williams. He does a great job of acting. He shows a wide range of emotions and the audience gets to know that character well. That is the only thing good in the movie that is well executed.I liked it and I didn't like it. "},{"Title":"enjoyable first half turns heavy-handed","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's 1969. Patch Adams (Robin Williams) checks himself into the psychiatric ward of Fairfax Hospital. He discovers that he's good at helping the patient. Two years later, he enters Virginia Medical University. He befriends fellow student Truman Schiff (Daniel London). Dean Walcott (Bob Gunton) is a strict traditionalist teacher. Mitch Roman (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is his high achieving roommate. Carin Fisher (Monica Potter) is a hard-nosed student who is softened by the lovable Patch.I enjoyed this movie ... the first half of this movie. It's not a masterpiece by any means. It's cheesy and manipulative. It's not as funny as it should be. I'm willing to live with all of it until what happens to Carin. The second half is annoyingly heavy-handed. I certainly hope I'm not stepping on the true story. If the incident is made the turning point, this could have been a different and probably a much better movie. At the very least, the movie needs to set up the turn for the audience. "},{"Title":"Look up the real guy and read or watch whatever you can for 2 hours, I can guarantee you it would be more worth your time","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now, is this movie as bad as other people are saying it is? Well this movie probably tries to bend what based on a true story can get away with because after looking up the real deal and seeing how much this movie gets wrong... and based on what I found out what this movie could have been then this movie is NOT a satisfying experience.So the movie opens with Patch contemplating suicide and going to a mental hospital where he is the only one to connect with the patients (and by that I mean making fun of a catatonic person, YES this is the hero of the movie) and he goes to medical school to try and become a doctor with a better emotional connection with the patients which isn't hard considering the doctors in this movie are portrayed as nigh-on sociopaths (I'm not even kidding a line in a lecture scene is We're gonna make DOCTORS out of you like some drill sergeant). After a while Patch begins to visit people in the hospital even though it's not allowed, cheers them up, fools people into thinking he's a three year student, practices medicine without a license, steals from hospitals to get medical supplies and somehow it all works out.Oh boy! The real Patch Adams is actually an interesting guy. He doesn't believe that people should pay for medical care like in the movie, yes but this simplifying of what his theories are... All I can ask is why? it would make for a much more interesting movie if they did stick to what happened (which is the biggest problem with the movie, stuff like almost the entire character of Carin was a falsity, Patch did meet his first wife in medical school but it was his best friend that was murdered). I mean Hollywood takes liberties with true story movies all the time - Yes, but with the excess changes they made I don't find almost everything they do done in such a way that I like, Patch Adams is not just a clown, you know that right? Because if we went by this movie I wouldn't.The other big problem I have with the movie is the forced emotional manipulation. I know movies manipulate people emotionally all the time - Yes but again! If the job was done in such a way that would distract me from said manipulation then it would be fine! But the problem here is that it's not, it's very forced and very often clichéd.Okay, I'm going to quickly say what I like about this movie. Given the horrendous material the actors actually do a good job, the cinematography is nothing new but it does establish the time this is set pretty well and it would draw light to people on an interesting man.So, Again if you're going to see this movie, I would almost say look the guy up before you do so. He's an interesting man and I would say looking up a 10 minute lecture on YouTube was far more rewarding and worth my time then this movie and I have almost no interest in medicine. There are some good points but I really suggest looking the guy up before you watch this movie so at least you'll know where I'm coming from. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie!","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hate Robin Williams as a comedian, but i was in tears after watching his timeless performance. I love most of the classic movies but this is definitely the best film I have ever seen. I was captivated by this film from the beginning to the end. I didn't care about its length. It was like curling up with a good book. The early portion of the film brings to issue in a simple visual the importance of seeing past a problem instead seeing only the problem. The rest of the story is devoted to illustrating the value in that ability and having an impact on people and institutions. Throughout the movie, Robin Williams wanted to prove that laughter is truly the best medicine. It is a bit overly dramatic at times, but you will laugh all along the way. I must admit the ending at the graduation ceremony took me completely by surprise and no words could express so admirably Patch's deliberate action of disapproval towards the medical community. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE, FOR EVERY DOCTOR IN AMERICA AND ABROAD.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is such a deeply touching movie, that is hard to describe. Robin Williams and all other actors were superb, and the message is simple amazing. It is a pity that the message or main tagline were not advertised more agressively. I would say it has been the best movie I have seen this year. "},{"Title":"Enh!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, this is another massly appealing film which I, quite frankly did not care for!  Maybe it was because I saw it at a party at about midnight to one o' clock in the A.M.  I could not get into the movie, despite my usual attraction to these type of movies (I loved The Fisher King).  I did not care for Robin Williams' character, Patch.  I thought he was funny, but he did not appeal to my caring.  I did not care for any of the characters.  I thought that it was a well done movie for the masses and that most would like it, but that it if you like the type of movie.  It is a family film, if the family is at least eleven or twelve and understand death!  The movie is a serious drama and a funny comedy at the same time.  I call it a dramady. I did not cry, even though I at least tear up when I have seen other movies like Beaches but this movie was too heartwarming for my style.  This movie should not be up for Oscars at all, with other movies having nominations. It is not a unique movie, and it, along with many others, should be clumped in, all with the title, Pulp Fiction, but that movie should be considered unique.  If you didn't understand my last sentence see the movie. "},{"Title":"mostly negative","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is a funny , funny man . He has some great comedic moments in this film . I was, however, disappointed in the rest of the movie . It was preachy , emotionally manipulative, and almost transparently predictable . The premise was very worthwhile and it is too bad it could not have been presented with a little more finesse . "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams and the rest of the cast give great performances in this amazing film. I literally cried hard and laughed out loud in this film. It was truly remarkable and I believe that Robin Williams is the best overall actor in the business today. "},{"Title":"Could Robin Williams be more wonderful?","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After this movie as I was walking out of the theater and I  found myself wanting to go out and change the world. Robin Williams was truly transcendent as Patch Adams, I never thought that a movie could be this Wonderful. This movie is a relieving escape from movies like, Stepmom and You've got mail.I couldn't have enjoyed myself more. Kudos to you Robin.  "}{"Title":"*****","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once again Robin Williams has done it.  An outstanding example of a job well done.  Extremely, entertaining, made me laugh and cry, with an excellent life lesson. "},{"Title":"Laughter Is Contagious","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Patch Adams. Especially the part where he is defending his humor and his behavior toward his patients. I watched Siskel and Ebert and they gave Patch Adams two thumbs down. I am glad I didn't agree. Go see Patch Adams, you will love it.   "},{"Title":"Good overall, but a bit cliched","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting another of those long, painfully dramatic, academy-award-winning movies. Robin Williams was hilarious in this film, and my mates and I were cracking up consistently at the jokes.This movie has both a lot of laughter and a lot of sad stuff, but at times, it was all too predictable. e.g the happy ending. It was almost as if the writers had studied all the academy-class movies, taken bits out of them and pieced it together in this movie, and said, Hmmm...let's put Robin Williams in it...that way, we're sure to win something!! That was just the impression I got, but see it for yourself.6 and a bit out of 10. "},{"Title":"Same old formula","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No surprises here.  Patch Adams tries to be an inspirational tale of a wacky-but-lovable doctor who triumphs over the evil medical establishment. Instead, we must suffer through Robin Williams' attempts at impromptu humor and concerned looks.  The film's few enjoyable moments were copied from (and done better in) Forrest Gump, Dead Poet's Society, even Real Genius. "},{"Title":"Not happy with Robin Williams in another Man-Boy role.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has a habit of playing these Man-Boy roles, reflective of his days as Mork from Ork.  It got a little ridiculous as Patch somehow managed to excel in medical school while apparently spending hours/days on end creating elaborate gags to make patients laugh.  I was disappointed to say the least.  They could have made a much better attempt at suspending disbelief.  The only redeeming aspect of this movie was Monica Potter's beautiful smile. "},{"Title":"Nothing great...","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams I'm sure has well intentions, and it's nice to see a quiet, no-frills movie about good people doing good things, especially in our cynical day, but c'mon...if this doesn't look like the most pretentious veichle for Robin Williams, what does? Williams plays Hunter Patch Adams, a mental patient turned med student who believes in treating patients with laughter and showing them signs of glowing life, unlike those other establishment-type doctors...they're too square, man! But watching such heart-felt and completely cliched scenes such as Doc Adams bringing laughter to the sick children's ward by jumping and rolling around screaming, or reciting poetry over a beloved friend's coffin, combined with composer Marc Shaiman's usual heart-tugging score, which, in this film, if I had to give one word to describe would be REPETETIVE (I've never seen Shaiman in this type of unoriginal and almost lazy form before), Patch Adams rubs off like a big budget, expanded tv movie, gooey and weepy, warm and fuzzy, the likes that will have Lifetime Television execs drooling for similar projects.Williams still has lots of energy, and Bob Gunton still has the evil charm (I truly hope the typecasting will soon stop for him...he's a talented actor and deserves to stretch his acting legs a little bit more than see-through roles like these) but Patch Adams is just too manipulating for me. For demonstrating how endlessly lovable Robin Williams really is, I'll take What Dreams May Come or even Cadillac Man over this literal fluff.  "},{"Title":"Just what the doctor ordered for the holidays","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who could play Patch any better than Robin Williams when he's such a comedic and eccentric genius! As an amateur film critic, I have to declare Patch Adams a definite winner despite the influx of complaints from national critics who have referred to it as syrupy and manipulative. At the sneak preview, the audience responded with a round of applause before departing the theater. There's enough serious and/or special-effects films at the cinema already, so I heartily welcome this joy-filled simple story. Its Christmas premiere is excellent timing because it's a feel good film for the holidays that gives us an opportunity to have some hearty belly-laughs. Its clever script brings rich humor poking fun at the medical establishment and the myth of doctors as godlike creatures. And that's something most people can relate to.  An excellent supporting cast, as well as its soundtrack, also elevates this film above the average flick.  I recommend Patch Adams for superior family entertainment.  "},{"Title":"A rare example of a movie that stands on a story and not on flashy action.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Patch Adams.  It's good to know that among the action and horror flicks and crass comedies, Hollywood can still produce a great movie with no sex and no violence.  Based on a true story, to boot!  Robin Williams doesn't appear stellar but he plays a convincing character full of zeal and energy.  A slight overindulgence on suggestive language sets back this intelligently done drama, but only by a little.  "},{"Title":"Williams Scores Again","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once more, Robin Williams' talents propel an otherwise interesting story into a compelling tale.Williams' comedic genius is an apparent match for his character, Patch Adams.  His off-the-wall improv makes the movie move faster, while his compassionate side makes emotional scenes all the more touching.If you liked Dead Poet's Society and Good Will Hunting, you'll really enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"good movie but with a shortcoming","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams was a wonderful movie.  It pro vides us with a true story about a real man that has given us a different perspect ive or at least expanded the idea of a doc tor's role as a person who uses humor and  and affection to connect with and treat the patients and not only their diseases.   Mr. Williams is the only actor who could have played the role.  His humor is genuineand the comedy is real and does not have the added on feeling.  To present comedy in a setting filled with pain, disease, and death is difficult but Mr. Williams (and don't forget Mr. Adams) does this very well--so well that it appears to be infectious (no pun intended).  At times everyone in the theater was laughing.  At other times you could've heard a pin drop when more serious material was done.  This film was obviously the perfect vehicle for Mr. Williams a person with a wide range of acting ability.  This, however, leads me to the one shortcoming of the movie.  The other main characters all seemed so one dimensional and forgettable.  I'm not even sure this could even be corrected given the story.  But on the strength of Mr. Adams' true life story and Mr. William's strong performance I would recommend this movie.  Three plus stars! "}{"Title":"Hilarious, Touching, Very well-acted","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is wonderful as usual, managing to be both ridiculously funny and caring to the patients. This movie made me want to be a doctor. "},{"Title":"oh my gosh, what a GREAT movie","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is the best freakin movie i have ever seen in my life, go see it!!! it is sooooooo good! robin williams is a great actor.  I cried so bad during the movie too.  but then again i laughed a lot too.  well, i think you should go see it, cuz it is very very very good.  go see it!! it's worth it "},{"Title":"Grrreat!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Truly one of the best films that I have ever seen.  Robin Williams at his best, the mix of comedy and drama that he has mastered so well.  I would recommend this film to anyone! "},{"Title":"I laughed 'till I cried, and I cried 'til I had to use a hankie.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Robin Williams, and I think he was perfect for this part. It was so heartwarming in parts, and in other parts he made me laugh so hard I was doubled over.  In one part, I kept laughing long after that scene had ended.Before we went to the theater, we read the critic's review in the newspaper. They gave it a C.  I'm so glad we don't pay attention to the critics.  It was a great movie! "},{"Title":"The biggest surprise all year","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was really one of the biggest surprises, I laughed harder than i have in a long time and I cried because the movie makes you really care about the characters. Robin Williams is great and he plays the part to a tee, the rest of the cast is also great and they should all be recognized for being in such a great film. This was definitely a movie that I am recommending to everyone I know. "},{"Title":"Williams and story are both excellent.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a story that speaks to the importance of interpersonal skills in life, Robin Williams delivers another outstanding performance mixing drama with comedic episodes as he navigates the title character through hurdles, detractors, and willing accomplices.The early portion of the film brings to issue in a simple visual the importance of seeing past a problem instead seeing only the problem.  The rest of the story is devoted to illustrating the value in that ability and having an impact on people and institutions.The medical profession will not likely be happy with the portrayal of some stereotypes, but if you see them for what they, the message is stronger.An excellent story and wonderful performances by Williams, Harold Gould (in almost a cameo), and Phillip Hoffman.  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was watching a year-end show a few days ago and two critics said that Patch Adams could have been the worst movie of the year.This solidified my opinion that critics are full of nothing but crap. Patch Adams was everything an entertaining movie needs. It made me laugh (hysterically) and cry (a true cry), Robin Williams rivals his preformance in GWH and Monica Potter (Con Air) actually showed she could act, I say see this movie no matter what the critics say.  By the way, did the critics that said Patch Adams was the worst movie see The Avengers???? I guess not...SEE PATCH ADAMS!!! "},{"Title":"It was a wonderful film with a wonderful outcome.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams was a wonderful movie that contained many emotions that people feel on a regular basis. I really connected to the characters and could see their point of view in each situation. It made me laugh and cry.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Shines.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Prepare to laugh and cry and feel a thousand emotions as Robin and a brilliant cast weave this tale of a troubled man who learned to look beyond his problems for the solution. This film should be required by every medical school that intends to inflict its students on the infirm of this nation as doctors.  Robin Williams is at his best in drama and comedy in this movie. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Masterpiece, so GO AND WATCH IT NOW!!!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is probably the most entertaining film since Forrest Gump! An extremly entertaining film portraying a man who just wanted to help people out. Everyone thinks of helping out but not too many people do. This is a film of a man who did. I recommend everyone who has a half of a heart to watch this film. It will fill the other half of your heart with tears and laughter. WATCH THIS FILM!!!! "}{"Title":"the movie is one of my favorites to add to my list of Robin Williams' greats!!!","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie was great and I am glad it was based on a real life man.  Hunter Adams must be some man, I would really love to meet him some day.  This movie Patch Adams, is now one of my favorites.  It is number two after Dead Poets Society, and that is only number one because it is older.  I am glad I went to see it on Christmas day too, so inspirational.  Thank you Hunter Patch Adams. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You have to see this movie.  Great film. Keep your eye on Monica Potter.  She did a fine job in Without Limits and now Patch. "},{"Title":"A great movie with flaws.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will agree that Robin Williams is totally deserving of his Golden Globe nomination for this movie.  Who else in Hollywood can play an irreverent doctor who overthrows the medical establishment by using humor as medicine? I think this could only be pulled off by Williams.  My only qualm with the film is that the bad guys are stereotypically TOO bad and there is no fine line, real life advisaries. Some scenes, especially at the Medical Board meeting were flirting the line of pure kitch and formula Hollywood. However, I still say that this is a good film.  It does to the Medical students what Dead Poets Society did for English Majors (myself included). See Robin making up and giving his audience pittance for his mistakes in What Dreams May Come.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this film at a sneak preview.  A wonderfully moving film.  Robin Williams is excellent.  I recommend you see it!  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kid yourself not, Patch Adams is an awful comedy. The jokes are rare, and often are overpowered by the circumstances surrounding them. Fortunately, though, despite Universal's advertising campaign, Patch Adams is far from a comedy, and most certainly a drama. And one of the best films of the year at that. Through a combination of a strong story, brilliant acting, and overall power, Patch Adams is one of the best all around films of the decade.Hunter Patch Adams is a suicidal mental patient in the beginning of the film. Early scenes show him as what appears to be the one sane person in a crowd of insanity. Much resembling the 1975 film, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, this part of the film is remarkably powerful and stunningly effective. But the similarities between the two films are few enough that Nicholson's role seems to be missing, and just the scenario seems familiar.Soon Patch leaves this institution, and begins a new life with a new goal. His objective is to become a doctor and help people. So it is that we now move to medical school, were the rest of the film is to take place. Patch is a new student who is clearly older than the rest of the crowd. He has a prick for a roommate, and is immediately thrown into classes that offers principles he disagrees with. He becomes a rebel constantly fighting for humanity, and is perceived to be far from a hero in doing so.The rest of the film tracks these adventures of the medical student that dares. Patch encounters everyone from a love interest to a pancreatic cancer patient to a friend that seems to be little more than the stereotypical medical student. The story is clearly the force behind this incredible film. Based on the autobiographic book, Gesundheit Good Health is a Laughing Matter by Hunter Doherty Adams, the films goes on to explore many darker and harsher realities. This is far from a hero-always-does-well type story, and no part of this incredible film seems to be too much like Hollywood, always maintaining a real world aspect to it.Robin William is Oscar® worthy as Patch Adams. He gives what is most certainly the best performance of the year by anyone. Despite much resemblance to his previous film, Awakenings, he has created a new and original character here. He also seems to have proven once again that his talent reaches so far from comedy alone, that he truly can do anything. But the talent doesn't stop there. Hollywood newcomer Philip Seymour Hoffman (Bullworth, Happiness) and Monica Potter also give award worthy performances as the roommate and love interest respectively.Director Tom Shadyac has truly created a film that is an all around masterpiece. Parts are visually stunning, others are tragically dramatic, and some just a pleasure to watch, but none are anything less than extraordinary. Although it is Williams' performance that will be remembered, this film goes so far beyond one man's talents, not matter how perfect that man.To not see Patch Adams would be to deny yourself one of the great privileges of the film industry. It is an incredible achievement worthy of the highest praise possible. So, do yourself a favor and don't miss this one, it's worth every penny of the $7.50. "},{"Title":"Best of Both Worlds","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Best of both worlds with Patch Adams, which has Robin Williams doing his two best things comedy and drama. He's more dramatic in this film, but still his comedic parts shine. The movie is based on a true story where in 1969 a man commits himself to a mental hospital because he wants to commit suicide. He soon makes his fellow nuts laugh and realizes he wants to be a doctor and help people. He leaves and two years later he's enrolled in med school, and quickly makes friends. He sneaks into the hospital and makes all sorts of people laugh. But he is soon threatened by some head guy at the med school and the movie takes a dramatic turn for the worse and better there. I am a big Robin Williams fan and I liked this film. He does a great job and like in Good Will Hunting, he proves he's also a good dramatic actor. The film is uneven, but a strong ending and good moral makes this a good film. I liked it. "},{"Title":"Patch Adams is one of the best movies of the year.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is one of the best movies of the year.  I saw the sneak preview of Patch Adams on December 12th.  I laughed, I cried, I was moved, I was touched, and I applaud it.  Robin Williams was born to play Hunter Patch Adams.  This by far is Robin Williams best performance as an actor.  Robin Williams performance is worthy of an Oscar (this time as the Leading Actor). I am looking forward to seeing this film again with my family over the Christmas holiday when Patch Adams is officially released nationally. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  PATCH ADAMS can best be described with one word....EXCELLENT! Robin Williams' performance takes us through a whole range of emotions and back again.  It's the first movie I've seen in *years* where the audience applauded at the end of the movie.  You can see Robin's true human spirit and compassion in scenes with the 'cancer ward' kids.  He is a wonderful person...the best choice for such a role.  Dr Adams is to be commended for all he went through to get where he is today.  Watch this movie, and you'll know why. "},{"Title":"Robin's best ever!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be the best film that Robin Williams has ever made.  He was funny, touching, and entertaining ... all without getting preachy, which wouldn't be hard in this sort of film.  The audience was laughing 70% of the time, crying the rest of the time, and even burst into applause five times during the film.  This is one movie you can't miss! "},{"Title":"A man wanting to help people risks getting kicked out of medical school by following his heart and doing what he knows is right.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful picture. Very heart-warming as well as funny. I highly recommend it. It is a story of a man in the 1970's (based on a true story) who is inspired to study medicine because he wants to help people (He gets the bug when he helps some fellow psychiatric patients - more so than the doctors present). He constantly bucks the system by trying to connect with the patients while that just isn't done in traditional medicine. He risks getting kicked out of school by following his heart and doing what he knows is right. "}{"Title":"Best Movie I have EVER seen","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a healthcare worker (hospitals, doctor's offices and pharmaceutical companies) for 20 years and as a patient for the past 5 years....this movie provides hope to all.  Patch Adams is an astonishing man.  He is out there and building his dream.  Do a general search for Patch Adams, MD, and read all the wonderful things he is doing and where his Gesundheit Institute is located.  Think about volunteering with his organization.  What a wonderful way to help a man realize his dreams, while providing you and your family with a dream of their own.  Decent, honest, joyful medical care.... Enjoy...God Bless. "},{"Title":"Moving Work of Genius on Several Levels","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am always saddened when I see reviews that say, Ho, hum, another 'rebellion against authority' movie'. Considering that our government is imposing a fascist police state as I type, I personally feel that we evidently haven't had enough 'rebellion against authority' movies. This is a very effective, well made, and moving one. Not quite a 'One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest', but definitely in the same league. Robin Willaims is one of the great acting geniuses of our generation, and Monica Potter, whom I had never heard of before, came out of nowhere and blew my mind. This woman is an ACTRESS! The story was somewhat over-the-top at places, and I feel that there was probably a lot of 'poetic license' with a movie based upon a true story, but this is one awesome piece of art, and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams is a movie based on a true story. This movie is about one man who intends to be a doctor. The main character Patch acted by Robin Williams tries to understand the minds of his patients with his unusual ideas. What makes him to be a doctor is hidden in his past life. In any case, he believes that  Laughter is the best medicine. Moreover, his ideas are original and very funny. He is a genius with provoking laughter of others. Even though he is surrounded by many difficulties such as his cynical professor or the traditional systems of the hospital, he tries to get over them. Do you think he can save his patients? I would like to recommend this movie to everyone. This is a human drama, but it also has aspects of comedy as well. You can not see this movie without laughter and will know the fascination of laughter from this story. However, I think they dramatize the main character too much. I guess the real person went through harder way than this. Though, the cast are great still. I was touched a lot. "},{"Title":"One I can watch over and over again!","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Robin Williams. He's one of my favorite comedians. When I first heard of this movie and what it was about, I wanted to see it immediately.This movie is truly a gem that I will watch over and over again and not get bored with it. I loved the scenes in the beginning involving the mentally-impaired patients, such as the jokes on a catatonic patient called Beany. I also liked the scene where Rudy and Patch were shooting at the imaginary squirrels. I also liked the scenes involving the patients; my favorites involved the children. They were truly touching.But most importantly is Patch's message Laughter is the best medicine you can give someone. This is something that I agree in fully. Patch Adams is one of my favorite movies in the whole wide world. See it. "},{"Title":"Exceptional Movie filled with Heart, Humor, and Happiness","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was quite young a lot; my parents seemed to rent it many times. Unfortunately, I didn't remember most of it because either my mom made me close my eyes (, or I was very tired. We bought it a few days ago for DVD and watched it last night. All I can say is...WOW. This movie is excellent! From the much-needed comedy scenes (I love the part with the skeleton; I can't say why, or else this comment would be erased by IMDb administrators), to the uplifting scenes where Patch helps people, and then to the extremely well acted traumatic scenes. Robin Williams delivers an amazing performance as portraying the real Hunter Patch Adams, with the supporting cast just as good. The entire story is heart-touching in more ways than one, which is a very good thing. I've heard people complain about poor story development and character development it's a true story, people! You can't expect the crew to change what really happened just so they can make the story more intriguing or more professional. I, for one, don't notice many, if any, flaws with this incredible comedy/drama/love story. The story is about Hunter Adams, a medical student who disagrees with their teachings of tearing away humanity and just learning facts and not getting to know the patients. He believes in helping people by making them laugh and, when on their deathbeds, living their dreams (in a smaller scale, of course). In doing so, he doesn't delay death, but improves the quality of life for the patients. *******POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD!!!!!!!!!***************************** In my title, it says Exceptional Movie filled with Heart, Humor, and Happiness. Granted, it does have happy moments. However, don't start watching this movie expecting a sugary, sunshiny comedy. Sure, it has extremely funny parts in it, but there are a few heartbreaking scenes that would make the majority of the audience watching cry. *******SPOILER OVER!!!!SPOILER OVER!!!!*********************I would, without a doubt, give this fantastic piece of art a 10/10. Filled with awesome acting, side-splitting comedy, uplifting scenes, and the occasional cry, Patch Adams is the movie of 1998. (Although You've Got Mail is quite good, too).Patch Adams Rated PG-13 for Some Strong Language and Crude Humor "},{"Title":"Robin Williams once again...gets the short end of the rebel stick","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think the person that wrote the following review needs to get a grip on life...put down the remote and breathe before you miss the fact that I'm holding up 8 fingers and the fact that he is the pioneer of what is drastically wrong with the health care system in our country today. Robin Williams gives a superb performance of this as an actor which he has also done in the past (playing the man who goes against the grain- which what this country should be famous for) but is never, ever recognized. The real man behind these ideas (as Mr. Williams superbly portraits) is not a kook, but someone who genuinely cares as a physician and a human being about someone who puts their total faith in them to do the right thing...if you don't get it I guess you would be picking the pig to treat your ailment... in either case ...Godspeed... "},{"Title":"Laughter is the Best Medicine","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of a man who uses laughter to heal people.Hunter Adams,played by Robin Williams,goes through dark period in his life(acquiring the nickname Patch along the way) and emerges with a new outlook on life.he goes to medical school and becomes a doctor,bucking the system along the way,and butting heads with one of the Deans.the reasonPatch believes that laughter is truly the best medicine.as a result he delivers his own brand of medicine to the patients.along the way he makes some friends and teaches them the value of laughter.the movie also has dark side,and is very heart wrenching at times.but he message that laughter is the best medicine comes through strongly.(maybe a bit to strongly)it is a bit maudlin and overly inspirational at times,with some very cheesy scenes and it may not be completely realistic,but it has its heart in the right place. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Patch Adams","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One word I have read very often in relation to this film is 'tearjerker'. This alone is nothing I would dismiss as a terrible thing, but how this story (based on real events) is told borders on refusal of reality. You have the good guys and the bad guys. Most of the bad ones are just bad for a few seconds until they meet with Robin Williams' main character, who can immediately convince them to be on his side (for example the nurses). The real bad ones (for example the doctors) fight for their right to treat the patients badly until the bitter end in the courtroom. And the courtroom scene is also the low point in Tom Shadyac's Patch Adams, specifically the scene with the children coming in, all of them wearing red noses. And still, the bad doctor doesn't turn his mind and thank Patch for helping all those cute children. You think, that sounds terrible? Add a clichéd female main character, some pseudo funny scenes and one or two actual funny scenes and you get Patch Adams. "},{"Title":"Perfectly fine movie getting unfairly bashed.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have no idea why this movie is getting such a bad rep on this site. I thought it had a lot of touching lessons and of course some humorous parts as well. The way I viewed it, I guess I ignored the flaws.Keep in mind, I am not saying this movie is perfect. Some of the acting could have been better, along with the writing, but I think that what you see here is a movie that should be viewed for what it has to teach.Overall, I would really give this movie about a 7.5 if I had the option. The best part about this movie is that you can laugh and cry and take what you will from it.Oh, and the funniest part was that one patient's fear of squirrels. That was hilarious stuff. "},{"Title":"Touching Movie","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Laughter is almost always the best medicine. I would definitely prefer laughs to injections. And if injections and or medicines or any thing medical were necessary, I would most definitely like it to come along with a smile, because that would put me at ease. Patch Adams did just that. Yes, maybe, it overdid it at times, but that I believe is for cinematic effect than for anything else. The way the medical fraternity looks at our problems was candidly shown in the film. Also, the film tries to show that a revolution is possible, if there is the will. Robin Williams as Patch was fabulous! (As always). I wish we had more movies like this. And I certainly wish there were more Doctors like Patch. ) "}{"Title":"Very hilarious and touching movie","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" PATCH ADAMS, in my opinion, is a very hilarious and touching movie. When Patch (Robin Williams) used his humor to help patients who were suffering or on the verge of death, I laughed really hard. I really hated Dean Walcott (Bob Gunton). This was because of the way he treated Patch. Also, I thought that Carin (Monica Potter) was a very beautiful woman, even though she wasn't very nice to Patch at first. All in all, this was a very good movie. In conclusion, if you're a fan of Robin Williams, and you haven't seen this very hilarious and touching movie, I highly recommend it! You're in for a real treat and lots of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A decent offering that ultimately falls short","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, I have to say that this was an enjoyable movie, featuring a lot of Robin Williams's comedic talents. It also brings out an important issue in the medical industry, albeit it is exaggerated a bit at times. However, it also has its shortcomings, with too many clichés and some loose plot points, which unfortunately detract from its overall impact. I was stunned after watching Dead Poets Society, not so much after this one.I won't detail its plot, as many have summarized it before me. Let's cut straight to the point here--the main message of this movie. Medical practice should not merely be about staving off death, it should also be about raising life quality. This is an important issue, and it also touches on the realization that some medical professionals don't care for the latter goal. However, it exaggerates the image of the cold, unfriendly doctors. The doctors I know don't all behave like that. Many, while they may lack Patch Adam's comic talent, do care for their patients enthusiastically. Few, if any, don't know of their patients' names.I also felt that the plot lines were a bit loose. In fact (in my opinion), the whole character of Carin Fisher could actually be cut out of the movie and nothing would seem out of place. After her death and the little time Adam spends in a depressed state, it almost seems that she never existed.Finally, there were too many clichés and coincidences. I think the movie would've been better off without them. All in all, this was a solid offering and enjoyable experience, but fails to become much more than entertainment. "},{"Title":"This film is so many things...","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a touching film, which had me close to tears at several points.It is an inspiring film, about how one man took on the entrenched medical system.It's a light-hearted film which affirms the healing power of humour.It's a personal film, about the growth of a special man, from humble beginnings.It's a poignant film which involves human tragedy and loss.It's a beautiful film which pays close attention to small things like the gentle flight of a butterfly.It's a brilliant film because it successfully combines all these things...It's another Robin William's film. "},{"Title":"You'll either love it or hate it...","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ...but then, there are lots of films like that.No SpoilersThe film is very sentimental and concerns a real character, Dr 'Patch' Adams who feels that more humour should be used to help make patients time in hospital easier, and that doctors should try and get closer to their patients.Robin Williams plays Doctor Patch Adams, and does tend to go 'over the top' a little. However he acts well, and this is an ideal film for the entire family to watch. (There is a murder that is glossed over - in fact you don't see it, and only hear about it later).But I implore you. if you like Robbin Williams, don't decide never to watch him again. This would be cutting your nose off to spite your face.  "},{"Title":"Humor and drama in such harmony","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only some of my friends had seen the movie, and they all said it was bad and not worth the money (nor the time) to go and rent it. Anyway, I'm a big fan of Robin Williams, so I did it anyway! (and they had a good price on it...)The movie is a lot more classy than I thought it would be! All the actors are great, the story is very good and they manage to pull it all off in the best way possible! Before this movie is over you have had some laughs, and probably you have let a tear run down your chin aswell... This is no Oscar-winning movie, but given the cast and everything, it's a very good movie! If you like Robin Williams, you just have to see it! Maybe you will find out that he's a better actor than you thought before...  "},{"Title":"Amazingly touching and depressing at the same time.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My comedy+drama rating 8/10I don't have many comments on this movie. I've just seen it again, I could'nt remember all of it anymore, but it really touched me. Williams' and Potter's acting was amazing - I wonder how come Monica doesn't get casted much more, she's really great (has also proven that in I Am With Lucy) - but especially Williams showed his talents once again. Being an amazingly touching movie this one can also be pretty depressing at the same time because it shows the reality. It's based on real life happenings (Hunter Adams isn't a fiction, but does really exist) and demonstrates once again how ignorant human beings can be (speaking of how everything has to stick to standards).---WARNING! MAJOR SPOILER BEGINS HERE--- The story has come to a point where it started to make me feel pretty good when suddenly one of the leading roles was killed by a mentally ill person. I was really upset when Monica's character had to die. This part of the story (remember, it's based on real life happenings) immediately turned my pleasant feelings about Patch and Carin's relationship into sad and depressing feelings. ---END OF MAJOR SPOILER---However, on the whole I think this was a truly great movie with some truly great acting, satisfying actors in general, and a touching real life story taking place in the more or less ignorant dress yourself like a jerk seventies. And finally, I give Patch Adams a comedy/drama rating of 8/10. If you ever get the chance to watch this one, watch it!  "},{"Title":"One of those movies you really got to listen to.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a movie that you should watch when you are going to be talking to your friends, or sleeping. if you want to be able to like this movie, you have to listen to it, and I mean closely listen to it. In my opinion, it is a very recommendable movie. Very well scripted and well-acted. Robin Williams is my all-time favorite actor, and I really love what he did here, he was being a funny guy trying to cure patients, and the good thing is, he does not overreact with the comedy, he does it lightly and non-annoyingly (in my opinion at least). In case you do listen carefully, Patch's main goal is to listen to people, and dig in to them, to connect with patients, and be able to help them, instead of just trying to cure the disease Williams was not the only good performance in this movie, there is also Monica Potter, who played a girl Patch fell for, Daniel London, as Patch's best friend, Bob Gunton, as the dean that hates Patch, and who I think did excellent, Philip Seymour Hoffman, as Patch's roommate. If you want to watch this movie, it is really recommended by me, but please, listen to the dialogue, which is a tough one by the way. "},{"Title":"not that bad and misunderstood","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched Patch Adams and then read the comments... Sure, Patch Adams is unrealistic in some ways, but it is a movie and a typical Robin Williams movie ...too !Who wants to really see the character to go through community college and college before he eventually gets to University, before the story of the movie actually starts ? Nobody ! Anyone who goes to the movies to see pure reality should rather stay at home and watch CNN or a documentary and save the money ! Please, dont mix up movies and reality ! And saying that Robin Williams should have made a documentary instead, well, i am pretty sure if you get the money you will get Robin W. to do this documentary too. Dont forget, Robin Williams is an actor ! Acting is his job and Patch Adams is just a role, really ! You cant blame him for the script !Ok,to the important time before the character gets to university The movie is already 115 minutes long and focuses on whats really important to the story, the characters time at the university and how he stands up for his opinion and his theories ! So, why waste another 10-15 Minutes on boring useless scenes, nobody wants to see ?And why do people have problems with Patch beeing older ? You can go to University beeing e.g. 36 and become a great doctor anyway ! Age isnt that important, especially for someone like Patch Adams, both the character and the real person. Those individuals want to become doctors to help people and not to drive a Jaguar or Porsche. And if they have enough time left in their life to help a single person, then their mission is complete !However, the main purpose of almost all movies is to entertain, and THIS movie does this job pretty well.Think about it !  "},{"Title":"Physician, Heal Thyself","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think the movie was supposed to pay homage to the real Patch Adams, a very unorthodox doctor who was among the first to treat the whole person and to use humor as part of therapy.  And I have read many accounts that many doctors today are adopting these ideas into their therapy.  However, this is just another typical Robin Williams one-man show.  When the star is bigger than the story, I really believe the movie is ruined.One gets the impression from Williams' manic performance that Patch Adams is crazy.  You don't really know how true to life this story is, and it probably does not do justice to the real Patch Adams.  Is it true that Patch Adams understood the patient in a wholistic way?  The stodgy medical establishment probably was offended by his ways.  But the antics of Robin Williams make you sympathetic to the Medical School Dean.  If the story is true, Patch Adams allowed his style to obscure his substance.  Was Patch Adams a visionary or just a nut?    Overall, I give this a 4/10.  Rent it only if you are really bored. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and underachieving.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 111 min.Williams is forever Peter Pan in this feel good movie that manages to entertain in a none too subtle way. If you want to know about the real struggles Patch Adams faced and the objections of the medical profession to his methods you better go somewhere else. Bob Gunton plays a cardboard version of himself in the Shawshank Redemption. 6/10 worth watching but it could have been an 8. "}{"Title":"a wonderful and touching movie","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful and deeply touching movie, based on a real story, especially the wonderful acting of Robin Williams. Robin Williams is a man released from a lunatic asylum who is learning to be a doctor. He is a top student in the class but is not happy with the tradition system of placing doctors above patients. He feels that patients and doctors should work as equals and that laughter is the best medicine. His views get him into trouble with the Dean and he is criticised as showing excessive happiness but with the help of two of his classmates sets up a hospital that is free and doesn't have any insurance. A nice movies that makes you want to research more into the real life of Hunter 'Patch' Adams. "},{"Title":"one of   robins  best","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My  hubby  and I watched  this  movie the other  night  on  tv, and from the beginning  to  the end  we  were rooting  for  Patch. It is  a happy/sad type  of movie  and we recommend it  to anyone, especially those  in  the  healing profession!!!!! "},{"Title":"Thanks Patch Adams","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes this movie was good,except for some language and crude humor.But Patch Adams is a remarkable man.Robin did a GREAT job.My hats off to Patch Adams and Robin Williams.Ps Robin is a good actor. He done well in Awakenings.  "},{"Title":"Patch the film first, but nonetheless it's hilarious","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is an enjoyable laugh-out-loud film.Something about it, perhaps the few typical two dimensional characters, makes me find it very hard to believe that it is based on a true story. Too much of it would have been fabricated. Patch Adams would probably ashamed at how he is portrayed, but somewhat honoured. It is still a story of achievement that must be told.  "},{"Title":"Patch Adams is bad medicine...","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...Robin William's truly sinks to an all-time low here (although he will somehow sink lower with Jakob the Liar). I mean, this has got to be one of the most manipulative, sentimental, and just plain stupidest examples of hollywood entertainment, peddled to the lowest common denominator. First of all, Patch is just plain not funny. If I was dying in a hospital bed dying and some nutty doctor came in with bedpans on his feet and an enema ball on his nose, I wouldn't laugh, I'd cry. I know this movie was popular, and actually grossed in the area of 100 million, which just illustrates the public's taste these days. If you're not a fan of this movie, you man enjoy Cecil B. Demented which makes fun of Patch Adams quite hilariously. Anyways, I'm giving this stinking pile a 1, and to illustrate just how manipulative this movie is, look into how much of this true story is actually true. Let's just say minor details like the entire Monica Potter character, and the trial and the end of the movie were fabrications. Pure hollywood filth. Apparently Robin Williams is going to be in Christopher Nolan's remake of Insomnia. That's good to know, cause he hasn't been in a real movie for quite some time.  "},{"Title":"We're gonna make doctor's out of you","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All emotions are running high during this whole movie. The sadness level rises, the happiness level risses, and the overall entertainment through this whole movie. Robin Williams delievers an excellent acting job, the points were he was making the little children laugh brought a tear to my eye. This movie shows great casting, great acting and overall fun.Out of 10-9.5 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just finished watching the movie, and I thought it was great..Had lots of humor, some very touching scenes, and a well made movie from top to bottom..Robin Williams does an excellent job, along with all the cast..Good...Go rent it..you'll enjoy it "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite films.  I have to admit that it starts a bit slow, but then when you really get into the people and get to know them it flows on and works wonderfully.  Any time I am feeling 'down' I can put on 'Patch Adams' and feel uplifted by it.  Also the ending always makes me cry! "},{"Title":"An inspiring and touching movie.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a great movie.  Robin Williams gives a great performance, (which he should've received an Oscar for), and the rest of the cast is fantastic.  When you're feeling discouraged and need inspiration, Patch Adams will inspire you.  If you haven't seen this movie, I strongly suggest you watch it.  If you have any questions, e-mail me at Braveheart1626@cs.com. "},{"Title":"brilliantly shot with the right mix of humour and emotion","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a true comedy/drama featuring robin williams(good will hunting) playing hunter patch adams a manic-depresive who decides it is better to be a doctor than a perennial patient. Patch plays a free thinker who believes laughter is the best cure and runs around with a big red nose entertaining his paitents and of course the audience. His wacky attitude is shown with his costume. Patch tends to wear brightly coloured clothes and shirts which symbolise his crazy,free and out of control attitude. Patch must argue his case and his sight of medicine against the dean of the medicine department who is a grousch and an old fashionist. his costume also reflects his personality wearing black and grey clothes and a very traditional suit. This movie is uplifting,an inspiring gem that dazzles in the light of human spirit. Imagine someone who wasn't afraid of himself or anyone else, someone who meets people where they are, who truly cares and wants to help,who holds everyone as able, and who is willing to speak his mind and follow his heart. Imagine what it would be to have someone like that in our lives. This is Patch adams. "}{"Title":"too good to be true","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams performs very well this difficult character. The story is touching and inspire our best side.  But trying to get some information about the person named HunterAdams I didn't arrived to a conclusion if his really existed. I'll appreciate any hint about this.Oh, the comment! Yes, I liked it. Despite the film left me in doubtabout the true story label. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing the reviews for this movie, I would be prone to think it is the worst piece of drivel that ever was released. I disagree folks, I thought it was a very entertaining movie. There were parts that could have been done better. The butterfly scene was a bit over the top. I'm not the type of person that likes all Robin Williams movies either. I shredded What Dreams May Come, Toys, and Hook with my ratings of them. This movie, while a true story, is more in the vein of comedy, though there is some drama thrown in. There were some trite parts, but for me they were overshadowed by the humanity of the Patch character and the brilliance of Robin Williams. Some of you really need to take Patch's advice and lighten up. If not, stick to watching movies like The Shawshank Redemption or Pulp Fiction, while masterpieces they are, lighthearted fare like Patch Adams they are not, and perhaps more down your alley. But if you want to laugh and be touched and not take yourself too seriously, Patch Adams is for you. "},{"Title":"Mindy and Mawkish","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"      Robin Williams does it again, pulling at every heart string with his fists, manipulating his audience with complete lack of respect for human rights, and playing an anti-establishment (fill in the blank -- English teacher, doctor, U.S. armed forces radio presenter in Vietnam). Shameless, mawkish nonsense. I would have kicked this guy out of medical school too. I would have injected him with something toxic. I would have also instructed him to watch Jimmy Cagney in Yankee Doodle Dandy to see how to combine funny and poignant.  "},{"Title":"Echoes of Dead Poets' Society","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has always been one of my favorite actors, and he shines in this film. I found it slightly echoing the theme of Dead Poets' Society, another Williams film. Patch Adams is a doctor-in-training who is about to bring the medical establishment on its head by suggesting that laughter is as important as medicine and professional medical care. In DPS, Williams played an English teacher who taught his students to question and not accept as fact everything that is spoonfed them, but to challenge and form their own views of the world around them. Here, Patch Adams is again asking the doctors and nurses to question and challenge what they feel is important to the patients. Is just medical care and medication and making sure the patient lives all that matters? Or is bringing joy and laughter into their lives so that they not just exist, but live, just as important?It is a inspirational movie and not many actors have the calibre that Williams have to bring it off. Once again, he has made what was seemingly the routine medical journey of a medical intern into a movie that is worth watching many times over for all the special scenes where one actually thinks about the message as the movie progresses. "},{"Title":"This is a horrible movie! An insult to Doctors!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is sooo bad that I want to stop people in the video store from renting it and wasting $3 !  It was an insult to MD's and the real Patch Adams - it basically summed up his life with a big red fake nose.  I felt as if they cut out huge sections of the movie because it jumped around from one bad thing to another with Robin Williams showing up with that stupid red nose.There was NO character development and NO plot development. Horrible, terrible, STINKY! "},{"Title":"A mis-cast cinematic flop","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of Patch Adams is an interesting one, and in parts mildly funny, so I am glad I spent the short time it takes to watch this film. Unfortunatley the interesting topic is let down by the casting. Admittedly Williams is an amusing guy, if you like that kind of thing, but as a romantic lead, I don't think so.  The fact that he gets a beautiful blonde is so unrealistic its actually the funniest part of this film, as Williams inane antics are nerve grating after 10 minutes. The film did make me cry, but the end was so rushed and unexpected it was hard to accept it as real, the film needed more time to gather momentum and explore characters to make the viewer believe it. I would never watch this film again, but it is worthwhile watching it because it's based on a true story, and it is very interesting learning about the work the real Patch Adams did. If that doesn't interest you, then don't bother wasting your time on this celluloid failure, that although isn't on the bottom of the scrap heap, is nowhere near to the top "},{"Title":"All doctors should be like this.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie.  Robin Williams is excellent as Patch Adams and portrays a very inspiring character.  It makes you want to go to your doctor friends and say, Hey, watch this!. I think it should be required watching for all doctors.     "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a movie that disgusted me, bored me and irritated me. Robin Williams is so incredibly unfunny, that I wonder if he cared for the script at all. Not that I'm not a Williams fan I loved him in Mrs. Doubtfire, Good Morning Vietnam, or even in a dramatic movie like Dead Poets Society. But this movie was so predictable and sentimental, that I almost walked out of the theater.  Even Toys was much better than this. Do not, under any circumstances, see this movie. Even die=hard fans of him will hate it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty awesome!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a pretty awesome movie.  I saw it in theatres when it came out and that movie was so funny, that I had recently just bought it.  Robin Williams plays a man who's suicidal at first but with the help of patients, he gets this passion of wanting to help others.  When I rewatched this movie, I noticed that Patch Adams and I have a lot in common.  We want to help others and we're nice to women no matter how they treat us and just watching the movie, I put myself in Patch's place when he and Carin are together and it just makes me imagine.  The only part that really stunk was when Carin died.  That really broke my heart, especially when Patch cried over her coffin.  Overall, this movie was great and I recommend it to everybody. "},{"Title":"Cynics, beware...","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie the cynics love to hate, Patch Adams has its sappy and manipulative aspects, but it is also good-hearted, innocent and entertaining.  Certainly not the worst of Robin Williams' roles, but not one of his best, either.I recommend that cynics avoid this movie at all costs, because you will despise it.  However, for those without a cynical bone in their body, you may really enjoy this.  There are some very moving moments, although the film requires a strong suspension of disbelief and a willingness to be emotionally manipulated by the story.  Overall, I liked the movie very much (there are many moments of laughter and tears), and give it a rating of 7/10. "}{"Title":"Very emotional","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard about this film, it didn't really appeal to me, but after watching it, I'm now going to recommend it to everyone.In the reviews I got the impression that this was a comedy, but wasn't particular funny.  This certainly isn't the case.The film is based on a true story.  The general plot is that an older man is having a difficult life, but manages to find his true calling (in a typical Robin Williams humorous fashion).  The man decides that he wants to help people, so he joins medical school to become a doctor.  His name is 'Patch Adams'.The fact that he is 40+ and just joined medical school raises a few eyebrows from fellow students, but he doesn't care.The story follows him as he helps people realise their problems, and through laughter makes himself feel better.  There are many hilarious scenes in which 'Patch' keeps the children entertained.Throughout the film it is apparent that Patch is disliked by his mentors, but continues to break there rules as his beliefs are so strong.With help of some friends Patch starts a home where people who are ill can come to get better.  This is totally illegal, but Patch doesn't care.I'm going to stop with the plot here, because it may ruin the rest of the film, but, let me just say that the ending is one where you think you know what will happen, and don't.Robin Williams portrays his character incredibly well, bringing together his funny side and serious side, both of which he can play well.The supporting cast play good and well acted parts, even though the film is based mainly around Patch.If you think this film is solely laughs then you are wrong, it has a serious side to it, and is very emotional throughout, but it is very funny.I was very impressed by this film, especially Williams, who I feel is the second best actor in Hollywood (behind Tom Hanks). I thoroughly recommend this film, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.-MaccaRating 8.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Williams' best combination of laughter and drama for a long time.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not since Good Morning, Vietnam has there been a movie that allows Williams to show both his comedic, and dramatic talent to such good effect as this movie does.Williams is a medical student whose theory about treating students with laughter as well as medicine is a real-life story and, as you would expect, Williams is superb when making the patients laugh. However, the reality of schools attempting to breed the human out of students to make them doctors does make you stop and think about our prejudices, and our fear of change.The only slight blemish on an otherwise wonderful movie, is the romance between Williams and Monica Potter, which does seem a little unrealistic, but this is only something you really think about afterwards, and does not detract from your enjoyment of the movie.Overall, a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams' usual","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is pretty much like most of Robin Williams' other movies--a bit TOO sweet and too heavy in some spots--trying to jerk a tear or two, BUT I like a movie that makes you feel something.  And it's also like many of his other movies, in that, it's FUNNY!  I think that Robin Williams is great when he gets going.  So, yeah, it's a bit overly dramatic at times, but you WILL laugh all along the way.  I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, heart-warming film for people of all ages.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is so much to say about this movie, I don't know where to begin. Patch Adams is probably one of the best movies I have seen in a long, long time. It's the story of a doctor named Hunter Patch Adams (Robin Williams), who just doesn't fit in at his medical school. His funny-man antics are intended to improve the quality of life for the patients which he visits. He shows them that dreams really can come true for the dying patients in the hospital. Don't see this movie if you are already depressed because it will just depress you more, but this is a by-far excellent movie that I would recommend to anyone. Co-starring Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Bob Gunton, Daniel London, Peter Coyote.  "},{"Title":"Insufferable","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  -is the best and only way to describe this smarmy movie.  First of all, Robin Williams is way to old to play this part, but I guess they needed him for his inspirational message.  That's the least of this movies problems, the script is awful, the direction and acting obvious, and the score sacharine.  All of it seems designed for one purpose, to manipulate the audience. I don't need to be hammered over the head repeatedly about what a great saint Patch Adams (aka Robin Williams) is and how evil the medical industry is.  This movie is that subtle (Not!).  Thanks but no thanks; rent Mrs. Doubtfire instead. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To think that I actually didnt watch this movie right away because I believed the critics! I do not know what frightens some critics about this movie--I do not care that it is supposedly predictable--that isnt what makes this a great movie. What makes this a great movie is the message--which isnt that laughter is the best medicine. Not at all. The message is that just because a person may be different doesnt mean that person cant make a difference in this world. It is a simple message; definitely used before in other movies, yes, but so what! It is brilliantly acted as per usual from Williams who is my personal hero. This movie is a lot better than critics say--go see it or rent it just because critics hate it and see for yourself! "},{"Title":"Awfully superficial 'feel good movie'","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why do some 'feel good movies' really work, and why do others fail? One of the best 'feel good movies' is It's a wonderful Life (James Stewart). Yes, I know it's overly sentimental, but that never bothers me. Whereas the sentimental scenes in Patch Adams annoyed me constantly. The whole movie has a false ring. Yes, of course it's better that a doctor is kind to his patients, that he takes a real interest in them. And yes, of course laughing is good, laughing will make you feel better. So the 'message' this movie is telling is true. But the way it was presented here was very, very, very superficial. Be funny, and someone will feel better. Gee, a woman will leave her dying husband's bed just to grant him some time with his funny doctor! And very sick children put on a red nose, and they are well enough to go to a courtroom and support their benefactor! I hated this movie because of this cheap manipulation. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Surprise ending says everything.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While watching Patch Adams I began to realize it had a similar theme to Dead Poets' Society - the story of a man who spurned traditional methods and substituted his own ideas to the horror of his peers.  Having said that, Patch Adams is no where near as entertaining as Dead Poets' Society.  Humorous scenes in the hospital wards kept the film moving along.  I liked the session in the psychiatric ward and the patient with the permanently raised arm, but some of the clowning in the film made me wonder how many of the incidents were actually based on real life happenings.  Some of the patients, I thought, made remarkably quick recoveries when Patch Adams applied his own special treatments e.g. the lady with the lack of appetite became suddenly quite sprightly when her noodle fantasy became a reality.  For me, I liked the more serious scenes - the tender moments that Robin Williams handles so well.  For example, he escapes to a mountain-top when his girl friend is murdered and in his loneliness and despair he watches a tiny butterfly which perches on his shoulder and flutters to his heart.  A precious moment,I thought, amongst all the comedy antics.  I am still wondering how the movie makers managed to execute this enchanting scene. While some of the film is predictable, I must admit the ending at the graduation ceremony took me completely by surprise and no words could express so admirably Patch's deliberate action of disapproval towards the medical fraternity. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams again sparkles his rare light to ignite our dark world","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can anyone say about this movie? It speaks for itself - don't read this, go watch the film! Robin Williams again shines his magic torch on a black and cynical world to illuminate humanity ... and steps in the shoes of one of the world's true heroes. Hunter Patch Adams is a man who performs miracles, and proves that it is possible to emulate God on Earth, as he brings joy, hope and purpose to the lives of everyone he meets. Surely, this is the definitive meaning of life and why we all exist? A truly brilliant, entertaining and heart and soul warming experience, I recommend this movie as instruction manual in existence on Earth! "},{"Title":"Fun movie, but lacks any of Williams' destinct capabilities.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"     Patch Adams is a decent movie with a the type of fun(but factual)acting that bio-picks are, when done by Robin Williams. The only problem with this one, is that for anyone who has seen Dead Poets Society or Good Morning Vietnam, knows that Williams is much more capable than this. To me,it seemed like the director held Williams at bay or Williams didn't try so hard, because their was none of the destinct wackiness that drives people to watch Williams. I also have a lot of doubts on the facts displayed in the movie. Due to the fact that I had never heard of Dr. Hunter before viewing this movie, it seems doubtful that his medical practice is as incredible as the movie would like you to think. It also doen't do a very good job at showcasing both sides of the argument (which is a key to the success of a bio-pick). The movie is enjoyable to watch, but I've seen Williams do way better. I gave it a 6 out of 10.   "}{"Title":"My comments discuss how bad this movie is.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have unfortunately seen Patch Adams more than once. I saw it for the first time by choice and the second time while on a plane. I was very annoyed by the movies relentless attempts to make me cry. I won't go into how, but I just want to say that their methods were cheap and obvious. It seemed like the writer's whole goal was to make people feel sad. I also don't like the whole laughter-cures-all attitude that the movie takes on. Personally, I would rather have someone give me some medicine than tell me a joke. There were a couple of laughs but certainly nothing worth seeing the movie for. This is all I can say without spoiling it but just let me tell whoever is reading this that Patch Adams is an intellectually offensive movie and it obscenely underestimates the audience. "},{"Title":"Another Robin Williams vehicle but the worst so far","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So we have this real-life doctor who's a bit eccentric, huge moustache, ear-rings, claims that he isn't in medicine for the money. Let's give it the Hollywood treatment. Who should play the lead role? Why, Robin Williams of course - we don't have the imagination to find any new acting talent, we'd rather go for the same formula that worked so well in Dead Poets Society. Being in the movie industry we don't really understand the medical profession so let's fall back on some familiar stereotypes, namely (1) doctors are only in it for the money and status (2) doctors only see their patients as pieces of meat (3) doctors feel threatened if you suggest they should smile at their patients (4) medicine ought to be free to everyone and if it was, then everything would be all right. And let's pretend that Patch has some sort of original philosophy that we can all learn from let's set him up as a guru and let's take the credit for discovering him.There's nothing in this movie that is true or original. Worse, it misleads the viewer. Worst of all, it offers glib tear-jerking scenes that offend your intelligence. Grade 2/10. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Awesome family movie","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best family movies I've seen in a long time. It has comedy, romance, drama, etc. Robin Williams did a great job and he was a good choice for Hunter Patch Adams. I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"This seems to be a love-it-or-hate-it movie...","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved it. I agree with some others, that the Patch Adams character was a bit much. But for me, having Robin Williams' face on the character helped me get past the I'm-more-goody-two-shoes-than-thou attitude, since Williams tends to be in these roles so often anyway. As a concept, I loved the story.  "},{"Title":"Get the DVD-- skip the flick, watch the commentary and outtakes","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that was a much better idea than the reality actually turned out to be. For myself, I found the Patch character so annoying, so obtuse, and so selfish-- I could only imagine how satisfying it would have been for someone to throw him out a window. What a self-involved creep! I can only hope that the REAL Patch Adams has a lot more integrity and compassion than the ego-tripping idiot portrayed on the screen. I suspect that this to be true, in fact. The writers/director rearranged his entire career life, for example, to fit the dramatic and time requirements of a movie. In so doing, however, they made the poor guy immensely unlikeable! This is old news, though.What I would like to share is the value of watching the DVD. Skip the actual movie of course, because it's crap. Instead, switch over to the Bonus Materials, and watch the outtakes, and the director's commentary. Really-- take the time to go through the entire flick on the commentary option. I believe that this, together with the outtakes, is actually a lot closer to the movie the director had in mind when he envisioned Patch Adams.When you see the bonus materials, you get a chance to hear from the humans, actors and director, involved. Those real folks were immensely likable, and it was easy to see how high they set their sights. It's just one of those things, though-- the resultant version just tanked.Lastly, the children pictured in the hospital ward are amazing. The director says that only two of the kids were actors; all the others were the real thing. He also said that and much of their behavior with Robin Williams was ad lib. Just to point out one thing, the huge smile on that little girl's face is as powerful and wonderful an image as has ever been filmed. For those few minutes of screen time, it's worth it to sit through this entire clunker of a flick. This is not quite the compliment I wish I could give to Robin Williams and this group of otherwise talented worthies, but it's a free tip to you, if you're thinking of renting or buying the DVD. "},{"Title":"a humane movie both for kids and adults alike","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I knew that all the students that I took with me were going to like it, but I wasn't sure I was going to like it, too. I thought it was kid's stuff (I can now see how far I was from the truth). There were fifty-four of them and more of them now want to become doctors than before. We had a lot of fun later during the classes where I covered some dialogues and I also was very satisfied to know I was instilling some humane feelings to my kids all the time. Good acting and excellent plot.  "},{"Title":"Extremely funny and moving movie!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very impressed at how much talent Robin Williams has. He certainly is one of the most comedic and friendliest person ever. He does an outstanding job in this movie, just like in every movie. He is very funny. If you think this is all a comedy and all very funny, think again because there are some scenes in this movie when I just broke up crying. You see, Robin plays this older guy named Patch Adams who sees making patients better at the hospital is not by the same philosophy as the traditional doctors, but instead try to make them better by making them laugh. This is indeed a very good philosophy, because Robin successfully made me laugh too. He meets this very intelligent girl who is trying to make something of herself by being a successful student at the university. Patch eventually decides to open a hospital out in the country with some of his best friends. However, then a tragedy strikes the girl who Patch loved very much is killed by an insane guy who then kills himself. Very sad parts, but Robin always manages to make us laugh in the end. The ending when Robin graduates is very funny; check it out, you'll die laughing. Mr. Williams, I have the utmost respect for you. From Daniel. "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A person living affectively, making the most out of life, most have certainly enjoyed this film to the very last minute.Just when all of us thought Robin Williams could not surprise us once more with another outstanding performance he does it again.The dramatic highlights do not reach the heights of an Awakenings (1990) but they are proper for the character he is incarnating wonderfully adapted from real life to a theatrical setting in which the quality of the actors can be fully appreciated.Many critics miss in their detailed yet meaningless analysis that every motion picture based on real lives and events is not made to please them or any other person in particular On the contrary, it is usually a representation of facts recreated in a manner that they can be understood and enjoyed by a majority of people in the world. It is also interesting to see how some of these selfish little minds post their negative analysis in these freelance forums Once more my question to them is Why bother if you have nothing good to say? I personally would not waste a single minute Simply ignore the bad ones and post comments on those I feel enthusiastic about.Anyway, I enjoyed every minute of this movie - I give it a 10 to the cast, the crew, the musical score, the Director and yes... To Patch Adams who is right now working in the hospital he dreamed of.  "},{"Title":"Great start, lousy finish.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lot's of laughs in the first half of this movie. Typical Robin Williams stuff. Then his character starts to get to you as a self indulgent, egotistical little busybody and you want to smack him upside the head. I rate a movie a 5 or less if I'd never want to watch it again. I give this a 5. Right on the edge, but no, I don't think I'd ever rent it again "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is superb in this sometimes hilarious, often gut-wrenching true tale about a man who fights the establishment to administer what Solomon said long ago....a merry heart doeth good like medicine.  A must see for anyone who has ever perceived the medical establishment as being less than humanistic in its approach to healing. "}{"Title":"Hollywood dung heap strikes again","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie was like having a booster shot, slow and painful. To be fair, several of the jokes were funny (although inappropriate for children), but the drama is beyond lifeless. *Spoiler* Was there anybody who didn't see Patch's love interest's demise a mile away, bearing down with full high beams? Or the incredibly formulaic courtroom scene complete with bloated heartfelt speeches and a 'heartwarming' finale? I have nothing against filmmakers manipulating an audience (witness Schindler's List), but the have to have more skill than a rusty paring knife. I feel that alongside the mindless special effects movies belong movies like this. I lost two hours of my life, and it was wasted by something who's cost could've kept me happy for many, many years "},{"Title":"A manipulative, shallow movie.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has no substance; it is pseudo-*everything.*  It is not touching for touching's sake, it is not funny for funny's sake, it is not romantic for the sake of romanticism.  All of the techniques it employs are basically tricks used to manipulate the audience into thinking they've just seen a profound, heart-warming film.  It's painfully obvious that the film-makers sat around saying, Okay, we need a scene to make the audience cry. What's the best (easiest) way to do that? But a good film doesn't warm hearts that easily or cheaply--ya can't just throw a heart into a microwave and nuke it, and that's what this film tries to do.  Yet again (sigh),  Robin Williams plays a hero who is too far-out for his companions, most of whom somehow can't sense, or fear, the charm which the audience is supposed to feel astute for instantly recognizing.  It's pathetic.  The first thing that's provided is a quota of  uptight, humorless jerks to serve as the dull background from which Patch will inevitably stand out and shine.  But that's irresponsibly unrealistic, IMO.  I think it's a little cheap of the film-makers to suddenly paint doctors as coldhearted, insensitive jerks (near the climax of the film, the main bad-guy doctor actually says to Patch, I'm glad you finally chose to conform. What a contrived, blatant set-up) just to serve the goal of their movie, which is to paint Patch Adams as an emotional superhero who'll get butts into theater seats and earn them $$$.  Patch takes *every* opportunity he can to make condescending speeches about these human *beings*, who have *feelings*, and *hearts*, and *love*, and *souls*, and--alright, we get the picture.  Yet we're supposed to feel touched by these, um, insights every time he launches another didactic speech.  It's blatantly obvious that he's really *in*sensitive, and despite all his speeches about treating everyone humanely, he's constantly condescending and arrogant.  His mission is not to make people feel better, but to get people to bow down to him as a being superior in every possible way.  See, I'm *funny*, I *care*... And to cover their bases, they tack on the plot-tidbit that Patch gets better grades than 98% of his peers--without ever really studying.  Boy, how convenient--over and over they drive into the ground how loose and carefree Patch is, how stuffy study-sessions aren't his thing.  But how are his *grades*?  Oh, nearly perfect.  That Patch, he's *smart*, too!!  How tired.  Yet another formulaic plot, with Williams riding the same one-trick pony yet again.  Chances are that the people who react so warmly to this movie are reacting from knee-jerk emotionalism, without any critical judgement or thought as to what the film really is, and what it's really doing.  It is contrived, simplistic, and manipulative. It's bitterly ironic that such a cynical, soul-less, synthetic manipulation of audiences is bound to garner such warm responses.  Look past the emotional smoke-screen and you'll see this movie for what it is a sterile, insensitive, heartless scam. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A man who wants to be a doctor uses laughter to heal suffering patients but not everybody is laughing.Wonderful drama is touching & has many hilarious moments.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Required viewing for all medical professionals","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a superb film. Robin Williams is excellent in the role of Patch Adams. The reason that I enjoyed the movie so much is that Patch challenges the entire medical system from education to delivery of services. He wants to revolutionize a profession gone woefully wrong. At the beginning of the movie he told the doctor that he sucked as a doctor. He was right and was really understating the situation. I hope that the Geshundheit hospital that the real Patch Adams dreamed of will be realized and that it will spread like wildfire. Did Patch ever talk about unions for doctors? Could he ever conceive of the insanity of HMO's? Would he ever consider being a pusher for the drug companies? Did he consider himself a god? Can you imagine him abusing his position of trust and power? Can you imagine Patch believing that he deserved to be paid whether or not he did a good job? The answers to these questions and many more are plainly obvious in this wonderful movie. Patch is about love. Patch is about caring. A kind of caring that is not money driven but humanity driven. Patch's explanation to the anal retentive warden of the medical school about the positive biological benefits of laughter was delivered with such skill by Williams that it should be patently obvious to the humorless medical profession that laughter is indeed the best medicine. Patch cared enough about people to find out about them. He knew their likes and their dislikes. He understood their fears. He revelled in their joys. He was not a diletante. He was a clown complete with the red nose but with an absolutely amazing intellect. He never hammered people over the head with his superior intellect but chose to gently show them certain basic truths. I hope that the real Patch Adams moons the entire medical profession into behaving more humanely and I believe that this movie should be required viewing by everyone in the medical profession. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not a big Robin Williams fan, but I must admit he was outstanding in this movie.  Just the right mixture of humor and tear-jerking.  I would like to see one Robin Williams' film where the establishment turned out to be the good guys and the mavericks the bad guys.  The film, however, succeeds admirably despite the anti-establishment viewpoint. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Ever Seen!!!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hi I'm 13 Years Old. I Love Patch Adams It Is One Of The Best Movies I've Ever Seen In A Long Time!! It Is Funny And Sad! I Think It Is Worth Watching!! Robin Williams Is Very Good In His Role Of Patch Adams! The Movie Is About Williams (Patch Adams) Goes To Medical School And Visit's Patent's In The Hospitel! And Makes Them Laugh But The Owner Of The Hospital Is Not Happy Of His Good Doings Enough  Said... Big Patch Adams Fan Jeremy!  "},{"Title":"Soul's Doctor","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A thoughtful movie about a doctor who realizes that soul's patients must be treated aside the body. Robin Williams has role tailored for him and has a performance comparable with his Dead Poets Society. It's a pity that his performances aren't recognized as should be. Be prepared to cry... Maybe you'll need to check your blood pressure... "},{"Title":"A wonderful film. Better than great.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always say great. I want to use a different word to describe some of my favorite movies. Patch Adams was wonderful. I was really moved by the movie. Robin Williams is always a great actor. I try to have the same attitude Patch Adams did in the movie, but the people in real life act like the people in the movie that were against him. I think that we're in the same boat when it comes to doing things out of the ordinary. I agreed with everything Patch was fighting for. He was right The movie also pointed out how the other people were wrong. I also liked the combination of comedy and drama. The way the movie was made showed that it wasn't too serious or too silly. I thought the humor was great. I laughed at every joke. I'm angered at how other people didn't like this movie at all. I hate them. Especially Entertainment Weekly for saying that Robin Williams isn't a good actor anymore. But who cares about those morons of the public and EW. All they talk about is what's wrong with movies. I'm better than anyone else with movies, because I only see what's right about them. Anyways, Robin Williams was really good as Patch Adams. I was sad when he didn't win the Golden Globe for best actor. I thought he should've been nominated at the Acadamy Awards. Him and his movie. THis is my favorite movie of 1998 "},{"Title":"An incredible film that was judged a bit to much!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has always been one of my favorite actors and by far he is my favorite comedic actor. Going into this film I excpected to get his excellently timed humor and that's what I saw.The professional critics judged this as a drama that was trying to be funny and that was, for the most part, what this film was trying to do, meet a serious subject and have the main character meet that subject with humor. This movie had me, my best friend, and his dad rolling in the aisles, and cheering him at the same time.Robin Williams' performance as Patch Adams was nothing short of perfect. His timing was excellent and when he was serious it was very heartfelt.Monica Potter played her part well, though not perfect. She's incredibly beautiful and would make any man do anything for her as Patch tried to do.All in all this was a hysterical movie that had the feeling of Good Morning Vietnam but had it's own charm. "},{"Title":"Too sentimental","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Patch Adams just an hour or so ago and I must say that since I left the cinema I haven't given the movie any thought at all, up until now that is...The movie is a movie we have seen a thousand times before, and the part that Williams plays we have seen him play three or four times before. It's really rather boring. There is actually only one thing that is fairly surprising in this movie and that is too little. The movie is also far too sentimental and the music just adds to that, Oh, so I'm supposed to cry now?. No, it's not very good. However, Williams performance is above average and I believe that Potter can become quite famous in a couple of years.So, this movie is just below average 4/10.  "}{"Title":"Slightly charming, but all around a very cliched film","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has many funny moments in this movie, but that's to be expected, he is extremely funny.  Unfortunately, that's about all this film has going for it.  Williams plays the same character he has played in so many films (i.e. Good Will Hunting.)  The script is cliched, and the emotions are phony.  Monica Potter tries to rescue her role, but the character is very flat.  The idea of this film is interesting, and it could have been made into an interesting film, but wasn't.  It deserved the one Oscar nomination it got, for comedic score.  This film will not be a classic, but if you're a big Robin Williams fan, you'll probably enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"And I'm not a big Robin Williams fan...","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an absolutely wonderful film.  God Bless Patch!  Williams was funny, and his character merciful and someone anyone would like to know and have in their corner.  "},{"Title":"Funny and emotionally charged.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great acting and a good story equals a movie well worth your time and money. Emotionally, it takes you all the way from the bottom to the top, with an uplifting ending.  Robin Williams is the star and accounts for much of the funny aspects of this film.   "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For everyone who thinks this is the best film of 1998 (and there are many), I challenge them to go see October Sky or God Said, Ha and not feel ashamed at liking Patch Adams.  This movie is just so bad.  It has no dignity, no shame, no quality.  It milks every scene for either tears or laughter without ever hitting a constant tone.  The production design is frighteningly bland and the performances are pure fluff.  It may well be a crowd pleaser, but that doesn't mean it is any good.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his best in a long time.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am so glad to see Robin Williams return to form.  I was a little leary about going to see this one after Birdcage and Father's Day, but Patch Adams was well worth it.  A good mix of comedy and drama.  The best I've seen since Forrest Gump.  "},{"Title":"A great movie, worth seeing..over","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first went to see this movie I didn't think it would be very good, considering it was based on a true story.  But I knew Robin Williams was in it so it was worth at least one viewing.  After a few minutes I was already hooked in the movie, seeing that the main character,  checked into a mental hospital.  Throughout the movie there was a lot of funny scenes that made the movie a lot better to watch.  Patch Adams wasn't anything I thought it would be and turned out to be a very good movie.  Robin Williams showed a lot of good acting in the movie and had his serious moments. "},{"Title":"Just wanna hug Patch!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great movie! I laughed, I cried -- Monica Potter really impressed me as an actress. It was a really great role for her. And Robin Williams, I love him to death! It was perfect for him! After watching the movie for the third time, I came up with the conclusion that I would happily join in Patch's cause anyday -- the movie made it all so happy and beautiful! "},{"Title":"You all missed the point.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who voted for VARSITY BLUES or SHE'S ALL THAT over this movie deserves to have their membership to IMDB taken away.  PATCH ADAMS is one of the finest movies that I have seen, and the finest performance from Robin since DEAD POETS SOCIETY.  This movie crashes into every human emotion and relies on the intellect to define what the viewer has felt.  If anyone out there wishes to see a movie that challenges the mind, heart, soul, conceptions of the moviegoer, see PATCH ADAMS.  If you want to see overpaid teen actors act like idealized high school heroes, then spend your seven bucks elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"A few tears, but tons of laughs","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard that this movie was as much of a downer as anything else - don't believe it.It's not that it doesn't have a couple of sad moments - it does.  It's just that they are relatively few and far between, and totally encased in laughs and general feel-good fun.This movie is an even better vehicle for Robin Williams' madcap self - and far more believable.  While the laughs keep coming, they are embedded in a much more real-life scenario, with Robin Williams applying the Reader's Digest Laughter Is the Best Medicine to anyone who will listen.The movie also makes quite a statement about the state of our health care attitude.I gave it a 9 on a ten scale - it's worth the look. "},{"Title":"Done it again","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams as usual has done it again.  A perfect mixture of comedy and seriousness.  Funny.  Great Movie "}{"Title":"Great, but sad","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was incredible!  Very heartwarming!  This movie was full of mixed emotions, happiness and sadness.  Death was very worst part.  Everything was very entertaining and extremely funny!  Great movie!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Movie that touches your heart","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always thought that Robin Williams was a good actor, but after watching this movie, I feel that he is one of the finest that Hollywood has ever had.Robin Williams plays Patch Adams, a Medical student who believes in improving the quality of life, rather than fighting death. He feels that laughter is truly the best medicine and uses humor to treat patients. And it may sound unbelievable at first or maybe too bookish, but Robin Williams portrays the character so brilliantly, that you believe him.In fact, his thoughts and beliefs are so strong that you agree with him and the movie actually touches your heart.Doctors and patients should connect with each other, and that is the message of the movie.So, go see this movie, if you haven't already, and if the movie doesn't touch your heart, or if it doesn't creates any emotion in you, get yourself checked  "},{"Title":"Two scoops!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What an amazing movie.  I have never seen one like it.  It was so good--pure, funny, true; it was awesome.  "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Have you seen Patch Adams yet? Well if you haven't, you really should. It is worth every penny to get in the theatre. The ideas expressed in this movie are awesome. It is a movie that will inspire you to go out and be a better person. If it doesn't, you probably are not getting the point. Not only is the message of the movie great, but so is the humor. Williams gives a powerful and real performance that will keep you laughing and make you cry. A great thing happens in this movie....You forget that the people you are watching are actors. They become more than actors and it makes everything in the movie that much more real. Don't let me tell you all about it though, go see it yourself. If it doesn't make you want to go out and help the people around you, I don't know what will!  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his best","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is refreshing to see Robin WIlliams return to his comedy roots. This is the best comedy I've seen in a long time. I don't believe anyone but Robin Williams could have pulled this off so magnificently. "},{"Title":"Bad Medicine","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Someone posted earlier that, if you didn't like this movie, you have no heart.  Well, call me the tin man, because I HATED this movie.  It had a few funny moments, to be sure, but it was astonishingly preachy and manipulative.  It's one thing to put on a clown nose for the kids in the cancer ward.  It's something else altogether to wake up elderly patients in the middle of the night and blow horns and stuff.  All the patients, of course, love him, but the Dean has to be a completely unredeemable SOB. We'll train the humanity out of you, he tells the class. Uh-huh.But more importantly, I disagreed with the whole premise of the movie!  The Philip Seymour Hoffman character was right on when he said, if he were dying, he'd rather have a competent prick than some clown. Amen!   "},{"Title":"Silly, sappy, and a plain bad movie","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It takes quite a bit to threaten Armageddon and Godzilla for the year's worst films, but Patch Adams manages to do it.  There are a few bits of comedy, mostly provided by Robin Williams' always zippy one-liners, but the rest of this is mauldin, manipulative, and extremely sappy.  This is unfortunate, considering the usually reliable Williams (and such great character actors as Phillip Seymour Hoffman and the extremely likable Monica Potter), but the direction is slow and steadily predictable, and the dialogue more hokey than imaginable.  Williams even seems out of it for the duration of the film (one reason being he's twice as old as anyone else in the movie... this really threatens the film's credibility), and it's Williams in hyper-sensitive mode -- not a pretty sight. "},{"Title":"A sad-happy experience...","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow.  This is one of the most interesting movies that I have ever seen.  I also believe in the power of laughter, and although I am not a very good comedian and I don't try to be, I manage to make people crack once in a while.  The irony of the center point in the movie was truly baffling.  Was Carin a real person in Patch's life?  When you go from laughing for about an hour and fifteen minutes to crying either sadly or happily, it makes your head spin!  I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"inspiration of working with being different","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen the movie twice, I am a 34yr old epileptic. Seizures didn't enter my life till I was 30yr old. I lost my jobs and have been looked upon by old friends and family members as someone different. I recently had the NEW surgery for epileptics, VNS (Vagus Nerve Stimulator).  I am still in therapy but I will still keep the positive attitude everyone tells me I am guilty of. My goal is to EDUCATE society about the truth in seizures and epilepsy.  A lot of people still believe and define seizures with Gran Mal not realizing there are 22 million people in the US having seizures and it is a 24hr sickness it is a spur of the moment problem.  My father is paraplegic, 5yrs ago society had a hard time accepting wheelchairs now they do, they have to.  Who changed this, the people in wheelchairs.  I look up to my father and I plan on educating society on the TRUTH of seizures. With the help of other epileptics we will do this.  Getting ready for the future epileptics.  I and many other epileptics WANT to go BACK to WORK. Thank you, Patch Adams (excessive happy) and Robin Williams (great acting) for the inspiration for tomorrow.  So we can learn from yesterday, work on today and look forward to tomorrow!!! "},{"Title":"Doctor's Orders.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Take equal parts Good Morning Vietnam, Awakenings, Dead Poets Society, Good Will Hunting and What Dreams May Come, add good direction and writing, a wonderful cast, and Robin Williams at his most charming.  Stir.  Swallow. Enjoy.  May cause laughter and watery eyes.  Anyone experiencing more negative reactions should consult their psychiatrist immediately.   "}{"Title":"Sappy...","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ever watch Dead Poet's Society?  Then you've already seen Patch Adams.  The only difference is that Robin Williams was excellent in Dead Poets.  I was overwhelmed with the influx of sappy music, dialogue and story line.  It was a extra-extra feel good movie that just seemed way too idealistic.Good family movie, except for some language.  All aspiring doctors should watch the movie, but be sure it's with a grain of salt. "},{"Title":"Professional Critics Were So Wrong!!!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie. I laughed, I cried, I was sad, and I was happy, all during the span of the movie. I did not intend to see the movie because of the professional critics but a friend recommended it. Although a great fan of Robin Williams, I never cared much for his movies. This one changed my mind. This review is being written several hours after seeing the movie and I am still thinking about it. I actually felt better after seeing the movie than I did before. My skills as a reviewer are limited to how I feel after seeing the movie and I felt great after this one. I hope there are some academy award nominations.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams played another outstanding role. The humor kept us laughing for the entire film. Super ending!  "},{"Title":"A touching story about what really matters in life Love and Happiness.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has delivered another incredible performance in Patch Adams, the true story of a doctor who strived to embody the term laughter is the best medicine. Robin Williams' ability to evoke emotions within the viewer is something that appeals to the ordinary man (and woman). The script and the directing were excellent, as well as the supporting roles. I would definitely recommend seeing this movie to anyone who enjoys emotion and deep thought. "},{"Title":"This story is burned out","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is basically about a student ( Robert Williams ) that wants to be a doctor. He does things different than others, like using humour as treatment for his patients. Not all people agree with how he does things around, and that is what the movie is all about. The movie got potential, but i'm tired of those kind of movies. ( Dangerous Minds etc. ) Robin Williams is an excellent actor, but i'm also getting tired of seeing him playing the same role. A grown up man that is more like a child, like he do in the last 10 movies. Nothing funny about him either.When i wrote this, the average at imdb was 8.0, it sure doesn't deserve more than 7. I'll give it 6.5.I'm sure some people who have seen the movie will read this, and don't agree at all. Maybe they will think something like I didn't get the plot, or that I'm not grown up enough to enjoy it. As i said before, this kind of movie has been done too many times now, that's why we didn't need this one ... "},{"Title":"It fits all the cliches about laughing and crying.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most complete movies you can see.  It's funny, dramatic, sad, romantic, and everything else.  A must-see for anyone with any type of interest.  "},{"Title":"Patch - excellent  Monica Potter - out of this world","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is well worth seeing - even if you are not a Robin Williams fan. At times it is funny. At others it touches the heart. I heard more than a few sniffles in the theater I saw it in. The movie carries an important message also. Most importantly though, is the performance of Monica Potter. She is already Hollywood's best actress and there is certainly Oscar gold in her future! If you don't know her or aren't already a fan, by all means see Patch Adams. (Also rent Con Air and Bulletproof)   "},{"Title":"Heartwarming but skewed history","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  RW in a remake of Good Morning, as the great rebel against (unreasonable and unreasoning) authority.  OK, altogether entertaining, but I keep hoping for the actor to emerge from the persona - I know it's in there (e.g. Fisher King).  Please?  "},{"Title":"If you didn't love it you don't have a heart.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you say that you didn't love this movie don't say it near me. Robin was wonderful. For a 14 year old who hates almost all movies,this one was wonderful. I loved the setting and the spontaneous thing that patch does. I will never forget this moive and will always love it. This is one of those movies that you hope will become a classic. The characters are so exetensive that you fall in love with them.This is one you will have to see. "},{"Title":"Yeah...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No more needs to be said... This is a great movie. This is probably my favorite Robin Williams' movie. I have seen it twice and it was just as good the second time as the first.  "}{"Title":"If you like Robin Williams, you will love Patch Adams!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is the story of a doctor who feels that humor is the best medicine when it comes to healing patients. Robin Williams comes through with his special brand of humor and Monica Potter comes through with an Academy Award winning performance as his love interest. The film will make you cry and it will make you laugh. But it is not without flaws. It paints the entire medical community as being uncaring all the time. Also, some of the situations are not realistic. The bottom line here is that if you are into Robin William's brand of humor, this movie will not disappoint you.  "},{"Title":"Social Value","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am no movie critic.  I know what I like and I like entertaining movies.  I give Patch Adams a big 10 and I hope the Academy is also as impressed.  You would have to be awfully hard-hearted not to squeeze a tear in some scenes, especially the tragedy of Carin.  I see a lot of comments that the Patch Adams character seen is similar to that in Good Will Hunting, Good Morning Viet Nahm and other movies.  Meaning, of course, Robin Williams becomes the character he plays.  Few have this gift.  It is socially redeeming to see good things happen to good people. "},{"Title":"A movie of inspiration!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams, yet again, creates a three dimensional character to which nearly everyone can relate to.  This movie made me laugh...made me cry...and taught me what life is all about.  It's a movie of devotion, will, and dedication.  An incredibly inspiring film!  This movie is a cure in itself.  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can not understand why so many critics are bashing this film.  I admit that I expected a goofy comedy that might slightly entertain, but I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of this film.  Robin Williams gave another fantastic performance that is touching and funny all in one.  The story follows the stereotypical man vs. the system plot, but the script is terrific.  "},{"Title":"The Best Yet for now","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  an outstanding film kept me glued to the screen hope the movie industry makes more of this nature "},{"Title":"Good Morning, I.C.U.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie and I'm a big Robin Williams fan. I still have an LP of his Reality, What A Concept album from 20 years ago. However, I feel it's time for Robin to look for different roles other than the funny guy who's held down by his immediate superior, but not his superior's superior role he's played in Good Morning, Vietnam and Dead Poets Society. Once is enough, twice is maybe a coincidence, but three times might be putting an itchy saddle on Secretariat. Sure, he's done other roles recently. I just want him to keep trying new ones. "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is an exceptional film.  Robin Williams is perfect in the role of Hunter (Patch) Adams in this, one of the best films of the Decade.This film will have you feeling every emotion while it tells the true story of a once suicidally depressed man who changes into a fun-loving philanthropist as he works his way through medical school in the early 70s. I laughed and cried through various parts of the movie.   Yet, the best part of this film is the surprising ending.  That's all I'm going to tell you, because I don't want to give away anything.This movie has a little of bit of everything for audiences of all ages. Definitely worthy of the 10 rating that I gave it.  Go out and see it.  "},{"Title":"The way doctors should be.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams does a superb job portraying a medical student who discovers the importance of treating patients with humor and genuine concern for them as individual humans, not simply as abstract patients.  "},{"Title":"Emotionally packed","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is one of the most emotionally packed movies I have ever seen....I laughed, I cried, I was angered, I was touched. Patch Adams will give every one of its viewers the will to become a better and kinder person.  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie. Couldn't stop laughing.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A story that needs to be told and Robin Williams is excellent for the job. He truly proves that laughter is the best medicine. We need this in real life and I'm happy to say is what the movie is based on. A must see movie. "}{"Title":"Sucked in by sentiment","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is Patch Adams overly sentimental? Yes. Is it manipulative? Sometimes. Does it work? Yes, for the most part. It's easy to dismiss a movie that tries a little too hard to make you cry. You meet the title character (Robin Williams), an unconventional med student who wants hospital patients to be seen as people and not numbers, and you may think, Ha, I know where this is going, and it's not going to suck me in. Well, it got me. When we first meet Patch, he's in trouble. A difficult childhood resulted in a suicide attempt, and now he's in a mental hospital. He cures himself by helping the other patients and, upon his release, Patch decides to become a doctor. He spends his years in med school railing against the impersonal approaches of fellow students and teachers, bucking convention, angering the establishment and going to extremes to brighten the lives of countless patients. Some may cringe at the sight of Patch donning a clown nose, or using bed pans as shoes in a childen's cancer ward. Yes, it's a bit syrupy, but it's done with warmth, and that is the key to buying into the whole tale...which is based on a true story. Williams exudes warmth. This is a tailor-made role for his offbeat charm and zaniness and, unless you're a total ogre, you can't help but like him. How much of the role is the real Patch, and how much is Williams being Williams is anyone's guess, but he skillfully blends wacky antics and heartfelt emotions. Of course, most of Patch's classmates disagree with his unusual treatments. They come around in the end...you knew that, right? Despite such cliches, Patch Adams is, dare I say it, a feel good movie. Normally, that phrase is associated with lower level critics...the ones who take advantage of free food at studio screenings and never have a bad word to say about any movie...but I felt good after seeing Patch Adams, and I'm not ashamed to say I did get misty-eyed more than once.  "},{"Title":"My new favorite movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was wonderful.  I loved everything about it.  I think everyone who has or will have a job in working with people should see it.  As a nursing student, the movie moved me and made me want to be a better nurse in the future. "},{"Title":"A superb performance by a superb actor.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Robin Williams at his best. He proves to the nation that he is capable of not just comedy, but seriousness. I believe this is why professional film crickets, I mean critics, have been dissing the movie Their minds aren't vast enough to be able to accept seriousness from a comic. Everyone I know can, Mr. Williams, and we applaud your performance. The movie literally brought a few tears to my eyes; I don't cry easily. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is the greatest actor ever.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a movie for anyone that has a heart.  It will warm you and bring tears to your eyes.  I loved it as I do all of Robin Williams movies. One low point that I won't tell and wish it had been written different.  I guess I am just someone that don't like to feel sadness when I don't have to.  All in all a great movie.   "},{"Title":"Delightful Robin Williams, and a delightful poke in the eye of the medical industry","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is delightful Robin Williams, though not as consistently zany as some other films.It is also a delightful poke in the eye of the impersonal medical industry that wants to treat us all as numbers or diseases rather than human beings.Some of the sight gags are terrific.  The whole theater roared time after time.  Some of the other humor is quick and little, but delightful if you get it.It would take two viewings to get it all, but while I got my $6.50 worth, and my two hours worth, it's not good enough to see a second time.  "},{"Title":"Why (almost) everyone should see Patch Adams","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams was a very entertaining film.  The way that film was directed enabled the audience to become part of the film, and allowed the viewers to feel the same emotions of laughter and sorrow.  I highly recommend all people that are unafraid to cry openly in public to go see this film. "},{"Title":"The Picture of the Year!!!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best shows I have ever laid eyes on, and I will watch it again and again.  If Robin Williams doesn't win Best Actor, there is no one with a brain that votes in those awards programs.  What a performance, he has you laughing, crying, smiling, giggling, sobbing, and guffawing until your sides hurt.  This show brings out the humanity in everyone!!!  "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very surprised by this movie.  I didn't expect it to be as touching as it was.  Robin Williams is a FAR better dramatical actor than comedic actor IMHO, but he does a very good job of infusing his natural comedic gift into this very believable portrayal of a doctor that truly cares.  I think we all wish we had a doctor like this.Another very pleasant surprise was Monica Potter as Carin.  Aside from the obvious fact that she can easily be placed into the one of the most beautiful actresses in film today category, she really glues you to the screen with a honest portrayal of Patch Adams' love interest.  I wish the director had taken the time to delve into her characters past a bit more, but I guess that would take away from the main story too much.  Shame.I really didn't expect this movie to be as good as it was.  The movie trailers AGAIN betray another movie as something it is not.  I expected more of a comedy and was hesitant to see it.  What I got was a charming, heartwarming movie.  This movie is definitely worth the trip. "},{"Title":"Patch Adams A Movie with heart, soul, and voice","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A fantastic way to celebrate the holidays with a touching movie that warms the inner spirit with laughter, joy, and sadness. In the end, Robin Williams masterfully overcomes a cynical world with the medicine of simple joy and dreaming the impossible. At the conclusion, the packed movie house loudly clapped with their approval. Forget the negative critics- I never saw a statue erectedfor a negative critic. "},{"Title":"another winner for Robin Williams","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful movie!!!  Great combination of Drama and Comedy "}{"Title":"A classic !!!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An inspirational movie . . . I love it!  I saw it once and am eager to see it again!  Robin Williams is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie ( Don't you hate that term?)","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a real picker upper.  A feel good movie if there ever was one.  You will laugh (again and again), you will cry, you will run the gambit of emotions.  See it again and again.  Yes, I like Robin Williams as a comedian, I like him a lot more as an actor.  Well worth the time and money to see this one. "},{"Title":"A wonderful new way to look at health care--and at life.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams the movie is hilarious, touching, exciting, and inspiring. Patch Adams the man is a real person, struggling to change health care in the real world, right now. How often can you see a major motion picture about a real person, and laugh your head off? Patch is a certified medical doctor who uses humor to open patients to the possibility of their own healing. The movie tells the story of his transformation from a depressed hospital patient to an inspiration to thousands of doctors and a healer of thousands of patients the world over. We all know that something must be done NOW about America's dismal medical system. The first thing to do is to see this movie with your close friends--and enjoy--and think.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, feel-good movie","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is hilarious and touching. It is a bit corny, but Robin Williams will have you breaking you up many times during the film. The point of the movie is that healing patients can be accomplished more effectively using humor and talking to the patients and listening to them in their time of need, than by just giving them drugs and operations. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful movie!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is brilliant.  His best movie ever!   "},{"Title":"you laugh, probably cry, and laugh some more","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for an entertaining Hollywood film then Patch Adams should score big points. Robin Williams does an excellent job portraying the character and really showcases his comedic talents, you can't help but get behind him and root for Patch. This movie is very, very funny and unlike some films that have a few funny spots, this film is constantly funny all the way through to the end. The humor is PG13, and usually remains pretty tastefull unlike Something About Mary. Along with the laughs, you enjoy a wonderful and touching story, especially if you know any one who suffers from mental illness. The film runs very true. A definite recommend! "},{"Title":"just what the doctor ordered for the wintertime blues","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  robin williams is uncanny... like a fine wine, he just gets better and better with age. it seems he is not afraid to tackle any topic/character/style, and puts so much of himself into his work that you are drawn in by his magic... he actually makes you *feel*. patch adams is a roller-coaster of emotions.. it is not often i actually cry at the theatre! robin also has a gift the few other actors share... he works _with_ his co-actors/actresses and does not upstage them.. i greatly admire that aspect of this wonderful man. if you want to get away from the wintertime blues, this one is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his best!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams proves once again that he can do more than just be a comic. His portrayal of Patch Adams should win him an Oscar nomination along with Monica Potter as Carin, his love interest in the film. Patch Adams is not without flaws. It is often filled with unbelievable situations and events. The medical community is painted as totally uncaring. Its characters are either good or bad. Aside from this, Patch Adams is still one of the best films of 1998. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Good variation on an old plot line","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  More of Robin Williams.  Patch Adams is an entertaining film and is good for R.W. fans.  Delineation between good guys and bad guys is as obvious as the characters in a John Wayne movie.   The Dean at the medical school Patch attends who is cast as the antagonist is so blatantly bad that I would have expected him to wear a black hat, droopy black moustache and laugh with a hearty Nya, ah, aaahhhh!.  I did laugh and cry as the other users have commented, but I don't believe that this film is any major contribution to film history.  I'm glad I saw it--but I will not buy it to add to my video collection. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm absolutely amazed at the fact that this movie hasn't been getting the best reviews. It is a fabulous movie that touches so many different emotions... It takes you from laughing with every muscle in your body to feeling the immense pain of suddenly losing a loved one and it takes you every place in between. It is light-hearted and weighty at the same time... I'm in love with this movie. It's one of those few movies that makes you forget that it's a movie, you know... you feel like a character IN the movie instead of just an observer. It touched me that much... Absolutely wonderful. "}{"Title":"One of Robin's best","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is truly one of the best movies 	I've seen Robin Williams in. He both provides his usual hilarious antics and a great dramatic side that we see is his also greater films. This is a great movie for anybody 14 and up since it does have some suggestive themes. Nonetheless, a great movie and great story with a great actor. "},{"Title":"Good for your mental health","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a movie that is enjoyable and uplifting.  Since the practice of medicine has become so dehumanized too often, this film is right on the money most of the time.  Although the cures for the illnesses presented in the film may require more than laughter and a positive outlook as suggested, these ideas are too often overlooked by medical practitioners today.  Robin Williams' performance is superb, as he manages to make his character believable - and that is no easy task in this film.  The supporting cast does a good job as well.  This movie will be enjoyed by anyone 10 years and older.  Take the family to see Patch TODAY! It is good for one's mental health. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams' Best","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a better movie with Robin Williams.  This truly proves the fact that laughter is the best medicine. "},{"Title":"Good stuff","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams and Monica Potter do a fantastic job in the film that is being heralded as the best of the year.  I personally do not think that it was an Oscar winner but it did make for a really enjoyable film.  It had that great mix of humor and serious acting that Robin Williams seems to have mastered.  The humor was good enough for you to bring the kids but it was also more sophisticated.  It blended adult humor with slapstick and meshed it all together into a good time.  The only gripe that I had with the movie was that near the end it became a little too preachy.  I understand that the point of the movie was to deliver a message but I think it could have been done in a subtler way.  Overall  a good family flick with laughs, an average date movie, not a necessity to see in the theaters but makes for good conversation with your friends. "},{"Title":"Touching and entertaining at the same time.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was impressed by Patch Adams.  Robin Williams, thanks to his comedic background and his talent as an actor, did (and does) an incredible job. The same evening that I saw the film, Siskel and Ebert reviewed it on their television show.  They pretty much tore up the movie and any merit that it may possess because as they said, We've seen this character before in several Robin Williams movies.  The statement in itself is true, but I don't feel that you can criticize a film because of other films.  Each film should stand alone as its own entity.  I'm not saying that other films shouldn't influence your overall feeling about a certain film, but a film shouldn't be judged with another film's standards.  I also would have agreed with them more if the story wasn't based on a real person.  I understand that screenwriters and directors take licence with true stories, but Robin Williams wasn't playing Malcolm Sayer (Awakenings), Sean Maguire (Good Will Hunting), or John Keating (Dead Poets Society), he was portraying Patch Adams.  In my opinion, he did a great job in a great movie.  It ranks #35 on my top 100 and I give it a high 8. "},{"Title":"Drama/Comedy about a med student who tries to find life in helping others.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very funny movie, Robin Williams knows how to make you laugh and make you cry.  One thing that was frustrating is that it tried to be an inspirational film which in a lot of ways I don't think it accomplished.  Other than that, it's worth the price to a movie ticket. "},{"Title":"Tasteful scenes and characters throughout, a good solid film.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Classic Robin Williams.  If you enjoy any of his past performances, you will enjoy this one.  The story line almost begged for it, but the film didn't fall into the trap of Sappy Scene Syndrome.  The sad scenes were very tasteful, and  characters and actors were allowed to stay consistent throughout. The movie will keep you guessing until the credits roll.  A good, solid film.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams shines in heart-warming story!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is a comic genius.  This movie started off fast and for me the best scene was an early one in which Patch and some of his fellow psychiatric ward patients make light of a situation.  It is very funny and had me crying.  Patch is playing a med student who finds himself during mid-life suicidal.  He commits himself to a psychiatric institution where he helps some patients.  He finds that this gives him the satisfaction which he craves.  He believes that can best be found serving as a doctor, so he enrolls in a med school.  There, his dedication to patients and concern in them as people run him afoul of the authorities and a dean in particular. He insists on getting down to the patients' level and particularly likes to use humor to connect with people.  He is well-loved by the patients but is a threat to the medical school dean.  His fellow students, most of them younger than he, view him with amazement and disbelief.  He connects with a couple of them who he believes also share his belief that if you can become friends with the person, you will have an impact on their life and will improve its quality.He also meets an attractive and focused young female med student who is determined to succeed.  She finds Patch exasperating and baffling.  She wants to study and he just seems to play around.  Having said that, he is near the top of his class by grades.  He woos this young lady and convinces her of the importance of connecting with the patient.Williams is brilliant.  His character brings pathos and understanding to his patients and knows how to connect with them.  He is suspicious of all graces and airs and would prefer that doctors not be held in such high esteem. That is not to say that he is against the medical profession, but simply that he thinks that by connecting with patients that doctors could have more effect.  Williams works with a good script which keeps the movie clicking along at a fair pace until about three quarters of the way through the movie when it hits a lull.  Adams' speech at the end of the movie is a powerful, dynamite speech.  His fellow cast members perform adequately.  The best moments are when Williams is trying to entertain and amuse his patients. The feelings run deep amongst the patients for Patch, and also amusing is the affection of the nurses for Adams and his down to earth ways.  He is a change to them from the haughty doctors and they are protective of him. This is Williams' movie and he makes it great apart from a sappy 20 min. about three quarters of the way in. "},{"Title":"One of the year's best!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly memorable film.  So good, in fact, that I may consider breaking my own rule of not owning pre-recorded video.  The role of Patch is perfect for Robin Williams - it appears as if he ad-libs many of the film's better comedy sequences.  I attended with my whole family including kids and grandparents.  We all laughed, cried, and spent the next two days talking about the movie.  Time very well spent.  "},{"Title":"All Doctored Up!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a superb example of Robin Williams' extraordinary talent.  I think everyone can relate to this movie in some way.  The symbolism and various other elements can be interpreted differently by each individual. Definitely 10 thumbs up!!  -) "}{"Title":"A true story of one doctor's compassion and use of humor to help patients.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is at his best in this film. His subtle antics suit Patch Adams and brings this character to life on screen. Giving us hope for the medical field and many laughs to go with. You will feel better when you leave the movie. It seems to be what the doctor ordered. "},{"Title":"Don't let the trailer mislead you...","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The trailer for Patch Adams was sickening... it drew hisses throughout theaters for trying to be too cute... but the movie isn't like that... so don't judge a book by its cover, or in this case a movie by its trailer. "},{"Title":"Were You Expecting A Clown Or A Doctor?","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is interesting that a lot of folks who view this film expect something different than what they get. When a film is based upon a true story, why would a viewer expect something different? Maybe too many folks are used to the truth being embellished more than this? Robin Williams was made for this role. Those expecting his stand up act, don't watch this film. This is Robin Williams acting side & very often in his career I find Williams acting is much better than he gets credit for. Other examples of this are Good Morning Vietnam & the movie about the boys school, Dead Poets Society.He does act very well here in a role that it would difficult for anyone else to bring off. His role as Patch Adams is every bit as good as any of the others. As a bonus, the theme song of Rod Stewart from the television series Enterprise is here, but in full length during the credits. In a way, the story does manipulate the viewer. This is because the real Patch Adams had a hand with the screenplay & when your writing your own auto biography into a film, it is very natural to be heavy handed. If you realize this before watching the film, you will realize how good this film really is.No, it is not the classic film, but a middle of the road film. It does show though that laughter makes a huge difference in all our lives. "},{"Title":"A brief note about weird people","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a mental health advocate I feel compelled to mention that 'weird' socially inept piano-playing orphans tend not to be murderers. I could not be more appalled at this film's ten second introduction to 'Larry' and the subsequent impact of the character's actions. Rarely, in a film with pretensions to tenderly telling an interesting story, can I remember such lamentable and outrageously simplified use of mental illness as a cheap plot device, it plays entirely on the prejudices of the general public. The romanticised scene in which 'Patch' contemplates suicide also demands similar criticism. The depth to which the characters emotions are explored bearly a dip a toe in the shallow end of a very shallow pool. In addition to this there is virtually no incite into why it is that Patch is so remarkably different to everybody else. We're almost asked to imagine he one day simply fell out of the happy tree, an inspiring 40-something sweetheart med-student/clown. It would have been truly interesting to explore where this apparently real-life character came from, but the film is too busy congratulating the simpering heights to which Patch's self-indulgent empathy eventually manage to reach.  "},{"Title":"Did not like it when I first saw it, and now I remember why","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My Rating * out of ****.When I saw Patch Adams for the first time, it was in the theater. I remembered I did not like the film. It had its moments of humor but other than that the movie was painfully boring (it would have gotten ** when I first saw it). However, I watched it on a bus today coming back from New York and realized how bad this movie is.The humor was funny the first time I saw the film but the second time around, it was so unfunny I could not believe it. Not once did I think of laughing. I actually tried to sleep but it was so uncomfortable on the bus that I could not.However, the humor may be a problem but compared to other things its more of a strength. The title character is not especially well-written. Its basically the same character Williams played in Dead Poets Society. Fortunately, John Keating was a likable character where Hunter Adams is a jerk. The filmmakers want us to like him but at times he is really unsettling. I kind of compare him to Travis Bickle and Jake Lamotta, who were also both unsettling. However, I felt something for Travis and Jake, they were characters that had layers to them. Hunter Adams has nothing to him.The film's screenplay is filled with cliches. Yes, Hunter Adams is basically John Keating in medical school. Now just put the whole Dead Poets Society in medical school and theres your damn film. Some of the dialogue is also painfully bad, I would give an example but it is so bad I can't remember.The acting here does not help matters much. Robin Williams is basically playing the character straight and that is a bad idea. Williams never makes Adams into a likable character, he just follows the scripts mistakes. The character is unsettling and immature in the film and I wished he committed suicide (A butterfly is supposed to stop him, how sappy can they get?). Monica Potter is not given much to do. Everyone else mostly fades into the background without giving much of a performance. Phillip Seymour Hoffman is effective but he is not used much and he has done better work.This film is the basic definition of the word manipulative. Never have I ever been so forced to cry in my life. Thankfully, I did not give into it. The movie is so overlong and extends for some painfully overdone courtroom scene that I wanted to end as fast it could. We never like the character to begin with, he is basically an asshole. Why would some stupid courtroom scene change that? When some judge said, We should all have some excessive happiness, I just wanted to throw up.Patch Adams was basically intended to be feel good movie with the message Laughter is the cure for pain (or some shit like that). However, this film is an excellent example of manipulative tripe. Patch Adams is too long, boring, cliched, and overbearing as hell. "},{"Title":"100% Idiotic","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this with my girlfriend and we both agreed that a real, live Patch Adams would be The World's Most Annoying Person, hands down. It's hard to like a movie when you want to reach out and punch the hero in the face. It's even harder when the plot is so transparent and predictable.So... if you're in the mood to see Robin Williams do his usual annoying Look-I'm-a-Child act, then maybe you'll like this movie. Otherwise, don't bother! It's so unbelievably sappy and dumb. "},{"Title":"You've seen it before...at least one hundred times.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Several excellent reviews state the obvious (see anonymous 3/19)  This is a film made for children, with NOTHING original to it.  Williams has played this role so many times that he's running on fumes...the meat convention scenes are his shining moments.  I've heard that Adams is gay (conveniently changed for the film) and that there seems to be some impropriety in the use of the funds he has collected for his treatment center (unsubstantiated). Oh well.  This is just too formulaic and simplistic to take.  I understand that films need to entertain, but this is a sorry effort.  The Doctor was a much better effort in this genre.A 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Remember When Robin Williams Made Good Movies?","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dead Poets Society, Good Morning Vietnam, and the Fisher King is the triumverate of great Robin Williams movies.  What the hell happened to those days?Patch Adams is the worse movie of 1998.  Even worse than the Avengers.  The first act was decent; the movie seemed full of potential.  Then the second act hit.Philip Seymour Hoffman played the two-dimensional roommate bent on foiling Patch's plans of becoming a doctor.  Then there was the two-dimensional dean bent on foiling Patch's plans of becoming a doctor.  Sense a pattern here?I particularly remember the scene where Patch was in charge of a gynecologists convention and he put the entrance between two giant paper-mache ladies legs.  In the movie, they were not amused.  Apparently gynecologists take their job VERY seriously that they have no sense of humor.  Have you ever met one?  They're not quite that stoic.  Then, of course, tragedy befalls our spastic hero and he must reflect.  Does he want to quit medical school?  What the hell do you think?!  It's been done a thousand times before!Then comes the closing scenes.  I have a theory about non-courtroom movies that end with trials.  With a few exceptions (i.e. Scent of a Woman), ending a film with a trial shows that the writer can't think of a suitable ending.  This is definitely the case.  I'm sure someone would be expelled from medical school for having a sense of humor.  Please.Robin Williams should stick to drama or comedy.  He shouldn't mix the two; he just can't pull it off.   "},{"Title":"This is not medicine, but a placebo","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film, from Ace Ventura director Tom Shadyac, recounts the story of Dr. 'Patch' Hunter Adams, who changed the way doctors interacted with their patients, believing that humour and openness would do more to assist in recovery than cold, clinical distance.Though Robin Williams tries hard to infuse his trademark lovable zane, and Marc Shaiman provides a suitably moving score with a very touching opening piano piece, this late 90s dramedy is full of uncalled, and ultimately pointless, changes to a far more interesting history (such as changing Patch's murdered friend from a man to a woman for the sake of a love story). Even when that element is taken out, it's just plain weak storytelling that dumbs down the American medical profession, and all the major, hard questions about it, to simple cartoon stereotypes so that the audience can lazily root for Patch against these 'mean, cold' doctors. This isn't helped by incredibly sappy dialogue (written by the same man as Barnyard, may I add) that renders the characters completely cardboard and flat, taking out more humanity from what should be a very human tale of relationships.It is not entirely unwatchable, thanks to the lead's work, score and Shadyac does show he can handle filming drama well, giving the film a nice, warm colour palette, but when mixed with all the changes and poor writing, it just becomes straight up disinteresting. "},{"Title":"Be careful watching this movie might put you in a diabetic coma","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" While excellently acted and well-photographed, this saccharine dramedy is too contrived to work on a believable emotional level. Robin Williams plays the title character of Patch Adams, a medical student (and later, doctor) who treats patients with humor and kindness. On paper, this must have sounded like a great idea and, to be honest, I can see what Robin Williams saw in the material. He must have seen something of the Patch Adams character in himself, as a lot of what he does in the movie is analogous to his societal role as a comedian. Still, the movie is carefully crafted for maximum sentimentality and it just doesn't work. Every story beat and emotion is telegraphed from miles away, and none of it feels sincere. Accuse me of being cold-hearted if you will, but in my opinion this film never earns the emotional payoffs it presents. It merely forces them out of the audience, thinking that merely being touching will be enough. Cliché is piled on top of cliché. Still, I will give credit to Robin Williams for at least making it watchable. There are a few moments where I laughed, although too few to really enjoy the entire experience. Overall, while the acting and technical qualities of the film make it appealing on the surface, it is guilty of pandering to the sap in all of us. "}{"Title":"Another funny Robin Williams movie","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is another funny feel good Robin Williams movie. This is based on the real person Hunter (Patch) Adams. I have always thought Robin was more entertaining to watch when he is playing someone that is similar to his self. The real Patch Adams was a doctor who believed that treating the person first so that it could be a little easier to treat the illness. Sometimes when people get sick they don't get better, when you heal someones soul with a laugh or two it can sometimes make the end more dignified or lessen the amount of suffering. The death of a loved one is hard and when we know that their pain was eased because they didn't suffer as much when they died it can put us at ease too. Now days in the medical profession it can be easily wrapped up in treating a sickness that it can be forgotten to realize that there is a actual person and not just a number. This film all the more remarkable being a true story with a man who cherishes the chances to help people. The community at large do not agree with his practices and at every chance try to keep him from trying to help. Being the good hearted person he is and his stellar grades that seem to bring more criticism then praise keeps breaking the rules and sneaking into the hospital before his time. This and the appreciation from the patients and staff drive him even more to question authority and the status quo. The powerful message that this movie portrays is sometime breaking the rules when it's in the best interest of everyone can sometimes be a good thing. Robin knew in his heart that everyone needs to laugh every now and then and that laughter can sometimes be the best medicine. He also wasn't just a jokester or class clown he knew when to be serious and he treated all the people around him with respect and dignity. The way he lived would be recommended for everyone. There are some people who criticize the movie for being a big joke, or him being a jerk, or even that laughter is a cure for sickness. This movie doesn't really portray laughter as that. It says that if you have cancer and are going to die do you wanna die miserable and depressed or laughing. Its lessen the suffering and making life enjoyable again. There was a scene with a angry dying man with cancer who would throw things at the nurses, continuously kicking people out not wanting any help. Being the persistent and kind person he is he keeps trying to help the man showering him with kindness and jokes when finally the patient laughs and dies happy. All in all a funny heartwarming movie. See this if you like Robin Williams, comedies or positive movies. "},{"Title":"great movie- surprised at reviews","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out however I was very young. Just recently I watched it and was googling different things on the real Patch Adams. I am so surprised at the negative reviews on here because to me this is an amazing movie. I saw one where someone said put the kids back to bed and get Williams out. As a nursing student I feel the desire to help people. I am actually appalled that someone would write that. Clearly has not had anyone close to him/her in a hospital bed dying. Why be miserable? Living life or on your way out, whatever the case, isn't positivity supposed to be a good thing? My good friend just recently had an interview with Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. His interviewer, I believe the director, has met Patch Adams and said the movie is a great reflection of the person he is. Now I do understand that Robin Williams did not donate any of his profits to Patch's institute so I will give this movie an 8 for that reason. But all in all, a great movie, a great story, and Patch is certainly an inspiration. "},{"Title":"Inspiring yet lacking","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are some movies that are difficult to review because they fall between the barriers of good and bad, with specific reasons for both. That describes Patch Adams in a nutshell. Robin Williams plays a man who, like many in life, is trying to find a purpose. After admitting himself into a mental hospital, he finds that his gift is helping people by making them laugh and lifting their spirits. With these techniques in mind, he doesn't quite fit in at his school of medicine. Williams is likable as Hunter Patch Adams but there is something missing. Williams' true talent and humor just doesn't seem to come out here. However, being based on a true story, I found Patch's intent and his heart to be inspiring. I was disappointed, though, to find out that the real Hunter Adams was less than pleased by his portrayal. Despite being somewhat inspired, I felt that this movie had a weak plot and, besides Patch, not very strong or likable characters. Like I said, this isn't a bad movie, but it is far from being a good one either. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Elevates Patch Adams Into A Great Film","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hunter Doherty Patch Adams, M.D. is an American physician, social activist, citizen diplomat and author. He founded the Gesundheit! Institute in 1971. Each year he organizes a group of volunteers from around the world to travel to various countries where they dress as clowns in an effort to bring humor to orphans, patients, and other people.His life inspired the film entitled,Patch Adams.It is a comedy- drama film that stars Robin Williams together with Daniel London,Philip Seymour Hoffman,Monica Potter and Bob Gunton.It was directed by Tom Shadyac and it was based on the life story of Dr. Hunter Patch Adams and the book Gesundheit Good Health is a Laughing Matter,written by Adams himself together with Maureen Mylander.Patch Adams is a troubled young man who commits himself to a mental institution in the late 1960s. His experiences there convince Adams to become a doctor, and he enrolls in medical school, where he is appalled at the cold, clinical professionalism that alienates patients from their caregivers. Determined to provide emotional and spiritual relief as well as medicine, Adams clowns around for his patients, getting to know them personally. Although his efforts seem to work wonders and the hospital nursing staff is grateful for the levity Adams provides, his methods alienate his uptight roommate Mitch as well as the staff and faculty of his school. Adams perseveres, however, even starting his own low-cost rural clinic called the Gesundheit Institute, and wooing a pretty fellow student, Carin. Tragedy strikes, and Adams' career is put in jeopardy, forcing him to defend his style and philosophy before a board of jurists determined to bar him from practicing medicine.This is a true story film that presents a Virginia medical student who breaks all the rules by daring to proclaim that the best medicine for patients is love, laughter and play. Although it was based on a real story,the movie itself looks less plausible and unlikely realistic considering the different way Dr. Adams treats his patients and practices medicine. Although the viewer may find it somewhat far from reality,the viewer must make it a point to realize that one must not view this as a documentary but a comedy-drama that presents the acting talent and brilliant performance of Robin Williams. That alone makes the film worth watching and let alone forget the story's predictability and formulaic devices that were applied into the plot. Only Williams raises this film above average with his excellent portrayal of Adams. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"13 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams is a good movie and it is good for audiences of all ages, if you like Robin Williams you will probably get a kick out of this movie. It is dramatic like a lot of parts that Robin Williams has been playing for many years now in efforts to win awards etc instead of just doing crazy comedies, but there are also a lot of funny parts in it and the drama is not hitting you over the head too much even though it is about very serious subjects like sick kids who are passing away from terrible diseases. There are unexpected parts that I won't spoil and touching parts and also parts that are very funny, like Robin Williams talking with and entertaining the sick children. "},{"Title":"Way too good","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" its good to c the movie like this, feels fortunate being in medical profession & even for others too, how life can b so happily lived without piling up medicine in stomach , go for it, its best, Robin as n actor is superb , movie lived beyond the reality,,,was happy watching movie, clapped , had sometime tears , what more than to tell u about it, words feel sort to do so, gr8 movie, life is always tough but we need to look in different context it has, happy moments r always there, just need to look at it, movie had so much happy moment that cud b cherished all along , have seen this movie good no. of time , yet it comes with new happiness always ,friends if u r opting for any medical movie or being as medical student ,it has better understanding how can u shape up yourself & help others ,and most important u need not b a doctor to help someone.. "},{"Title":"Humanity in Medicine","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" From Patch Adams own novel, and director Tom Shadyac, comes this touching story of one man's struggle to bring humanity into medicine. The humour is crass at times, but the drama, moving and true to life, won't fail to make it's mark in your heart.Robin Williams is made for this role, of course, and he excels once again. Great support comes from Peter Coyote, Monica Potter and Phillip Seymour Hoffman.Patch Adams shows us how the medical profession should be, full of compassion, with a commitment to people, not diseases.Sunday, June 11, 2000 - DVD "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites.....","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams is one of the few comedians that can pull off the very difficult task of making us laugh at a character who is only funny on the surface. Beneath the epidermal, there is pain and tragedy...and we are not allowed to forget it, though our faces are not washed in it consistently. Patch is a guy who has to get his life in order, and he does so by trial and error...from signing himself into the psych ward...to enrolling in med school. He finds out much about life and about himself along the way...but his indomitable spirit is bolstered by his sense of humor, which helps give him a bright outlook on life. He wants to share the spirit through medicine in a holistic sense. Of course he does so at his own peril...and often it appears that the odds are against him. But he manages to outwit the competition at their own game. The story is sensitive one, and Patch does not let the spectrum of human emotion escape him, touching lives along the way where others fear to tread. He makes a difference...and others who see his success are driven to distraction at his un-orthodox methods.There are laughs and tears along the way. I don't want to say too much about the movie for fear of giving it away. But it is, ultimately, a stand-up-and-cheer type movie. Robin has gone on in the last decade to broaden his spectrum by accepting roles against type, playing villains, playing men haunted by their pasts ( as in 'Goodwill Hunting'), but here he is at his finest, playing a Pagliacci type doctor who stumbles his way into the hearts of some, and stumbles his way onto the do not invite lists of others. It is a rewarding watch, not a lot of violence or objectionable language. I fully recommend a viewing of Patch Adams. "},{"Title":"Treating the Patient Not the Disease..","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie 'Patch Adams' based on a true story and directed by Tom Shadyac tells the story of Hunter Adams, an unconventional medical student who is determined to provide emotional and spiritual relief to his patients as well as medicinal help. Managing Emotions in Medical School Students' Contacts with the Living and the Dead written by Allen C. Smith,III and Sherryl Kleinman examines the physical intimacy in medicine by depicting the results of the research on medical students' way of feeling management as they make contact with their patients; so the article can be used to analyze the way Patch Adams, as a doctor was expected to do his job in the movie. Also, Gary L.Brase and Jillian Richmond's article The White-Coat Effect Physician Attire and Perceived Authority, Friendliness, and Attractiveness draws attention to the various effects of the doctors white coat which include the fact that white coat increases perception of authority, friendliness and trust; and the statements in this article can be disapproved by the Patch Adam's style of dress and his relations with his patients.According to Smith and Klein's study, medical students use different strategies to avoid unwanted feelings which might arouse from their contact with patients. One of these strategies is called 'transforming the contact' and it involves students mentally transforming their patients body into something totally different; it could be a set of body parts, a math problem or something nun-human such as a toaster or an engine. Students also transform the moment of contact into a complex intellectual puzzle, the kind of challenge they faced successfully during previous years of schooling. They interpret details according to logical patterns and algorithms, and find answers as they master rules. (Smith 60) In effect, science itself is an emotion management strategy. By competing for years for the highest grades, these students have learned to separate their feelings from the substance of their classes and to concentrate on the impersonal facts of the subject matter. (Smith 61) In contrast, in the movie, Patch Adams' philosophy is to treat the patient, not the disease. His professor and his classmates think and speak of the patient impersonally when they are doing a presentation of a patient's case, but Adams does not impersonalize his patients. Moreover, he makes personal contacts with them; he knows their names, learn about their families and personal lives. He uses unconventional methods and wacky surprises to ease patients' anxiety and enhance their healing. He sings to Mr. Davis, a patient dying of pancreatic cancer, he makes another patient's-the old lady's- dream come true by preparing a swimming pool full of noodles for her. Patch Adam's attitude and way of practicing medicine depicts a great contrast with the results of the study Smith and Kleinman wrote in their books.In their article The White-Coat Effect Physician Attire and Perceived Authority, Friendliness, and Attractiveness where they draw attention to the various effects of the doctors' white coat, Gary L.Brase and Jillian Richmond also state some facts about the influence of the doctors' way of dressing on the patients. ..They way they should dress for functional and hygienic reasons, and because of the supposed influence on the doctor-patient relationship. .. The clean, carefully dressed doctor might give the impression that patient contact is an important event and that it takes time to prepare for it, whereas the unkempt doctor can be perceived an unskilled and uncaring. (Brase 2469) Furthermore, in the study they conducted, Brase and RIchmond found that casual dressing has a negative affect on doctor- patient relationship. Overall, this research indicates that casual dress is not likely to be an effective tactic for doctors to increase patient comfort or disclosure. Instead, it is clear that casual dress decreases perceptions of authority, regardless of the gender of the doctor or the patient. Casual dress also decreases perceptions of friendliness (compared to formal attire), trust (for male patients), and attractiveness. (Brase 2478) In the movie, Parch Adams trades in the traditional white coat for a more colorful and cheerful outfit with the same intention explained in the previous paragraphs-solely getting a laugh out of his patients. He wears massively bright floral shirts and a tie that occasionally makes noise. Unlike stated in Brase and Richmond's article, casual dressing appears to be an effective tactic for Adams to increase his patients' comfort or disclosure. His shirts with funny patterns don't seem to decrease the perceptions of friendliness or trust. His relationships with his patients are extraordinarily effective, obviously better than his fellow students' relationships with their patients. In other words, it can be said that Patch Adams and his way of dressing as a doctor disapproves the fact stated in Brase and Richmond's article. I personally do not think that doctors should follow certain rules such as impersonalization of the patient, or wearing the white coat. I believe that it is not only these factors which make doctors seem more credible, trustable or friendly to their patients, but the combination of their medical skills as a doctor and their intra-personal communication skills. There are instances where patients are nervous, and might need a little joke to ease their fears or they might be upset and a little humor can lighten them up. Also, if we code white coat as an indicator of a trustable doctor, we might oversee less-credible doctors with white coats, or underestimate doctors without a white coat. I agree with the Patch Adam's philosophy of 'treating the patient. not the disease', because it is a proved fact that the endorphine hormone has healing effects and its production is triggered with laughter. In other words, laughter produces healing as the body produces endorphins that has far ranging healing effects. And Adams' sense of humor and the personal relationships he builds with his patients enables this process. "},{"Title":"Cried like a river","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" On Saturday the 23rd of Jan, 2010 was the first day, I planned to see this movie. I randomly selected Patch Adams because I am a huge fan of Robin Williams and I praise his acting skills. However, I watched an Indian version of that movie which was the adaption of Patch Adams. Viewing the Indian version made me so curious because Indians movies can't have much of a concept. My curiosity made me to search Patch Adams, believe me it was a great experience to watch this movie. I dimmed my room's light, closed my room mates' door, had a cup of coffee with a browny and started to watch it.After an hour of watching, I began to shed tears. Can you believe it? I am a person who never cried over movies, though I cry a lot else, but Patch Adams made me cry. It didn't work when I first saw Shawshank Redemption, the number 1 movie at IMDb.com's top 250.I felt patch adams because my thinking, thoughts are the same as his. Helping people, the unorthodox way. I want to be a consultant, and after watching that movie I am very determined to make it happen one day and I will help people, the unconventional way and I know people will stand against my way to stop me. I am getting ready for that. Thank you Robin for uplifting my enthusiasm with your spectacular acting. I love you. "}{"Title":"Patch Adams was in no way a self centered person.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie last year and it is one of my son's favorite adult films that he is allowed to watch with supervision. A man that is so depressed that he self commits himself to a mental ward at Fairfax Hospital, VA., feeling that he has no purpose in life and makes no difference that he exists. He realizes that the therapy he is receiving makes him feel no better, but realizes that the inmakes on the ward are in worse shape than he is and getting no better either. He finds that he, as a patient, more in touch with reality, tries a different approach and he makes a difference. Thus begins the transformation of Patch Adams, who makes it his life long dedication to help people who are worse off than he is and to use the special talents and intelligence given to him to become a doctor. I have spent a great deal of time at Fairfax Hospital for care of my children and medical care I required.Two of my children were born there.Doctors have become more sensitive to patients than in the past. Some refuse to give up the stiffness, that is their own problem of not being able to change. Perhaps Patch Adams is a bit strong for some to deal with, but his patients respected him for his ability to see them as human beings.Patch insisted to know the name of a patient, as Fairfax Hospital and many other hospitals are teaching hospitals. The medical profession has come a long way for doctors who see the light that Patch Adams was trying to shine to open their eyes, that book knowledge is only part of being a good doctor. Patch Adams wanted doctors to see that if they wanted respect from their patients, they needed to respect their patients and understand that they had feelings, and to at least call them by their name. The children in the cancer ward, if one is knowledgeable, there are Child Life Programs to deal with the feelings and help the children who are long term or terminal patients to deal with the trauma of hospitalization, and deal with the medical procedures that the children will be experiencing to reduce their fear, a job the medical staff is too overloaded with to perform while doing their own responsibilities to have time to spend to add to their load. The best hospitals in the country all have Child Life Programs, Fairfax Hospital, Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh, and John Hopkins, to name a few. Patch Adams' colleagues realized that he had a good point, it was just a concept that they were never taught as part of their medical practice. The movie was meant to teach a story, but at the same time to be entertaining. No patient likes an arrogant doctor who thinks that he is a superior being to a patient, or who does not take the time to consider what the patient is trying to tell them. Patch Adams was a dedicated doctor who felt that the needs of his patients included more than medication. He never felt medicine was not part of their care or medical school would not have been so critical to him. Mrs. Symmington "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is about how we can change ourselves through interaction or relationship with others. Patch Adams found a path in humor and laughter. Others find it in reason and logic. The best thing about this movie is that it's a true story - it tells it like it is. Patch Adams had a rough life, and found a way to make it better - not only for himself - but also for the people he met along the way. Many people find this kind of life affirming story to be sentimental and silly, but the fact remains that everyone wants to be happy in life, and Patch just found his way of becoming happy. So instead of looking at all the things that could potentially be wrong with this movie, then take a look at how it effects you emotionally, and let your emotions judge whether the movie is good or bad. I for one found it to be wonderful -) "},{"Title":"If u r a fan of robin William's,then watch this movie........","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" this movie is stand tall because of the outstanding performance by robin Williams.....In a little survey,I found out that some of the jokes where made up by himself....Robin William is a true comedian.......he can make u laugh at any time.Regarding the movie is b/w average and good.all actors acted well...While watching i was connected very well with the movie because i have spend 2-3 years of my life in hospital & i know sometimes how bad the attitude of doctor towards the patient....the patient's minion have to lick the boot of doctors .....after watching this movie i realize that there are still good people living in this planet.......and if u like movies based on true story than this movie is made for you.... "},{"Title":"A sense of humor for a medicine.","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the few films I've seen unleast 7times. The film is magnificent in my point of view. I'm not sure with the directing since i'm not a professional in that aspect. However the way Robin Williams acts in this film makes the whole movie magical from start to end.The whole plot is about how to treat a patient. It's not about how will you take care of your patients as a patient. But to take care a patient as a human being. To blow in some life into a weakened soul of a patient.It's a bit similar to many robin Williams films where he's energetic, fresh and funny where he always seems to make everyone laugh in the worst situation and which makes him likable.Despite of knowing that it's one of those warm hearted cliché films you still watch it to the end and you laugh and cry simultaneously. Why? because films like these are literally beautiful in every sense and what i love most about it is that robin Williams plays in the film so naturally i feel like if this doctor really exists somewhere, over the rainbow.(a bit of an exaggeration.) So for anyone i would recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Treating the patient as well as the disease","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of Hunter Patch Adams is an astonishing & inspiring one indeed. Here is a man who dedicates his life to becoming a doctor in order to serve & help other people. For Patch, HUMOR and LAUGHTER seem to be the best medicines, and I wholeheartedly agree. As for the movie Patch Adams, director Tom Shadyac determined that there was only one actor who could understand Patch and be right on the money in his portrayal of him Robin Williams. Working against the traditional rules that govern medical institutions, Patch has some rather unorthodox manners of treating the ill, but his ideas makes perfect sense! Patch Adams truly connects with other people in offering treatment, counsel, and hope. The end result is a wonderful movie with a mixture of comedy, drama, tragedy, sadness, laughter, despair, and brightness.Here, now, are my favorite scenes from the remarkable Patch Adams (DO NOT read any further if you have not yet seen this movie). Patch sneaks into the medical university hospital serving a good helping of hilarity to various children from the Make A Wish Foundation. While a group of medical students are observing a rather nervous patient and asking a presiding doctor about her symptoms, Patch puts a smile on the patient's face when he asks her name. There are four adjacent sequences at the sanitarium (where Patch resides at the opening of this movie) that are memorable In the first, Patch participates in a group session where he and several other inmates loudly poke fun at a catatonic patient; in the second, Patch visits a fellow inmate, the brilliant Arthur Mendelson (Harold Gould), for a look-beyond-the-fingers experiment; in the third, Patch makes a crazy war game out of helping his roommate Rudy (Michael Jeter) go to the bathroom; and in the fourth, Patch visits his supervising doctor and tells him of his plans to leave the sanitarium and build a career out of helping others. In one of the silliest sequences in the entire movie, Patch and his colleague Truman Schiff (Daniel London) attend a meat packers convention, where Patch delivers a humorous, awe-inspiring speech. At the university, Patch's roommate Mitch (wonderfully played by rising star Philip Seymour Hoffman) berates him in their dormitory for his clownish behavior. Patch sings Blue Skies to a pancreatic cancer patient (Peter Coyote), and he makes a rather outlandish display for a group of visiting gynecologists.Patch Adams may not be a movie that is meant for family consumption, but it is a terrific film nonetheless. Robin Williams the comedian is often way out of control for my liking, which is why his somewhat tame characterization of Patch appeals to me very much. In addition to Philip Seymour Hoffman, Daniel London, Michael Jeter, Harold Gould, and Peter Coyote, the wonderful cast includes Monica Potter as Carin Fisher, one of Patch's colleagues & eventual girlfriend, who at first wants absolutely nothing to do with this wacko; Irma P. Hall as Joletta, a witty nurse who befriends Patch and accepts his unorthodox ways with a knowing glance and a tolerant smile; and Bob Gunton as Dean Walcott, the staunch traditionalist forever at odds with Patch and his idealistic buddy system. "},{"Title":"What's Wrong With Patch Adams ?","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's very good movie. But what's really wrong with it? I remember reading one opinion about it at the time in Empire or Premiere goes something like this Can you stand Robin Williams laughing like a clown around you while you're sick?!. I think it's more than obvious that this is not a comedy. It's nearly an autobiography with one clear meaning  please doctor.. Smile. Patch Adams is nothing but the abstraction of the nonexistent smile upon the doctor's face. Yet, maybe the dose of (Robin Williams)'s comedy was more than enough to express the idea?, or how the real premise of one doctor + one clown working together to improve the life wasn't clear? I don't think any of that. Maybe it's the ending (with the court big finish) that was too Hollywood. Or the accident of (Monica Potter)'s death which hasn't been done well, whereas the whole movie before and after this point was the joyful tale of revolutionary smiling man with easy solutions for every impasse. It hit the cute personality of the movie, and condemned Patch's character indirectly for some moments. Moreover, I didn't feel Williams's sorrow or regret well after. Not to mention how he looked older than her (and the role) in the first place. I can't ignore one of the smart notes for another commenter referenced to how (Williams) was playing himself; he gave his persona utterly to Patch Adams not the other way around (something to assure the popularity and the commerciality for the movie), it was only his haircut which was different when you compare Williams's Patch to any of Williams's other characters where he plays himself freely. The softy dreamy music wasn't for the sake of the movie, it was so annoying in places, and too traditional like many other family movies where the music is so kind and tender with the same constant tone all the way to provocative boring extent ! Nearly the same thing applied to the too smooth cinematography. Except that, the elements were fine, the direction was very serene as the Hollywood elegant dream, but (Monica Potter) was the one here to call great. It's a gentle movie with nice message and details, that touches and amuses me but still there are some things make it a bit weak. "},{"Title":"Effectively takes you from highs to lows and back again.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film, and would agree with the good points mentioned in the other comments left here.  The scene towards the end of the film which is supposed to make you sad really worked on me - I was holding my breath, as you just *knew* the news that was going to be delivered to the smiling Patch as he enters the room.  For the next few minutes my heart was beating a little hard, as the direction is just about good enough to compel you to empathise with Patch at this point.  Also, some of the dialogue was very poignant and professionally acted.However.. ..I was distracted by a couple of things watching this film. Firstly, some of the scenes were just a little too sentimental, to the point of being cheesy.  Secondly, someone was in the mixing studio with one hand on the dial that said main soundtrack and they *really* wanted you to hear it.The kind of orchestral music which is supposed to support the scene and be almost at the periphery of your hearing was basically TOO LOUD.  It swam into the scenes too often, and distinctly damaged the credibilty of some of them.  Other than that - an excellent film and worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but tries too hard.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Overall, this was a pretty good movie. I laughed, I cried, I got a little bored.......Robin Williams is probably the only guy that could pull this role off, but at the same time he gets a little bit annoying. Especially during the overly-dramatic 'speeches'. Wierd thing about Robin Williams - I love him and hate him at the same time. Go figure. Good job by Monica Potter though the romantic pairing of her an Williams is stretching things a little.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams did it again","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams portrays Hunter Patch Adams, a former mental patient who wanted to become a doctor.  I thought this movie was great.  A really funny part was when Patch was in the mental institution and his cell mate was afraid to use the bathroom because he thought some squirrels were going to bite him.  Williams of course, played along with him and pretended to gun down each of the squirrels.  I have only seen this movie once at a theater.  I hope to get this video so my whole family can watch it. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a funny and heart-warming movie.  I really enjoyed this movie because Robin Williams did a good job playing his part.  This movie had a good plot to it.  The end was sad but it was good.  This movie was very good. "}{"Title":"Robin Williams at his Best","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never known Robin Williams to portray a real person. This movie is funny, and I enjoy seeing the bewildered looks on the dean's face. I would say this is much better than his previous role, in What Dreams May Come. But this movie, I think, adds a little more taste to Williams' career. This is a heartwarming must-see family film, and I would recommend it to anybody. I also feel sorry for the character when some reject his ways. But this is still funny, and Williams does a fantastic job. A 7 for me. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wasnt sure if I'd like this movie when I saw it but I found it very enjoyable. It makes you laugh and cry. Robin Williams is wonderful as the doctor who thinks that laughter is the best medicine. Good performances by all. If you feel like having a good laugh and possibly a good cry, then you'll enjoy this. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"For people who don't like it..","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I for one liked the movie, it's a very moving and sometimes tragic movie. I liked Robin Williams in this one, I think the bittersweet nature of the movie suits him well.And for those of you who don't like the characters in the movie, just remember This is a true story  "},{"Title":"This movie was a refreshing review of the problems still facing health care.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the other reviews and could not believe that some people did not like the movie.  I am a health care professional and have family member in the profession for over 50 years.  I find that the problems illustrated were correct and I am interested in further information about Patch. I also empathize with the families in the movie because I have family members who are ill and I have been reviewing some of the issues about humane treatment and death that were in the movie. This is the best movie that I have seen about health care since I saw William Hurt in The Doctor "},{"Title":"Never listen to critics!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When a close friend (and fan of the movie) begged me to see Patch Adams, I was a little reluctant because I had read many reviews dogging the film. Boy, were those critics WRONG!Patch Adams is one of the most inspiring, touching (and pretty funny) movies I've ever seen.  I recommend it to anyone.  Not only is it worth a viewing, but it also leaves you feeling all warm inside.  Patch Adams shows you it's okay to be different and that if you put your heart to it, you can do anything. Anything. "},{"Title":"awesome, inspiring, real","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have had more jobs and positions in my life than most people, because I was trying to find my place in the world. I have been working with kids for the past 12 years and when I saw Patch Adams, I realized that I needed to get back to basics and commit my life to working for kids. Helping them get back on their feet, look in the mirror, and honor themselves and the people around them. I know it sounds strange, but Patch Adams gave me some insight about myself and I am now ready to see 8 fingers.Thanks to Robin Williams, who was an awesome Patch Adams, he really put the character in perspective by showing all the world that you don't have to be serious in order to be successful.  Robin Williams is a genius, and he has a nice butt. haha.Th best advice I can give to anyone who is thinking about seeing this movie, is grab a few extra napkins for the tears of laughter and sorrow. This movie works all of our emotions and shows us that there is more to wealth than money and materials. Wealth is looking in the mirror at the end of the day and knowing you have made a difference in someone's life. "},{"Title":"Parental Review for Patch Adams","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What it's About The true story about Hunter Adams (Robin Williams) who was a doctor in the late 70s who opened a personal hospital to treat patients through laughter.Will Kids Want to watch it Despite Robin Williams other child movies they may be interested but they won't enjoy it.MPAA Rating PG-13Sex/Nudity Many remarks made by the usually clean Williams including  a very crude joke involving Adams a decoration at a party.Drugs/Alcohol NoneViolence/Scariness Adams is suicidal at times. A murder occurs. A cancer patient dies.Questionable Words/Phrases About 50-60What's Good About It Adams convinces everybody that laughter and fun is the best medicine.What's Not So Good The film goes for too many emotions at once which sometimes fail and leave you feeling odd.Appropriate Ages 14-15 and up. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.  Laughter and Tears!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never really noticed Robin Williams as a serious actor until Good Morning Vietnam.  Now he ranks with my most favorite actors.  Surely, this is the year Robin will receive the Oscar for best actor.  He just gets better and better, and this is his year with Patch Adams.Laugh, and enjoy those tears of warmth flow through you throughout this film.  Ache with the tears of sorrow, as well.This is a 'Must See' movie.  "},{"Title":"A funny and shocking experience.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was thoroughly surprised by this film.  By all the bad reviews it received, i thought i was gonna hate it.  But Patch Adams is one of Robin Williams' best movies, along with Good Will Hunting and What Dreams May Come.  He's a great actor and was perfect for this role.  The funniest part was when the bus-load of doctors came to the hospital and the legs were sticking out the door.  I was really shocked and saddened when a character met an unexpected and tragic fate.  However, it ended typically, with the hero coming out on top, as expected.  It wasn't a let down, but the trip there made it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"something is wrong with the movie critics","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  sometimes i take the word of movie critics, but only sometimes. happily, this wasn't one of those times. i don't really understand why this movie received the negative verbiage it did. certainly american audiences see something the critics don't. this is a wonderful film that has all the elements that make for a smash. robin williams has never been better. he's truly an american gift. the supporting cast was terrific, from michael jeter to harold gould to phillip hoffman. loads of belly laughs- the ending caused me pain, tears, warmth, pathos, mayhem. ah, no sex, no violence. perhaps that explains the critical commentary. patch adams doesn't need me. america has been answering these comatose critics for 2 weeks now and that won't change until the film hits mega numbers. "}{"Title":"Fantastic Medicine","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams in my opinion is one of the best films of 1998.  You'll cry and you'll laugh in this two hour masterpiece.  Robin Williams gives an outstanding performance and you can't help but crack up when he pulls off one of his antics.  This movie does a fantastic job showing the audience how valuable life is, and how you could forget about the bad things in your life by helping somebody else.  I left the theater wanting to go out and make a difference in this world by helping people.  That is a feeling no other movie has given me.   10/10 "},{"Title":"Even Robin Williams can't resuscitate a moribund script","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams does a great job here at shtick comedy and witty one-liners, and Monica Potter is beautiful and believable, but that's about it. The screenwriter obviously knows nothing about medical school or the healthcare establishment. Just about every detail, from how schools and hospitals are administered to what minutiae med students are forced to memorize, is depicted wrong in this film. My guess is that all the people who gush over this movie have no experience in medicine. Medical professionals will find it difficult to sit through all the off-target shots. The health care system of the 1970s had plenty of warts that needed to be exposed, but none are revealed in this hopelessly naive script.For a much keener jaundiced-eye view of hospitals from that era, see the 1971 Arthur Hiller/Paddy Chayefsky masterpiece, _The Hospital_ with George C. Scott and Diana Rigg. "},{"Title":"What was the point of this film??","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the trailers for this movie and it looked real funny so I rentedthe video and watched it. There were some chuckling moments, the rest ofthe movie sucked! Come on Robin Williams, why don't you do comediesanymore?! Robin Williams was the funniest man I've ever seen in a movieand all his movies were so good. Movies like Popeye, Hook, Jack,Fathers' Day, Jumanji, Mrs. Doubtfire. Now Robin's stopped doingcomedies! Why?? He's doing stupid serious films and for what? A stupidgolden trophy called an Oscar? Come on, Rob, we want the funny and coolRobin Williams back, not no serious overactor! "},{"Title":"Too slick","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood had too much influence here.  This is a fascinating story, based on real life, but it was too glossy and manipulative.  Oh, there's the love interest.  Oh look, she dies.  Oh, it's so sad.  Spare me.However, Robin Williams is, as ever, brilliant in this kind of role, skillfully weaving his manic comedy with that deeper, softer, darker side that we saw in Good Will Hunting.It's still worth seeing, just to watch Williams.  But it ain't no masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"The comedy is funny, but the dramatics get manipulative.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is still funny, though I tend to find him funnier on Letterman than in his movies.  Patch Adams starts out funny, but as we progress, we have to get to the conflicts and drama of the story, and some of the plot devices feel borrowed from Good Morning Vietnam or Dead Poets Society, and the ending is right out of White Squall.  And I didn't like it when White Squall did it either.Tom Shadyac is a comedy director (Liar Liar) and the dramatics felt like button-pushing.  Overall, it was still okay, but it didn't deserve any Golden Globe nominations. "},{"Title":"A big Smile","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie! At first I was a bit unsure about the casting, Robin Williams being in his FIRST year at medical school. However, after my one question was cleared up I begun to not only like the movie, but be taken in by it. On Oscar night, this is one movie I will be proud to root for. Note to Mr. Williams Start clearing off a space on your shelf, there's another Oscar coming your way! "},{"Title":"No Norman Cousins","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This review may be tendentious, because I, like the eponymous character, attended medical school at an advanced age after spending some time in psychiatric institutions, and I am especially interested in the dynamics of physician-patient interaction.  Consequently, I was intrigued by the issues presented in this film, and would recommend seeing Patch Adams at your local theater, although I rate it at 6 or just slightly above average.The performances were first-rate, particularly Robin Williams' many humorous escapades, and Monica Potter as the love interest who is murdered by a patient.  Such a tragic event seemed incongruous, considering that the primary subject of the film apparently was the therapeutics of humor.The medical professors were so archetypically imperious as to be unrealistic.  Furthermore, the medical establishment's efforts to thwart Adams' career goals are hard to imagine in 1998, even if plausible twenty years ago.The weakest aspect of the film, however, was the simplistically triumphant ending.  Facing dismissal from medical school, Adams appears at a hearing attended by many of the students and faculty, and defends himself with a peroration that is too perfect to be believed.  He is then showered with applause and encomia, and everyone (apparently) lives happily ever after. "},{"Title":"A nice movie, but a stereotyped script.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cannot say this movie was bad. I saw Robin Williams having a good time and making us having a good time. I saw a good story about how to treat people as equals that came from the real Patch Adams book. And the actors were doing a good performance. The real problem of the movie is the script, which tastes like canned vegetables. It is stereotyped to the maximum, beginning from the excuses, as the Meat Packers Gran Gala, for letting Mr. Williams perform his natural gift, to the escalation of The Bad Guy, The Bad Guy that helps the good guy not forgetting his mission, The final audience. It is all too line-assembled to be appreciated. The parts that were prepared to move the audience really moved me, but also left me with a the bitter taste that I was cheated of the truthfulness. But, since the message is so strong and needed by our society, nearly all the problems of the scripts can be forgiven. "},{"Title":"Good story ... too much Robin Williams","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Enjoyed story but felt that character was built around Robin Williams and not other way around.  Would have enjoyed movie much more if they had toned down his part and made him a little more real.  Would still recommend seeing it.  "},{"Title":"A Cornball Playing God","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The English by far produced the Best Medical School comedy in Doctor In The House more than 50 years ago. Three American films made a substantial showing in trying to match the template Gross Anatomy, Bad Medicine and Stitches. Patch Adams fell far astray of the mark combining the liberal overtone of Bad Medicine with the silliness of Stitches without attaining the endearing quality of Gross Anatomy. There is a fine exposition of Liberalism in Patch's speech to the Medical Board, but the film could be entirely written off if it didn't make a few interesting points without intending to.Most of the film is a college comedy. However somewhere in the laugh track, Patch Adams decides to set up an unlicensed medical clinic to deal with the un-doctored poor and downtrodden. When Patch leaves a young female med student to tend to a sociopath tragedy results and the college fed up with Patch wants to give him the boot shy of the degree.Yet Patch survives quite an error in judgement. How is that possible. Well he does deliver quite a bleeding heart speech to the board deciding his fate. We are all healers and all patients in search of a cure ... The scene prior to his appearance before the board however provides the real answer. It is explained to Patch by a bitter enemy, the butt of much of Patch's humour that the doctors on the panel are his peers; all Patch need do is show up properly attired with a plausible explanation.Without realising it, the film presents the cozy side of medicine, its willingness to overlook major errors of colleagues and the lack of consequences for cardinal errors of judgement.Patch emerges at graduation ever unscathed by the experience, ready willing and able to play God at the expense of others. "}{"Title":"Well meaning, but haven't we been here before?","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams is on target as unconventional medical student (and former psychiatric patient), who refuses to follow rules which he believes stifle his efforts to help the sick. Monica Potter is also very attractive as William's hesitant love interest. But the film is too much formula - the conformists are bad without any real explanation of their motivation, and the film squanders a solid resolution with too many last-chance confrontations and false endings. Even if the film faithfully depicted what actually happened to the real-life Patch (and that would be a first for Hollywood), it would have been more effective focusing on the initial premise - a unique, truly caring practice of medicine - and downplaying the flak Patch took for following his convictions. Watch the first half, your decision on the second half. "},{"Title":"Over-dramatic","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A patient in a rehabilitation center, while helping another patient, realizes that all he ever wanted to do was to help other. He decides to become a doctor. Adam's ideas, ways and means are outrageous and so he ends up becoming a thorn in the eye of the system. The concept of the film is moving and content is good but the film is boring. Almost every scene is trite and overdone. Most the medical student only appear while clapping for Adams and that too with the same expressions. Its a serious film but director has made a fool out of the real character. Movie has serious problems. On few occasions it becomes very evident that Adams is doing everything for himself and not for others. The whole romantic angle is just too big a pain to bear in a film which is supposed to be 'philosophically elevating'. Then it becomes a fight between a hero and a villain. Except for a few scenes Patch Adams is a let down. "},{"Title":"Patch it Up","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Patch Adams, played by Academy award-winner Robin Williams, was troubled since his father died when he was nine tears old. In the1970s, he admitted himself to the mental ward. There he realizes that the staff members and doctors are cold towards the patients. After helping his roommate, he wants to help people and really listen to them. Patch sees humor as the best medicine for the patients. After he left the mental ward, he attends the Virginia Medical University. While studying to be a doctor, he daily visits the patients in the hospital. He would stop at nothing to make the patients laugh, even if his career was at risk. Dean Walcott (Bob Guton) sticks to the rules when he forbids Patch to be anywhere near the patients until his third year. He continues to help people by founding the Gesundheit Clinic. There Patch and his friends, Truman (Daniel London) and Corrine (Monica Potter), helped people without insurance or payments. Unfortunately, Patch has to face the Medical Review Board because he was practicing medicine without a license. The movie is based on a true story of a man who wanted to help people by using his hilarious personality as the medicine.Patch Adams is a movie which shows the audience the doctors prospective of medical practice. It makes a good point that even though their jobs are stressful, they need to treat the patient, not just the diseases. For example, instead of referring to the patient as the cancer patient in room 306, Patch suggests that the doctors should refer to them by their name. While preventing death is a big part of the doctor's job, they also should improve the quality of life.This 1998 movie is an inspirational story and leaves the viewers with motivation to help others. While having comedy through out the movie, there is also drama. The director did a good job of connecting the beginning and the end together. Patch finally found what he was good at, patching things up. "},{"Title":"Good Morning, Vietnam redux (I mean that positively)","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one of his many roles as a free-spirited wacko challenging authority (the others were Good Morning, Vietnam, Dead Poets Society and Awakenings), Robin Williams goes all out as medical student Hunter Patch Adams, who decides that laughter is the best medicine. Although it's based on a true story, virtually everything that he does looks like something out of a Mel Brooks movie - especially the scenes with the skeleton and the gynecologists. I try to imagine having been there when he first did that stuff.It is true that Patch Adams tries the whole way through to tug at your emotions, but they still do a neat job with it. If only we could all have this guy as our physician. Also starring Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Bob Gunton, Josef Sommer, Irma P. Hall, Frances Lee McCain (the Gremlins mom), Harve Presnell, Peter Coyote, Michael Jeter and Harold Gould. "},{"Title":"Motivates anyone","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saw this movie some 7 years back.I can't thank Robbin Williams enough.One of my all time bests. To say the least, if its Shawshank Redemption for hope Then its definitely Patch Adams for motivation.The scene where he remembers what Carin had said when he feels he had lost everything is simply the best scene i've seen so far....Can be very well compared with his performances in Good Will Hunting and Dead Poet's Society.And in the end to make us believe that such a person exists in flesh and blood on earth............man, makes me feel there is something still left for us to live for. "},{"Title":"A very memorable movie.......","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on a true story that of Hunter Patch Adams a student m.d. who's not satisfied with some the norms of the medical profession and challenges it. To be more specific and put in simpler terms, he's not so fond of how doctors tend to put a barrier with patients in order to evade being emotionally attached to them.In the movie, Patch Adams (Williams) challenges this by trying to cheer patients and get close to them by prancing around like a clown and being a funny guy. According to the character's philosophy, doing this not only humanizes the relationship between the doctor and the patient, but also helps restore a better way of life for the ill while in a hospital. While doing this he has a vision and creates a clinic that can provide alternative health care for patients. This great vision of his and his attitude of excessive happiness with the patients gets him in trouble with the school board and he's faced with an obstacle which is that of being kicked out of school.Williams performance is quite memorable in this movie. He provides such a natural humor to the movie and the plot of the movie is quite heartwarming. This is that type of movie that when you see it you feel inspired to do something good for humanity. "},{"Title":"an excellent movie with a inspirational story","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched movie five years ago at the cinema with my grandma. My grandma hates robin Williams but went to see it for my sake. After the movie she was complimented that it was his best performance. Indeed it was. It starts off with Williams as patch in a mental institute, having tried to comm it suicide. During his time there he meets Rudy who is schizo and sees squirrels, Williams eventually finds a way of helping Rudy and this helps to make patch decide that he wants to get out there and help others - by becoming a doctor. He escapes the institute and goes to med school. He simply does not agree with Bob gunton(dean Walcott) of what a doctor is. He assists and changes many lives of those who are in the hospital and around him with his humor and his willingness to offer a hand. So some very strong morals displayed, especially at the court scene, there is a message of serving others. "},{"Title":"true brilliance","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is yet another, in a long line, of brilliant films by Robin Williams, a heartwarming drama full of laughs. Anyone who finds fault with this film, of which their are many (see other comments), are allowed their own opinion, an opinion which is worryingly flawed. In my opinion anyone who can not find Williams' sense of physical and verbal comedy even remotely funny must've had a humour transplant at birth. For example, the somewhat childish jokes surrounding one of the mental patients conditions beany, are brilliant in their simplicity and their ability to turn what appears to be a dig at someone in a catatonic state is actually the first of an ongoing offensive against the medical profession. Simply Brilliant - i give this film 10 out of 10 and recommend Robin Williams' other great films, Good morning Vietnam, Jack, bicentenial man etc "},{"Title":"Was touched at some points in this film.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie had some touching scenes, in particular the scene where a patient realized the dream and was put in a tub of noodles, and where a butterfly was God's response to Patch Adam's answer. I think overall this movie has substance and is much better than some other garbage movies out there - and it makes you think about the importance of humour and connecting with people in everyday life. The thrust of this film was 'Robin Williams' portraying this real-life character and it did not seem as convincing - perhaps if another actor was chosen, who was younger, perhaps it would have resonated better. But, I believe it has substance, a clean family movie with some morals about humour. Give it an eight, I felt somewhat connected with the film. "},{"Title":"One Excellent Movie","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All I can say about this movie is that it's one excellent movie and they picked the most excellent actor to play in it.  For movies like this one and other comedies, Robin Williams is the perfect choice. I own this movie on vhs and plan on buying it on dvd sometime in the near future.  This movie is funny, dramatic and just overall great. Why can't they make more movies like this one instead of those typical class b movies that are not worth the time and/or money?  This movie was definitely worth the time and money to make and worth watching over and over again.  Robin Williams = **EXCELLENT** as (Patch Adams) "}{"Title":"Nice but nothing more","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film was good this man, is right about  that laughing can heal and help people. But the film wasn't that good it wasn't really funny and also not serious, but it was nice to watch though*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Funny, moving, thought-provoking unforgettable","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first sore this movie advertised I wasn't too impressed. I thought well, here is another movie inwhich Robin Williams insn't being used to his invaluable potential. I didn't see the movie at the cinema nor did I hire it when it came out for rental, BUT I did however see it on TV a couple of years later. For that I am eternally grateful.Within the time of the opening credits ending, i was hooked. Patch Adams is the type of movie that grabs you right by your very being and doesn't let go until days later. The brilliant set up of the shots, the amazing acting and compelling score, make you care deeply about the characters and their lives and then turns you straight upside down and inside out. You fight the good fight with them you win, you lose, you laugh and you cry.Patch Adams is the story of a good man, living in a world which has so much bad in it. He desperately tries to set things right and comes close to success time after time, but risks everything in doing so. You feel Patch's frustration in losing a battle that is so obviously unjust, and are moved by his perseverance.This is a film that brings you from ecstasy to depression and right back again. It is entertaining, important and inspiring. I cannot recommend this film more highly! "},{"Title":"Tha plot was very sentimental and funny at the same time","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time that I watch this movie wich Tom Shadyac directs, I liked it very, very much. I think Robin Williams who was ( in the movie) Hunter Patch Adams worked fantastically, and his colleagues Daniel London who was Truman Sciff and Mónica Potter as Carin Fisher too. I would watch this movie thousand and thousand times. The plot was very sentimental and funny at the same time, but the scenery and clothes haven´t got any special thing, however it was a modern place and updated clothes. I must say that I enjoyed the film a lot, but I thought that the movie has gone a bit too far, because we must have respect for the doctors, they are not clowns. Sometimes they save our lives, so I think that the part where Patch Adams puts the two legs when the gynachologist went to the hospital, was a lack of respect to them. This, in my opinion, spoilt the elegance of the movie. In spite of my criticisms, I found the production interesting. I want to say, that when I watched the film, I felt (in my case) stronger, I don´t know why, I felt that I can help people with anything, such us medine or with the things you need in the first aids pit. Finally I want  recommend all people to watch Patch Adams. From the youngest to the eldest, because there are lot of things that we can learn, in special our children.Maria de los Angeles Valenzuela. (Marita) "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you laugh.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Modern Day DoctorFrom Tom Shadvac (`Bruce Almighty' and `Dragonfly') comes yet another masterpiece in a film which explains the true story of Hunter `Patch' Adams (Robin Williams). Patch a doctor with a mission in the 1970s attempts to treat his patients with a medicine which modern science has overlooked for years humor. After a brief stint at a mental hospital where he realizes his ability and his want to help others, Patch enters medical school. It is here in medical school where he discovers his own methods of reaching patients as a cure to the false front he witnesses in his instructors and fellow students. While his patients and fellow staff members appreciate his approach, the higher powers disapprove of his unschooled methods and attempt to prevent him from practicing. Professor Wolcott (Bob Grunten) is a go by the rule book kind of guy and disapproves of Patch's unorthodox tactics, believing that Patch should be expelled from medical school. Patch not only wants to be a doctor, but also wants to be a clown; thus he combined the two professions. There are highs and lows to Patch Adams as there are in any movie.  At the beginning of the movie, we view Patch admitting himself to a mental institution, and he meets many different people and realizes how there is no person who has the same personality as anyone else. He then enters Virginia Medical School where he meets Corinne (Monica Potter), a female medical student and develops a crush on her, but a dangerous situation with a mental patient claims her life. Patch now faces the difficult task of graduating school. Will he make it to graduation? Watch and find out. Patch Adams is a great movie, because it deals with real life characters and events. The clothing and music were both appropriate for the time period. I liked the setting for where Patch builds his shelter which gives a good feeling of home. If I were to rate this film, I would give two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Williams shines again.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A Modern Day DoctorFrom Tom Shadvac (`Bruce Almighty' and `Dragonfly') comes yet another masterpiece in a film which explains the true story of Hunter `Patch' Adams (Robin Williams). Patch a doctor with a mission in the 1970s attempts to treat his patients with a medicine which modern science has overlooked for years humor. After a brief stint at a mental hospital where he realizes his ability and his want to help others, Patch enters medical school. It is here in medical school where he discovers his own methods of reaching patients as a cure to the false front he witnesses in his instructors and fellow students. While his patients and fellow staff members appreciate his approach, the higher powers disapprove of his unschooled methods and attempt to prevent him from practicing. Professor Wolcott (Bob Grunten) is a go by the rule book kind of guy and disapproves of Patch's unorthodox tactics, believing that Patch should be expelled from medical school. Patch not only wants to be a doctor, but also wants to be a clown; thus he combined the two professions. There are highs and lows to Patch Adams as there are in any movie.  At the beginning of the movie, we view Patch admitting himself to a mental institution, and he meets many different people and realizes how there is no person who has the same personality as anyone else. He then enters Virginia Medical School where he meets Corinne (Monica Potter), a female medical student and develops a crush on her, but a dangerous situation with a mental patient claims her life. Patch now faces the difficult task of graduating school. Will he make it to graduation? Watch and find out. Patch Adams is a great movie, because it deals with real life characters and events. The clothing and music were both appropriate for the time period. I liked the setting for where Patch builds his shelter which gives a good feeling of home. If I were to rate this film, I would give two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"I see...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After trying to view this film almost three times, I was finally able to make it to the end. PATCH ADAMS is not the film I remembered it to be. The beginning of the film is great and showing how Patch wanted to be a doctor and wanted to be able to be able to help people by making them laugh was brilliance. But, as soon as Monica Potter's character has something bad happened to her, the film in a way turns to s**t.Robin Williams is brilliant as the title character and the supporting cast includes Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Bob Gunton, Harve Presnell, Peter Coyote, Michael Jeter and much, much more. The acting is very good and the humor is pretty funny aswell. I just loathed the ending. Tom Shadyac could have done better in the end, maybe not have dragged out the middle of the film as much and possibly changed the ending a little bit. But, hey, not much you can do for a true story. Good for you, Patch.PATCH ADAMS gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"It works.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having hated manipulative movies starring Robin Williams like Dead Poets Society, What dreams may come, or Bicentennial Man, I wonder why I sort of liked this movie. Robin Williams does not improve in this movie in fact, I could say he's at his absolute worst here. Well, in the melodramatic part of the film, because this film is also a comedy.Robin Williams is great at comedy. Mrs. Doubtfire and the Birdcage are examples of this. That's why the comedy in this movie works so well. But the drama also works. Why? Because behind all that sappiness, all those cliches, and all the manipulation, the cause that Patch Adams was fighting for was truly touching. Sometimes, patients who are about to die need more than medicine, which sometimes only increases the pain. His idea of a more human medicine was respectable -- and that's why the movie works. Robin Williams was, after all, the perfect choice for the role, I mean, who else could have played it better? Unfortunately, as usual, there are moments where his sappiness is unbearable.The scene where Patch faces the Medical Board and the kids arrive is abysmal, it's manipulation at worst. But overall, the movie has a good message and has better script that Dreams or Bicentennial "},{"Title":"Hey next time you people watch this movie TRY OPENING YOUR EYES!!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the most touching and overall one of the best films Ive ever seen. The acting is top notch, The script is great, the humor is very well done and it moves along very nicely. To think of it...there isnt much at all to dislike about this film NOTHING I CAN THINK OF. Go rent this movie and Forrest Gump, you will feel ALOT better after that I PROMISE. "},{"Title":"Can One great scene make a movie worthwhile?","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The old spontaneous, clever, fast paced humorist that WAS Robin Williams comes back to remind us what was in one great scene.  Bullshippers! Meatpackers! Eat cow now!  Robin Williams, not Patch Adams, never Patch Adams, could walk uninvited into a meatpackers convention, put on a white jacket, commandeer the podium and make a magic moment that would bring the conventioneers to the feet and leave them with a memory they would tell their grandchildren.  What a wonderful scene. Surely Williams wrote that scene.  Did he watch it?  Did he see what was? Did he see what makes him stand out from other comedians?  What USED to make him stand out anyway.Except for that, this is an awful and stupid film. Politcally correct, mawkish, corny and totally unbelievable in it's entirety, it's no surprise that prior to this film nobody heard of or ever went to the Gasundheidt Institute. A couple of years ago, I had a little heart problem and the great cardiology team at North Shore University fixed the problem and had me out of there in 48 hours! If one idiot had shown up wearing a red ball nose, I would have changed hospitals faster than you can say lawsuit. The bad guy head of the medical school was such a pathetic caricature or reality. The idiot director of this film shows him in dark lighting surrounded by dark objects! Why didn't they call the character Darth Vader?  That would certainly be in sync with the bad-guy vs. good-guy theme of this childish, childish movie.  The female medical student character was an absurdity.  Gee, she was raped by her evil Dad! And then an evil patient kills her after she falls in love with Patch.  Soap operas don't have writing this bad!!!Oh robin, oh robin, oh robin. Why must you continue to punish us with these soapy stupid Millenium Man/Toys/Dreams/ Doubtfire lectures about the great and good Robin sharing his wisdom with an ignorant world.  We ain't so stupid and you ain't so smart.  What have we done to you to deserve this drech?  So you got old, too bad.  It happens to all of us. That is hardly enough reason to stop being funny, to stop being an entertainer, and to start lecturing us all on who are the bad guys and who are the good.Watch that meatpackers scene again, Robin!  That's what was and there is no reason that has to die so soon. "},{"Title":"Can One great scene make a movie worthwhile?","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The old spontaneous, clever, fast paced humorist that WAS Robin Williams comes back to remind us what was in one great scene.  Bullshippers! Meatpackers! Eat cow now!  Robin Williams, not Patch Adams, never Patch Adams, could walk uninvited into a meatpackers convention, put on a white jacket, comandeer the podium and make a magic moment that would bring the conventioneers to the feet and leave them with a memory they would tell their grandchildren.  What a wonderful scene. Surely Williams wrote that scene.  Did he watch it?  Did he see what was? Did he see what makes him stands out above other comedians?  What USED to make him stand out anyway.Except for that, this is an awful and stupid film. Politcally correct, mawkish, corny and totally unbelievable in ite entirety, it's no surprise that prior to this film nobody heard of or ever went to the Gasundheidt Clinic. A couple of years, I had a little heart problem and the great cardiology team at North Shore University problem fixed and had me out of there in 48 hours!  It one idiot had shown up wearing a red ball nose, I would changed hospitals faster than you can say lawsuit.The bad guy head of the medical school was such a pathetic cariacature or reality. The idiot director of this film shows him in dark lighting surrounded by dark objects! Why didn't they call the character Darth Vader?  That would certainly be in sync with the bad-guy vs. good-guy theme of this childish, childish movie.  The female medical student character was an absurdity.  Gee, she was raped by her evil Dad! And then an evil patient kills her after she falls in love with Patch.  Soap operas don't have writing this bad!!!Oh robin, oh robin, oh robin. Why must you continue to punish us with these soapy stupid Millenium Man/Toys/Dreams/ Doubtfire lectures about the great and good Robin sharing his wisdom with an ignorant world.  We ain't so stupid and you ain't so smart.  What have we done to you to deserve this drech?  So you got old, too bad.  It happens to all of us. That is hardly enough reason to stop being funny, to stop being an entertainer, and to start lecturing us all on who are the bad guys and who are the good.Watch that meatpackers scene again, Robin!  That's what was and there is no reason that has to die so soon. "}{"Title":"Best movie about humanity...","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lust for money and love for life meet eachother in this most human movie I've seen. Robin Williams acts maby his best ever role being first patient in a mental institution and later one of the greatest doctors world have ever known. Pablo Neruda's poems ain't that bad either... "},{"Title":"PATCH ADAMS IS THE NEW JESUS! GREATEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS THROUGHOUT!The character of Patch Adams exemplifies the very definition of the word goodness. To be termed good one must be intelligent, kind, loving, sharing, know how to handle a situation and why, and one must achieve an excellence in the field of caring. Although at times it's seem implausible for a person other than Jesus to have all the traits that we use to determine who is good, throughout the film Patch manages to showcase all of these virtues. We first get a glimpse of the Great Spirit that is Hunter Patch Adams when he is shown in a mental hospital trying to recover from an unknown disease. Patch gets placed with the craziest cast of mental patients, the type of people who most people avoid on the streets, and as shown in the film most nurses don't want to cope with either. Instead of shunning them away as lunatics, lepers who are not to be touched with a ten-foot pole, Patch befriends these victims of society and actually helps to make the mental hospital a happy place. The one display of Patch's kindness comes when the mental hospital group has a group discussion, while the nurses and doctors treat the patients as if there are wild monkey children in dire need of lobotomies, Patch cheers everyone up breaks the ice and makes the group laugh and open up. A more obvious show of his loving nature was when he and the patient shared a room with was having a bad nightmare. The patient thought that if we went to the bathroom a group of squirrels would eat him. Patch had to help him and his child-like innocence shone through as he playfully killed all of the squirrel's that were bothering the patient, allowing the patient to urinate without worry. Patch Adam's display of excellence is greatly emphasized in his tenure at the medical school. Through his treat a disease you can lose, treat a patient and you always win philosophy on medicine Patch managed to keep up an outstanding Academic record consisting of straight 98%'s throughout the semester. He also changed the philosophies of many of his fellow medical students. Through Patch's hilarious antics he would often turn frown's upside down, and he had the ability to make people feel better about themselves. Every time he was insulted he did just as Jesus would do, he turned the other cheek. Did he hate the fact that people sought to ruin his life and denounce his medical theories? Patch had a forgiving nature and would have helped save their lives in a second if ever tragedy struck. The character of Corrine really gave Patch's early advances the cold shoulder, Patch did not fret and earned her love by filling her apartment with balloons and reading her a poem. Patch's approach to life was that people are gonna laugh at him no matter what, so it's best to laugh with them and make them smile at their selves. Patch was not all mischief though; he had a heart and a will to help others. Patch's exploration of the on-campus hospital showed us truly what a saint he was. When he first ventured into the unfeeling halls he made a point to learn the name of a bleeding patient, while other doctor's treated her like a diseased leper, Patch made contact with this leper and brought a smile to her face, potentially cheering up her spirits in times of operation. It is clear that Patch Adam's is not judgmental everyone in his eyes should be equally treated, and this approach should be applied to medicine Patch even explained how laughter adds a stimulus to the body which allows people to get better. Patch even breaks through to those who fit the don't want to be helped bill. His encounters with a hate-filled broken hearted (literally and figuratively) patient, showed how Patch helped anyone no matter how unwilling they were to care, eventually Patch's good nature shone through and he cheered up the patient. Shortly after receiving some Patch Adam's love the man died but he had a new outlook on life one that had taught him how much he would be missed, and how he will always be remembered.  Patch entered the children's ward, and managed to get the whole audience (both in the film and the people watching at home) rolling in their respective seats. Patch was such a good-natured fellow, that he managed to get away with having a group of gynecologists enter their convention through a mock model of the female genitalia. Patch's message through these antics was that you can't take life so seriously, perhaps if worry and prejudices were expelled from people, if a person looked at their self and was able to laugh maybe everyone can get along better. Patch was finding that people were paying too much money for sub-par unfunny medical care, so Patch created the Gheusunteit Institute that offered free medical care by trained and/or untrained physicians. He didn't care about the money he just wanted to help people by any means necessary. Patch even helped Corrine to get over her fear of men, he was not joking then he was acting as a friend would. Patch had many dynamics, there was this totally childish hilariously lovable boy, and there was the caring doctor, and then the strong, intelligent, man. He could make you laugh so hard you'd cry and when you did cry he'd be your shoulder to lean on. When a patient she tried to help murders Corrine, Patch almost throws his life away, but in a conversation between him and God he proclaims atop a cliff that his life is worth more than God is. A butterfly lands on his hand and does not fly away, in fact it rests their and creates a sort of symbolism for the goodness that drives Hunter Patch Adams, he cannot throw this gift away of a cliff, no he has to help others. Patch was determined to get reinstated into medical school, but the deans of the school were a little weary of his devil-may-care attitude. In a speech that brought together all of the people he's touched over the years, and sent out a message to the people of the court of the potential good of doctors Patch even manages to get the most hard-nosed of deans clapping for him to come back to the school. Patch graduates with flying colors and fully and finally opens up a licensed Gheusunteit Institute where people are served to this day. He was the epitome of what goodness meant, and through the example he has set I'm sure he has saved millions of lives just through his influence. Patch's humor on life comes back even after the murder of his lover Corrine, in the end he marches away from his graduation wearing a robe and nothing else, and as he walks away the camera pans to reveal his bare buttocks. Patch's story and practices teach us that in life it's best to take everything with a grain of salt. "},{"Title":"First impressions from vcd last night","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the beginning to this movie, it really made me want to keep watching.  The part with Patch Adams roommate and curing him of his fear of squirrels and the interesting session and Patches visit to the grumpy CA patient was such a good laugh & touching for me.Reading the other viewer's comments has made me curious of finding out about the real Patch Adams. . .the part where Corinn visits the psycho bloke was rather chilling, i thought she might have better feminine instincts to warn her of the situation.  I was relieved to discover that it wasn't true after all (in real life) -  though it is sad that it happened to his best friend. 10 out of 10 to the scriptwriter for convincing me there!Robin Williams certainly does shine warmly playing the role of this eccentric personality, but I wonder if we might enjoyed this movie more if it were more true to life? "},{"Title":"A nice film with some good moments!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is genuinely a nice film with a nice theme about the enjoyment of life! That's a great attribute- making the most of your life and living it! With that attribute why did I feel a little patronised, and then why did Patch Adams, the character, eventually become irritating?!The reason I found it patronising, I guess- is because I felt Tom Shadyac and the writers could of showed Patch actually saving a life instead of just making people laugh! Or maybe it was because Patch Adams jerked the system from the beginning and was so righteous! I don't know, I felt something was truly missing in this film- it just didn't gel for me! I really like Robin Williams but he was mis-cast in this film even though he played the role sufficiently! He was basically a big kid in this film, but he was less annoying in Jack!Bob Gunton and Philip Seymour Hoffman were also very good, and plus there was some excellent lines throughout and some very funny moments! But this was no Dead Poets Society! Patch Adams wouldn't rank high compared to the other numerous Robin Williams ventures I've seen! The moral of the film was great but I wish Patch Adams had a flaw or two (considering the film was based on a book written by the actual Patch Adams), and I wish they actually showed some of his skills! If you want to see a poignant film about a doctor/patient relationship, see The Doctor! I won't say I dislike Patch Adams, the theme and some moments were great! It just seemed a little phony, and really tries to pull the heart-strings!That aside, Patch Adams is fairly light-hearted comedy/drama that is worth a look. Tom Shadyac's other films; Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Liar Liar are better! I'll give Patch Adams a *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Too sappy for me","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a movie with very little to recommend it.  The story, although true, is trite and cliched, and nothing is done in the flick to make it any more than that.Robin Williams plays Patch Adams, a young doctor who goes against the grain and wants to do things his way, as opposed to the way of all the uncaring, cold-hearted, robot doctors around him.  Which means, operating under the theory that laughter is the best medicine, he tries to make his patients laugh.   Wow...what a daring idea.And they do laugh. Along the way, he meets a pretty but stand-offish girl, pursues her, and after he convinces her that he is a nice guy who won't mistreat her, gets her.   While at school Patch pulls some pretty outrageous stunts, all in the name of light-heartedness and laughter.  He opens up his own hospital for anybody who needs free medical attention of any kind.   After a tragedy hits, he rebounds and keeps on plugging away, establishing his own Gesundheidt Institute.A heart-warming story in real life, but it just doesn't translate well to the screen.  Williams is too old to play a romantic lead, at least too old for his screen partner, Monica Potter.  Potter plays too much of a cold fish to make us care about her.  And for some reason, after she rudely ignores Williams' sincere and well-intentioned advances, she suddenly changes into a woman who is trusting enough to visit a lunatic in his home, alone.Bob Gunton, as the dean of the medical school, practically reprises his role from The Shawshank Redemption.   The joke about the visiting gynecologists was so obvious and predictable, it was dumb. But the most annoying thing about this movie was the music.  When Adams is clowning around in the children's cancer ward, and they begin to smile, the music attempts to evoke a sense of wonder, as if this has got to be the first time these kids ever smiled in their lives.  Please.   I'm sure at one time or another one of those horrible, cold, uncaring doctors portrayed in the film once said something nice to the kids.  Smiling and laughter are indeed nice things, but don't try to make us think that Patch Adams is the only savior in the world who can supply them.Sentimentality is nice is measured doses; this movie is like a dumptruck unloading its cargo of syrup on us.  This is not a bad movie; it's just that its weak points overwhelm its overall niceness.  "},{"Title":"'Maudlin' perhaps... but enjoyable","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For this review, I choose to take the focus off the movie a bit and put it on its many detractors.  Many reviewing this film have expressed *bitter sarcasm* over the maudlin sentimentality in Patch Adams.  Gee, given a choice between the two, I'll take the sentimentality anytime!  Many of the reviewers are 'guilty' of something much more 'unpleasant' than anything the movie itself offers us.  If you even find one scene in Patch Adams funny, and one moment of it containing something meaningful to you, the movie is superb compared to the sarcastic attitudes of the ego-based 'critics' who have 'reviewed' it.  A single second of laughter, even one small smile, redeems ten thousand nastily sarcastic opinions.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Choking with Sentimentality and Predictability","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maudlin sentimentality is a weakness in most films. It is an illogical, childlike emotion. It shows  humanity in its most fractured and flawed way; nevertheless, it has no place in the realm of serious filmmaking. Mature films display feelings of emotion in a genuine, more lucid manner, that gets at the heart of empathy without making one shutter from overwrought saccharine sweetness, as does the film Patch Adams. Although not a worthless failure, I found Patch Adam's effort barely acceptable. The film repeatedly violated My  Rules to Film Enjoyment*Never use maudlin sentimentality. It is a cheap effort used by those who lack originality in script writing. e.g. Patch Adams*Never use cliches without novelty. Patch Adams labored on three film cliches.  Never create major characters that the audience will not relate to on some level. e.g. Enemy of the State or Titanic *Never revel in superfluous throwaway humor. e.g. Patch Adams  Never use gratuitous Tarantino-like violence for its own sake.  Never let profanity dominate the script unless it is indicative of the character(s).  Never let characters have coitus after their first meeting, unless it is indicative of the character(s) or essential to the story. Titanic  Never use narration without deft skill or originality. e.g. Patch Adams, Payback or The Think Red Line   Never use the soundtrack in such a way as to distract the viewer from what is on screen. E.G., Patch Adams  Never use special effects for their own sake. e.g. Lost in Space  Never let the audience know a great deal more than the major character(s) as to avoid predictability.*None of the above need apply to big budget summer movies.Anyone of sound mind will understand that all of these rules are not completely arbitrary. That they are the result of one who is experienced in movie-going. That they are, in effect, a body of guidelines that rile against the unconscionable, unforgivable, and unHoly Sin of wasting my time.Despite all of that, Patch Adams is an acceptable and, most importantly, entertaining movie, yet it simply does not rise to the occasion of ever being more than that. "},{"Title":"Dreadful tripe","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eight months after its release, I finally rented Patch Adams, when I finally ran out of unseen videos at the local Blockbuster.  I had been avoiding this movie like the plague because of my fears that it would be little more than manipulative tripe.  Well, I was wrong, it's even worse--as dreadful a piece of preachy, treacly Hollywood tripe as I have ever seen.Why do I hate this movie so much, when so many other moviegoers have seemingly taken it to heart?  Because it is shallow, condescending, illogical and dumb.  I have nothing against the message of compassion in the medical profession, I just have something against the way it is presented. If I'm sick and in the hospital, the last thing I want to see is some jerk walk into my room with bedpans on his feet and a red ball on his nose, jumping around and screaming like a lunatic.  I'd call the cops in a second! The portrayal of the medical school dean is also a sham--since he feels doctors should be serious he is obviously an evil, one-dimensional villain. And since Patch's roommate studies all the time and Patch doesn't but still gets better grades, of course the roommate is going to be seen as a jealous whistleblower.  And of course the roommate will come to his senses and support Patch; after all, Patch is the only one who knows and understands the needs of patients.  Patch is also allowed to run wild through a hospital, disturbing patients and causing a commotion you can hear down the hallways, but of course the nurses (who obviously care more about the patients than the doctors) are going to turn the other cheek because they know that Patch is good for the patients.  Never mind that he is really an insensitive, unfunny jerk, relentlessly clowning and telling dumb jokes about the Donner party, etc.  If any actor besides Robin Williams were playing this idiot and doing the same shtick, nobody would think it funny, but since it's everybody's favorite (at the moment) movie funnyman, audiences everywhere double over with laughter whether his antics are funny or not.I must say, I'm not surprised by the popularity of this film, just saddened by it.  All this talk about it being the best film of last year just shows that the average American moviegoer will swallow anything if it's fed to them in the right package.  Shameless sentimentality and idiotic humor lead to millions at the box office, while a 1991 film named The Doctor which dealt with the same subject in a much more subtle, intelligent manner was a major flop, in spite of great performances by William Hurt and Elizabeth Perkins and a script that doesn't condescend to the audience.  See this film, then tell me it isn't superior in every way to the awful Patch Adams.  Grade F  "},{"Title":"not as bad as they say","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie wasn't as bad as most critics made it out to be.  Sure it pushed emotional buttons, but if you were fooling yourself if you didn't expect that.  Mr. Williams delivers a typical performance, yet sub-par to vietnam or poetsSome card-board characters, cheap humor shots, and almost a half hour too long......6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Started off funny then it became more drama and sad","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Robin Williams is a very good actor. He's been in a couple of great movies like Mrs. Doubtfire, Jack. Anyways Patch Adams is a good movie but not great. Robin Williams played terrific as Patch. Monica Potter who plays Carin did a terrific part too. If I were in the hospital I would want a doctor like Patch it would be cool!!! I give this movie3 stars ***  "}{"Title":"Have a dose of excessive happiness","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Superbly acted by Robin Williams. Yes, the central energy to the core of this movie he is. Direction by Tom Shadyac is just fine &#150; 'must not think that he can only handle comedy (Eddy Murphy's `The Nutty Professor') as this movie included quite a range of emotions, especially from Robin. There are feelings of depression, facing death, conflicting angst &#150; brief as these moments may seem within this 146 length movie, it's subtly packed with various shades of human emotions.  About perhaps coming across as &#145;preachy' &#150; why not, we want him to be preachy, especially on this long standing subject of &#145;doctors are gods' image and argument that the real focus much needed to revive being &#145;doctors are to help people and improve the quality of life&#133;no matter what the outcome, you win by helping others'. And what's wrong with &#145;excessive happiness' and billions of laughter with the RED ball &#145;patch' on your nose &#150; hey, I'd like one, too!Monica Potter (also in the 1998 Robert Towne film `Without Limits' about Prefontaine with Billy Crudup and Donald Sutherland) has a more subtly complex role to play in this movie. I say, go see this film -- yes, coming from one who's worked in a hospital environment before &#150; truly a MUST SEE for all medical profession related persons and everyone in a society/community where one might have to see a doctor now and then. Experience this film and absorb all the joys, cheers, and laughters that Robin Williams emits -- smile, cry, be sad, and most of all, laugh out loud with him. It may feel quick-paced, yet there are tender magical moments of loving sparks and growing relationship you shall experience.Another MUST SEE for doctors is the 1991 Randa Haines' `The Doctor' with William Hurt, Christine Lahti and Elizabeth Perkins. Randa Haines directed 1986 `Children of a Lesser God', and 1998 `Dance With Me'.   "},{"Title":"Come one, come all, to the Cliche-o-Rama!!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Friends of mine told me I should see this movie. And, after returning from it last night, I am convinced of one thing these friends are part of a COMMUNIST PLOT TO SEPARATE ME FROM MY EIGHT BUCKS. Why else would my friends, all of whom have a pretty good idea of my tastes, recommend this turkey to me?I mean, what can you say about a movie so shamelessly exploitative, it makes Titanic seem subtle and restrained? A movie so determined to stack the cinematic deck in favor of Adams' theories of medicine that it makes JFK look unbiased and balanced?One thing that really got me was that everyone who advised me to see this film told me that Adams, played by Robin Williams, reminded them a lot of me. Well, I consider that comparison to be an insult. While I may be non-conforming, and I may be an iconoclast, if I am one-tenth as egotistical and annoying as Williams' Adams, I apologize to everyone who knows me. Hell, if the _real_ Adams is one-tenth that egotistical and annoying, he should apologize too. Of course, in the movie, no one finds Patch Adams egotistical and annoying, except the evil dean of the medical school, Patch's nemesis. In the movie, everyone laughs and claps and cheers at Adams/Williams prancing around like a clown on an ego high. This is because, as I noted before, the screenplay shamelessly stacks the deck in Patch's favor. In real life, you'd tell him to bug off. In fact, during the movie I found myself struggling to remember that I actually _agreed_ with Adams' ideas, because I found the character of Adams so unlikable that I automatically discarded anything he said.There was one scene, early on, where Adams is in a psych ward, in a group therapy session straight out of One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. And he immediately bonds with all the other mental patients and alienates the presiding doctor by starting to make fun of a catatonic patient. And the other patients join in, and the doctor gets all huffy and the meeting gets cancelled, and I think this was supposed to be some sort of fore-shadowing, showing how the unconventional Adams and his unconventional humor aren't embraced by the stuffy, _conventional_ medical system, but all I'm thinking is, what kind of jerk picks on someone who can't fight back?But even outside of Williams' ego trip as Adams, the movie was unbearable. It was so formulaic and mechanical I could almost hear the gears turn behind the screen. None of the characters really got developed beyond the high concept stage Closed-minded Authority Figure; Loyal Sidekick; Standoffish Love Interest.  "},{"Title":"This was a great movie","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had doubts about this movie but, it touched me.  I enjoyed myself.  I wish that all Doctors were like Patch.   You laugh as you cry in this movie.  You feel as if you are there helping the people.  I am going to see it again!!!! I am thinking about changing my career choice to being a Doctor. "},{"Title":"A preachy unrealistic movie saved from ruin only by Robin Williams' performance.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams was somewhat of a disappointment.  As a big fan of Robin Williams' acting, I expected more from the movie than an almost two hour commercial about America's declining healthcare system and the need to return to socialized medicine.  True, many of the points in the movie were valid, such as the need for doctors to relate to their patients as human beings first, and not as a disease.  However, the delivery of this message was heavy handed and overly done.  For example, did the movie really require Robin Williams' character to deliver a speech at the end of the movie summarizing the values portrayed vividly throughout the whole movie?  Hard to believe that any theatre audience would be so stupid as to not get the message.  In addition, the claim at the beginning that the movie was based on a true story was a transparent, cheap ploy to lend some credibility to a less than stellar story line.  The only thing that saved this movie from total disaster was Robin Williams' acting, which was, in a word, excellent. Mr. Williams' portrayal of a man seeking to become a doctor to serve humans and not just treating diseases seemed honest and appealing.  But for his saving presence, the movie would not have been worth the cost of admission. Overall an okay movie for Robin Williams fans - otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Trite, but enjoyable","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Throughout the movie, I found myself thinking, ah yes, another heartwarming, dramatic and inspiring, yet absurdly funny movie from Robin Williams.  Williams' character is just like his in Dead Poets Society, Good Will Hunting, and What Dreams May Come, but it's a likeable character.  The movie has its very funny moments, though sometimes they seem to get a little out of hand, and the drama is (obviously so) emotional.  In general, I recommend it, as long as you don't mind being aware of each step of the traditional plot formula. "},{"Title":"Laughter can be healing","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would have liked this movie a lot better if the attempt to manipulate the audience hadn't been so obvious. when Williams was being natural and funny- using his wit- this was okay, when he was preaching it was boring... I did laugh at some of it and I thought the overall message was good- I was in the hospital recently and the nurses are a lot friendlier and patient oriented than the doctors... but Patch Adams pounds that message in and is didactic. The best part of the movie was the decoration for the obgyn convention.. if the real patch adams did that-- hip hip hurrah for him. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made I think!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A fantastically dramatic movie, which almost made me cry toward the end. Robin Williams is absolutely sublime in a role that was seemingly made for him. Whoever the real Patch Adams is, he is a truly magnificent character of a man and Williams played him with such charisma, integrity and really camp comedy.If you want to watch this movie, don't just stick it in as a time-filler, really want to watch it.I saw it a couple of Friday's back after Jonathan Ross' chat show and was really in the mood for a good movie.I'm not the type of guy who cries all the time, but this movie almost had me in floods, especially the bit about the butterfly after Carin dies. It really moved me.I'm not a sap, or a dangerously sensitive person but I enjoy a good movie, and this is definitely one to watch.It has everything in it. Drama, comedy and romance. If you want to watch more good Robin Williams movies, I recommend.1) Bicentennial Man 2) Mrs. Doubtfire 3) One Hour Photo 4) Robots 5) Father's Day 6) Aladdin 7) Nine Months 8) Dead Poets SocietyA truly gifted actor in almost every field. "},{"Title":"Williams is perfect for role, story should have never seen light of day","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everything about this film suggests a real uneasiness in the background, authors thought process, writing the book, adapting the book for the film , and adapting the film for the actors.There have been many films in the last 30 years dealing with terminal patients, their rights and the needs of the medical staff looking after them. None however have shown the doctor having carte blanche over how this is done (with the exception of incarceration in mental homes and maybe interrogation by Gestapo).This is supposed to be a sentimental film, but the main characters appear to throw all medical teachings out (including hygiene) and then mope for about ten minutes when the leading lady is murdered by a patient that really should have been locked up from the beginning. Should never have seen the light of day, avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Patch Adams has all the markings of being a major hit. From a popular star, to a feel-good story line, it hits all the chords. It'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry, and it'll make you think. You decide i","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Patch Adams is a true story, based on the life of Patch Adams. After his wife dies, Hunter Adams checks himself into a mental institution. It is there that he decides that what he really wants to do in life is to help people. It is also there that he receives his nickname Patch. So he enrolls in the Virginia Medical School, where he quickly becomes the class clown. But a brilliant class clown. He gets the highest grades in the class, while at the same time, he gets on peoples nerves. Instead of learning through books, Patch wants to meet the patients and get to know them as people. But of course, everyone around him thinks he is nuts for bucking the system. Patch fights for what he believes, and in the end, he wins out.Patch Adams is a pretty mechanical story. Outsider tries to change the system from the inside. He has problems and fights battles against those that don't want to change, and in the end everyone accepts him and he gets to do things his way. Something we've all seen millions of times. The difference here is that it's all based on a real person. While the movie at times felt edited, I suppose it was necessary, otherwise it would have been 3 years long. And towards the end of the movie, there is a sequence that absolutely will tear your heart out. I still can't stop thinking about it. At the time it happened (and no, I won't say what it was), I thought it was going to ruin the movie for me. Things like that just don't happen in mainstream Hollywood movies. But the characters used it as a building block to finish off the film in a strong fashion. Just be warned, even with Robin Williams, Patch Adams isn't all fun and games. Like I said before, the plot line is formulaic, so it's up to the actors to carry the film and make it memorable. There is no doubt in my mind that Robin Williams is one of the most talented actors in the business today. Only recently has he gotten the recognition he deserves (see Insomnia), but he has the ability to make you laugh and cry all in the same breath. He wears his emotions on his sleeve, and takes you along for the ride. Monica Potter as his love interest managed to hold her own again Robin, and her character really drove the movie, especially emotionally.Overall, Patch Adams was a wonderful film. It hit all the emotional chords, and it left you feeling good. And while it was funny and uplifting, it's also sad. But once you realize that someone actually lived this life (and continues to live this life), it makes it that much more amazing. "},{"Title":"A Rare Piece of Art","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A rare piece of art that cannot be matched nor topped by any writer, actor or director. This film, for the artist, Robin Williams...is an example of true art. Forget the DeNiro's, the Nicholson's, the Brando's...for one moment...Forget about them! Williams' character is poignant, humorous and real. This is why people become actors. This is why people become the people who want to save the world. It's their passion that drives them. This film has all that and more.  "}{"Title":"True-life story of a rebel","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams is Patch Adams, a real-life doctor who founded the Gesundheit Institute. The film also stars Monica Potter, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Bob Gunton and Harve Presnell. Richard Kiley has a small role at the end.Patch Adams is a young man who, after his own experiences in a mental hospital, wants to help others by connecting with them as people and employing laughter. He starts medical school and is dismayed to find out that students have no exposure to patients until the third year. He starts entertaining the children in the cancer clinic, reaching out to an angry man with cancer, and eventually starts a small clinic with the help of friends, including fellow students. One student, Corinne (Potter), is a cold fish, but eventually takes to Patch and his methods, and helps him in his work. Meanwhile, back in medical school, the head of the institution (Gunton) wants him out.This is a highly sentimental film that will not be for everyone. It's very old-fashioned not only in its message but in the Frank Capraesque way it's done. That being said, I really liked it, and I loved Williams' warmth in the role of Patch. Though a true story, its theme of a passionate man going up against the establishment is a familiar one, but there's nothing much new under the sun - it's the execution that makes it or breaks it. It's a wonderful film. By the way, I still think Monica Potter is Julia Roberts with a blond wig. "},{"Title":"Fight for the right to laugh","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I haven't read the book, and I honestly don't know much at all about the real Patch Adams other than the fact that he existed. If he is in fact responsible for making the practice of medicine be less objective and mechanical in the doctors' relationships with their patients, then we all owe him a debt of gratitude. Shadyac directs it well, managing a good balance between the engaging drama and the mostly rather funny(with instances of pure hilarity) comedy. Williams hits the nail on the head for both halves, as well. The acting in this is, in general, excellent. Every role is well-cast. Hoffman could have been given more to do. It moves along at a nice pace, never losing your interest. This feels genuine and realistic, and it doesn't wind up a faerie tale, in spite of how easily that could happen, with how positive the concept is. There are some surprises in this, and sure the end speech is schmaltzy, but you can't deny that it's also great. The cinematography and editing are well-done, without attracting attention. There is some moderate and strong language, as well as disturbing content and themes. I recommend this to any fan of those who made it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of my life time","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams in an amazing actor anyways, but in this movie he makes Patch Adams the best movie I have ever seen. This Movie will make you laugh, cry, and become angry in the last 30 minutes. If you haven't seen it yet i recommend you go get it now. I give this movie and 2085 out of 10. Please go see this movie. Monica Potter makes a perfect match for Robin Williams in this movie, despite the clashing of personalities in the beginning, they seem like there really were together. In the beginning I just rolled over with laughter, and i found myself studying my hand for weeks after. This movie was so wonderful I did it for my school project. "},{"Title":"For those who have the heart to appreciate it....","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this was a beautiful -- yet funny and sad -- movie. It's a movie that while having it's drama, is inspiring. I guess it depends on what you've been through in your own life. People seem to have such wide and varied reactions to this movie and I think a lot of that is where you're coming from. Sure, it can be sappy, but so can life. And if sweet means sappy, let my life be dripping with with. ) There are also some darker things in the movie. Especially after a major moment in the movie. It's a moment, whether most will admit it or not, a lot of people have had. I thought it was a very honest and powerful moment.And I must make mention of the incredible orchestral score. Possibly just as important as the words that are spoken. The music carries that much weight.So don't watch this movie if your heart isn't open to being inspired. That's the best way I can explain it. There are certain things I feel were rushed toward the end of the movie. I know that editing a movie for the masses is always a tough thing. Unless your Lord of The Rings. ) But the rush at the end, doesn't take away from the rest. It's not a perfect movie, but its heart is in the right place, and there aren't a lot of movies like that. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. I think the attitude of the Dean is typical of some of the stuffed shirts that run some of the hospitals. Patch was like a breath of fresh air. I think the part about Corrinne Death illustrates the risk some of our Doctors take & was an important part of showing how Patch dealt with his life & training. I wish the real Patch every success in his journey towards changing medicine,it is about time somebody did something for the benefit of the patients well being,whether it be in mind or body.I think Robin Williams was perfect for the part,I have seen many of his films & his face alone is enough to make anyone laugh.The rest of the cast list supported him perfectly.Well done to the director & staff in their choice of actors. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his best!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Robin Williams at his dramatic best.  It sounds hackneyed, but literally, you laugh, you cried.  I wish it wasn't just a sneak preview so I could see it again tomorrow.  Truly a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can think of absolutely NOTHING bad to say about this movie; and believe me, for me, that is RARE. As Patch, the ex-psychiatric-turned-brilliant-med-student, Robin Williams has displayed that he has talents that go far beyond the goof prancing around in drag. He adds the perfect blend of humour, drama, and real feeling to the picture- which I suppose some cynisists would call hamminess or corniness, neither of which I see in this film. I do not know the story of the true Patch Adams, so I cannot comment on its historical accuracy, but as just a film in and of itself, I say it's wonderful. The script is neither over-done nor left to rot, but seems to hit the perfect note of helping the actors but not attempting to do the acting for them. Monica Potter was excellent as the defensive, book-worm, hesitant girl-friend who half-reluctantly helps Patch with his unethical schemes. She also brings a note of tragedy to the film- which I will say nothing more about ;) For cinematography and music, this film is fairly straight-forward, but it was pretty well unnecessary in this case. All around- although I hate to use the VERY old cliché- it made me laugh and cry. "},{"Title":"A film like Patch Adams tries to prove that laughter is a good thing, but if so, why is the laughter so non-existent?","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is no excuse for a film like Patch Adams. It has a great cast with Robin Williams and Philip Seymour Hoffman, a great scriptwriter in Steve Oedekerk, and a great premise for what should have been a great movie. But something went wrong in the process, and what we get is a wannabe great movie. It tries to be the Next Great Drama, but it isn't.Robin Williams gives a standout performance as Patch, a man who believes that laughter is a better cure than anything doctors can give us. But Williams doesn't seem to really hold the film as well as he usually does in cases like Jumanji, mainly because he doesn't fit all the attributes of the character. If you told me, Hey, there's going to be a movie about a doctor who cures people with laughter, my first thoughts would be Jim Carrey, Steve Martin or Robin Williams. Out of those three, my first pick would be Steve Martin, then Robin Williams, then Carrey. So, yes, Williams fits the TYPE of character, but not the actual character. He just doesn't talk like Robin Williams, he doesn't really act like Williams...so Williams has to adjust to this character, and we can see that the stretch in character is visible.Robin is good, but there's just something that doesn't work in his character.Patch Adams is a man who, in prison overnight with a crazy man who thinks squirrels are attacking him all the time, realizes laughter is the best medical cure. After he gets out of jail he enrolls in medical school, but encounters strict doctors and the dean of the college whose views on medical procedures are much different than Patch's. Prejudice is taken to new heights as Patch is constantly being beaten down by the cynical doctors who are after one thing money. Actually, two things money and money. So Patch constantly sneaks into the campus hospital and makes the patients there smile and giggle and laugh and cry with giddiness, and Patch gets a certain new-found high from this experience. Soon Patch opens Gesundheit!, his own medical shack which treats patients free of charge, while at the same time providing humor in their life. Here he and fellow medical students steal supplies, under the knowing eyes of kind hospital staff, from the college hospital to treat their Gesundheit! patients with. But things turn bad after Patch's girlfriend is shot by a mentally-deranged patient. Patch is later put on trial for medically treating patients without a license. His argument? You treat a disease, you win, you lose; you treat a person, I guarantee you win!So Patch fights for the right to treat his patients, up until the end of the film where (spoiler ahead) Patch graduates college in a revealing scene (was that really Robin? I don't think I want to know), and continues to run his Gesundheit! hospital in the middle of nowhere.Patch Adams is based on a true story which took place in the seventies, but, surprisingly, something about the film just doesn't click right. There's a certain something that doesn't hold together. It desperately tries to be the next big thing, but it doesn't really accomplish this as well as it should. It's too heavy on the sappiness, and too light on the comedy. It tries to be too cute for its own good, and too emotional for a film of its stature. It's not Citizen Kane material, and never will it be. It is a light-hearted comedy that preaches a true message using a true story. Well, that's what it should have been. But it's not.The film is good to a certain degree, I'll give it that, but on a level as a whole it does not excel at what it tries to do. I became uninterested in the story after an hour, and for a film like Patch Adams, that's pretty bad. And besides, a film like Patch Adams tries to prove that laughter is a good thing, but if so, why is the laughter so non-existent?2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The love of the human race","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's a real issue in this movie. In an era when everyone thinks about money and power. This films shows a true story of a man that loves people and loves to help them. The acting of Robin Williams, who is perfect for the character, is brilliant And although it's a bit of an old movie it relates to the present and the future as well. The movie is has the extra touch of Williams that makes all the difference. If the world had more patch Adams then it would have been a better place. There are people like that, maybe you even. Don't shutter this feeling, be good to others and listen to them, maybe you'll become a patch in your own way. a good film indeed. "},{"Title":"All emotions.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time tonight, and had high expectations. I'm not going to say I hated it, or loved it, it did touch me, but not as I had expected. I loved the way the beginning had me guessing, about who he (Patch) was, and from there the trials and tribulations. But what followed, I found that suddenly I was lost, the movie was only an hour running, and I was wondering where the end was. I guess what impressed me was how focused the movie was, and what most unimpressed me was when the focus was lost. Still I do recommend this movie, it is entertaining, if you ignore the antics of a 40ish child, and believe in the sentiment of this True to life story.  "}{"Title":"A very good film","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Patch Adams, as I was interested in the subject and I like Robin Williams and most of his movies. Patch Adams is not quite his best movie, but it is up there and features one of his best performances. The film occasionally gets a tad saccharine and the character of the dean is stereotyped in a sense. However, Williams is perfectly cast in the title role and Phillip Seymour Hoffmann does a rock solid job in support. The film looks great, is never dull and the ending is memorable. The soundtrack is soothing and fitting while never too subdued and over-powering and the characters particularly Adams are well defined. There is also a touching and memorable story with a theme that a lot of people would identify with and the script has deft funny touches while succeeding in being poignant as well. All in all, a very good film that hits the right buttons. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Patch Adams","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite a good drama and comedy based on a true story, from director Tom Shadyac (Liar Liar, The Nutty Professor). Golden Globe nominated Robin Williams plays Hunter Adams who attempted suicide and went to a mental hospital voluntarily. There he is called the nickname 'Patch' and helps a roommate Rudy (Michael Jeter) in a hilarious way, and decides that he wants to become a doctor and connect to patients. At medical school, he meets Carin Fisher (Monica Potter) who at first doesn't like him too much, but she gets on better with him later. Patch also meets Truman Schiff (Daniel London) who assists him in his goal to help cure people by humour and connection. The only person who doesn't like this method is Dean Walcott (Bob Gunton) who insists that Patch should be removed from the school. There is a happy ending though, even after a tragic loss for Patch. Also starring Philip Seymour Hoffman as Mitch Roman. There are moments where the film can be a little too sentimental and drift from the main plot, but it is still a nice story. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Marc Shaiman, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Too Much Artistic Licence I Feel","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hunter  Patch  Adams signs himself into a mental hospital suffering from suicidal tendancies and within five minutes he`s cured a fellow patient of his psycotic delusions of squirrels , and then decides to go to medical school in order to cure the sick.It`s at this point that I should mention Adams is played by Robin Williams in the type of manic motormouth heart warming role made famous in GOOD MORNING VIETNAM  and DEAD POETS SOCIETY so to say PATCH ADAMS is predictable means I won`t have put up any spoiler alerts. That`s the problem with PATCH ADAMS and other true story biopics , as soon as the big name star is cast you`ll find that the star is playing himself rather than the character he`s supposed to be portraying . Artistic licence is unavoidable up to a point but I felt this film`s more about Robin Williams than Hunter Adams     "}]