[{"Title":"Ya gotta have a sense of humor!","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"69 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When this film came out with all of the PR and things, I hated it. I hated it without even seeing it. Then, as with many movies, I caught this on Digital Cable TV, by accident. I had NO intention of seeing it, but once I did, I cannot tell you how much I loved it.This is the Farrley Brothers at their funniest. The idea is simple, a guy (Ben Stiller) who had a crush on a woman (Carmen Diaz) he knew since high school and continued to yearn for her privately, finally getting an opportunity to try to reconnect what never got going. This is something almost everyone can identify with.What makes this work...is its a dead-on hard hitting comedy.  The Farrley Brothers spared no one male or female, handicapped or able bodied, black or white, rich or poor, job or not, straight or gay, animal or vegetable, blonde or brunette, educated or not. It is NOT a cinematic masterpiece so don't look for one, it is not a punch line comedy or slapstick comedy, it is sophomore humor done very well because you're going to be laughing at what you think you shouldn't no matter how much you want to say you would never laugh at something like that. Plus the Farrley Brothers added in some things that...well... may have just happened to you at some point in your adolecence, and put a comedic/gross quality to it that shocks you into laughing at it. All through the film you might laugh because you're thinking, Better them than me.....even if it was you!Not for eveyone's taste, even those who think they know comedy, but this is that kinda comedy that is hard to do once you've reached maturity and forgotten what it was like to laugh at simple things. This is as simple as it gets. Don't put too much into it, it is what it is, and to me, it was really funny! Good Show! "},{"Title":"Unconventional satire stays on course while delivering major laughs","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"61 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of my friends said they hated this, but after i saw it and loved what I saw, it became apparent that many of these people hadn't seen it, they just KNEW they would hate it from the degradingly mysoginistic slapstick it supposedly represented.  Sorry, wrong movie.  This is a classic satire, replete with balladeer narrator.  The gags flow fast and funny and expertly walk the tightrope between politically incorrect and unkind.  This is surprisingly a movie that is very true to itself and its characters with a lot of plotlines that tie up nicely in unusual ways.  And, it's a feel-good movie too.  Cameron Diaz and Ben Stiller are marvelous together in the leads. "},{"Title":"There's something about Mary, and I agree.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"59 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The plot is nothing new A guy trying to get the love of the one he admired. We all have seen something like this in the past, and we will see something like this in the future. But in this movie the plot isn't important.When you watch it you just know how it's gonna end, and so the focus is not on the plot but the actual happenings in the movie, and there's a lot. First, the movie is funny, with its many gags that just keeps on coming (a Farrelly Bros. tradition). They might not be in everyone's taste, but at least they aren't forced or out of place. Second, the people seem real enough to be in the situations they brought themselves into (kudos for the great acting, though it could be better). Third, Cameron Diaz is adorable, beautiful, and a marvel to look at. Plus, she got the job carrying the whole movie and she accomplished that ever so gracefully. You just can't help but fall in love with her too, along with every guy in the film.This is a very good romantic comedy by the Farrelly Bros.. Just like in Dumb and Dumber or King Pin, the brothers have made a comedy that has just the right amount of everything. Excellent job!! "},{"Title":"There's Something About Mary","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Insanely off the wall comedy from the Farrelly Brothers that delivers from start to finish. Wonderful early sequence with Keith David as Diaz's father busting heavily braced Stiller's chops. Stiller's zipper scene goes down as one of the funniest and most painful things I have ever witnessed on film. Diaz is divine the woman of Stiller's dreams...Dillon is hired to find Diaz...He falls in love with her and gives Stiller a bum story... Lee Evans, a pizza boy, is in love with her too... then Brett Favre comes into the picture.  Every scene has something memorable from Dillon's attempts at reviving a dog to Stiller's pre date entertainment. A classic that doesn't take itself too seriously.  "},{"Title":"Funniest film since Blazing Saddles, only sweeter","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Did you ever see those annoying pop-up online ads about looking up old high-school friends? Did you ever stop to think that this movie is probably responsible? Really, there could be no other impetus for people to want to revisit the horrors of young adulthood then this sterling advertisement for reaching back and reclaiming the best of your past.Ben Stiller is a sad-eyed magazine writer named Ted who never got over the girl of his high school dreams, Mary, who vanished from his life after a single date in which getting horizontal meant being carted away in an ambulance. Ted has seedy detective Pat Healy (Matt Dillon) investigate a lead in Miami. Healy finds her and reports back that she's a walrus in a wheelchair. Ted thinks maybe he should check up on her anyway, to see if he can be helpful to her, but Healy explains she's now en route to Japan as a mail-order bride.Ted What are they, desperate! She's a whale.Healy It's a sumo culture. They pay by the pound.Actually, Healy is not being entirely truthful. Mary is single, ambulatory, and quite the fox in the form of Cameron Diaz. By the time Ted learns the truth, Healy's already putting on the moves on Mary with the help of a fake identity and a pair of gargantuan dentures. To counter this, without himself being exposed as a `stalker,' Ted has to reintroduce himself under similarly false pretenses. Will Mary go for this old near-flame? And what will happen when she learns the truth?A winning romantic comedy with gut-busting boundary-breaking bathroom humor and a sly sense of what makes people tick, `There's Something About Mary' is impossibly optimistic and reassuring even as it buries your head in the gutter for cheap laughs. That's probably what redeems it and makes it such a joy to watch over and over again, the fact that this proto-`American Pie' has a real heart. The makers of the film, Peter and Bobby Farrelly, reveal in their DVD commentary that Ted's reaction to Healy's news of Mary's condition is the key to making the film work, and they are right.Frankly, I could live in a world without `American Pie' and so many other stupid raunch-fests of its ilk, but `Mary' is pure gold all the way through. Not only is the comedy saved by virtue of its brilliance (I never heard a theater laugh so hard all the way through as I did seeing this in a stuffy Greenwich, CT cinema), it's also a very cleverly put-together film, with a lot of plot twists that hold up as well as the humor during repeat viewings. It's interesting to read people's comments and see them say that it would have been a good film if they had held off on the bad-taste stuff. That was kind of what put it on the map in the first place, the `hair gel' scene and Magda's breasts and Ted's zipper problems, but I see what they mean. You almost could make this film into a Hallmark romantic film, with minimal comedy of any kind, and it would still be interesting. I don't think I'd watch it 23 times like I have this version, however. The film never stops upping the ante on the ick-meter, a large part of what makes it brilliant.Diaz and Stiller blend very well together, with special kudos to Diaz for being so utterly wonderful and charming in the title role. You understand what the title means without ever having it explained. Also terrific are the supporting players, major ones like Matt Dillon and Chris Elliott as well as Harland Williams as the six-minute abs guy and, of course, Puffy the dog. Jonathan Richman and his drummer are especially valuable in their cameo bits that bookend the various acts in the movie, with songs that manage to be as funny and affecting as the show they are built around. And the end credit sequence is the all-time best. I still smile when I hear `Build Me Up Buttercup' on the radio, don't you?  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the 90's.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"40 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I desperately wish that the Farelly brothers would go back to doing gross-out comedies like they did with Dumb and Dumber, Kingpin, Me, Myself, and Irene, and this. This is by far the best of all their movies. There are three kinds of comedy. Comedies that make you smile (Sixteen Candles), comedies that make you laugh (Airplane), and comedies that cause you to nearly asphyxiate yourself from laughing so hard. This is one of those rare third category movies. With the friends I watched it with, the laughs sounded like nuclear bombs going off in my room. It's that funny.Thirteen years ago, Ted (Ben Stiller) landed a prom date with the most popular and beautiful girl in school, Mary (Cameron Diaz). Unfortunately, the date wasn't meant to be, for Ted has his manhood damaged right in front of Mary, and ends up in the hospital instead of the prom.Thirteen years later, Ted decides to track Mary down, and have a second chance with his dream girl. He hires sleazy private eye, Pat (Matt Dillon)to find her for him. Pat finds her, and she's grown up beautiful. Pat decides he wants to date her. He stalks her, finds out everything she wants in a man, and poses as just that. Meanwhile, Ted has been led to believe that Mary has become fat white trash in a wheelchair. Pat and Mary start dating.Well, by the end of the movie, every man who is involved in the story has tried to make a move on Mary. We all know how it ends, but it's one funny ride. One thing about this movie that's commendable is how the mentally retarded character is treated. He is treated in a way that isn't rude, or offensive. Mary sticks up for him, and he's really innocent. The funniest gag in the movie involves a NEW brand of HAIR GEL (compliments of Ted, and tested by Mary). I won't tell you what's really being mistaken for hair gel, but when you find out, you'll laugh so hard, you gag. This movie knows what a comedy of this type should be like. Each gag goes somewhere, and is really big. They're usually extended scenes with punchlines. Me, Myself, and Irene goes for the cheapest laughs you can find, but There's Something About Mary takes it's time, carefully planning each gag, in order to make it gut-bustingly hilarious. That's just what this movie is. 10/10.It is rated R for Strong Comic Sexual Content, and Language. Sex 8/10 Violence 3/10 Swearing 9/10 Drugs 2/10 "},{"Title":"There's Something About Mary and there's also something about this movie that makes me like it more than most other gross-out comedies","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"27 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's Something About Mary is an apt title, for there is something about this movie that is quite endearing, particularly if you are a gross-out fan. Even if you are not a real fan of gross-outs, as is the case with me, you can still enjoy this film. This is because I find it to be funnier and more enjoyable than most other gross-out comedies (and that includes Team America). As a romantic comedy, it is also enjoyable and that is saying something as romantic comedy is, to me, a bastardised version of real comedy, often with a weak romance and diluted laughs. This is certainly not the case here. Having said that, it is not perfect The Farrelly Brothers use a retard for cheap laughs once too often, which I did not like, the disabled guy wasn't that funny and the plot is a bit clichéd and predictable, but I expected that. The story is about a man named Ted, who we see meet a beautiful girl, Mary, during his teenage years. However, their budding romance falls away when Ted gets his dick caught in his zipper. By the way, this scene is absolutely hilarious and so is the aftermath, after the police officer tells him to 'pull it out'; next minute, he is being carted off in an ambulance, never to see Mary again...or so we think for a minute.Until of course, he finds himself fantasising about Mary years later. He hires a private investigator, Pat Healy, to do some snooping on her. This takes a turn for the worse, as the investigator falls in love with Mary and lies to Ted. Ted finds out about his deceiving ways, thanks to Woogy and goes to see Mary himself.This movie is hilarious at times, funny at others; occasionally, it falls flat. There are too many hilarious and funny scenes to mention here, so I'll mention the best ones the 'dick zipper' one, the 'fishing line' one and the one where the retard goes psycho and hits Pat Healy in the face. To be impartial, I will say that I have already mentioned some of the imperfect bits above. The acting is quite good too. Ben Stiller does a good job as the nervy, fantasising, sensible Ted, while Matt Dillon is good as the 'sleazy investigator'. Cameron Diaz, in the days when she was still hot, is OK, but not much more than your typical love interest. The rest of the cast is nothing more than OK, including W. Earl Brown, the guy who plays the retard (as anyone could play his role).I'll finish by saying that this is one of the best gross-out/romantic comedies I've ever seen and is definitely worth a Friday night or a DVD rental. There is a good chance that you'll be laughing like I did throughout the movie. To clinch this review, I will say thatThere's Something About Mary!4/5 stars "},{"Title":"Goofy, low brow humour- but it has something...","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the past I have not been a great fan of the Farrelly brothers films, however this film is an exception. The dog scenes were probably the funniest personally, but there were heaps of other scenes that are well worth a mention. Cameron Diaz was fantastic as Mary, the girl everyone is after and Ben Stiller was excellent. Matt Dillon was way too over the top- I know his role somewhat warranted it- but did he have to be so excessive? He seemed so irritating. There is no doubt that the humour in this film is of the lowest possible calibre, but it really works- think Dumb & Dumber, but only quite good. Despite all the comic situations in the film, there is still something undeniably sweet in the centre of the story, I think thats what made it work. Its certainly not top class entertainment, but its highly recommended for when you are in a stupid mood and need a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Funniest Films Ever Made","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"38 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don`t like comedies but I do enjoy much of the Farrelly Brothers stuff and THERE`S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is their greatest achievment which is probably down to their casting . Ben Stiller is perfect as Ted while Matt Dillon is absolutely outstanding as sleazy ( And boy do I mean sleazy ) private investigator Pat Healy . My only criticism is of Cameron Diaz who`s slightly bland , but she is attractive and that`s all that mattersI suppose how funny you`ll find this film is down to your own subjective opinion of what should or shouldn`t be made fun of . I`ll be honest and say that jokes featuring stalking , serial killers , semen , spiking doggie snacks with drugs and learning difficulties are all fair game ,and perhaps I`m being too honest in saying I laughed out loud at these serious subjects being made fun of ?Sorry if this review has been very short but I find it difficult to write hundreds of words about a film I love    "},{"Title":"Funny, but surprisingly sweet too.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The shock comedy aside (zipper and hair gel scenes), purposeful unpolitically correct moments (humor at expense of handicapped, animal cruelty), the most surprising thing about this film is it has heart and is rather sweet.   It's not the completely nasty, cruel comedy you might have been expecting.  There's a nice love story in here too.  It's corny and cliche'd and doesn't feel overly cloying because there are enough shockingly funny moments to offset it.  The acting is good, the pacing brisk, and the jokes, well... you've heard all about the best ones by now. "}{"Title":"Am I missing something?","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll make this quick and blunt There's Something About Mary is a worthless movie.  The comedy is so dumb that it's annoying to view.  I laughed maybe once or twice during the movie.  Look, Ben Stiller has SPOOZE on his EAR! If only seeing something as gross and disturbing as this were entertaining to me.  One out of ten.  Too bad the rating can't go much lower.  This one was supposed to be a comedy, but it failed.  Why couldn't those two director brothers do as well as they did with Dumb and Dumber?  I fear the sequel to Something About Mary and the audience the first one drew in... "},{"Title":"One of those comedies where you groan or cringe as much as you laugh. But such laughs!!","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's Something About Mary (1998)A goofy, mixed bag of a film, but with a few gut-ripping hilarious scenes that you can't miss. You have to like silly stuff. You have to put up with some padding here and there (I don't recommend the longer version unless you are already love the movie). And you have to turn a blind eye to political correctness (it has none, though not like Borat, which feeds off it, more just incidentally).Ben Stiller is great in his own way, lovable and dull at the same time, which is the idea. The other supporting male actors are comic regulars, and not my favorites, but they do what this kind of movie needs them to do. Even Bret Favre is as stiff on camera and as beefy as a quarterback is supposed to be.But there is, naturally, something about Cameron Diaz, that clicks with audiences--her cute, perky charm, most of all. That fact that all these guys like her for her looks is not the most enlightened approach to love, is it? But then, this isn't a high brow movie, or one with scruples in particular. It's a pretty clumsy movie, in many ways, just a series of gags that sometimes are just too funny for words. Sometimes being more often than a lot of other comedies. "},{"Title":"A real trend-setter.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whenver we refer to modern comedies I think we have to go all the way back to There's Something About Mary to see where this all started. It set the new standards for comedy and also became a much imitated movie. Movies however very rarely reached the level of this movie ever again, including all of the Farrelly brothers own later work.It's the sort of raunchy comedy, that makes some completely inappropriate jokes and makes for instance fun of both psychically and mentally handicapped people, among many other things. This is the foremost reason why some people can't really stand this movie but luckily most others are able to see the talent and effort that were put into making this movie and why the movie works out so well.As strange as it sounds, it's actually a real subtle done comedy. It's not predictable in any way and the build up and execution of it is spot on. It even makes all of the moments, that usually seem like something totally lame and forced, work out as something hilarious.It also has a great, yet very simple premise, of a bunch of guys all falling for the same girl. It's the sort of story that provides the movie with plenty of silly comical moments, in which the characters lie and constantly are backstabbing each other, all to get the girl in the end.Cameron Diaz forms the perfect centerpiece for this movie and the movie is filled with plenty of comical characters, all played by some capable genre actors. This movie is still from the time when it was cool to like Ben Stiller and yes, he also really is perfect in his role. But basically everyone is perfectly cast in this, which is obviously also a reason why the movie and all of its comedy works out so well.Comedies like this only seem to come once every 10 years, or so.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"great screwball romantic comedy","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not having seen There's Something About Mary since its theatrical release, I sat down to watch the DVD version fearing that, as often happens in the second viewing of romantic/screwball comedies, it would not be as funny as I remembered and that I would be sadly disappointed. Happily, it was, and I wasn't. Although it lacks the satirical bite and philosophical reach of Harold and Maude, the cult '70s romantic comedy to which There's Something About Mary traces its roots and pays repeated homage, this Farrelly brothers effort shares the earlier film's genre-bending spirit, shockingly iconoclastic images, and sharply written dialog - not to mention its sidesplitting hilarity.At least a half dozen scenes in There's Something About Mary still rank among the funniest I've ever encountered on film and set me off once again into uncontrollable laugh convulsions, even minus the stimulus of a roaring theater audience around me. The list must naturally begin with the prom night frank and beans in the zipper scene. Even more than the outrageousness of the central physical source of humor, what makes the scene work so spectacularly well is its pacing and the facial reactions of the various characters who enter the bathroom to observe Ted's embarrassed agony. One thing I had forgotten about the scene (or didn't notice the first time around) was how much it owes to the classic Marx Brothers' stateroom scene in A Night at the Opera. In fact, I was rather surprised while listening to the Farrelly brothers' alternate soundtrack commentary that they did not mention a Marx Brothers influence either specifically on this scene or on their brand of comedy in general.The film's other humorous high-points (if that's the right word), certainly include the three dog sequences (Puffy in a sedative coma/Puffy on speed/Puffy in a body cast), the hitchhiker sequence and its follow-up interrogation at police headquarters, the infamous hair gel scene, and old flame Woogie's sexual assault on Mary's closet. That these are not the sorts of subjects we feel entirely comfortable having jokes based on is precisely what makes them work so well - when they work for us at all that is. Operating on the edges of moral and social taboo the Farrelly brothers deliberately risk offense and invite charges of bad taste. Not surprisingly, therefore, almost everyone will respond to some attempts at humor in There's Something About Mary with more discomfort than elation. In addition, some comic bits in the film don't work simply because they were ill conceived or poorly acted, the leaden entry and presence of Brett Favre in the film's final scene being one such instance in my view and the whole pizza delivery boy character being another.For the most part, though, things click together in There's Something About Mary with a magical charm that few American screwball comedies have ever achieved. Much of the credit for that success must be attributed not only to the clever script but to the wonderful casting/acting of Ben Stiller as the lovable schlemiel Ted Stroehmann, Cameron Diaz as the luminous dream girl Mary, and Matt Dillon as the goofy gumshoe and romantic rival Pat Healy. Chris Elliott as the stressed out fetishist/stalker Woogie and Lin Shave as Mary's Maude-like neighbor Magda also add greatly to the film's comic chemistry - as does the film's musical score, which cleverly uses the Mel Brooks device of giving background musicians an on screen presence and concludes with a full cast encore lip-syncing to Build Me Up Buttercup as the end credits roll and outtakes flash by. A unique comic gem. "},{"Title":"There's something horrible about this comedy","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first word that comes to mind with this movie is BORING. Truly boring! And pathetically disappointing! I have seen hundreds and hundreds of movies over the years, and some very very funny comedies, but this one?? Where do I start? Not one scene made me laugh or even smile...not one! I am glad to see that I am not the only one here who can agree. Like some users have said This has got to be one of the most overrated movies of the 90's. And I agree with the user who said that this is one of those movies it's cool to say you like.So, so true! Every now and then, movies come out that become trendy and 'everyone has to see it'. Then, as it receives much hype in press and media, I seriously believe many people are afraid to be 'different', and so they choose to say that they too thought it was good even though they keep their true opinion to themselves. (other examples of this phenomenon are SkinDeep, Dumb and Dumber and Shakespeare in Love - all among the worst movies I have ever paid to see).And by the way, in no way did I think this movie was 'disgusting' or 'gross'. No, it was just plain UNFUNNY and so bad that I truly question what modern comedy-making has come to. Look at Scary Movie as well.....yet another modern movie that's supposed to be funny, but is one of the worst alleged 'comedies' I have ever seen.If you wanna see a *good* example of a comedy that manages to actually use sexual jokes and crudity on a TRULY FUNNY level, go see Ford Fairlane.If you wanna see *good* examples of movies that can be BOTH 'gross' (and actually can be called gross) AND funny - go see Dead Alive, Army of Darkness or Evil Dead III am embarrassed on behalf of the people who made this movie and I will from now on stay away from anything they make. Granted, KingPin was good, but Dumb and Dumber was also highly overrated and really bad.  "},{"Title":"Grade school level of bathroom humor.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was easily the worst movie I have ever seen.  I actually watched the whole thing just to see if it could possibly have some redeeming quality, but it doesn't.  It is full of endless, stupid, childish, crude, locker-room humor.  It takes me back to when I was a boy of ten years, when toilet humor was a big deal.  I still can't believe that any adult would find this funny, and it scares the hell out of me to think of the ratings it received when it was released.  What does this say about the state of our enlightened society. "},{"Title":"Remember the Porky movies?","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, those movies about a group of teens who 'discover' their sexuality. There is a scene where a woman grabs one of the boys by his genitals. When I was eleven, I thought this was very funny, even after watching it many times. Ten years later I saw the same scene and I was bored.Comedy is not intended to be deep, it is primarily for amusement, and I have no problem with 'physical' comedy. I love Laurel & Hardy, The Three Stooges, and the Zucker/Abrahams team of Airplane and Naked Gun. But TSAM is not a good movie.Take away the faeces, sweat and semen and you have almost no story, no creativity and no acting. Come on let's face it. Cameron Diaz would be outacted by an ironing board, and you must have been stupid if you didn't see every joke coming from a galaxy far far away.I know many people enjoyed this movie, but I think it was a bummer. I wonder if those who are laughing now will still be laughing ten years from now? "},{"Title":"Who asked for this @!#?%$?","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the WORST EVER films made.I gave up about 20 minutes in after I realized I was the ONLY one who did not at all see humor in the zipper-jam scene.  Instead I, with mouth agape, scanned the audience and found that everyone else was in a conniption fit of laughter. I have actually lost friends over my intense dislike of this movie and I do not at all miss them.  I also blame most of the gross-out comedies that put gross elements just for the sake of having a film with gross-out on this sick excuse for cinematic debris (I'd be giving it too much high praise if I called it a waste of talent since there is none in this turkey).PS  I know how it ends and what's in what i missed.  I feel I left at the right time. "},{"Title":"Lame Comedy","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Years after a disastrous date with the high school beauty queen, a nerd hires a private detective to find her. The film has some amusing moments (Stiller wrestling a little dog, the famous hair gel scene), but the pacing is too lethargic for a comedy and it goes on much too long. The humor is sophomoric, which is fine if the gags are funny but for the most part they are not. Diaz displays a fine flair for comedy. This role served as a blueprint for Stiller's career while the film did so for the Farrelly Brothers (who'll never be confused for the Coen Brothers). Dillon seems to be having fun. Unfortunately, the same can't be said for the audience. "},{"Title":"bah, it's okay","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the farrelly brothers are still yet to make a funnier film than dumb and dumber. This outing sees ben stiller and cameron diaz together, in the hope of getting a lot of laughs. Instead it gets just a few laughs. The film relies too much on the 5 main set piece gags, and the time between them is wasted on dull jokes and not very amusing physical comedy. It looks bright enough, with the usual colourful framing, but it leaves you wanting more.The actors try very hard to dish out the humour but it leads them nowhere. And lee evans is just so cringeworthy, doing an american accent so bad, you just wanna turn it off right there and then. But yes, the set pieces are funny, rib ticklingly funny. It's just a shame there is so much dead air in this one.  "}{"Title":"Yuck, yuck... a total bore","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Having heard come good comments in the past I started watching it on TV tonight but gave up after about forty-five minutes. Dreary....dreary... just another example of the poor quality of most films over the past twenty years... I guess teenagers will love this but mature adults like myself will probably share my feelings about this attempt at comedy that comes off as another juvenile independent production foisted on the public by a bunch of recent graduates from film school. It takes a truly good film for me to become enthused over a movie today simply because having grown up watching films made before 1970, I am understandably disgusted with most contemporary efforts. "},{"Title":"At least for me, it was like a kick in the groin","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can imagine (although hardly) that someone would find it funny, but I found too many scenes humiliating for the viewer. Other were plain disgusting and gross.I don't deny the existence of a plot and some funny moments, but unfortunately the majority of the movie is overpoweringly humiliating. I felt a sense of liberation when this whole movie started to remind me of Very bad things, and not only because of the presence of Diaz. Then all hte humiliation, evil and pain emanating from the varios situations started to make some horrible sense.Be very careful about deciding to watch this movie, there is a little likelyhood that you will feel beaten down, sad and engrossed, and maybe you will not even stand to see the whole of it.  "},{"Title":"Makes Porky's look like The Ice Storm by comparison.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie after hearing about how funny it was. Guess they must have seen a different movie than I did. I didn't laugh even once during this film. Lots of bathroom humor, jokes about the mentally retarded, sex jokes, jokes about the mentally retarded, no likeable characters, bad acting...did I mention jokes about the mentally retarded? The fact that so many people actually considered this piece of trash funny and the sight off all the people in the theater around me laughing was disturbing to say the least. Is this really how far we as a society have degenerated?This movie was not quite as repulsive as Very Bad Things or Last House On the Left, but it came real close. "},{"Title":"Hysteria aside, this is actually worth the time; a messy and full-of-mayhem piece covering several bases at once as well as certain others I'm not even sure it knows exist.","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's Something About Mary is a healthy mix of content which doesn't really work with that of rounded, authentic laughs; of situational comedy which is most certainly at times very funny with that of meaner, cruder humour which most certainly is not. The whole thing just about forges together into a film worth one's time, although looses energy when its lead does indeed catch up with a particular girl whom he has always liked, but has nary seen for the best part of ten years. The film is well worth the effort when the humour revolving around a case of two separate instances of deceptive identity is in full flow; other things, such as dramatic reveals and twists feel present more for the absurd pomp and circumstance of it all, do not work as well. Irregardless, the film's odd air of genre hybridisation, as classical Hollywood-era noir appears to crash head on with latter-part 20th Century gross out comedic laughs, is infectious at the best times and only moderately annoying at the worst &#x96; it boils down into something worth seeing.We cover a perilous and injustice-ridden quest involving Ben Stiller's rounded and generally bang-up guy, Ted Stroehmann. At the core of the film are his desperate attempts to first get back to the girl of both his youth and of his dreams in the titular Mary, before then proceed to try and win her heart all over again. Along the way, narcissistic and unpleasant men try to sabotage his chances. Mary is the woman in question, and she's played by Cameron Diaz; a woman we observe cycling in the prologue when it was still the 1980s and the main players were all still at high school. She trundles along to said place of study donning a radiant smile; beautiful hair and bright attire - her scopophilic qualities reiterated by all of those whom gaze upon her, and she blots out the unglamourous looking other women as she peddles along.One of those eyeing her is Stiller's aforementioned Ted; a guy revealed to be a little different to that of the rest of the ogling kids, even if he begins out on a similar plain. This differentiation occurs when he steps in on a situation in which a boy at the school with special needs is undergoing a bit of a trauma. Helping him out and bringing calm to the situation, it transpires the boy is Mary's brother and upon thanking him for intervening, poor Ted's feelings for her are implemented to the point that the rest of his life will be largely defined her presence (or lack of) in it in some capacity. The fact the film takes Ted from sharing a domain built on voyeurism as well as an unadulterated lust to know Mary more personally before, most likely, move onto the next woman, and then onto the places he eventually ends up helps move the film away from accusations of it being crasser than it actually is.Things kick off when Ted scores a date to the school-ending prom for his actions involving Mary's sibling, although it all goes spectacularly wrong when he heads over to pick her up and ends in such a disaster that he does not see her again for the duration that allows him to get to the age of being the late-twenty-something-year-old author he is. Desperate, he hires Matt Dillon's private detective Pat Healy to find her and report back. Dillon plays a man with a big gold watch; a little tickle moustache; nudey calenders on the walls of his office and a set of general characteristics that just scream avoid. What Healy does is bend the reality of Mary's looks and situation to allow for him to advance on the unbeknown Mary himself, something made more complicated by the presence of Lee Evans' character a paraplegic English academic. Acting out of fondness, Ted takes to the road and goes to find her anyway.From this premise, The American filmmaking duo of The Farrelly brothers spin an often humorous film within which we are surprised by how much we actually come to care for what transpires. The Farrelly's actually do well to demonstrate their credentials as filmmakers and prove their ability to time a joke, thus moving the film away from just a flurry of cheap puns more suited to a secondary school playground, during the set up wherein there is a particular edit so well timed that the laugh is in the cut itself and manages to draw attention away from what was otherwise meant to be an instance in which the reveal of a man's semi-veiled genitalia filling the frame was designed to induce giggles. Most of the film's energy, though, does indeed derive from these early segments when we will Stiller on to get to where Mary is and in Dillon's laughable facade. The film could almost certainly be recommended on a level of laughs, in spite of its often veering sources for these laughs; but it is the bends and curves in the narrative as things develop, twinned with one of the more likable leads from memory driving a film of this ilk, which keep it treading water. "},{"Title":"Crazy about Mary","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is probably the second best comedy by Farrelly Brothers next to the Dumb and Dumber. As always there's a good plot and many funny scenes. There were many famous actors. I'm not a big fan of Ben Stiller, but I noticed that all of his movies which I've seen are good and this one is no exception. I also liked Matt Dillon's character, actually I know some people with a very similar character and that made it even funnier. There were many other funny characters and I'm too lazy to write about them all but other two which I memorized were Mary's retard brother and Harland Williams character. Cameron Diaz was very suitable for Mary's role. Actually I haven't seen much of her movies but I think she's very good at romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"There's something about the '90s, huh?","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was about 13 or 14 when my family and I checked this flick out at the theater (I have hip folks, what can I say!). Zippers, hair-gel, Ben Stiller, and that crazy bro. Mary had - it's the late '90s, so put on your zoot suit, and pull a comb through your coal-black hair! Much of Something About Mary's humor is about sticky situations, and I mean this literally and figuratively. . . It's crude (what other movie ends with the dialogue, I was only bonin' you to get to Mary?), you bet - but it also has a charming good-naturedness about it that later, more cynical exercises in gross-out comedy (i.e. the American Pie trilogy) would lack. In fact, remember that guy from high school who was always trying way too hard to be the class clown? American Pie, and especially its sequels, are like that guy. His freshness wore out quickly, and he eventually became a self-conscious parody of himself. The plot of Mary essentially revolves around a group of love-hungry boobs who desperately want to hook up with Mary. Stiller was her high-school prom-date; Chris Elliot was her college boyfriend, etc. Each guy tries to sabotage the other guys, and Mary is stuck in the middle of their kooky antics. Simple? Yes - but Mary's not supposed to be a weighty Oscar juggernaut steeped in critic-baiting societal metaphors - it's supposed to be fun. And trust me, it totally succeeds, here. So, why should you check out There's Something About Mary now, instead of the more recent Pie movies, and such? Mary goes down like a bubbly can of sparkling Cherry Coke (or Surge, if you remember that! Damn, that was good stuff!), complete with a nostalgic buzz. Think blue skies, and an optimistic, pre-Bush America. Pie, and recent movies like it, go down like hard swallows from a plastic bottle of some over-syruppy, hyper-commericalized energy drink. Think smart-allecky smirks, and greasy foreheads. Which would you prefer? So, check Mary out - She was hot then, and she's still hot today. "},{"Title":"Delete everything good about Kingpin, amplify the rest.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If there was ever a godawful movie this is it. A sick, disgusting, unfunny affair without a single redeeming feature. Its characters are phony and inhuman and I could not care less about any of them. Kingpin was a much, much better film, its characters funny and sympathetic. The common threads are the crude and vulgar elements which must have made the former such a smash but diminished the latter. Apparently the Farrellys had a much bigger input in Mary whose success amazes me, even in these coarsened times.   "},{"Title":"One of Farrellys' best","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From the Farrelly brothers, this is their highly inappropriate entry. After Dumb & Dumber and Kingpin, they're going further into outrageousness. Has there ever been another zipper incident filmed like that? That was some visual of those twig and berries. Who could forget the hair gel? Ted (Ben Stiller) is a nice guy who come to the defence of Mary (Cameron Diaz)'s mentally handicap brother. She agrees to go to the prom, but something terrible happens and they don't see each other for 13 years. He still pines for her, and hires sleazy PI Healy (Matt Dillon) to find her. Only Healy falls for her too, and he uses all his underhanded skills to get her.If there was one problem, it was that Ben Stiller couldn't get involved with Cameron Diaz sooner. For a long while, Cameron Diaz and Matt Dillon were doing their dance all by themselves. A more tougher write could have integrated everybody. That is a minor problem which is soon forgotten with the craziness. I remember as we got up to leave the theater, I hear a little girl bugging her big sister about what was behind his ear, and the big sis who couldn't shut her up. That's when I knew that it was mission accomplished. "},{"Title":"hysterically funny but not for everyone","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is something about Mary is hysterically funny but it's not for everybody. Prigs need not apply and in fact would be WELL advised to stay well clear of it as they are highly likely to be offended. This is evidenced by a large number of 1 star reviews I see here. The gags push the boundaries of propriety as far as possible and then push them some more. Some were a bit too much even for me (the hair gel and the zipper scenes) and I generally don't mind inappropriate jokes (one of my favorite movies is Bad Santa).But my only real complaint about the movie (and the reason I decided to write this review) is not about its content or directing but this What in the world did they do to poor Cameron Diaz?! What SOB thought it was a good idea to starve this gorgeous girl for this role? Really. Sometimes I just hate Hollywood for what they do to women. Just compare how she looks in The Mask (1994) and here (1998). In The Mask and even in later movies like Head Above Water (1996) and Feeling Minnesota (1996) she is voluptuous and curvy. So what's up with the matchstick figure and hollow cheeks in Something about Mary??!! Who is responsible for this and where do I send hate mail? "},{"Title":"A second viewing was definitely better for me than the first, but I still don't exactly get its reputation","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This Farrelly brothers comedy was a huge success, and I clearly remember knowing about it and seeing that famous cover image of Cameron Diaz in the role of Mary back in 1998, but I was too young for R-rated movies at the time. I finally saw There's Something About Mary for the first time early last year, and knowing how popular it was, I had pretty high expectations, but was REALLY let down! I thought it was easily the most overrated comedy I had ever seen, and didn't get why it had gotten so much praise! After that, I had no intention of watching it again. I just wrote a bad review of it and then moved on. However, I recently decided to give it another try, though I wasn't expecting it to be that much better than the first time. I think it turned out to be above average for me this time, which was more than I expected.In 1985, Ted is a high school student and has a crush on a popular girl named Mary. He gets a date to go to the prom with her, but unfortunately, after a terrible zipper accident at Mary's house, the date is cut short! Ted has to go to the hospital before he gets to go to the prom with his new girlfriend. Thirteen years later, he hasn't seen Mary since that ambulance took him away, but still can't get her off his mind. He is still in love with her, so he hires a private investigator named Pat Healy to find her and get information about her for him. Pat discovers that Mary is now an orthopedic surgeon living in Miami. She lives with her significantly older roommate, Magda, and a Border Terrier dog named Puffer. It turns out that Ted is in luck, as Mary is still single as well, but Pat finds himself falling in love with her. He lies to Ted about her so he can win her heart without any trouble, and it turns out Ted really shouldn't have hired this guy!Even during my second viewing, I was only finding occasional mildly amusing parts around the beginning. I didn't find Mary's mentally handicapped brother, Warren, being assaulted after being tricked into saying, Have you seen my wiener? very funny, and still didn't the second time, which was not surprising. I also still just didn't find Warren to be a very funny character. The first BIG laugh I found the second time was Mary's stepfather pulling Ted's leg at the door, and I remember finding that funny the first time as well. It's also funny when Ted is seen urinating through the window, but this leads to the genital/zipper accident, which I found more painful to watch than anything I had ever seen in a comedy before! I'm not sure exactly why, since I had previously seen male genital injuries in comedy, but maybe it's because the one here was longer than any I had seen before, and I found that it got increasingly uncomfortable up to the We've got a bleeder quote! The second time, I knew it was coming, so it wasn't nearly as bad, but it was still another part I didn't find very funny. After that, I found some good laughs occasionally during my second viewing, but was still finding the film boring for the most part and no more than average, even though I was definitely laughing more than I did the first time. Like the first time, I still thought the sex soliciting scene was pretty lame. Eventually, however, I found that the plot somehow got more entertaining the second time I watched this 1998 romantic comedy. I even found the semen hair gel segment pretty funny, and I don't recall finding it funny at all the first time! After two viewings of this hit romantic comedy from the controversial Farrelly brothers, I still can't say I understand all the high praise, but after seeing it a second time, I can't call it a bad movie anymore, nor can I even call it a mediocre movie, even if I still think it comes close to that. Even though Ted getting his genitals caught in his zipper still didn't amuse me too much the second time, and I still found the close-up of it unsettling (good thing that shot is VERY brief), I don't quite despise that part as much as I used to. It is now another comedy I can refer to as a mixed blessing. Since There's Something About Mary is from Peter and Bobby Farrelly, you're absolutely right if you assume that it's very raunchy, often juvenile, and irreverent, and as popular as it is, it could easily disgust many viewers. I don't think the movie is NEARLY as funny as maybe most others who have seen it do, but won't just advise everyone to just skip it, either. "}{"Title":"Yes, there definetly something about her...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A couple of scenes from There's Something About Mary have already become legend. The scrotum-in-the-zipper scene and, of course, the flying style-gel scene have guaranteed places in the Gross-Me-Out Hall of Fame. The Farrelly brothers, Peter and Bobby, have provided us with the funniest mainstream comedy since AUSTIN POWERS. The minds behind the successful Dumb and Dumber and the overlooked Kingpin have concocted an outrageous batch of gags and assembled a game cast to embody them. Ben Stiller is Rhode Island Ted, a nerdy, mouth-full-of-metal highschooler who has a crush on the impossibly tall, blonde and beautiful Mary (Cameron Diaz). Much to his surprise, she becomes his date to the prom. Well, almost. A nasty close encounter with the aforementioned zipper dashes his hopes of romance on the dance floor. Thirteen years later, Ted, with the braces (and zipper) now removed, is still thinking of Mary. You see, there is definitely something special about Mary. He has her located in Miami by hiring a sleaze ball private investigator (Matt Dillon), and the obsession continues. Stiller is endearing as smitten Ted and Diaz is absolutely charming as Mary. No doubt, there's something about Cameron. You can easily see why she is driving everyone crazy. A terrific supporting cast including Dillon, Lee Evans, Chris Elliot and Green Bay Packer Brett Favre, add laughs. Quite astonishing is Lin Shaye as Mary's ever-present neighbor, Magda, whose bleached-blonde bouffant is way beyond white and whose dangerously tanned skin reminds me of a top-quality Naugahyde sofa. Look for Magda's dog Puffy too. He deserves a doggie Oscar all his own. Love Puffy's stunt double, which looks like an overgrown, stiff-legged Beanie Baby, has seen better days. The Farrelly brothers are now at work on Stuck on You about Siamese twins. Watch out for double the fun and double the flying body fluids.  "},{"Title":"There's Something About Mary You Just Can't Describe!","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's Something About Mary is a hilliarous dim-witted comedy great for the teens and guys in your life! One of my favorite movies of all time but, not one I would share with the kiddies on family movie. In this movie you a young boys infatuation with the one who got away in high school-- the new girl Mary(Diaz) who is the girl in high school that just has it all sensitivity, looks, and charisma. She actually goes to prom with Ted(Stiller) who has the geeky hair and braces. Only problem is prom never happens after Stiller has a problem in the bathroom when he accidentally hits the frank when zipping up his fly. Many years later still consumed with Mary-- Ted decides to her down hiring a dective who also falls for Mary. The dective makes up a story about Mary to Ted about her being 200 pounds and in a wheel-chair to turn Ted off while he moves to go be close to Mary. Mary hasn't changed at all and when Ted learns about where Mary is he decides to see her. Things haven't changed and their still is a connection with her. Then, the world comes crashing in when Ted learns that is not the only one who sees there is something about Mary-- her admirers include someone obsessed with shoes, a pro-football player, a class a- jerk, a pizza guy, and Ted who never got over Mary. All in all this a hilliarou comedy! One to have in your collection! All admit the storyline is a little too dim-witted at times jumping around from a axe-murderer hitchhiker, to a trip to the emergancy room on prom night, to a dog set on fire-- to the guy that loves Mary's shoes. I've watched this movie over a 100 times and I still laugh every time I see it-- I guess there is Something About Mary you just can't describe. Rent or buy this one and laugh yourself silly! "},{"Title":"Just Wild About Mary","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the Farrelly brothers' masterwork following their other great comedies, Dumb and Dumber and Kingpin. At this film's heart it's just a sweet love story, leavened with scenes of low humor. The Farrellys navigate successfully the fine line between being laugh-out-loud funny and just plain gross superbly. They are abetted by a superb cast. Ben Stiller's nebbishy character get's tiresome in a lot of his films but he is somewhat endearing here. Cameron Diaz is effervescent here as the object of everybody's affection. Matt Dillon has never been better as the sleazy private detective(where's he been lately?). This film may have been a case of the Farrellys being too successful because their subsequent efforts have fallen short of the mark(though I'm one of the few champions of Me, Myself, and Irene. It's not as bad as some would say). On a final note if anybody's interested in who the minstrel is who provides running commentary throughout the film his name is Jonathan Richman. Richman and his band the Modern Lovers made a classic self-titled rock album in 1972. Richman was something of an eccentric. After the cult success of their initial album, Richman eschewed rock music and went on to make children's records. If anybody's interested though, the Modern Lovers' first album is well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"There's definitely something about this film that draws one to watch it","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's definitely something about this film. When I saw this film, I was thinking of The Wedding Singer because both movies were set relatively the same time and both lead actresses happened to be blonde.I thought Ben Stiller played an excellent character in Ted as he tried locate the girl he had a crush on in high school. Cameron Diaz was superb in her role as Mary and the actor who played her brother was an excellent addition to the movie because he played his part as a disabled man really well. I'm not a real huge Matt Dillon fan and his role in this movie didn't do much to change my mind. He was very despicable as the sleazy private investigator who has the task of tracking the high school crush down; however, what he doesn't tell Ted when he does find her makes this film more interesting. Who would think that this film has twists that would blow the audience away; it does and not just one, it has two. These twists are really something of a shock, especially to me who was not expecting it to occur the way it did.Overall, this film was enjoyable I wouldn't mind seeing it a second time.  "},{"Title":"Cue the vomit.","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a piece of garbage. I literally did not laugh once while watching this so-called comedy. I found it infantile and gratuitous, and anyone will tell you that when those two characteristics are combined (as they are masterfully in this movie), it's a recipe for cinematic disaster. Big names in a profitable film, says they; talented actors wasting their abilities in an insult to American taste, says I. I saw this film in the theater, and I actually left in the middle to go to the concession stand, which had never happened before. Granted, I needed something to snack on, but I eagerly embraced the fringe benefit of having a few moments free of the idiocy of There's Something About Mary. Would that I had driven there myself; in that case, I could have just gone home. I suppose there's an outside chance that I actually missed something funny during those three minutes in the lobby, but I highly doubt it. "},{"Title":"A very disappointing, boring movie.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A few scenes in this movie were funny, but I thought most of it was just boring, slow-moving, and dumb, like something you'd expect in a bad TV sitcom. None of the characters were at all likeable, and I found it very hard to believe that the air-head Mary was supposed to be an orthopedic surgeon! Although I'm not easily offended (I loved Pink Flamingos), I thought the way they ridiculed the man on crutches was inexcusable, and not at all funny. It made me cringe. I liked Kingpin, but I hated this movie. I'm at a loss to understand why so many people liked it. I want my $3.00 back from the video store.  "},{"Title":"Devoid of anything (full stop)","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first time I watched it, I sat through it with my arms crossed waiting for something remotely funny to happen - and it never did! The fact that so many people found this funny goes to show you how thoughtless and pathetic the general public's taste in comedy really is. Most of the comedy was simply dumb the fish hook in the face, restarting the dogs heart, ... all thoughtless and stupid.In fact, much of the comedy was so brainless that it sunk to the levels of Australia's Funniest Home Videos (actually, that's not a fair comparison because I've actually got a few genuine laughs from Australia's Funniest Home Videos). Comedy succeeds when it is creative.... and there is nothing particularly creative about a scene where a guy getting his genitals caught in his zipper. The script-writers must have spent days thinking up that one! And on that topic, let me add that the crudeness in this film simply did not work, mostly because it was also uncreative, yet relied upon (by the film-makers) to produce memorable side-splitting scenes. And this film was a spectacular failure in this regard. The jizz hanging off the ear and the genitals in the zipper made it feel as though the film-makers were trying to shock me into laughing rather than giving me something genuinely funny to laugh at. It didn't work for me. Films like Team AmericaWorld Police managed to use crudeness incredibly well because it is original, unexpected, but runs well in the background of an excellent and intelligent satire. It isn't the centerpiece of the film's comedy. However, in There's Something About Mary, I felt that the shocking crudeness took center stage. But since the acting and dialog didn't give me any genuine laughs, what's the difference?There's something about mary is a simply a cheap and worthless attempt hyping a nothing story with profanity and unfunny 'shock-the-audience-into-laughing' scenes. How it gained popularity and praise is beyond my comprehension.And I'm still waiting to see a Ben Stiller film that I actually like! "},{"Title":"This movie is bad! Really, really bad!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I decided to watch this movie because Cameron Diaz was nominated for a Golden Globe Award. Despite the fact that Cameron is a fine young actress, I regret having wasted my time watching this movie.  The something about Mary must be that; she attracts all those outlaws, who keep competing to see who is the worst idiot she has attracted. Cameron is a young doctor who does nothing related to medicine in the movie. I just did not get what is funny about this movie! Ben Stiller, who is normally a good actor, plays this loser.  In the beginning he wears this horrible wig pretending to be young and is not convincing at all. Since I did not watch Dumb and Dumber I am unable to cross reference. But my recommendation is stay away from this movie. It is awful! There is no script or point to this race of the out-laws that cute young doctor attracts. The writers seem of have simply tried to collect all the dumb gags associated with attraction to women and thrown them all together in this hodge podge script.What is suprising to me is that they found someone to pay for this film to be made.  "},{"Title":"Comedy that is not funny","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For comedy, Bobby and Peter Farrelly's There's Something About Mary is really not all that funny. Most of the jokes are meant to push the boundaries of decency, but do little except waste space. The movie tries to be one of these new, quirky romantic-comedies - like The Wedding Singer - only fails.Ben Stiller and Cameron Diaz fall flat in the lead, while Matt Dillon and Lee Evans go down fighting. For great off-beat comedy, see Better off Dead, a masterpiece of this genre. There's really nothing more to tell.Sunday, July 11, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"The Farrelly Brothers' Do It Again.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the tradition of Dumb & Dumber comes the equally hilarious and demented There's Something About Mary. Ben Stiller stars as a loser who wonders what might have been after he was unable to go to the prom with his true love Mary (Cameron Diaz). The reason he cannot go is an important part of the movie in itself. Fast-forward a few years and Stiller continues to think of Diaz. Of course he enlists the help of slimy private investigator Matt Dillon to find her, but a problem occurs Dillon falls in love with Diaz. This creates a problem for Lee Evans who plays a scholar in front of Diaz but is really a simple pizza delivery man. What follows are crazy situations and oh yes, don't forget Stiller's friend Chris Elliott who has a secret of his own. The film is just amazing in its ability to make the audience laugh. Every gag works to perfection and the whole film is a test to get through because you are laughing so hard that you might miss the next gag which is coming up. The jokes come in a constant wave and the whole film is just so comical that few can question the achievement of the film-makers. 4 stars out of 5.  "}]