[{"Title":"Human nature is going to the dogs","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Andy (Luke Wilson) has just been dumped by his girlfriend.  To add insult to injury, she took the dog as well.  Andy, not used to being on his own, meets Lorna (Natasha Henstridge) in a bar and a few sparks fly. Yet, Lorna, who has recently lost her boyfriend as well, is not interested in starting anything new and rejects Andy's advances.  Jeri (Janeane Garofalo), as Andy's close co-worker, arranges for him to participate in a bachelor auction.  Unfortunately, Kieran, loose and crazy, bids for him and promptly moves in with him.  Complicated? You bet!  Oh, and everyone walks their dogs in the dog park and takes their canine friends to obedience school with the same dog psychologist.  Will the doggies get their diplomas even as their mixed-up owners try to straighten out their lives?This is, by no means, a successful romantic comedy.  Instead, it falls into the category of an interesting also-ran.  The main characters are appealing (Janeane Garofolo looks wonderful) but the plot's haphazard storyline is always throwing in more loose ends without connecting them in a logical fashion.  The humor is not laugh-out-loud but rather mild and quirky.  Fans of romantic comedies will probably stick this one out and enjoy it.  Luke Wilson's ever-growing fan club will want to see it, also.  All others will be less enchanted and find it a off-beat diversion with no memorable qualities. "},{"Title":"Unusual and charming. Explores the heart truthfully","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it a lot. It's about people, not things or action or plot. That's uncommon these days, and should be applauded and supported by movie goers. People complain about f/x flicks, big cash blockbusters, and formulaic lowest common denominator pop-trash movies. That's a noble sentiment, but why not walk that talk? Why not get out to the theaters and pay to SEE movies that attempt to break out of the pop-culture molds? One of the reasons f/x (etc.) movies are almost all Hollywood makes anymore is because that's mostly all you and I pay to see anymore. Well, here's your chance to put your money where your mouth is and support something a little bit different.Dog Park had a few annoying snotty chick cliches, but not too many, nor too bad. Whether or not this movie represents real life or not, I cannot say. Whether or not a movie, any movie, even SHOULD represent real life--who knows that, either? But, if art, good or bad, is designed to evoke a certain feeling, and certain vibes, then this movie does that very well. The specific events may or may not be accurate, but the vibe and the results are.Minor flaws aside-- and they are mostly mere quibbles-- this is a bright, charming, thoughtful movie about contemporary people. I think everyone could relate to, and benefit from, Dog Park's exploration of the heart its fear, courage, deadness, commitment and connection. I gave this movie an 8 out of 10.This "},{"Title":"Kids in the Dog Park Canadian comedy","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dog Park is a lukewarm, enjoyable, and critically condemned contemporary romantic comedy which is low on romance, has a quirky Kids in the Hall sense of humor (for obvious reasons), and spends most of its time looking at the foibles of relationships. An so-so watch for channel surfers in the mood some light off-the-wall comedy. "},{"Title":"Odd but Pleasant, Worth the Rental","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is quite an odd film, but pleasant throughout due to the likeable actors and some laugh out loud moments.  There are musings throughout about dating and love, none of which really hit the mark.  The ending was somewhat unsatisfying, and loose ends weren't really tied up.  In addition, Bruce McCullough, from Kids in the Hall, who directed and wrote the film, somewhat underutilized himself in the movie.  He could have added some more hilarious moments for himself, but his Kids In the Hall partner Mark McKinney gets most of the laughs as a dog psychiatrist.  I appreciated that it seemed to be trying something new in the field of romantic comedy, and was less predictable than many similar films.  Overall, I did enjoy it and would say it is worth a rental, but I can't really justify giving it more than 6/10. "},{"Title":"enjoyable, even if a little mundane","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was a bit far fetched, that it all fell together a bit to easily (as romantic comedies sometimes have a tendency to do). It's a little short on laughs, the emphasis is definitely on romance over comedy. However, Luke Wilson is, as always, charming, and overall the movie is an enjoyable, easy way to pass the time.  "},{"Title":"Some of these reviewers should join Critics Anonymous","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jeez, I think I saw a different movie.  Let's see.....nope, it WAS Dog Park.Apparently we have a whole class of film students here who were given the assignment, Pan a Film and Get Your Review Published and IMDb was the only place that would put them in print.Dog Park is fine.  It's nice.  It's even intriguing.  Its humor is low key, except where it's laugh-out-loud, which was in several places when I saw it (25 yr. old black woman and 50 yr. old white guy, 15 rows apart, the only 2 in the theater; we laughed at different parts, but we laughed).Luke Wilson is terrific, a curious blend of David Duchoveny and Bill Pullman.  I'll go to his next movie.  Natasha Henstridge can actually act!  Brava!OK, so it's not an Oscar contender.  I go into a theater to enjoy a movie, not to trash it, and I enjoyed this one just fine. "},{"Title":"Dog Park no walk in the park","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wanted to like this movie. It was an interesting concept of people meeting at a dog park as they struggled to establish relationships. There was good comedic actors and cute pooches. But since it was supposed to be a romantic comedy, I didn't see much comedy and even less romance. All the characters were struggling and not having much enjoyment in their relationships. The actors Luke Wilson and Janeane Garofalo did their job OK but were working with weak material. None of it jelled and some of the characters such as the dog trainer sounded retarded. The dialog was wimpy and desperate at times. Sad. Lame. Lame. Lame. "},{"Title":"Somebody tell me how it ended","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I are regular dog park visitors, and we rented this movie purely on the title.  We hoped that Janeane Garofalo would be as good as she was in The Truth About Cats and Dogs.  The Truth about Dog Park is that it ain't about dogs, it ain't about parks, it ain't funny, it ain't sexy, it ain't about Janeane Garofalo, and it ain't worth $1.99 on the discount rack. "},{"Title":"Flat, uninspired movie","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When watching this movie I kept wondering how anyone would ever have released it.  The movie was unfocused and flat and left me wondering what better things I could have spent my money seeing.  The only bright side was watching Janeane Garofalo who still manages to deliver her lines and make them funny.  If you were expecting another Truth About Cats and Dogs you will be terribly disappointed.   "},{"Title":"canine excrement wrapped in celluloid","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A truly dreadful movie in just about every way. Atrocious, amateurish dialog, bad acting by good people (how well can yo act when you have to spout those horrible lines), not a shred of reality or truth to anything that transpires. And the concept, if one can call it that, is warmed over Woody Allen with the dog thing - because let's face it - dogs are cute and people who like dogs or have dogs or want to have dogs - well, they're already swell people, aren't they? Miss this movie unless you want a crash course in how to write trite, unoriginal, cliché-ridden, sloppy, boring crud. So, no, I didn't really care much for it. "}{"Title":"Torture Device!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Remember in A Clockwork Orange when Alex is forced to watch horrible footage while his eyes are clamped open, well they should have shown him Dog Park!! - It's THAT bad! - Warning for the extreme Janeane Garofalo fans ... only watch it if the mere utterance of her name exacerbates your heart rate (who are probably thirty-five plus and live in their mother's basement and watch Star Trek). They probably screen this film in concentration camps. About as funny as a burning orphanage! In fact I'd rather be in a burning orphanage than watch this diabolical excuse for a film again ... "},{"Title":"Not your typical romantic comedy","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bruce McCulloch, as writer and director, blew me away. I have always been a big fan of Bruce, but this really surprised me. Mark McKinney, having before worked with Bruce McCulloch, is fluid in the movie, though odd at times. I don't much care for the normal romantic comedies that you see, such as You've Got Mail to name one. Those all follow the exact same story line and get repetitive very quickly. However, this movie turns the term romantic comedy upside down. With it's heart-warming moments, and also its moments of humor (most easily understood by a Kids in the Hall fan), this movie really tops the charts.  "},{"Title":"How could this have happened?","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bruce McCullough was the drollest,  the most acerbic of the Kids in the Hall.  He made the best vignettes--remember,  It Was the Night of the Cow??But with this film,  he's produced a maudlin,  agonizing bore devoid of laughs or insight.  Painfully stilted acting and writing reveal a wholesale lack of mind at work.  Ostensibly a sensitive romantic comedy,  it's a mutt in need of paper.  It makes The Truths About Cats & Dogs look like genius in comparison.  McCullough proves he knows *nothing* about other people and how they live and act.Euthanasia please. "},{"Title":"Dog Doo","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another cranked out, touchy feely, feel good, late nineties flick that's doesn't feel genuine, and at times, feels downright manipulative. The cast is indeed attractive (Luke Wilson, Natasha Henstridge, Janeane Garofalo, Bruce McColluch, et al), and that is the only way this movie would have taken flight. That noticeable block of 90's shallowness aside, the story is simply and weakly scripted. Way too many situational contrivances clog the script, and do not suspend belief in the least. It also makes for rather predictable viewing, as well. You might need a scooper for this one.  "},{"Title":"Would've seen it regardless...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of The Kids In The Hall.  I'm an even bigger fan of the romantic comedy genre.  And, hell, sure, I like dogs, too.However, while I loved watching the actors and actresses in Dog Park (great cast!), I had a problem watching the characters.  More often than not, it seemed as if i was simpy observing people recite memorized lines they didn't really believe, while they moved from scene to scene without  feeling or knowing why or how they got there.Whether it was because of the writing, direction, or lack of focus, the movie itself, rather than the characters in it, ultimately seemed to have the biggest feeling of hesitancy and fear of commitment. "},{"Title":"COULD BE BETTER -- LITTLE BARK","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  DOG PARK is a great concept with a decent cast and only fair execution. The characters are not likeable, not even the dogs. And the story is flat.  It drags and skips and squirts.  It's about as much dog dropping as it is fun.  A few light moments, but mostly a yawn.  Wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Character Piece Well Acted","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're looking for more comedy styling of Kids in the Hall, skip this film. This film has wonderful acting by Luke Wilson, Janeane Garafalo, Natasha Henstridge, Bruce McCulloch, Kathleen Robertson, and Kristen Lehman.Even the cameo actors shine like diamonds in this piece. Michael McManus has a walk-on as Derrick the waiter and if ever a man demonstrated that he didn't want to serve a table, he sold it perfectly.Andy (Luke Wilson) is a journalist who's been in relationships without a break since grade eight. His girlfriend, Cheryl (Kathleen Robertson), has just left him for Trevor, taking with her their dog. Andy meets Lorna (Natasha Henstridge) unaware that her ex-boyfriend is Trevor. Lorna spurns Andy after a bad first date and regrets it immediately.Andy has a wild and frightening relationship with Kieran (Kristen Lehman). One of the funniest lines in the film come from this strange interchange. Harland Williams as the quirky Cullum is a bright spot as an oddball date for lovelorn Lorna.Most of these damaged people own maladjusted dogs. They visit the same dog park and they all go to the same dog psychiatrist (Mark McKinney). The dog shrink is the touchstone for all the lunacy in the film.There are LOL moments and subtle humour. There is a single Kids in the Hall moment. It's quite subtle. Don't blink or you'll miss it.Will there be a happy ending? Will Andy and Cheryl reconcile? Will Peanut the dog learn to come when she's called? Will Lorna die single and unloved? I'll never tell.Peridot "},{"Title":"What Romantic Comedy Should Be","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what it is but romantic comedies always seem to be a let down. The comedy is just barely there and the romance is too unconventional to be believed.  Dog Park is what the genre should be.  It takes one small quirk, the dogs in this case, and melds a fairly realistic story around it. Featuring a great cast and great  writing, this film jumps right off the screen.  To have reality in a genre that lacks it makes it touch deeper than others.  A great film and finally a date film that doesn't sacrifice quality. "},{"Title":"Just terrible!!!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Please do a favor to yourself and don't watch this movie Dog Park.It's a shame see good actors and actrisses working together in a so inapropriatte theme.If you are very patient maybe you'll watch the movie until the end but if you're not give up!!!I gave up.  The story is completely stupid,there is this guy who never dates but oneday he meets Lorna(Henstridge) a beautifull and single woman.Then they go out at night and everything gets wrong.The bad thing of the movie is that dogs are the maincentral theme.The director add to the movie the most lunatic scenes with the animals,likeThere is a dog named Moogley that goes to a shrink(!!!!)and he is in depression because he can't watch people having sex(!!!).Half of the movie is inside the shrink!  Run away from this motion picture a classic of the trash!   "},{"Title":"My Favorite Love Story","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My initial reaction to Dog Park was that it was a deeply personal film from a writer intent on conveying his own sense of loneliness and cynicism towards life and relationships -- accompanied by a glimmer of hope, conceded in a subtle connecting glance across a crowded park by the film's two protagonists. Dog Park is a very smart film with a real, albeit subtle, depth, which is missed by most -- as evidenced in the majority of the user comments. Close examination brings to mind another film, Medem's Los Amantes del Circulo Polar, and the provocative ideas it evoked about the circle of life, the role that coincidences play in that life, about fate, and pain, loneliness and the desire, ultimately, to find, and be loved by, that one special person.A chance meeting in a bar by two lonely people on the rebound, establishes what will constitute the film's love story. Their meeting is awkward, and uncomfortable, and at least one of them is sure that they've seen the other before, somewhere, maybe ...at the dog park. They take some personal jabs at each other before the two settle into an introductory conversation and quickly realize that there is something surprisingly beautiful about that person sitting across from them. They segue to an apartment only to wind up in a bathroom where one of them is getting sick, while the other gracefully consoles them. Shot from high above the bathroom window, we watch as the two embrace each other, taking note that this is the last time they will grace the screen together for the good majority of the film.The guy is Andy, played by Luke Wilson, an endearing serial monogamist who has been stranded in one romantic relationship after another since the eighth grade, engaged in a sort-of quest for that one special person to share his life with. He slowly discerns that his most recent 'bad date' might actually be that special person he has been seeking all his life, confiding to a friend about her, Have you seen somebody in a certain light and you felt like you knew everything about them? His corresponding love interest is Lorna, played by Natasha Henstridge, an equally endearing person who is so emotionally dented by one too many ugly break-ups that she can't even conceive of getting into another one. She wants true love, and realizes early on that she might actually find it with Andy, but is just unable to gamble being hurt again, best articulated in their post-date phone conversation where she shoots down his offer of a follow-up date. Her facial expression says everything, pointing out the divergence between what she really wants and what she is able to do. She is clearly caught in a personal struggle between her protective instincts and her desire to be loved --  and stranded in her own loneliness.Along for the ride are several other characters, both human and canine, including Kathleen Robertson, Andy's ex, who has dumped him for a sex-obsessed loser, Gordon Currie, who just happened to be the fellow who dumped Lorna. There's also Janeane Garofalo and Bruce McCullough, the seemingly perfect couple representing, at least for Andy, the ideal relationship he desperately longs for -- that is, until it begins unraveling in front of him. There's also several interesting background characters, namely Lorna's bestfriend, Rachel (Carey), Andy's blustery girlfriend, Kieran (Lehman), and Lorna's Mr. Wrong, Callum, played Harland Williams, a contradictory sort, whose wild-eyed goofball antics are only offset by his extraordinary insightfulness. With the film's progression, it becomes apparent that these characters are inexplicably linked together by chance, romance and an unwavering devotion to their dogs.Speaking of dogs, everybody in the film has one, or at least shares one, and all of them are seeking counsel from the local animal psychologist, Dr. Cavan, played by Mark McKinney, who plays the straight man to all the craziness going on around him. In a way he represents the audience, understanding partially the cyclical nature of what is happening; the dogs are showing signs of stress because they are reacting to their owners' stress. McKinney's straight-laced, pseudo-analytical antics and inability to relate to other human beings, including his own children, provide some of the more hilarious moments.Cinematically, Dog Park walks the line between dark and quirky and completely hilarious. It also seems to be pushing some kind of bizarre cosmic diagram. McCullough seemed to have designed the plot around this weird 'life-is-cyclical' idea, mentioned before and evidenced numerous times throughout the film. Actually, I lost count how many times situations or elements are twice repeated in the film, each with a differing outcome. A pick-up story, 'exchanging phone numbers after an automobile accident' is utilized twice in the film, each time with a much different tone. Locations, lines of dialogue, dating habits and minor characters appear or are stated twice with their relevance becoming much clearer on the second go around. Even a number, specifically one-hundred, appears twice in the film, the first time it is used as a means to bring together a couple, the second, to keep apart. There's even a 'dating chain' which is elaborated upon by one of the characters, a sort-of celestial ecosystem that mathematically determines who does or doesn't find love.Bruce McCullough is a very talented director who had a lot to say with this, his first film, and in my opinion, he hit every note perfectly. He understands the romantic comedy in ways that most directors don't, or ever will, conceding that audiences don't need to see the heroes engage in an endless kiss or stagger into a bedroom hell bent on a physical consummation. He understands that sometimes, really, all that is needed is that subtle adoring look across a park or a nervous smile exchanged in a crowded bar by two people who know they are meant for each other. Sometimes that all it takes.I love this film! "}{"Title":"The Truth About Dogs and... People. Hmmm, Might Have Been Nice. But... no.","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" by Dane YoussefONCE-TIME Kid-In-The-Hall Bruce McCulloch has one good-as-gold nugget of an idea here. 'Cause speaking from personal first-hand experience, the dog park is one special, magical place. The true place for any dog, dog owner and dog lover.The dogs are given some amount of room to roam and socialize, good or bad. And so are their owners.And you know.... movies are filmed all the time in Canada, American movies even! For the sake of wide roaming space and less cost. There are Canadian movies... made in Canada. But so very, very few.... But... this does.Garofolo's pretty much just phones in the stock-type Garofolo role, knowledgeable about relationships and life with the usual sardonic wit. Except her usual genuine humor here is gone, thanks to her un-character and lines due to the script courtesy of McCulloch. She might have been better cast in the Lorna role. But no, Janeane has too much of a pulse.Bruce actually gives himself a substantial supporting role as the his of a pathologically married His and Hers couple with Garofolo. She still seems almost human, almost possible. She seems to persevere through this incompetence.He's always been a bad actor, but in skits, it's easier to forgive. And with this unfinished first draft of a script and monotone direction, all the actors more or less sink. These actors can act. But his movie manages to convince you they can't. So Bruce's horrible thespian attempts fit right in.Every ounce of blame goes to the man who half-conceived this big ball of half-considered, unfunny awkwardness-- McCulloch. The characters, duller than dullest. Nearly every single line of dialogue and scene feels awkward and mishandled.Not one person in this whole damn thing... comes off as believable. Or really all that insightful.All throughout, McCulloch seems to lack the ability to write a decent romantic scene, a full-fledged written character or a line of dialouge that hears well. When it comes to writing personally, he should well- stick to skits. Or maybe just checks--if any of them are any good. Better than this.Dog Park has no mood. Every scene is badly staged. It was so bad, I damn near expected this thing to have a laugh track.While many of these types exist out there in the world (the sad-sack jilted lover, the cynical sage advisors, the seemingly perfect couple, the superficial couple, the weird oddball, the nypho and the love-scorn pessimist), the movie takes these stock-types and injects no humanity into them whatsoever. No one feels authentic, or even interesting.Other Canadian folk like Harland Williams nothing special and especially awful. He plays the Neo-weirdo Lorna goes out with after she reaches that point when a woman gets so lonely and dying from cabin-fever, she rushes to go out with the first guy she sees. But after the date... he calls her back with a message she desperately, desperately needs.But yes, Bruce and co. I agree wholly that Andy 'n' Lorna are made for each one another. These two, so boring--without any personality or interest--that you'd have to go the morgue to find people who are less alive. These two were made for each other. Two big empty non-existent zeroes.Over the years, McCulloch has developed one tin cauliflower ear for dialogue. As been said by pretty much every other on the planet who saw this, the only performance, character and scene of fellow Kids In The Hall brethren Mark McKinney as Dr. Cavan, an insightful and bizarre dog psychiatrist. There's just not much about the movie overall. Just no real effort. No special insights about dating, relationships, nature--human or canine. No interesting people, philosophies about relationships or anything resembling a good movie-going experience.Now if you'll excuse me, as I write this, it's 730 on the dot. The dogs are at the door, with Christmas morning anticipation. Tails wagging, eyes fixated on the door. It's time for our evening constitutional, the high point of our day. As dog owners know, the local dog park is a treat. They're like late-night singles night clubs up in the city after hours. Anything goes, and often does...--A Long-Time, Long-Term, Life-Long Dog-Lover, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Date flick","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Luke Wilson stars as a woebegone fellow who goes from one mating situation to another in DOG PARK. His gal pal has just left him and he meets Natasha Henstridge in a bar. One date, and she is done with him. He then runs into a blonde who loves to sleep around and is insatiable in the sack. Through all of this, he takes his dog to a dog park. He also is friends with co-workers Janeanne Garafalo and Bruce McCullough, who are a couple and may be getting married soon. Problem is, McCullough (also the film's writer/director) is cheating on her, which Wilson knows, much to his regret. The whole thing comes to a head in the dog park. The movie should be funnier than it is, and the drawing card -- Wilson -- sort of sleepwalks through it. Also, in reality, it is a chick flick and therefore unsuitable by viewing by real men. I made the mistake of watching it all the way through. "},{"Title":"Such a cute and hilarious film!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really funny and cute... you don't have to like dogs to like it either. It's not all about dogs, but the cool things is the story sort of revolves around the characters relationships and how it effects their dogs. Which makes the film hilarious even more. The characters are built up well also. It's about this guy Andy (luke wilson) and his girlfriend leaves him and takes his dog. Then he meets this woman Lorna (natasha hentridge) and he falls for her. And Lornas friend is actually cheating this Andys friend Jerry's(Janean Garfolo) boyfriend Jeff (Bruce McCulloch). That isn't the whole plot, but you have to see it. It gets all chaos and then everything comes together perfectly at the end. Bruce McCulloch is really a good film maker, there are many aspects of this film that are so great! If you like comedys/romance, you have to see it! "},{"Title":"Good review","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I actually found this movie quite good. It has a humanity to it that a lot of films lack, as well as some great comedy from a lot of the players. I enjoyed this movie all the way through, and am not one who is into date films, but really a good movie. "},{"Title":"Cheezy, but good","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not normally a fan of romantic comedies, actually I despise most of them (especially if they involve Tom Hanks and/or Meg Ryan)...But I really liked this movie ... the fact that I'm a big dog fan helps, but the storyline was pretty good too ... I actually cared about some of the characters and the acting wasn't bad at all ...And it was funny at times ... a trait not shared by most romantic comedies... One thing that did annoy me a little was that it's completely unbelievable that a plain guy like Andy would be getting so much action (Cheryl, Lorna and the nutritionist all wanted him at some point of the film ... yeah, that really happens), but it is a movie and thus not supposed to be very realistic. So I'll let it slide.Call me a sap, but Dog Park is a winner in my book ... "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a rental fee...","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bruce McCollough (Kids in the Hall) has made an excellent directorial and writing debut. Whoever cast this film also did a formidable job; Wilson, Garofalo, and Henstridge are fantastic. Kathleen Robertson also slips comfortably from her usual 90210 persona to a very believeable, insecure, and even lovable character at times. The soundtrack is also great! So...spring for the four bucks and enjoy! I give it a very heavy 7 on the voting meter. "},{"Title":"A nice afternoon.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't class this with The Godfather, but it's a decent way to spend  an afternoon. Filled with kooks and freaks (this was after all directed by one of the Kids in the Hall) this movie ambles about pleasantly and manages to provoke a smile or two. I much prefered the supporting players to the leads, I found Natasha Henstridge and Luke Wilson a little stiff, but that could have been the script. There are not really a lot of dogs in this movie, so if that is your thing, go see Cats and Dogs.      "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think the problem most people have had with this film is its lack of off-the-wall humor.  Since it was written and directed by an ex-kid in the hall, most were expecting flying pig.  If you can get past the name-brand that is Bruce McCulloch you will be treated to an unusual and subtle romantic comedy.  Although it is rarely laugh out loud funny, it is always pleasant and amusing.  A very likable cast give even the worst lines their own special charm.  Kids In The Hall fans will notice many in-jokes referencing some of their skits.  This isn't a perfect movie, but it is a good one. "},{"Title":"Cute, quirky but awkward","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a cute and quirky movie for the most part.  It was a bit slow through parts and felt somewhat awkward.  I like Luke Wilson in general and I'm a Kids in the Hall fan so with Bruce McCulloch and Mark McKinney there was that element too.  Definitely not a great movie but not a bad renter. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected romantic comedy from A Kid In The Hall","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because of its director, Bruce McCullah, a cast member of my favorite sketch comedy troupe, The Kids In The Hall.  Good performances all around, and some very funny moments.  If you're bored, check this one out.  Luke Wilson is great in this. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was nice, quirky and clever. I would recommend it to couples especially. Give the 90's approach of dating, and even has a little symbolism using the dogs to keep things together. The shrink in the film was fantastic, if you didnt like this movie, then you are probably slow witted, and just found out your wife cheated on you. He, its like the movie, its just life. "},{"Title":"An entertaining romantic comedy","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An entertaining romantic comedy about a group of people who are very into their dogs.  A great cast. Natasha Henstridge's best performance to date. "},{"Title":"Can't even photograph dogs well","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Desultory, horrifyingly generic movie, which can't even photograph dogs well. With the possible exception of McKinney's lugubrious dog psychiatrist, there's nothing in the film that's even faintly funny, and it's certainly not insightful - the attempts to tap a vein of contemporary romantic wistfulness are particularly lame. It's very hard to know what McCulloch had in mind with such a shapeless exercise. The dog park isn't exploited to its full potential, relegated to the site of a few lazy one-liners and a hopelessly messy finale. The odd promisingly deadpan scene (like Robertson's and boyfriend's discussion over whether to have sex or eat first) certainly don't generate any heat in practice. The most uniformly bland movie I've watched in ages (which, as the doting owner of a labrador retriever puppy and a regular visitor to the dog park, I was suckered into by the advertising). "},{"Title":" I like dogs and the Kids in the hall, but...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a bunch of nothingness. I am so glad I only rented it! One of the reasons I did rent it was because Michael Mcmans had a tiny part in it as a waiter(with a fake beard?). Still bad. C+ all around, and thats being nice! "},{"Title":"Rainy day movie!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cute movie, but you'll forget about it as soon as it's over. Good to rent if it's raining outside or if your dogs need entertainment, but otherwise...On a more positive note, I think that Harland Williams as the weird date was just perfect! ) "},{"Title":"A complete let-down","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and I wanted to see this movie for months because (a) we like visiting dog parks, (b) we like Janeane Garofalo, and (c) we, okay, well, at least *I* like Kids In The Hall.We looked for it and looked for it at the Blockbusters in our neighborhood, and we just couldn't find it anywhere.  We thought that was odd, particularly based on the 'name' talent involved.Finally, I found it for sale for $0.99 at a Blockbuster 'pre-viewed movies' clearance sale.  AND.... even that scant amount of money was too much to pay.  At least now I have a tape I can use to tape over.I wish we'd seen it in the theater -- it would have been quite a bit of fun to stand up and lustily BOO, BOO, BOO.  Groaningly awful - and *NOT* in the fun 'so bad, it's good' way which you might expect.  I do like Bruce McCulloch, I really do.  And we really wanted to like this movie.  But this movie had nothing of his quirky sensibility.The script is unbelievably awful and devoid of any humor.  Mark McKinney's dog psychologist character would be funny in a 2 minute KITH sketch, but does not cut it as the only 'comic relief' in a 91 minute movie.Human beings simply do not communicate in this way.  Not even Canadians! The generalizations about 'the way dating works' are the kinds of things 14 year olds might say to each other, not these 30 year old (+/- 5 years) characters.The camera work and editing do nothing to help this weak script.  There is one potentially good scene, as another reviewer pointed out, where a girl and guy discuss whether to eat first or to **** first.  With good direction and editing, this conversation has at least some potential for lasting humor.  However, we see the scene in a single cut from about 20 feet away, where we can't even see the characters' faces.Consistency problems show clear lack of thought and care.  Most glaringly, and at the risk of nit-picking, Luke Wilson's dull character makes a point of the fact that after their first date he doesn't know Natasha H's character's name.  Then he has flowers delivered to her at work and follows up with a phone call where he asks for her by name.  Okay, I figured, I guess now he knows her name, we must have missed that scene where he found out her name.  Then, an hour later in the film -- he still doesn't know her name.  Huh???If you want to see it 'just for the dogs,' don't bother.  The dogs get about 10 minutes of screen time, and none of them are particularly cute.A WASTE OF TIME, unless your life's goal is to see every movie Janeane Garofolo has ever been in.  Her character in this one, however, is completely unmemorable and you can't be faulted for missing it. "},{"Title":"Idiosyncratic","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not everyone's going to enjoy this film; I could see where one might find it stilted or awkward or a little bland.This film is very - for lack of a better term - Bruce McCulloch.  Kids In The Hall fans will recognize the stolen bike episode, the perfect couple, the screwed-up answering machine message, as well as the dialogue's occasional forays into oddball symbolism.  It's not Bruce's best film work (Mr. Mann the Wig Store Owner or He's got my pen! still takes the prize), but it's a nice film to watch piecemeal on cable.Honestly, if Bruce tries again he should lead with his eccentricity rather than try to couch it in conventional storytelling.  The more left-of-center the film gets, the more successful it is.Mark McKinney is a standout; Luke Wilson is always engaging; Janeane Garofalo is underused.I'd probably feel a lot worse about it had I paid ten bucks to see it in a theater. "},{"Title":"Come on Bruce...","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really really wanted to like this movie.  I went into the theater with lots of hope for McCulloch, and I came out still hoping that perhaps I was wrong about the movie.  Truthfully, it is flat and cliche -- not even Janeane Garofalo gives an inspired performance.  Henstridge is terrible -- the children on Barney act with more honesty and integrity.  Perhaps it should've been a short film -- or maybe not a romantic comedy. Cinematography and music are good, but I was not impressed by the movie as a whole.  I hate to say it, but perhaps Bruce McCulloch should stick to what he's good at -- innovative COMEDY.  This is one viewer who hopes that the same fate of most SNL alums won't befall our Kids in the Hall heroes. "},{"Title":"A guy falls for a girl in a dog park.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gross out comedies have gotten an unfair wrap lately from critics who are old enough to qualify for the senior discount.   Well, watching this film made me really yearn for some gross out humor--a few pratfalls, maybe a joke about bodily fluids.   The problem with Dog Park is that it plays it too safe.  I like my comedy with balls...where they lay it on the line and dare you to laugh.  This just isn't the case.This is the usual boy loses girl, boy gets girl formula except set in the refreshingly original setting of a dog park.  The few highlights of the film really come with the casting, which would have just plain torture without it.   The yummy Natasha Henstridge shows us why hordes of guys shelled out seven bucks to see Species.  And, the always superb Luke Wilson does his low-key leading man to a terrific turn.  Other than, I would have to say this is a rental.  It's something you might want to watch while doing your laundry and not paying too much attention to the dialogue or story for that matter.  "},{"Title":"A surprisingly charming, quirky romance","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dog Park exceeded my expectations. Originally not hoping for much from the directorial debut of a former Kid in the Hall, I was pleasantly surprised by this romantic comedy which, although quite formula, managed to overcome its genre restrictions with lively performances and a generally oddball atmosphere. Henstridge lights up the screen, and Wilson injects personality into what would be considered a very cliché role. Despite the typical nineties sardonic-view-of-society undertones of the screenplay, the actual dog park elements are played out very well with a vibrant cast of characters, especially that of the hilarious McKinney. Overall, Dog Park is a nice, cute change of pace from the tired romantic comedy format. Check it out. "}{"Title":"Poor","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dog Park (1998) * 1/2 (out of 4) Andy (Luke Wilson) is a down on his luck, self described loser who has just lost his girlfriend to another man but to make matters worse she has taken the dog with her. Andy doesn't understand why she would take the dog since she hated it so much but thankfully he's got a friend (Janeane Garofalo) to explain life and its problems to him. The friend tries to explain to Andy that he hasn't been single since the eighth grade so he has no idea what life is like to be single and that he will continue to have bad relationships until he realizes how to get along without others.To get the sorrow out of his heart Andy decides to go to a singles bar for some onion soup when he bumps into Lorna (Natasha Henstridge), someone also suffering from a bad relationship. The two do some small talk and decide to have a one-night stand but after puking in his lap, the two go off in separate directions dating other people. In this time Andy starts dating a wild woman who wants nothing more than rough sex but he keeps thinking back to Lorna knowing that she's the right woman for him. He keeps going to the dog park where he hopes to meet her again while at the same time hoping to get his beloved dog back.Dog Park is another film in a long line of movies that tries to get a message across about love but anyone who has had at least one date in their life will come away rolling their eyes in disbelief because the film is so incredibly bad that you can't help but be thankful this turkey only spent a few weeks in theaters after sitting on a shelf for over a year. I'm a die-hard Woody Allen fan but I'm beginning to think he put a curse on the world because he's the reason so many bad films have been made because other's try to recreate what he does but usually falls flat on their faces.The films message is the typical one that if you keep trying you'll eventually find love yet the characters are so poor one doesn't have to wonder too hard why they can't keep a relationship going. As with other films of its type, Dog Park features a loser guy, a loser woman and their wonderful friends who give wonderful advice yet the losers never seem to listen to them. The first eighty-minutes of the movie features tears, heartache and dating but in the end we've seen this countless times before and we know how things will work out. As I've said before I'm often curious if these type of films use the exact same story outline and only slightly change character's professions and the color of their hair.Luke Wilson gives a rather bland and completely forgettable performance, which isn't a good thing for your lead actor. There isn't a single moment in the film where he gives off any energy, which just makes the film all the more unbearable to get through. He delivers each of his lines so slowly that you can't help but think he's reading them off a cue card. Natasha Henstridge gives another bland performance but for some reason she feels her smile will carry us the way. Put the two stars together and we get no chemistry whatsoever, which again, doesn't help matters. Janeane Garofalo, usually very reliable, doesn't add anything either because she isn't given anything to do. Harland Williams is the only bright spot in the cast but he's only here for a few minutes.This was written and directed by Bruce McCulloch from Kids in the Hall fame and he shows nothing original in either department. Various scenes go on and on without any direction and I personally couldn't see a point in any of them. There an incredibly stupid scene with a dog psychologist, which seems to be taking itself way too seriously even though what's being talked about is so silly that one must wonder how any producer could have taken it to heart. The screenplay offers nothing new and nothing original so if you want to see a loser try to make a rebound then check out a Woody Allen film or just buy a dog to talk to. Either one would be more entertaining than this film, which certainly needs to be scooped up and thrown away. "},{"Title":"Garofalo's Worst Film Ever!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a bomb! One would find it very very difficult to view this entire film in one sitting. A humourless Garofalo makes it only bearable in one's quest that she might say something funny - Hope is lost by the film's end. What was she thinking!! ... A film about people who walk their dogs!? - WHY? "},{"Title":"Dog is right ...","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a romantic comedy, it's not very romantic nor is it very funny.The whole thing is a pot of bad cliches of romantic comedy movies the always with a quip best friend, meet-cutes, running into an ex, bad breakups, the blonde with a strange sexual thing, etc ... ecetera, ecetera, ecetera - we've seen it all before - the only difference is a dog park instead of a singles bar and it's used sparingly and without any imagination.The cast is good but they don't have much to work with.It's a dog already and not the kind you want to take home. "},{"Title":"What a DOG!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All you need to do is spell the title backwards and you know what you're getting into.This movie is amazingly slow and lifeless.  The various characters are set up to be interesting, but instead, we focus on the least interesting ones, and they all do NOTHING.No explanation is given for why Luke Wilson pines for Natasha Henstredge after she is incredibly mean to him early in the movie.  We are given no reason to root for him as he is established as an emotional loser, who dates just to date.Everything about this movie sucks. "},{"Title":"Those other reviewers are on crack.  It's REALLY, REALLY BAD!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The others who have left comments/votes about this film must somehow be related to the production.  This is one of the worst films of all time.  It's billed as a romantic comedy, which is weird, as it is neither romantic or funny.As a Canadian, I am ashamed of this film.  I saw it opening night, and there were 10 people in the audience.  About halfway through two different couples left the theatre.  The only reason my friend and I didn't leave was that all the other movies had started (so there was nothing else to sneek into).I would tell you about the plot, but who cares.  There's no character development.  Which doesn't matter, as the audience doesn't care about any of the characters anyways.If you love the Kids In The Hall (like I do), stay far away from this film.  Or else you will have nothing but disdain for Bruce McCulloch for the rest of your life.  He even cast himself in the film - BAD CHOICE.  He gives one of the worst performances in a movie (that's supposed to be credible) since Elizabeth Berkley in Showgirls.DO NOT GO SEE THIS FILM.  Trust me, it's THAT bad.  Go see Kids in the Hall Brain Candy instead. "}]