[{"Title":"Pretty much a run of the mill slasher stalks teen flick.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first I Know What You Did... film had a plot to go with the stalking and the suspense. The follow-up film has no story, just your standard slasher stalks and kills teens....as well as anybody else in the film.However, that said, it still was fun to watch, although maybe a little too graphic for my taste in a couple of spots. Unlike many of the other posted comments, I found Brandy's performance to be very natural and entertaining and of course Love Hewitt is nice too look at too.The Mekhi Phifer character was too much of a boor and I kept hoping he would get the hook sooner than later. The surprise twist at the end did catch me off guard although others have commented that they figured it out in advance.The movie supposedly takes place on a Bahamian island. Having visited the Bahamas many, many times, the first view of the so-called Bahamas in the movie was a little bit of a shock since these previously perfectly flat islands had now grown mountains and hills along with rock formations jutting out of the ocean. And then when I saw the Bahamian resort I was further shocked to see that Mexican architecture had been exported to the Bahamas.It seems the film makers should either have gone to the Bahamas or made the location in the film be Mexico, where it was actually filmed. Of course Mexico has no remote, lightly populated islands like the Bahamas does so I guess that wouldn't have suited the story. And the Bahamian government probably wouldn't let them film there due to the potential bad impact on tourism.Despite these quibbles, the movie held my interest and had enough eye candy to keep me watching the screen. I would rate this movie about a 7.5 on a scale of 10. "},{"Title":"Run-Of-The-Mill Slasher Sequel, But Pretty Entertaining.","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer follows Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), who is still suffering from the memories of her friends' murders by a vengeful fisherman who she and her friends had accidentally hit with their car and disposed of his body, thinking him to be dead. Her college friend, Karla (Brandy Norwood) wins tickets to the Bahamas via a radio station contest, so she, Karla, Karla's boyfriend, Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer), and a friend Will, head off on vacation. Meanwhile, Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Julie's ex-boyfriend, has an encounter with the fisherman again, and heads to the island to save Julie. But soon enough, bodies begin to pile up on the mostly-deserted island (which is currently in it's storm season) all around Julie and her friends, and it seems the fisherman has returned.I considered the original I Know What You Did Last Summer to be a fairly good slasher movie that evolved during the late '90s. It had a nice revenge-laced premise about teenagers who had to pay the consequences for their mistakes at the hands of a psychotic fisherman, and it was very well done in comparison with most slasher movies of that era. This sequel popped up only a year later, and while it may be very unoriginal, it's still entertaining. In terms of story, the idea was well put together, and the tropical, stormy Bahaman island was the perfect setting for this film to take place, and a nice change from the gloomy coastal town the previous film was set in. I knew a sequel was coming, after the first film succeeded well with audiences, it was nearly inevitable. The violence factor is much more gratuitous in this sequel, it's gore galore for this movie, which wasn't surprising. It seems that way for a lot of horror movie sequels.Also, being no surprise, this film is almost beyond cliché-ridden. Typical horror set-ups, scares, and character stupidity is present throughout the course of the movie. It's unrealistic a lot of the time, and there are plot holes everywhere, so in that sense, it's a bit of a mess. But on the other hand, despite all of the unrealistic events, I have to admit that this is an extremely entertaining movie. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. reprise their role, and Brandy Norwood and Mekhi Phifer play her lively friends. Jennifer Esposito (whose career hadn't quite taken off yet) also plays a worker on the island who the gang teams up with when the fisherman begins to off the island's population. The acting was nothing more than average at best, but it was tolerable (nothing too bad, I have seen much worse). But besides, what can you expect from this type of flick? The film ends with one of those gotcha! jump scares quite similar to the ending of the original, and puts a close on this series (unless you count the 2006 direct-to-video sequel that follow this) on a rather silly but fitting note. The entire movie is a little far-fetched, but so what?Overall, I'd advise anyone who is tired of your run-of-the-mill slasher movies to avoid I Still Know What You Did Last Summer like the plague, because I can guarantee that they will be sorely disappointed. But for those who enjoy some cheap horror entertainment every once and awhile, this clichéd little slasher sequel is an entertaining way to spend a couple of hours, but don't expect to take any of it seriously. 6/10. "},{"Title":"depressing what passes for a horror movie these days","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Don't bother.Unless you are very easily entertained and have not seen any decent horror movies to compare this to. I would say the first one was OK, having seen it in the theater with a screaming audience made it more fun, but not in my list of top 20 horror movies. This sequel makes the first one look like a masterpiece. I figured out who the killer was about 15 minutes into the movie. The only slightly amusing part was Jeffrey Combs, who starred in the classic Re-Animator and many Stuart Gordon films. He is amusing but too good for crap like this! I Hope they at least paid him good money, the poor guy. Also, why did she flip out when she was locked in the tanning bed? The killer turns the heat up all the way...first of all, it isn't possible to turn it up enough to cook someone, especially in about 5 seconds. Oooooo, a tanning bed. I'm shaking in my shoes! No suspense, no nothing, and the ending was OK but made no logical sense. Of course there will be a third movie that will start out with her waking up from a bad dream that is the end of this one. Yeah, and I had a bad dream that I wasted 3 bucks an 90 minutes of my life watching this crud. No wait, that was real! Aaaaaaiiie!  "},{"Title":"Very different, but very entertaining","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"43 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer surprised me. I could see from the trailer that this second movie would have a different feel to the original (the first being more of a psychological thriller), but still it caught me totally off-guard. I Still Know... took a brave step away from the feel of its predecessor, and dared to be different - which is most probably why so many people disliked it. The opening scene displays a similar amount of emotion and tension that was visible ten minutes into the first movie, but then, in Love Hewitt's own words, the movie goes crazy. In a good way...British-born Danny Cannon's directing is top-notch, and his build up of atmosphere and suspense throughout the movie is well-paced. His style and obvious knowledge of Horror movies (as with the original) is a great benefit, and there are quite a few 'jumps' that work well.With Williamson unwilling to return to script a sequel, my main fear was that the script would be appalling if written by a newcomer. Thankfully, Trey Callaway's script is both inventive and witty, and matches Williamson's style almost seamlessly. Although the characters are not quite as well developed, we are given enough interesting and chilling set pieces to keep things at an entertaining level.The setting of the deserted tropical island is an inspired idea, and the isolation of the central characters adds much-needed suspense. This smart move helps to bring a new sense of unease and isolation to the film. By now, the overall feeling of unease apparent in the first has dissipated, but the atmosphere of the island is overpowering and the suspense almost unbearable as Ben creeps ever closer to conquering Julie.Another good point - as with the first I Know... - is that all the characters are genuine and likeable. While they are a little under-developed, what we do see of them helps the viewer to understand and like them. Between Karla's happy-go-lucky attitude, and bar-maid Nancy's dark sense of humor there is something quite special here. The acting is again of a high standard, and I was surprised at how well Brandy made the jump from TV comedy to full-fledged movie horror! Even supporting actors such as Matthew Settle (who played Will Benson) and Jennifer Esposito were extremely enjoyable, giving this movie a sense of realism that isn't all too apparent in many movies these days. The presence of Ben Willis is one that still sends chills down the spine, and Muse Watson's portrayal of a cold-blooded killer is unlike any other on-screen slasher in this day and age. Another welcome face (and one that spiced up the movie a little with his pompous hotel manager) is Jeffrey Combs, who is brilliant as the tight-lipped manager, and his death is a truly memorable and shocking moment (his subdued Duh! still cracks me up).The only disappointing thing about I Still Know... is the final epilogue scene. While the final shock worked effectively in the first movie and gave a great final scare, here it is rather predictable. Although it is handled well, and Love's final scream is one that is chilling to the extreme, it simply leaves the movie feeling unfinished.MY VERDICT A worthy sequel that is given way too little credit for trying to be different. While it may not suit everybody's taste, the great performances from all the principle cast (in particular Love Hewitt, who it was great to see back!), an original setting and artistic directing set this one above most teen slashers, and is one that should not be viewed alone on a dark night. "},{"Title":"So bad I wanted to gouge my eyes out with a rusty radiator","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I must say teen slashers used to have some appeal, but this film probably hit the lowest of the Hollywood lows. The only redeeming factor of the entire film was the fact that Jennifer Love Hewitt is in it, giving it some aesthetic appeal at least. But then the story gets under way and it's the most predictable thing EVER. The acting was horrendous, the plot pointless and the gore non-existent. In every one of these dumb slasher flicks there's a scene where the murderer is down for the count and can easily be taken advantage of, but for some reason unknown to man, the good guys don't seem to realise this. But I Still Know what you did last summer has possibly the worst one I have ever seen. What it lacks in gore it definitely makes up for in logic...oh wait no, they have NONE! Here's the situation, the murderer has fallen through a ceiling or something and he's unconscious. One of the girls has a great big fire axe in her hand. What would most sensible humans do? That's right, swing that axe lots and lots of times, making sure his head and body are separate entities, and why not his limbs as well. BUT NO! She doesn't do anything of the sort, instead she uses the axe to break into a greenhouse and then...THROWS IT AWAY. Clever girl! She may be dead but at least she got the moral high-ground. N.B. If you're ever stuck in a slasher situation, KILL the murderer when you get chance, and use a bit of logic. Then again if that happened the film would last about 15 minutes, which would definitely have been a good thing. "},{"Title":"no more sequels, please","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Every time that there's a cool new movie, they just have to make a sequel. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer pretty much repeats everything from the original, minus and plus some cast members. I just hope that they don't make another know what you did movie. Not only is there nothing that they can add to the concept, the title is inaccurate it should be two summers ago.So, stick with the original and you won't be disappointed. At least Scary Movie spoofed these sorts of movies. Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Brandy Norwood, Freddy Prinze Jr., Muse Watson, Mekhi Phifer and Jeffrey Combs. "},{"Title":"Good Looking Guff","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Like its predecessor, 'I Still Know...' falls flat when the funny, obnoxious character (played by Mekhi Phifer in this case) isn't on screen. Between the young actors and the tropical setting, it's a good looking picture, but there ain't too much more to rave about. I do like watching the film though, for the nostalgia if nothing else.I was going to close with a question about the silliness and plot-holes of Julie James' (Jennifer Love Hewitt) visions/disillusions, but then I realised that it didn't matter (at the end of the day, it's a trashy slasher that you either go along with or you don't). Instead, I will query the only thing more troubling in the film what is up with Jack Black's dreadlocks? "},{"Title":"messy and contrived","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hewitt is in college and struggling to maintain her grades after the traumatic events that occurred the previous summer. She and her friends win an all-expenses-paid vacation to the Bahamas, but it quickly turns into a nightmare when the menacing fisherman returns with vengeance on his mind. The first film may not have been a classic, but surely it could have inspired a much better sequel; this poorly-conceived slasher film has a ridiculous setup, nonexistent plot, little suspense, and an abundance of false scares. Even worse is a multitude of one-note supporting characters, senseless violence, plus manipulative and obvious plot twists that build up to a predictable finale. With the exception of a talented cast, there isn't a single redeeming factor here. *½ "},{"Title":"Completely destroys the original...","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not very often are horror films so successful as to spawn a direct sequel starring the same high-profile cast as in it's predecessor (with the notable exception of Sarah Michelle Gellar), but I Know What You Did Last Summer was on it's time very popular as to become a franchise spanning two sequels, this being the most direct one.The film takes place one year after the events in the original, Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt)is now in college and has completely restored her life after the living hell she went through the last year being stalked and almost killed by a vengeful, murderous fisherman named Ben Willis (Muse Watson), whom was run over and left for dead by Julie and her friends.Julie and her best friend Karla (Brandy) decide it's time for Julie to start dating and erase her painful memories, to do so, they enter a radio contest and turn out winners of a trip to the Bahamas.Julie's former boyfriend Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is attacked by the murderous fisherman and acknowledges Julie's danger, in order to protect her he escapes the hospital and embarks himself to the Bahamas.When at it's best, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer manages to pull off some scary scenes, but the problem lies in the clichés and the predictability of such scenes, and besides Julie and Ray's character, the other ones are forgettable at best (including Jack Black who appears as the funny dread-locked pothead and whom inevitably gets killed in a horrendous way) you can't help but to think the numerous other ways you would have acted if you were in the same situation (for example, an incident involving Julie being trapped inside a tanning bed and not one of the four people in the room thought of unplugging or turning off the machine, instead they break the expensive machine).The movie relies more in the gore than in the creativity of the scares, expect a lot of mirror scenes and the typical the killer walks but manages to catch the teenagers who are running, besides a plot twist gets discovered in the end which not only isn't helpful, but manages to destroy the already damaged storyline.In the end I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is nothing more than your typical teenage slasher film, which despite stellar performances by Love Hewitt and Prinze Jr. and somewhat noticeable production values, never manages to impress or scare the audience.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I Still Wanna Know What You're Doing Next Summer","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was such a good movie. I went to it expecting something not as good but I came out of the theater and I was amazed. IT was such an awesome movie. The only thing about it I didn't like was that you didn't get to hear Jennifer Love Hewitt singing more in the movie.She is my favourite singer and actress.She did an amazing job in the role of Julie James as did all the other characters in the movie. The only character I didn't like was Mekhi Phifer. He was so dumb. But the rest of the cast and movie was terrific. I loved the ending. I know a lot of people didn't like the ending, but I found it unique and unpredictable. I didnt find the movie at all predictable like other people are saying. This is the type of movie that you don't need to go to the theater and think about. Just go and have a good time with friends and don't think about things that were wrong like the supposed 7 firing revolver. It was an amazing movie and it is my favourite movie of all time. The plot was continued from the first movie. Scream 2 didn't have much of a plot either. Just pretty much the same stuff as this movie had. But I still liked that as well as did many of you. Stop complaining about the title as well. When they mean I Still Know What You Did Last Summer they are not referring to the hit and run they are referring to the whole him killing Helen and Barry and that whole thing that happened the summer before this movie takes place. So give it a rest. It was a great movie and I love it. I am just so anxious as to when the next movie is coming out. I am really excited and can't wait. Way to go Jennifer Love Hewitt , Brandy, Freddie Prinze Jr. and the rest of the cast. You did a great job and I Love The movie and it is better than the first. "}{"Title":"PANTS!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ermmm, exsqueeze me? Baking powder? I would like to know exactly when and where the usually rock solid formula for producing a simple but entertaining slasher flick got lost? Or is it just that Danny Cannon can't seem to suss it out? I know I know!... How about we have another scene where Jennifer Love Hewitt hears a spooky noise, wanders around the house in the dark, then opens a door to discover that there is no one there!... yeah, that's it! Then we can have a scene where Jennifer Love Hewitt hears a noise, wanders...If you are a fan of the old school slasher flicks such as Bodycount, Halloween, or the Friday the 13th's then you will be dissapointed with this films lack of entertaining grisly setpieces or inovation. If you are a fan of the hip new school of Kevin Williamson then again you will be dissapointed by the yawnsome pace of this.Dire! 1 out of 10, try harder! "},{"Title":"Better than the first!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Spoiler Alert! You know for being a sequel I thought this one was going to be worse than the first one. As I said before I personally am not a fan of this franchise whatsoever because the story is just dumb. This one however is cool and full of gore! I like the characters better because it seems to fit better. I even thought of a better concept this girl who we don't care about, Jennifer Love Hewitt is dealing with stress of college. She tries to get away from her boyfriend who coincidently meets a killer. Then Julie gets away from the world by going to the Bahamas with her friends and is being stalked by the same psycho who attacked her boyfriend. This time the old guy is jealous because he wanted Some from her and she rejected him! So he murders her friends and everybody to show his love for her! Of course him being a psycho his hook is his crotch. End of story. Overall I give the film a 7 out of 10 because it has a good setting and fun kills. "},{"Title":"Rainfall makes island slicker and slicker.","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Oh good grief, there's really no excuse for horror movies being quite this lazy, poorly written, contrived and implausible and for all of the faults on display here we can blame writer Trey Callaway and director Danny Cannon.Jennifer Love Hewitt returns and, this time around, her friend (played by Brandy Norwood) wins a holiday on an island resort. Four tickets. Obviously, two girls and two guys make up the quartet but there is soon trouble in paradise. It's off-season, the weather is terrible and it seems that the killer has returned to remind people that he, yep, still knows what they did last summer. Or the summer before last. Or whatever the hell he means.When the cast (also including Freddie Prinze Jr, Jack Black, Mekhi Phifer and Matthew Settle) weren't irritating me I was almost feeling sorry for them because this is a terrible, terrible movie. Thankfully, Jennifer Esposito does okay in her small role and it's always great to see the likes of Bill Cobbs and Jeffrey Combs on screen but they're really slumming it in this unworthy, lazy piece of hokum. It's also a shame that John Hawkes didn't get more screen time.If you've seen the movie and disagree just consider the basic premise of the whole thing, revealed quite late on in proceedings so stop reading if you've yet to endure the film yet There is a killer who really, REALLY wants to kill someone and plans to do so by . . . . . . . . . . . . . pretending that they've won a radio competition and giving them tickets to an island resort. Call me boring but surely there are much better ways to bump off potential victims than that. And that's just one of the many glaringly stupid aspects of this movie. The generous rating is all down to the genre names listed above.We can only thank the heavens that Callaway and Cannon found their calling in TV land. "},{"Title":"Works fine","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is good and very entertaining horror movie, but maybe not quite as good as part one.It works just fine as a sequel.In part one these four teens hit a fisherman with a car but the fisherman doesn't die and starts having his revenge for them.In part two the fisherman is back.In part two these four teens win a trip to Bahamas.And the fisherman, of course, is there too with his hook hand.And he kills everybody that is on his way.Jennifer Love Hewitt plays Julie James as she did also in the first part.Freddie Prinze Jr. is playing Ray Bronson like he did also in part one.But in thisone are two characters that weren't in the first part.Brandy Norwood is playing Julie's friend Karla Wilson and Mekhi Phifer plays Karla's boyfriend Tyrell Martin.So you can't see Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Philippe in this, because they got killed in part one.And Muse Watson is playing  the hook hand fisherman Ben Willis.This film is fun to watch.I've heard there's going to be part 3.Can't wait to see that.  "},{"Title":"Did I just watch Jaws The Revenge? but with a serial killer instead of a shark?","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After watching the first movie, I wasn't a fan. Years later I brought the DVD out of my attic because I was thinking I might give it another watch because my opinion would change. After watching it again, it did. I really appreciated it more and really enjoyed it. I looked at comments of this up on here and they didn't look convincing. One of my friends bought me the Blu ray of this for Christmas and I thought 'see what I think, this could be good' Just watched it last night, oh dear, is all I can say.To be honest, it was nice to see Jennifer Love Hewitt again. But I thought she died in the first film? Oh no wait, it was a dream. So I thought 'OK fair enough' The character connections were OK but I felt more for Jennifer Love Hewitt. The acting was OK I suppose but nothing Oscar worthy.The story was very weak and very predictable. The main character's friend wins a competition to the Bahamas so she invites Jennifer Hewitt along with two other friends. So now you immediately know, the killer is at large and is going to follow them there. Now this familiar. Where did I see this before? Oh yeah, Jaws The Revenge. You clearly know the writers have watched that before hand and thought it would work for this. Well trust me, it doesn't. When they enter the island, it happens to be stormy season and they are the only ones left on the entire island. Are you joking? was this idea stolen from The Shining? (which is my all time favorite film in the world).The filming was fine and the cinematography was fine, I'll be honest.Now the twist is the main downfall of this film. You find that the killer has an accomplice. Who is it? its one of the main character's friend's, who just happens to be his son. Wow that also sounds like Scream. The killer then takes off his hat ans speaks for the first time. To be honest, he should of stayed muted because his acting was laughable. This was the time I put my hand on face in disbelief. The end, its all happily ever after, or is it? Yes folks an opening for another sequel.Please do not bother with this movie, its atrocious. But if your looking for a good time with friends and feel like taking the mick out of a film, watch this. I Know What You Did Last Summer fans, if you watched the first one and not this one, please stick to the first one. Don't bother wasting your money, time and effort. "},{"Title":"A Sequel Should Have Never Been Made","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There was so much story left to tell after I Know What You Did Last Summer that the filmmakers brought back all the beloved, surviving characters from the first film for this sequel,I STILL Know What You Did Last Summer.The film stars Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Brandy, Mekhi Phifer, and Matthew Settle. The film also included supporting performances by Jeffrey Combs, Jennifer Esposito, Bill Cobbs, and an uncredited Jack Black.The screenplay was written by Trey Callaway, based on characters originally created in a popular novel by Lois Duncan and it was directed by Danny Cannon.The sequel is the continuation of Julie James, a tortured college co-ed who accidentally almost killed a man and left him for dead one night. One year later, that man, named Ben Willis, came back to kill all of Julie's friends. Now, another year later, she still suffers from nightmares over the horrible incidents. When Julie's roommate Kate wins an all-expenses paid trip to the Bahamas on a radio promotion by guessing the capital of Brazil, she decides to take her roommate Julie, her boyfriend, and their new friend on the retreat. Once there, they discover that besides being the rainy season, they were also followed by Julie's nemesis who is still seeking revenge. Slowly the islanders turn up murdered, leaving Julie no choice but to explain her past actions to her friends and fight to stay alive. It will entail the final showdown between her and Ben Willis once and for all.This was a lazy, hasty effort that offers little beyond a few jack-in- the-box startles and a high body count, including Hewitt's bouncing about in a shirt half-unbuttoned over a bikini top for neither Trey Callaway, who wrote the script, nor Danny Cannon, who directed the sequel, bring any new ideas to the franchise.Also,it version is less scary as compared to the first film.It's time to end it for a sequel should have never been made at all. "},{"Title":"Don't buy it until you try it","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Danny Cannon direct's I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, a film that is senseless and unnecessary to have been made. The film attempts to come off as a decent sequel with a storyline which I believe was intended to be clever, but the film seems rather out of place and slightly offbeat from its successor. Jim Gillespie's I Know What You Did Last Summer was a different breed of horror genre basing it more on suspense, instead of the typical horror movie elements which deals with sex, drugs, and excessive gore. Moreso with a screenplay by Scream screenwriter Kevin Williamson, it couldn't go wrong. However Trey Callaway's screenplay for this predecessor has made the mood and setting in this film entirely different. Disregarding the style of the first film. Having said that there is still an entertainment value, as the film does have its moments of humour, cringing brutality, with a few cheap scares. But with no great or memorable chase scene and or well developed characters like in I Know What You Did Last Summer, the film is just a below average sequel and cash-in on the success of the first film. *1/2 Stars Out of **** "},{"Title":"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (1998)","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jumping right into the story, where the first film left off... Apparently Julie has nightmares, about the missing body of the fisherman killer who stalked her and her friends one year ago, so bad she can't get over the trauma of hitting him with her car. Even though he was a killer before she (and company) plowed into him, she's a good girl and still feels guilty. Or something. It's a stretch, but hey- anything that will get Jennifer Love Hewitt into tight clothes and have her and her new friends run around screaming while being slashed off one-by-one is a good excuse to greenlight a movie, right? Let me just talk to you from my viewpoint. I only sound cynical about this kind of thing. I own the film, I've always enjoyed it. I still do. But it's not a good movie. It's not even as fun as the old Friday the 13th movies used to be. And they weren't perfect either. I've always thought if they could put the formula of I Still Know together with elements from the Friday the 13th series, we would have a perfect horror film.The chasing, the stalking, and the blade-swiping and slicing sound effects of movies like I Still Know and Urban Legend - which are not particularly bloody or gory films - proves that the heaping piles of gore from the 80's slasher films (at least, before the MPAA hacked them out of the movies) are not necessary to make a really fun killer-themed horror movie. The suspense, the thrill of the moment is the most important thing. That's something I Still Know has a lot of. But the reason I suggested it would be so cool for this film to be mixed with the Friday theme is, and think of the possibilities... The victim pool was always so large in those movies. Even though it's predictable that so many would die and the characters are blanks because it takes considerable screen time to build up personalities, you had more chances for stalking scenes. It may have been repetitive at times, another he's watching you set up to the new person isolated as they're about to be killed. But I always had fun with it. Chase scenes are exciting. They get your blood pumping. Plus, they're noisy, so you can move around in your seat all you want and not disturb anyone else watching.Still features one of the most gorgeous locations I've ever seen in a horror movie. The constant pouring rain makes it a bit gray and drab, and takes some of the fantasy out of the experience, but even then- how many slasher films take place with a natural disaster threatening everyone in the background? And talk about a missed opportunity. To keep the movie under 2 hours, it avoids using more of the storm in the foreground of the story. Which almost makes me think that they had it raining just so the girls' clothes would soak through. Of course... if that's why it was raining, why were most of the girls wearing black and navy blue tops? In Scream, the cliché was to put the obvious female victim in a brightly colored top, so even in the dark, you could see her nipples. Even Hewitt, who wears a white shirt, has a navy blue bra on underneath. Anyway, it's the writing I have fault with. Not the film-making. The dialogue also could have used a little spit and polish. A lot of bad buddy exchanges, sex related one-liners (why do I care if the screenwriter isn't getting any?), and immature banter (which I could get for free babysitting some younger cousins).What I'm desperately looking for from a horror film, is anything that breaks the mold. That doesn't feel it has to conform to a set guideline with the typical parameters of traditional Hollywood movies. Here, there is the standard 'self-absorbed teenage girl not happy with the relationship she's got with her boyfriend'. Basic, but a bit long too, don't you think? This comes with its' own predictable scene of a sort of break-up between the lovebirds over a simple misunderstanding. One is less giving and more taking, the other sick of all the giving and never getting. Probably just a big stage production to disguise the fact that she's not having enough sex with him. Are there really any teenage girls in America that can relate to Julie's predicament? Especially when her boyfriend is drop-dead gorgeous and she's being hit on constantly by yet another drop-dead gorgeous guy who knows about the boyfriend and could easily slip into his position without any issues of jealousy or him being compared to her ex.Still is not a thinking person's horror film. Nor does it take risks. It pretty much just copies the first film in every way. You name it, it's here. Except... it does lack blondes. The first had a few blondes. This film however, opens up the rainbow of perspective female victims by adding a black girl and a Latina to the mix. But, no blondes. Guess you could call this one a real female empowerment tale. If, that is what you'd have called the first film. They run fast, so they get away better than the old model of horror heroines. And they scream louder too. So the boys will hear them further away and call for help. And they get stabbed better too. They fall right down and don't get up. Unless they're not dead. Then, they have to get up and wave to the camera, so the other surviving heroines (if there are any) know they're not dead. Though to be fair, I guess Julie saves her hot boyfriend at the end instead of the other way around. But in all seriousness, if the movie's going to be a slashfest, there should be more victims to choose from. Not just longer running scenes for 3 potential victims. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I liked it. I mean what wasn't to like. Basically it is the revenge of Ben Willis. The story is he and his son set Julie up in winning four tickets to the Bahamas. but Julie doesn't know that her new boy friend will is really Ben Willi's's son. great plot and another nice and. I will give this a rating of 8 of 10 because at the end you don't know if Julie was really killed or dreaming up him again they should give a little more detail about that. Another thing is will there be another film with either the characters ray or Carla or Evan Julie if that was another dream. There already is a third film but not with those characters. "},{"Title":"Great performance by Jennifer and good supporting cast","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movies is not as good as the first one, but it was still very exciting. Jennifer Love Hewitt's performance was great and the supporting cast was good. Jennifer is so beautiful and very sexy!!!You can see a little bit more skin of Jennifer.. her body is sexy. She should plays roles like this one. Brandy's performance was good, but not great. After watching these movies i was so in love with her that made me want to be like her.i give this movie a 10/10 Jennifer is one great actresses. But i think people still see her as the girl next door. fans and movies producers won't let her be herself. In movies like if only it allowed her to grow up and show more of herself. Her performance was so great in if only. a perfect movie 10/10 "}{"Title":"Just another sequel","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is probably the best example of why sequels should not be made.  Not only did this movie have the worst acting I've seen in a while but I actually felt dumber coming out of the theater. Whomever takes a friend's advice and rents this movie should not be allowed to handle money. I was stunned at every point of this movie.  From the wrong capital of Brazil to the firing of more than 6 shots out of a revolver.  This movie only had scary moments when somebody just popped up out of the blue, which is what children do to scare other kids, and, on a side note, I'm finding that more and more movies are just using pop-up shocks like this to get a rise out of the audience.  Examples include There's Something About Mary, which when I watched it the second time, I found that not much of it was funny because I saw what was coming. Anyway, in my opinion, a huge bonfire should be started and all of the recordings of this film should be thrown in, in order to rid the world of this film. Brandy should stick to her floundering music career and UPN shows, Freddie Prinze Jr. should attempt a quality film, and the beautiful Jennifer Love Hewitt should stay with Fox sitcoms and soap commercials. "},{"Title":"seen it all before","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  although film loving teenagers (like me) should be raving about slasher films such as 'I still know', i found it, quite frankly, a bore. There wasnt a story line to speak of, and even though i enjoy films with random killing, this one just didn't do anything for me. Almost at once i had a pretty good idea who the killers were, and i was right. i also found it extremely unbelievable. all the way through the film i was trying to work out how (i'm not saying who) got on the radio, why the killer had to ship them all to the bahamas to be killed, how the killer managed to know that ray WOULD BE DRIVING THAT PARTICULAR WAY TO JULIE'S COLLEGE before trying to kill him, and how a killer happened to be  CLOSE (what are the odds?) friends with the main characters in the same college etc. etc. i found the little things like that totally messed up the already pointless movie. although the first one sucked, it still had a plot and you could tolerably watch it. if they made 'i still know' even slightly believable or interesting it would have better responses. "},{"Title":"At last I agree with MILO-16 SAY NO MORE.....","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst example of a slash/horror movie, the original was diabolical in all aspects except for those two wonderful words THE END. So why did I see the sequel you might ask well I thought it had too be better WRONG !!!! it was worse by a light year heaven protect us from part three - I DONT GIVE A STUFF WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER OR THE SUMMER BEFORE THAT!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As much as I enjoy the antics of a magic geriatric fisherman, who's breaking and entering skills give Batman a run for his money, this movie was worse than the last.  Sorry to say I left this one behind, so I don't know who the killer was, and, oddly enough, I don't care. "},{"Title":"Well... that was crap","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I recently saw this on VHS (I am quite thankful I didn't spend the cash to go and see it at the theater) and frankly, I was wholely unimpressed.I was a fan of the first film, and I enjoyed both Scream and Scream 2, but this film... oh dear.  Crap, predictable storyline that made almost entirely no sense, filled with ridiculously dull cliches.  For some reason, the writer saw it fit to replace the usual suspense of a good slasher film with gore instead.  Don't get me wrong, gore does have its place, and that is basically where it is incorporated into suspenseful moments.  Those moments in this film were few.The only point of interest was Jennifer Love Hewitt, who once again looked good.  Her performance was... well, passable I suppose, I didn't object too much.  However, replacing Sarah Michelle Gellar with Brandy was a big step backwards.Oh, and as for the end scene... a little suspense, but hard to credit. By this stage I was rolling my eyes and waiting for it to end.So, if you like films with very little suspense, a bit of gore, one twist that you could guess from the outset anyway, ridiculous nonsense storyline and fairly lame acting, watch this, you will love it.  Of course, if you prefer good films, watch something else instead.  A Scream, this is not. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This sequel is really good although it is nowhere near as good as the original.What makes the film good though is all the actors doing the script is very, very disappointing though thankfully in this case the film survives this.This film had a lot more action than the first one and some of the things don't make sense. One being that the killers daughter died on the road in South Port but is buried in the Bahamas.The ending like the first one was slightly disappointing but again the final scene makes up for it.Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy have great chemistry and make the film fun to watch and the fact that they are in the film wearing very cleavage hugging clothes helps as it does with any film.Don't watch it expecting Scream and you will really enjoy this film - as sequels go it is a lot better than Scream 2 and will almost definitely be better than Urban Legend 2. "},{"Title":"Life is too short for movies like this","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've been robbed of 100 mins of my life, and I want them back.I no longer care what happened the other summer, I really didn't care much when I saw the first installment, but this made sure I will never subject my self to this kind of hell again. "},{"Title":"Way more action than the original, And way better","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw I KNOW last year I was pretty disappointed, I mean it was ok but just not enough thrills to keep the movie scary. But with this sequel Once the action starts, it dosn't stop! It is got great scares and clever characters, Ben Willis being the smartest of course. Even though it is really good, please no more sequels I think that it would be too unrealistic to bring back Ben Willis. This movie is right up there with SCREAM. A MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"I Still Don't Care What You Did Two Summers Ago","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw Scream I was thrilled that it did so well at the box office and with the (hip) film critics. It was a smart, funny and sometimes scary movie that defined the horror genre for Gen X.But because of Scream we now have Urban Legend, The Faculty and a film career for Usher. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is also on that list because it is a run of the mill slasher movie that isn't scary and isn't funny.I like the idea of people trapped on an island with a killer on the loose (Ten Little Indians?), but even that fell flat with a rash of boring characters and predictable chills. I mean really, the white pot smoking rasta was the lamest character in a horror flick since Joan Ferra in A Jump In the Dark. Brandy, who said she will win five Oscars, thinks she is a lot more cute then she really is. And Love Hewitt should really try and make a movie where she isn't the doe-eyed victim running around in a tight top -- OK, keep the tight tops.Scream was a breath of fresh air in old premise, but now you have horror flicks ripping off a movie that was supposed to be a parody of the genre and not the source of new ideas.Skip it.   "},{"Title":"Worst ever movie","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, I have seen this movie. Unfortunately. It's probably the worst ever movie and the most predictable directing from Danny Cannon. It's a bit funny how visible Jeniffer Love Hewitt's bosom becomes during the movie and how wet and open her shirt is at the end. It must be hard to find a movie that's more loaded with clichés and the ending is as predictable as the rest. Don't ever pay for watching such crap.  "}{"Title":"Terrible, Horrible, Boring & The List Goes On...","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know picks up a year after the original ends. Julie James is still suffering nightmares from her being stalked and almost killed by Ben Willis, the fisherman with the hook who had been run over by her and her 3 friends a year earlier. Her best friend Karla wins a trip to the Bahamas and soon after they arrive Ben Willis returns to finish what he started.This movie is the pits. The acting is bad, there is NO plot, Willis kills several people for absolutely no apparent reason very graphically, he also isn't scary in that slicker and hat, especially since he revealed himself in I Know, almost everything in the film is predictable the murders, the scares, the storm knocking out the phones and the lights, etc. The ending is also ripped off from another highly popular horror film. This movie could be considered one of the WORST horror films ever made. The only good thing about the movie is the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"bitchin' sequel","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  None of the critics liked this movie, and that really puzzles me.  I can't figure out what's not to like.  The plot about going to the Bahamas was ingenious.  The movie was also packed with well-written, bone-chilling suspense (Hewitt in the tanning bed, Brandy in the greenhouse, etc.)  The fact that Jennifer Love Hewitt was in it was a plus, too.  I enjoyed this film much more than the overhyped Scream 2; Trey Callaway makes Kevin Williamson look like a hack.  The original I Know... has been one of my favorite horror movies, and I thought that this one was equally as good as the first.  This movie is not for the squemish, though. more gore  You'll scream at the top of your lungs, and you will more than likely foam at the mouth as Hewitt and Brandy expose their unbelievable cleavage in scant and rain-soaked clothing. "},{"Title":"Pain without gain","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The neo-teenage-slasher movies of late has been a depressingly derivative, brainless lot. What started off marginally promising (Scream) has simply evaporated into thin air (Urban legend, I know what you did last summer).The plot (?) of this sequel revolves around some bimbos not knowing the name of the capital of Brazil. Yeah..That's right....THEY think it's Rio de Janeiro. What's worse - the psycho killer probably doesn't know either. Or does he just pretend? Was he counting on the bimbos  not knowing the correct answer?I won't go into details - but that's basically the reason for the countless, bloody killings later on in the movie. Not that we really care about the victims - the script sets them up as slasher- fodder, and it's neither painful nor exciting to witness their demise. They are simply there to be messily and mechanically slaughtered.What really bugs me about the neo-slasher movies is the fact that they are technically adept, yet the scripts lack any kind of wit, any vestiges of humour, any trace of story, originality. And damningly - they never succumb to common sense...The plotting is execrable, the characters are irritating ciphers, the script is packed with the most blatantly clichèd dialogue(I'm sorry - I just want you to be happy) (Let's get the hell out of here) (Hey -loosen up, will you!) (Why don't you just die, you bastard!)Ad nauseum...The most uncritical of audiences is lovingly catered to. That is - the audience that secretly believes James Bond defeated world communism. Those who think soap-opera portrays honest, real human situations. The people who could be tricked into buying the Eiffel tower. Or more to the point  Those who accept that the anorak-clad maniac - obviously human - inhabits supernatural abilities ONLY when the plot demands that he's got them. Lightning-quick at times, noiseless, defying gravity on several occasions, a master of disguise and deception -  the works. Otherwise he is seen lumbering about, gloating over his victims, moving ever so slowly....And of course, he does make that final, fatal  mistake.Well, he would, wouldn't he? So the surviving cretins in this stupid movie can live to see another day. I think I can honestly say, ISKWYDLS is not art. It's a shameless cash-in sequel to a title that did good business. But tell me - what did you expect? A classic? "},{"Title":"shoulda killed off Brandy","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a bit biased as I have a buddy who gets killed in this film (the docksman who later dangles in Jennifer Love Hewitt's closet). So I HAD to see the film. Granted, it's fertilizing fodder but it is what it was meant to be. I supposed it'd make a fun rental. The highlight of the first one was Sarah Michelle Geller's death chase and I was waiting for that with Brandy. That sorry CUT TO DIFFERENT SCENE BEFORE BRANDY HAS TO FIGHT THE KILLER and then have her pop up and say You know I'm made of steel displayed a severe lack of balls on the part of the filmmakers. So check it out on video and tell everyone how amazing the docksman was!  "},{"Title":"I gave this movie 1 chance, ok but","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  it was pretty bad too many cliche's same old formula why did Brandy choose this,I'll never know scare set up scenes,recycled predictable fare. Trey Calloway is a bad writer. Danny Cannon proves once more he's hack. Jennifer should give up the horror gig and just stay with party of Five. I have lost faith in horror movies one more and that's it if Urban Legend (due out in Australia soon ) sucks, then that's it NO MORE the horror genre is even less original than when it first died off almost 15 years ago (mid-late 80s) "},{"Title":"I Still Don't Know Why They Wrote A Sequel","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to this film not expecting much.. and that's what I got.. this cash-in of a sequel doesn't do the first one justice.. the plot is so bad, and the ending is worse... The film wouldn't have been SO bad if they cut the ending off, I mean, it would have been bad.. but not THAT bad. Trust me.. (the entire cinema groaned when they saw it!!) if you've seen the first film you've seen the end of this one. It's more of an inferior remake than a sequel, it copies from scream 1 & 2 a lot, and the first film. I really enjoyed the first film, I HATED this one... Only see it for a joke.. don't expect a good sequel.. "},{"Title":"Oh god.. not Brandy","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well I must say it is ten times better than the first, not that that says much. Very disappointing that Brandy makes it out of this alive. If I were the fisherman she'd had been first on my hook. Too many pointless characters.. just thrown in for more kills.. that's fine.. kill 'em.. but they don't have to have lines. Jennifer Love Hewitt does a great job, despite her horrible co-star. Brandy should stick to rapping.. or whatever it is she supposedly does. "},{"Title":"No good","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is just an example of how desperate movie makers are getting. The first was decent but this second one just makes you want to laugh. It just shows how dumb people in horror movies are and it mocks Jennifer Love Hewitt's acting ability because she can do much better than a no brian body that runs around and gets very lucky in the end. The biggest reason people would see this is for Jennifer Love Hewitt's body. I'm not saying that that is bad but it should at least have a plot. I suggest not to see this movie unless you are bored and even then, wait for it to come out on video. "},{"Title":"horribly bad","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so bad, that it left you with this feeling that if there was another sequel, that you would prefer to pay them not to make one. Every death was predictable and the people you really want to die, live. The 1st movie was good because it had a plot. This one is just a follow up. And for those who think the Capitol of Brazil is Rio, this is your movie. It was rated R for (among other things) intense violence by the creators. Intense only if you're a snail. The movie was horrible to say the least and I'd give it zero if I could but I'll give it 1 to be fair, tho' I still want my money back. "},{"Title":"Brainless, hapless, hopeless...","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think this movie is really fake. Blood does not spurt, people! And every slash of the hook does not connect with a major artery, for the love of god! Jennifer Love Hewitt is hot though, so it makes up for any other inadequacies. I give her, I mean, I give the movie a 4. However, she gets a 10 hands down )  "}{"Title":"Look at my name....","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That is what you call a scary movie!!! And that's a sequel that is not worse than the first part... Only one thing... there is no Sarah Michelle Gellar...  -((( "},{"Title":"it was good, until the last five minutes","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well the movie was good and it was all that i expected. The 2 things that i did not like. Brandy did not die and that there is going to be a part three. What are they going to call this one. i know what you did 3 summers ago. anyways i think that you should only go see this movie before 6 because i would not pay the full price. well that is just my thought. "},{"Title":"lame, predictable, and worst than the first!","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know was the worst movie I've seen in a long time. It was filled with bad one liners and people going where they should't. It was so predictable the sceaming from the people who thought it was scary was the only thing that kept me awake.  The charactors were laughably predictable and the script sounds like Scream, Friday the 13th, and all those others jumbled together and tossed in the recycleables.  And anyone knows the capital of Brazil is NOT Rio!  Worst then the predictable murder scenes was a sub-plot about a guy using voodoo to protect them ? It's the kind of movie that will either shock or bore you to death!(most likely bore).  I guess you could say it's the kind of movie that would work well as a date movie (ya know, to have your date jump into your arms as the killer pops out.) The only good thing about I Still Know... was the free smoothie I got afterwords. "},{"Title":"A great sequel with a lot of surprises.","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was a great movie, it was an exciting venture for the characters to be pulled from the normal horror movie surroundings and be taken to a new original place, the Bahamas.And a good plot, how there was going to be a huge storm and hardly anybody was on the island, leaving the fisherman to not be discovered by anybody.Jennifer Love Hewitt's performance was outstanding and was even better than the original, her character was extended to be better and stronger.And I also thought that Brandy and Freddy Prince Jr. really stood out with their great characters.Trey Callaway created a sequel that actually surpassed the original.So everyone go to the theatre and see this movie, it was definitely a great movie.The original made 15.8 million on its opening weekend and the sequel made 16.5million, so sequels are good.Enjoy the movie and its spectacular surprise ending. "},{"Title":"...but know anyone who cares?","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Love Hewitt -- still overacting as she did last movie -- returns to flee that Long John Silver lookalike.Viewers immediately know they're doomed the contest-winning scene is full of baloney.Essentially FRIDAY THE 13TH with a longer title. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before?","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well here's the plot, A group of tragically hip teenagers gets themselves into a outlandish story where a killer is soon stalking them. What movie could this be? Scream? NO Scream 2?  NO Urban Legends? No, I Know What You Did Last Summer? NO.  ITs I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER.Once again a movie company under-estimates the movie goer and tries to inflict a recycled plot upon the audience.  This time it is in an exotic locale and still as predictable.  Personally me and the group of people near me predicted the end within 5 minutes of the opening scene. People around me however thought it was scary.  I thought it was somewhat, but how many times can you see a shadowy figure pop out of behind a door or shadow before you get the picture.  The script lines were recycled and cliche as well as predictable.  The film was not worth the 8 dollars I spent to see it.  As in the true fashion of every post-SCREAM wannabe poser film the ending gave way to what can only be described as a less than eagerly awaited sequel.  "},{"Title":"I Still Don't Care What You Did Last Summer!!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a stupid movie. I demand my money back for watching this tribute to stupidity! "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie took me completely by surprise!  I didn't care much for the first film, but this one was great.  It was funnier, scarier, gorier, and had a much better ending.  I give I Still Know What You Did Last Summer 4/5 "},{"Title":"7-round revolver?","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Is it me or did Jennifer Love Hewitt fire 7 or 8 rounds out of a 6-round revolver?As for the rest of the movie, it was a pathetic, cheesy attempt at providing an already poor film with a sequel!Comedy? Horror?  Suspense? Plot!?!!?!!?  are you nuts!?!?They spent more money on fake blood than they spent on the script!and Jennifer, please... GET NAKED! Now... it has to happen b4 I see some pic on the net... "},{"Title":"Horror that leaves a bad taste in my mouth...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film REALLY sucks... I went to the theatre expecting a lame, inept horror sequel. This, mostly due to the fact that Kevin Williamson (I Know What You Did Last Summer, Scream & Scream 2) wasn't the screenwriter. But, to my surprise, the film managed to let my low, low expectations down. I'm not going to throw in any spoilers (not that I would be spoiling anything), so I can't get specific on the worst parts. But, have no doubts, everything to do with this film is just plain wrong. The story is worthless (to say the least), and not to be too picky, but they have some BAD dialogue at the end of it (i.e. You can't do it, you're not a killer. That's my job! btw that quote wasn't verbatim, but, at least for the quote I'm referencing, the dialogue is that bad). If this is the best storyline/script that Mandalay/Columbia could get their hands on, they shouldn't have made a sequel. I can only imagine what Kevin Williamson must think... "}{"Title":"Again, proof that the revitalized horror genre is doomed.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let's face it, when Scream came out a few years ago it rekindled interest in a movie genre nearly dead.  Unfortunately the audience who embraced it was not the audience for which it was intended.The audience that bought into that movie wasn't aware of what it was satirizing.  They'd heard of Halloween, but seen it?  Probably not.  If they had then they wouldn't be screaming in fear every time someone leaps into frame only to be revealed as a roommate or friend.Most of the people who saw Scream and will go to see this are unaware that they are receiving their older siblings hand-me-down; a host of abandoned plots and cheap tricks.  There is nothing here that wasn't in the horror movies of a decade ago, or even, for that matter, the decades before that. They've been targeted by studio executives, and judging on the reaction of the audience I saw it with, targeted successfully.It will only be a matter of time before these movies outstay their welcome with this generation of younger movie fans.Eight-year-olds beware, you're the next target! "},{"Title":"Things I was thinking when I saw this film ...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  1) For all the pop culture references these characters make, haven't they seen Scream?2) At this rate Jennifer Love Hewitt will go through the entirety of the next sequel topless.3) Not that I'm complaining ...4) Yes, you heard me right, the NEXT sequel.5) Tip to all the horror moviegoers pick out the non-stereotypical characters. THESE are the ones that will live throughout the movie.6) Why in the world did Long John Silver kill ... oh, I don't know ... the first ten or so people he offed?7) The supposed huge plot twist was about as obvious as the fact that this movie is a poor, poor attempt to duplicate Scream.8) How the HELL did Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy get into the supposed great college they are enrolled in? That is, when they're not skipping out to go to exotic tropical island locales.9) Does everyone ever believe a character in a horror movie who warns them of danger?10) How many times did Hewitt walk alone through an apartment/hotel room looking for someone she couldn't possibly have stopped if she had found them?11) Did Mekhi Peiffer have one line where he didn't sound like he was thinking with his groin?12) This movie will go toe to toe with Meet Joe Black for the top spot at the box office this weekend.13) People who like this kind of movie make me seriously reconsider universal suffrage.14) As many times as I correctly predicted what would happen half an hour before it did, I was looking for myself to be listed as director.15) Then I remembered a three year old could have predicted the plot.16) I'm damn glad I didn't pay to see this load of crap...17) ... cause it is officially the single worst movie I've ever seen.18) I spent more time writing this review than the screenwriter did writing the story.19) I'll give it a 2 out of 10 ...20) ... I'm being generous (if only Hewitt would shut the hell up and just get naked). "},{"Title":"I still know morons will come and see it","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Are there no young horror writers out today that are any good?Brandy is absolutely horrible, Moesha meets Captain Hook.Why was this made? "},{"Title":"What a load of crap","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I managed to sit through this awful movie last night, the script was dire, I know this is a slasher sequel and didn't expect Oscar winning acting but it felt like they were reading their lines from cue cards.The only thing that kept my eyes open in this movie was JLH.I mean come on, a 50 year old guy with a hook for a hand, the girls run screaming, he walks VERY slowly behind them and somehow ends up right behind them.I know this has been done before but that was a long time ago and the concept has been milked to DEATH.lets hope for gods sake no more of these movies are made. "},{"Title":"I Don't Know What I Did Last Summer, So Please Stop Asking!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh dear Oh dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh dear Oh dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh dear Oh dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh dear Oh dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh dear Oh dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh Dear Oh DearBut it has to be said these killer's are getting so clever, I mean faking a radio station...genius...or almost anyway!Just when you thought nothing could be as bad as the first...this came along! Never mind eh!You know now Jack Black has officially made it as an alternative funny guy, is rasta effort with the dreadlocks may be excepted... then again! "},{"Title":"Title says it all . . .","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's really hard to know where to start . . .  The title really gives the biggest clue to the quality (lack thereof) in this movie If they can't come to terms with the English language for the title then what do you expect of the movie, huh? !!!The fact that this movie was a first time effort for its' writer is clearly evident in its' use of stock scenarios already seen in a whole plethora of trash-slash movies. There are spoilers here, so turn away now if you haven't seen the movie . .. . .Okay, what kind of psycho killer when given the chance to off his nemesis is going to simply lock her in the sunbed and turn up the heat? Well this is exactly what our fisherman does here with Hewitt, and this scene is simply an excuse to separate Hewitt from her clothing; if you like that idea you won't be disappointed.But the whole movie spins on the premise that the end of the first movie was a dream, and so how are we to trust the end of this movie isn't just that? Moreover, how are we to care for the ultimate victim of the movie (Hewitt) when she may simply be dreaming yet again, and in no danger whatsoever? !!!There are plus points, however The whole movie has a quality feel that belies its' relatively modest ($25m) budget; the lighting is excellent and the set pieces professionally executed. whilst Danny Cannon, after the dreadful Judge Dredd, directs skillfully enough to ensure he has at least a fighting chance of working in the future. The only let down on the acting front is Hewitt, or rather her singing, this strangely pitched holler is unbecoming, and would have been better handled by her co-star, and singer, Brandy. Watch the movie by all means; just don't expect to be entertained on even remotely the same level as its' predecessor delivered.  "},{"Title":"If you still know what they did three summers ago, keep it to yourself.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the disadvantages of films no longer having all the credits at the beginning is that you now have to wait till the end for clues that the film in question may suck - the appalling film of The Saint a few years ago had Leslie Charteris' name nowhere in sight, and similarly I Still Know What You Did Last Summer credits neither Kevin Williamson (writer of the first film) nor Lois Duncan (author of the book that it was based on), although they could both lay claim to having originated certain characters. Perhaps they declined to have anything to do with it on seeing the script by Trey Callaway, who also had a hand in the mercifully short-lived ER-in-space TV show Mercy Point.And I can't blame them if they did - the first film was no classic but I can see why it was a hit (it did have some real jolts, it was less self-referential than other recent fright flicks, and the pairing of Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar was a gift to guys everywhere, even if SMG did get killed). But this time it's idiocy all the way, from the title (the most inaccurate title for a sequel since Rambo III) to the climax featuring the world's only six-shooter that fires eight bullets, while Danny Cannon's direction and John Frizzell's score duke it out to see which is the most OTT (the music wins). And the ending may as well have had the words Julie James will return in 'I Still Know What You Did Three Summers Ago' splattered across the screen - it would have been more subtle.Jennifer Esposito is good as the bartender in the karaoke bar, though it's hard not to think She left 'Spin City' for THIS? - and at least we were spared Brandy singing over the credits (for those of you who leave before the end, Jennifer Love Hewitt does that job). But basically this is a waste of time for fans of good movies, although the delicious Miss Hewitt is as fanciable as ever (which is why I gave this film 2 out of 10 instead of 1). "},{"Title":"Hey, boys and girls, can you say Torture?","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ever since I saw the first one, I thought that a movie more pathetic couldn't exist. I was wrong. Gather around, and I shall tell you a tale...Sometime after the first was released, some illiterate grade-school students jotted down, with crayons and a doodle pad, the screenplay for the next film. Two hours later, the shooting script was complete. The film was stolen, because no person in their right mind would sell useful 35mm film for such a travesty. About 1 week later, the project is finished. Hype gathered up for a month, especially around my school, the film comes out. People ran out in terror, mostly after the main titles, as they see how bad it is.  "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I will have to admit the sequel wasn't as good as the first one, but nevertheless I thought it was fun watching it. I didn't get bored by it or something so I thought I should comment on it and give this movie some credit. "},{"Title":"An Open Letter to Hollywood and the Viewing Public","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What is the matter with you big studio heads?  When I first saw the trailer for this film, I thought it was a bad Saturday Night Live skit.  In around 4 months, no less then 4 horror movies (all bad) have come out... Disturbing Behavior, Urban Legend, Bride of Chucky, and now this piece of work.  What bothers me is that for the money you spend on this, you could make around 5 films that actually have a point, a coherent plot.  Hewitt is fast becoming one of the most over-exposed, overrated actresses in Hollywood. She makes Neve Campbell's performances in the Scream films seem like Oscar material. Brandy shows why she should stick to doing ballads with Monica.  And what is Mekhi Phiefer doing in this movie?  Just 3 years ago, he was in Clockers, one of the best films of the year... sheesh.  A message to the moviegoing public, if you want to see a real horror film, see Vampires.  And to all you teens out there who get the urge to see this, remember, keep on paying to see degenerative crap like this, and the studios will keep churning it out. "}{"Title":"Prince Jr. kinda acts in this one....but he's one movie too late.","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Julie James goes off to an island vacation with her friend, only to have a run in with that killer fisherman again.Rather needless sequel to the 1997 hit I Know What You Did Last Summer, pretty much plays out like your ordinary slasher-fest. It unfortunately lacks much of the suspense and humor that Williamson's original thriller had, the sequel is mostly made up of cheap thrills and silliness. Plus this time around one doesn't really care much for any of the characters, many of whom are just played for laughs - i.e. Jack Black as an island stoner complete with dreadlocks! Please. Frankly, it's all a big come down from the original.* 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Why?! Oh Why did they make this","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, at the outset let me say something I LOVE bad horror movies, I HATE when Hollywood makes a horror film with well known actors and a substantial budget. Thats what this is. It would have been a MUCH more enjoyable movie with no name actors and no budget, why? Well becuz it would have been an enjoyably bad movie, a stupid entertainingly bad movie, this SUCKS! I hate Jennifer Love Huwitt! I hate Brandy! These two together in one film should be illegal! I hate these people! They are so freaking PHONY! All self-important crap! Why do people like these become popular? Really, is there some kind of conspiracy going on? "},{"Title":"The Story Hook","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The current evolution of this genre depends on manifold twists at the end. The twists here are pretty high quality as slasher stock goes. They show some cleverness extra teenagers, extra red herrings, some new information `explaining' the motive, some element of justice which both punishes and justifies further wrath in sequels. All this in a context of repeated, possibly nested dreams with a final ambiguous denouement.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Predictable, slow.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A disappointment. It was predictable, unintelligent and terribly slow movie. It is terribly annoying, I  could tell every next move. Don't waste time on this one, saw the original again instead. "},{"Title":"Cooler than ever before","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I respect those guys who say this movie is totally bad and I must say that those guys truly do not appreciate the movie.First of all, the movie had a good plot, although there will be some tendencies to be confused if you have not seen the original movie. Second, the acting was fine because it was natural, unlike the movies i have seen wherein they pretend. In I Still Know.., the actors act as if they are the real characters of the story.I do not see a reason why not to like the movie. "},{"Title":"a waste of time","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have been commenting on movies on the internet movie database for the last six or seven months, and I haven't yet given a negative comment (mainly because I have tried to concentrate on the movies I liked). However, there is a first time for everything. This movie was so bad, and because of that, I feel compelled to give my first negative comment. First of all, I Still Know... is another example of production companies trying so hard to capitalize on the success of a film by producing a sequel, that they forget to make sure there is a good script with a good plot to go along with the sequel. I didn't expect this movie to be anything great, but I didn't expect it to be so bad. There were scenes that were so unbelievable, they were an insult to the intelligence of anyone who was watching. Examples When Ray and his friend are driving down a dark road and all of a sudden come upon an accident. Then you realize it's a trap and the fisherman is there. First of all, how in the heck did the fisherman know that Ray and his friend would be coming down that road, at that particular time? Secondly, why would he just leave, without making sure Ray was dead? Another example of these unbelievable scenes is when Julie wins the radio contest, not having any clue that it is a set up. A contest like that would be something that would be advertised by the station for weeks, and the management of that station would definitely be aware of such a contest. In other words, it would be impossible for someone to go into a radio station and pose as a D.J., and then set up some false contest where the winner gets to take friends to some remote, paradise island. These are just a few of the bull crap scenes that made this movie a joke. The script is horrible, the plot is horrible, and the cast, crew, and anyone else who was involved in the making of this movie should really be embarrassed that this was the final product. By far, this is the worst movie I saw in 1998 (By the way...it should be noted that the only reason I did not give this film zero out of ten stars, is because that option is not available). "},{"Title":"Surprise! It's the customary sequel","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After her friends were murdered last summer, Julie James (Jennifer Love-Hewitt) has never been the same, still haunted by the guilt over her part in the killing of the fisherman her grades are dropping and her relationship is seriously strained. When she and her best friend win a trip to the Bahamas, she believes that finally things may be picking up; but the trip doesn't quite work out how they expected.Its pretty much more of the same, but it's cheesier, weaker and more clichéd than the first. Don't get me wrong i still found some enjoyment in watching it, but classic material it is not! Anyone who loved the first film, will at least enjoy this one, but it is definitely inferior in every respect.5/10 "},{"Title":"A surprisingly entertaining sequel","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I still know what you did last summer is obviously the 1998 sequel to I know what you did last summer (1997). I was expecting this film to be TERRIBLE. I wasn't expecting anything good to come from this. But you know, this movie was surprisingly entertaining and it kept me interested the whole way through. First of all, I love how they recognized Barry and Helen, I was afraid they would just discount them and not mention them at all. I love how Julie picks up a picture of Helen at the southport parade and just looks at it, you can tell how much she really misses Helen. And i was very pleased to see Jennifer love Hewitt and Freddie Prince Jr. both reprise their roles from the first film. I they did good jobs here, like in the previous movie. Now Jack Black was just a horrible casting decision! Like really?? Who the hell decided that jack black would fit great in that role?! He was embarrassingly bad in his role. But thankfully he was the only actor that did poorly here, the rest, including Brandy, were enjoyable, and a whole lot less cheesy than I did expect. The script was alright, nothing Oscar award winning, but not anything Razzie award winning either. I liked the plot twist towards the end of the movie, I honestly didn't expect it, maybe I should have expected it, I don't know, but anyways, I for one enjoyed it. The ending was very well done and pleased me, the last 35 minutes of this film are definitely the best, Chase scenes, falling through windows and glass, plot twists, I really enjoyed the last chapter of this movie. And I also liked them focusing on Julie and Ray's relationship, that was very refreshing to see unfold. Overall, I still know what you did last summer is not a gem or a perfect film, but it's fun and certainly a good time. 7/10 for I still know what you did last summer. "},{"Title":"A sequel set in the Bahamas during storm season","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Released in 1998, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer chronicles events of the summer after the previous movie. Julie James' best friend wins tickets to the Bahamas and so they go down there with their boyfriends (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Brandy Norwood, Mekhi Phifer & Matthew Settle). Shortly after arrival they discover its off-season and storms ensue. Bodies increasingly pile up as Ray from the first film tries to get to the island (Freddie Prinze Jr.). Also on hand are John Black, Jennifer Esposito, Bill Cobbs and Muse Watson.I didn't have fond memories of this film, but I surprisingly found myself liking it quite a bit on my second viewing. By switching the locations to the Bahamas it completely changes the dynamics even though there's a slicker-killer like the first movie. Suspense slowly builds as the cast is whittled down and the storm rages. It suddenly becomes clear that they're stuck on this vacant resort with a mad killer! Although the filmmakers could've taken more advantage of the resort location they did a good enough job. Bottom line This is a worthy sequel with its own appeal.The film runs 100 minutes and was shot at El Tecuan Marina Resort, Costa Careyes, Jalisco, Mexico (standing in for the Bahamas), and USC, Los Angeles, California.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Why Bahamas?","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's a year later. Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is now haunted by nightmares. She is away from Southport and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) attending school. Nice guy Will Benson (Matthew Settle) likes her. Her roommate Karla Wilson (Brandy Norwood)'s boyfriend is Tyrell Martin (Mekhi Phifer). The girls win a radio contest by answering Rio as the capital of Brazil. They win 4 tickets to the Bahamas. Ray declines to go. While driving with Dave, they are attacked by the fisherman-killer Ben Willis. Dave is killed and Ray barely escapes. Karla invites Will to join them on the Caribbean island resort. It turns out that the 4th July weekend is the stormy off-season. The few staff includes bartender Nancy (Jennifer Esposito), Estes (Bill Cobbs) and manager Mr. Brooks (Jeffrey Combs). Titus Telesco (Jack Black) is an irreverent guest. Ben Willis starts killing and a storm approaches.I don't get why they had to go all the way to the Bahamas. It makes Ray's trip very silly and the situation very unreal. While I like Rio as Brazil's capital, everything about that is ridiculous. They could easily go camping on an island near Southport and Ray could ride to the rescue on a fishing boat. The setup is horribly fake which makes the whole movie pretty bad. The reveal is also not surprising. This sequel should not have been that hard to make but all the big decisions on the plot are wrong. All of the problems make this not scary at all because I don't care about most of these characters. "}{"Title":"A poor script generates a poor movie","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the sequel of film I Know What You Did Last Summer and is based on its story. The action takes place a year later and is based on the re-emergence of psychopathic killer, willing to punish those adolescents, in particular, Julie.If the first film was weak, this film is worse, having notable flaws in the plot which ends up losing credibility, especially when in connection with the first film. The protagonist, Jennifer Love Hewitt, is a pleasant surprise, improving her performance and showing to be more able to convincingly play a dramatic character. She could, however, have cried less and copied less unfortunate figures from the first film.This film, like the film what caused it, would have paid a great horror film/sequel. The idea was good. What killed both movies was a poor writer together with two weak directors. "},{"Title":"This is the worst vacation I've ever been on","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Blood drenched and fishy sequel of the slasher hit I know what you did last summer with the crazed one armer fisherman back for an encore who's targeting the busty & beautiful Julie James played by Jennifer Love Hewitt who, among those that ran him down, was responsible for his hit & run death. Idiotic storyline has Julie and her friends win a weeks vacation in the Caribbean island of Tower Bay that just happens to be right at the start of hurricane season. If that wasn't bad enough the mad fisherman just happens to be there waiting to finish the job that he started in I know what you did last Summer by murdering Julie and her friends as well as everyone else there.A Slasher in paradise slasher flick with the crazed fisherman practically wiping out the entire population of Tower Bay until his accomplice, guess who, screw things up and reveals himself before the job was finished. Being so successful the killer and friend didn't realize that hot chick Julie was so desensitized by his murderous actions that she more or less became like himself; A cold blooded killer who in doing to him what he did to her friends was as simple as brushing her teeth in the morning.***SPOILERS***Were also exposed to a creepy island Voodoo Man Estes, Bill Cobbs, who tries to use his magic to stop the deranged killer only to get killed himself by his unsuspecting, in Estes mind, accomplish. It's at the very end of the movie that we learned who the one armed fisherman is and who's behind the scenes helping him in his murder spree. By then the fisherman droops his guard as well as hook into the wrong person and it's curtains for the crazed trio. With Julie, who looks great in a both wet as well as dry T-shirts, putting an end to both of them. "},{"Title":"Not a bad slasher flick sequel.","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The hooked terror from I Know What You Did Last Summer continues is this sequel, cleverly titled I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddy Prinze Jr. returns as the girlfriend/boyfriend couple, albeit separated after the events in the previous film. Brandy Norwood and Mekhi Phifer join the case as Hewitt's friends, going on a vacation in the Banamas, where the hooked menace returns to wreak havoc in their lives. What follows is a cat-and-mouse chase between the psycho-path killer and the young vacationers.This film lacks the built-up suspense, tension and the twists-and-turns from the previous film. While the previous film focused more on plot twists, story development and subplots, this one focused almost entirely on the killer-chases-victims and hero-tries-to-save victim method. However, it's still not bad entertainment with believable acting (although some dialog were a bit campy) and heart-pounding sequences. There are some chilling moments where it might make you cover your eyes, like in the scenes where you might expect to see the killer jump out on screen.Overall, not a bad horror sequel to watch and enjoy some popcorn at the same time.Grade B "},{"Title":"Average slasher","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is pretty much the archetypal average slasher. It uses every clichéd scare tactic known to man, boasts the usual good looking young cast and has an annoyingly predictable plot. Saying that it does boast a few scares, Jennifer Love Hewitt looks incredible and it has a nice cameo from Jack Black. The deaths are pretty tame and in general it fails to build enough tension. The acting is just passable though Hewitt and Black at least rise above the mediocre. This is far from the worst horror out there and if you're looking for something easy to watch and moderately entertaining then this is OK. For fans of darker and bloodier horror though this is way too tame. "},{"Title":"Disappointment de luxe","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I think this franchise has to end now, this is the question I asked myself after seeing this sequel from the original the year before. I guess this production was continued purely for the sake of the money, and the product didn't even camouflage it. Because this movie had nothing new and original to show for at all, it went in the same track as the first movie with pretty young teens hunted by a psychotic killer - something like Friday 13th, Halloween - and even Nightmare on Elm Street. The first movie in every series is always the best - so much more entertaining. And of course, all of them got an X numbers of sequels, most of them progressively bad ones - don' t do the same mistake, leave the money alone - because this sequel fell to the ground with a big bang. A movie with no new ideas, everything' s very predictable, and for me it became unbelievable boring. Well, there' s nothing too negative to say about the actors - Jennifer Love Hewitt did alright, here is also Brandy, more known as an RnB singer at that time, so there is some talent among this young actors. But as a horror movie it sucks, it' s like a long yawn, really. A bad movie with no excitement. "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did 2 Know Harder","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" No more screaming. No more running. It's time to die.I Know What You Did Last Summer was a pleasant (is pleasant the right word for a slasher?) horror flick that did nothing remarkable or really new, but was an easy watch and turned out slightly better than average. They went bigger for the sequel, to mixed results. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer feels like a different movie from its predecessor. Yes, someone is still trying to kill Julie James for what she and her friends did two summers ago. That hasn't changed. There are a few returning characters, but the new location of the killer's shenanigans (a near-deserted island in the Bahamas) and new cast (several of whom manage to be even more annoying than the first cast) give this movie a different tone. Different, but not necessarily better.It's harder to take the plot seriously this time around. Frequently, it's almost silly. The characters make willfully preposterous decisions, separate at every possible opportunity, and there's an easy to guess plot-turn near the end that requires way too much work to take credibly. That didn't ruin my enjoyment of what I was watching and I know that stuff is common in the genre, but it happens to such an excessive degree that it bears mentioning. There were some memorable scenes and kills, plus it was a bit cool to see Julie get fed up with being stalked and at least try to fight back. And there's nice pg-13 eye-candy if you're interested in that sort of thing, as Jennifer looks even better than the first time around and there's plenty of situations where she and Brandy are wet and half naked. Once you get acclimated to the faint ridiculousness of the whole thing, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is about the same level of quality as the first. Less tense and more haphazard, but enjoyable. Easy-to-please slasher fans and people who just can't get enough of looking at Jennifer Love Hewitt (I fit into both of those categories) will probably find this worth at least checking out on your streaming service of choice, watching on cable, or picking up out of the $5 DVD bin. "},{"Title":"This was more fun then first","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I find this movie even more fun then first movie, i don't think it is as bad as everyone makes it out to be. I love it from opening scenes (Which i thought great) all the way to the end scene which i thought a classic ending done well.I found this movie had a little more tension in the movie then first and the death were up notch as well so more really creative and some could have be more gory with weapons the killer used, The only thing I did not like was how the movie gave way who the killer was, as there was just to much clues.The acting in this movie from some of cast were bit off here and there but the rest of the cast was really good. I enjoyed this movie better then first! 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's all good.....","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Two years after the horrible incident, Julie is back in college and is worse than ever having dreams about the killer.She gets comfort from a new friend named Will. Julie's other friend Karla tries to hook the two of them up and when she wins a trip to the Bahamas, she knows that it is perfect.But Ray is still in the picture and Julie only goes as friends. Karla, her boyfriend Tyrell, Julie, and Will take flight right before Ray encounters the fisherman again.He tries to tell Julie not to leave but it is too late. Now in the Bahamas Julie is starting to lighten up and have fun.Then suddenly things start going terribly wrong when a storm hits the Island and people start to disappear.Ray takes a boat to the island to warn Julie but will he make it on time to save Julie again from the fisherman....Who cares if this is a blatant cash in of a blatant cash in of Scream? The film works in some weirs way, and is great to look at.It makes no sense that Willis has survived the first movie, or why the guy just doesn't sit down with the two leads and say 'look, I know what you did the summer before last, but please just say sorry' but one thinks that title wouldn't work.It ticks all the boxes for a film like this, you can tell from the moment they land on the island who will get it, but who cares when the film is ridiculous, and we get an early Jack Black trying to be Jamaican.Deaths are not inventive, and there is a brilliant Scooby Doo ending, but if you love schlock, and a film featuring one of the silliest 'getting to the main place' journeys since The Shining, you are in for a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum horror sequel","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this sequel to I Know What You Did Last Summer, hook-wielding fisherman Ben Willis contrives to get Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt, one of the survivors from the earlier movie) in a more or less deserted luxury hotel on a tropical island with 3 friends during a hurricane.The first point to make is that this film demonstrates a complete lack of logic - for instance, the random slaughtering of members of the hotel staff serves no purpose other than to make characters scream when they find the bodies (why kill the boat guy, scare Julie with his body, then hide the body, clean the floor of blood etc. in an incredibly short period of time, just to make her look crazy, when you are then going to fling dead bodies at them, too, 10 minutes later?). It is irrelevant and pointless enough to be completely irritating.Then consider Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer), one of the four friends, who is initially driven solely by the desire to have sex with his annoying girlfriend Karla. He is the one who is loudest in shouting down Julie's early calls of alarm, scoffing at her hysteria. Then, unbelievably, even after he has been confronted with dead hotel staff and shown to have been completely wrong about everything, he is still aggressively shouting her down and throwing his weight about. One wishes the hook would have done its work on him first.Jack Black contributes a woefully unfunny cameo as a supposedly comedic, dreadlocked, dope-smoking hotel employee. Jennifer Love Hewitt is briefly, but pleasingly, in a bikini.This routine last-man-standing slasher is OK, but could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Some students went to Bahamas too rest and relax on an beautiful island. What they don't know there are a terrible murderer on the island. They try too hid and run from the murderer.A good horror-movie, because it have a good story. Jennifer Love Hewitt acts very well in this horror-film. Much exciting and much horror! This Horror-film are more bloodier, brutality and have more violence than the first movie, but are not so scary than the first movie.Warning for sensitive people! The movie have very beautiful nature and environments.The movie have very beautiful nature and environments! "}{"Title":"One of the dumbest groups of characters i've seen in a horror movie!","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (1998, Dir. Danny Cannon) Ever since killing the Fisherman one year ago, Julie James is still haunted by images of him after her. This causes her relationship with Ray Bronson to distance more. When her best friend, Karla Wilson wins free tickets to the Bahamas, Julie finds this a perfect opportunity to finally relax. But someone is waiting for her. Someone who she thought was dead. Someone who is out again for revenge.If you saw the original movie, then you would enjoy this round of bloody mayhem. This film is more violent (with the blood coming across purple and computer generated) than the previous, but this doesn't mean it will be better. To be totally honest, i can not remember a group as dumb as the characters in this film. So many stupid decisions are made, which you would even try in reality. If someone is stuck in a tanning bed (the killer sealing it shut and turn the temperature up to max), what are you going to do? Try and open it or turn it off. Well, the characters believe that instead of just turning it off, they are going to try and open it. This is only one of many mistakes. Still, it's an OK little horror film to pass the time with.I got some bat guano. I got the cream jeans. - Titus Telesco (Jack Black) "},{"Title":"I Know Exactly Whats Going Happen.","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" First off, I'm a HUGE fan off trashy slasher flicks, big budget slashers and everything in between, I don't nesscerally like them all, but they all entertain me and it's a genre I love.So...on to this offering. The first film was pretty enjoyable, if only original in plot sense, treading standard slasher action ground. This film is exactly more of the same, with even worse characters and sterile, suspense free direction from Danny Cannon.The script smacks of a rehash, simply because the first film was a hit. There is a 3rd film in the series and it's super low budget and has better ideas in it than this instalment.The main problem is unimaginative deaths and in my slasher book, that is an unforgivable crime. Much like the rest of the movie. Watchable, but utterly forgettable. "},{"Title":"The Vaction Of A Lifetime or is it","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One year after her friends were murdered Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is back in college trying to put the incident behind her but still disturbed by what happened, well it seems things are on the up she wins a trip to the Bahamas and goes there with a few friends, but things aren't right from the start firstly there's a tropical storm brewing and the island is practically empty and plus it seems that the vengeful Ben Wills (Must Watson) has followed her there and plans revenge on her once again.I really liked I Know What You Did Last Summer it had an interesting story to it and I was looking forward to the sequel. I heard a lot of bad things about this sequel but I actually thought it was pretty good, although it doesn't have the good storyline or the same intelligence as the first it's still an enjoyable slasher movie. Like most slasher movies it's run of the mill and some bits of this film did annoy me like the pointless dreams and the voodoo subplot which was rather lame and I really hated that fat white Jamaican guy why was he here, obviously just to get killed.Jennifer Love Hewitt does fine yet again and brings depth to her part, Freddy Prinze JR was actually better in this one and has more to do, Brandy Norwood is OK I loved her chase scenes they were wicked, Mekhi Phifer was also really good in his role and rather funny, Matthew Settle shows what he got in this role insecurity and vulnerability to a T. Muse Watson (Willis) gives another chilling turn when he's allowed real screen time.All in all a fine sequel with a bigger body count and bigger tits. "},{"Title":"What a let down","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had really high hopes for this movie as i had seen the first one and loved it and the way the first movie ended i thought it left it openly for a good sequel. How very wrong i was. In the first one the movie ended that Ben (the fisherman killer) jumped out of the shower which Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) was just about to enter. In the second movie the answer for the first one ending like that was that she was having dreams. How lame. They Just tried to make the movie too good i think so they could get the same success as they had for the first movie but in doing this they just totally messed it up. Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is barley included in this movie and he was a main character he is in about 45 minutes worth of the movie. I thought it was a bad idea bringing all new main characters in as the main 4. In this movie Freddie was barley included as a main. The killer was so predictable i new it would be another member of Bens family along with Ben. I mean his name is Will Benson. Will Ben's Son it was so clearly obvious. I mean in love Freddie Prinze Jr. and Jennifer Love Hewitt they are brilliant and well acted in this movie but the script sucked. I hated the ending it had no point to it and left it open for a third movie of Ikwydls. The third movie Ray and Julie are not in so we will never know what happens to Ray and Julie which just destroys the purpose of making a sequel the aim is to see if they will live or die at the end of this franchise. Im not going to tell you not to see this movie but i personally i thought it could have been better. Thats why i have given it a 5. "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Flick!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Watch out Jason, that new killer is 'Still' in town! I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is simply one gruesome ice hook murder after another. Instead of stalking only the kids who committed the crime against him, this second edition of the slicker-wearing killer goes after anyone and everyone. All that said, it's not a bad film for what it is. It keeps you on the edge of your seat, almost from the beginning. Much like Jason, this fisherman with a mission is never too much in a hurry to get to his victims. Teens wielding knives, peeking behind closed doors and bravely wandering through the dark recall all the elements of the slasher flicks that started it all. "},{"Title":"Made for one reason and one reason only.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first movie was an average-at-best slasher that made money because of the Scream hype. Producers thought they could make more moolah so they rushed a quickie sequel out to cash in. That's exactly why this pointless and very bad film saw the light of day in the first place. Nobody cared about making a quality horror film. They cared about the profit, and boy does it ever show. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze, Jr. (the latter possessing the acting range of a piece of tree bark) return from the original film as Julie and Ray. Julie wins a dream Caribbean vacation and drags along a few college friends. Two of three said friends are played by annoying pop singer Brandy and former rapper Mekhi Pfifer. Here we have yet another transparent ploy to bring in more money because the actors happen to be black. Since there weren't any major black characters in the first film, the producers figured introducing more diversity to the cast would prompt even more people to blow their green on this. If only they'd put as much time and effort into the script as they did planning out how to line their pockets.No real reason to go into plot here because there really isn't one to speak of. Someone in a fisherman outfit wants Julie dead. Did the killer from the first film survive or is it someone else wanting revenge for the death of the killer in the first film? Doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure it out since there's one particular character who's kind-of a tag along the whole time and you wonder what he's even doing there. There's nothing resembling suspense or terror that takes place in this movie, but there's a little violence taken out on a a bunch of incidental supporting actors (including cult horror star Jeffrey Combs, who is wasted) who play hotel staff. Of course these producer folks need to think ahead and spare most of teens in case they need to appear in the sequel. Thankfully this one didn't perform as well as expected, so another sequel wasn't spit out of the machine the next year. It took 8 years and the film (with the incredibly stupid title I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer) went direct-to-video. "},{"Title":"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the sequel to the first, which did it's job the second is equally as slasher and equally as predictable, directors are now beginning to just make slashers with no twists and techniques to make them unlike anything the audience has seen before.Ben Willis is back the fisherman which the group ran over a year ago,and he has an accomplice but who is it?? Well in these films you narrow the field down to 2 or 3 by 9 times out of 10 eliminating the main characters occasionally the directors will catch you off guard with a main character being the psycho but, trust me it's not that hard.Typical storyline, no different to the original but with a different scenario and the killed of Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar, Cmon get lessons from Craven. I give these films higher ratings then they are worth because I like horror! maybe I am easily impressed "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel, nothing more","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a far better sequel than it has every right to be.**SPOILERS**It's been a year since the accidental death of Ben Willis, and Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is still tormented with nightmares about the ordeal. Her schoolwork is suffering as a result, and her roommate Karla (Brandy) insists she go out and party to forget it. The nightmares continue, and Julie is a nervous wreck. After Karla wins a radio giveaway for a free trip to a resort island and hotel, Karla wants Julie to go with Will Benson, (Matthew Settle) a local college student with a crush on Julie. Julie wants her old friend Ray, (Freddie Prinze Jr.) to go, but he doesn't want to leave the old neighborhood. Forced to go with Will and Karla's boyfriend Tyrell, (Mekhi Phifer) on the trip. The first night is event-free, but then the staff at the resort starts popping up dead. Stranded on the island, Julie informs Karla of her past with Ben Willis, which Karla dismisses as rubbish until she witnesses the killer first-hand. Ray hears about the situation on the island, and rushes over to save Julie and her friends from Ben.The Good News Unlike the first movie, this one is the body count of the two. We get a lot more deaths in here, many of them pretty cleverly done. Here, we get a hook to the neck, a double spear impaling, hedge-clippers into the stomach, and a boat oar to the side of the head. Despite all these deaths, the film isn't as gory as you would believe. Most of the deaths are violent, but the bloodletting is kept off-screen. The bloodstains are found later, rather than seeing them formed with the kill. The main thing about this film is that it is a lot creepier than the first one. The first part is one giant suspense scene, where we don't really know if Julie is dreaming or seeing things, and it's all cleverly done so it can be either of them or she could be actually stalked by the killer. Because of the way that he dresses, the rain slicker, he is able to get a lot of scenes out of simply standing in the background. I also really like the ending going out with the bang this one has is a great improvement over the similar ending of the first one. It is a good last jump and is set up brilliantly and logically. It is also more effective at getting the scare than the first one, and leaves open the door for an un-filmed third movie.The Bad News As I mentioned earlier, this film is pretty bloodless in certain areas. The deaths are violent, but aren't exactly gory. We get no blood at all during the spear killing, the oar hits off-screen, and the only killing the least bit bloody is the hedge-clipper killing. I really hate that trend where killings are bloodless and films are basically a retread of the earlier films. This Scream style of horror films are among the lowest type of horror film because they take the convictions of the genre and throw them back to the audience in a marketable way. I am so glad modern horror films (House of 1,000 Corpses, Cabin Fever, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, etc.) have become famous and have totally replaced these kinds of movies.The Final Verdict I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is basically a horror film for fans of the first one. Besides the one main plot twist, it introduces nothing of real importance into the series, yet it still manages to blindly entertain. Here, I wish to use the phrase expendable entertainment for this film it's a movie that will please those who see, though those who never do will not be left out in the dark.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, and mild drug use and references "},{"Title":"Been there, done that","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was going to sum up my review with the all-so-obvious line I still don´t know why they made this movie. But using that line would´ve been inappropriate since I know why they made it. It was all about money, money, money.I Know What You Did Last Summer did well at the box office so it was obvious that it would get a sequel. The movie wasn´t that memorable, it was just disposable entertainment. But the studio had to have a sequel because it would bring more money to the company.Perhaps this movie could´ve been something, but what really brings the whole thing down is the script. It´s so stupid, so predictable, so clichéd, so bad. It´s not a good thing when you know exactly what´s going to happen next. And the ending? Oh please, do we really want another sequel?The cast is okay, considering the weakly-written characters you could less care about. Jennifer Love Hewitt is nice-looking and I´m sure she has (some) talent, but she needs a really good role to showcase all that. These kind of movies do nothing to your career, or at least nothing positive.I´ve seen this movie twice and I don´t think I´ll ever want to see it again. If I want to see a really good slasher flick I´ll turn to the Scream trilogy, those flicks are actually good. But I do admit that watching movies like I Still... is fun if you consider them comedies instead of serious horror flicks. Honestly, who could take this kind of crap seriously? "},{"Title":"I Still Don't Care *Spoilers*","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Slightly better sequel finds Jennifer Love Hewitt's cleavage once again in danger of a psycho fisherman. Julie returns from the previous flicks to take a vacation in the Bahamas with her new college buddies. It rains a lot. Jack Black dies. Brandy almost dies. Freddy Prinze Jr. gets beat up (Bonus!). There's really nothing in this movie that hasn't been covered in the first, but visually, this movie is superior. I've always had a thing for rainy movies, so this was a treat (plenty of wasted wet T-shirt opportunities however). It's a little gorier than the last one, but still isn't scary. Maybe I've seen too many horror films, but this is by the numbers. If you want to see Jennifer Love Hewitt run around in tight tanktops some more, rent this movie. It's bad, but it fills a sort of void, the void created by boredom and lack of motivation. An easy viewing I guess.P.S. I like the way the killer wrote the message on the wall. Just watch. "}{"Title":"I Still Don't Know Where The Plot Went","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a sequel to a fairly naff, yet watchable, teen slasher movie. This alone should be enough to warn away anyone who thinks there might be something good about the film. Unfortunately, knowing the capital of Brazil meant that I knew from very near the start what was going to happen. If you're going to lure someone somewhere with a question, at least make it something that your normal joe/jo isn't going to get wrong. Like what is the capital of France or Japan.The killer is amazingly unrealistic and the film breaks the rule of the first film by killing absolutely everyone he meets instead of just those who had done something wrong. Making a sequel to a moralistic horror that is blatantly non-moralistic (if that's a word) is plain stoopid.If you're going to kill someone, why not just kill them in their sleep if you know their address and phone number. It makes no sense to ship them all the way to the Bahamas just to bump them off. Just the work involved in setting up a fake competition and buying four tickets to the Bahamas must be too much to make it worthwhile.However, there were saving graces (if not quite enough to make the film watchable) in the resident weed fiend and tight tops. Not that the character of this druggie was anything special, he just provided meagre comic relief - enough to take your mind off the awfulness of the rest of the film.Overall, if you're not interested in plot or good acting but enjoy a cheeeesy slasher pic then you might enjoy this. Otherwise, don't bother unless you fancy seeing what a mockery of the original they made. "},{"Title":"But I still don't care!!!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Original film, that was poor, the sequel well no suprises.People picked off one by one, Brandy won't die and the nice quite guy is the killers father!!!.....zzzzzzzzzzzzzBest bit of the film, Jennifer Love Hewitts body in the tight tops!!!But give this a miss, you will thank me for it!! "},{"Title":"Fun slasher","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Is this movie really scary? Nope, but it IS a cool and cheesy slasher film, and come on. You didn't sit trough this one to see good actors, well - builded story, or realistic character development? You sure didn't. You sat trough this one to see cheesy and creative murders, braindead scores, and pretending-to-be-scary stalking scenes. You get what you want, and nothing else. Personally i'm very happy with that, even if this movie is no Citizen Kane (wich it isn't). I give it six out of ten. "},{"Title":"Bad BAd BAD","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this film was one of the worse films i have ever watch in all of my years alive. The four teenagers might have well just flapped there arms and flew to the island. i mean come on why would a radio station give 4 tickets to a island that is going to go through its winter, you only have to put 2 and 2 together and something smells fishy - hook man Ben. But at the end of every film there has to be a hero Freddie prince Jnr with a good old fashion GUN. Shoots the bad guy they walk ready for the next pathetic sequel. "},{"Title":"Horrible Sequel","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One year after the events from the original Julie(Jennifer Love Hewitt) is still trying to put her life back together.Her Room-mate Karla(Brandy) wins a trip for four to the Bahamas, While there The Fisherman(Muse Watson) shows up and once again begins to kill people.The Script from Trey Callaway was horrible and Danny Cannon's Directing was even worse.Freddie Prinze Jr. once again gives a lousy performance but at least this time his role wasn't as big.Jack Black has a small role and just might be the most annoying character i have ever seen.The movie takes a really bad twist it was so over the top, and made this flick even worse.Mekhi Phifer and Jennifer Esposito also star.Jennifer Esposito like Jennifer Love Hewitt very beautiful and talented but they both seem to make such bad movies for the most part.And once again Jennifer Love Hewitt over acts.The scariest thing about the movie is that it's left open for yet another sequel.I give I Still Know What You Did Last Summer 2/10 "},{"Title":"decent film","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you liked the first one, then you'll also enjoy this film. If I were to rate this film on a scale of 1-10 with 10 being the best, I'd have to give it a 6 meaning that it is entertaining and especially for fans of the first movie. The real problem is that it is a sequel and most sequel's just can't match up with the original. I think that holds true here also, but it is a good movie nonetheless.I also would have to agree with what another member here said in that the two locations used to film this do not flow well at all. I really would have preferred it be shot in one or the other, and preferably in the Bahamas. I wouldn't have even minded it being filmed back in Julie's home town.Overall I really liked the cast. Love-Hewitt turns in a good performance as does Brandy. The supporting cast is pretty good too, and I really liked Jack Black in this one. He was just hilarious with his identity crisis. He is a pot-head white guy with 2 foot long dread locks and slangs like he's on the corner with the homies. It's pretty funny.Overall the storyline was decent with some interesting twists and turns. As I said, the one downside is the way the movie flows from location to location. Overall pretty good however.This is a must see for those who enjoyed the first movie, and a good flick for horror lovers in general.I recommend spending a couple of bucks at the video store on this movie. You'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I still don't care what they did last summer.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what it is with teen flick producers, but people just seem to eat this up. Granted, the cast is attractive, and the production budget obviously quite high...but couldn't they have spent that on writers rather than xerox machines?Honestly, is the BEST scene they could imagine have Jennifer Love Hewitt standing in the rain with a white t-shirt?  And that tanning bed thing was downright laughable.  I believe they tried that in a little 80's bomb called Killer Workout or Aerobicide, which made about as much sense.A forgetful waste that actually makes the first one look good--it's soul merit. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie would be just as good as the first one, i was wrong, it was a great movie, but shouldnt have been based on the sequel of i know what you did last summer i have seen both movies 200 times because they are great movies but just not as great as i would expected. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Sequel","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Julie James is suffering from nightmares. It always takes place at a different location, but the same man is always there with her. His name is Ben Willis and he is a killer. Last summer he stalked and murdered all of Julies friends but she escaped and got away alive. Ever since then it seems she is seeing him everywhere. At school, at home, even in her dreams!After winning tickets from a local radio station for an island vacation, Julie puts her fears and paranoia aside. But when the bodies pile up and suspicious events arise it becomes clear that Ben Willis has followed her to the island and has made sure she won't get off alive!I really enjoyed this sequel to I Know What You Did Last Summer. Although it lacked the suspense of the original, there were some great twists and scares which made the movie fun. The acting was good if not better than the first and this one definitely had more spunk.I recommend this movie to anyone who liked the first one. There are more scares, twists, and blood! So, go see I Still Know What You Did Last Summer today...  "},{"Title":"Just as good as the First","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This follow is just as good as the first a good Story like the first the cast is a bit better. The Cast inc's Brandy Matthew Seattle Muse Watson(The Killer From The First Movie)and who eles Jenny Love Hewit And Freddie Prince Jr. And A Apprence from Jack Black as a Druged Up Madman. This Film is a lot gorer than the First.Lets hope they make a 3rd part to this Story. Cause of the Scare at the end. "}{"Title":"Intense!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie with my friend about 3 weeks after we saw the first one. We liked the first and it wasn't that gory. If you are deciding whether to see the sequel or not like some others said, this one is much scarier, friekier, and gorier. It's much more suspenseful and bloody. Also, we both HATED the ending to this movie. It's the worst ending I've ever seen, personally.The acting is great and is a good movie, but much more intense.I recommend it if you've seen the first one, though I think it could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Despicable","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everything wrong with modern American horror films is represented by this movie. It's racist,predictable,thick-headed,illogical,badly written and generally awful in every way possible.Much worse than the original, which actually had potential for exactly a minute. This one is a total washout,featuring every cliche in the book. Speaking of book,read the original book by Lois Duncan,because it's incredibly good. "},{"Title":"Not as good,but plenty more violence.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I still know what you did last summer was inferior to I know what you did last summer but still has the energy to scare. This time Julie is in college and Ray is a fisherman.Julie wins a holiday with her friend (Brandy) to the Bahamas.It's a trip for four so she decides to bring Ray along.Ray decides to come but is attacked on the way there.It turns out the killer (from the original) has followed them there and wants revenge.Soon everybody on the island is dead and they're all stranded.They are all stuck on the island with the killer.It's then a question of who will survive and who will die.I still know what you did last summer is much more violent and contains a higher certifecate than the original.There is also an appearance from Jack Black as the annoying Jamaican bloke.Fans of slasher movies (and people who only want to see gore)will adore this movie.The plot is more thinner than the original but it's still a brilliant film and the ending (before the credits again) is excellent,but did it really happen?I guess we will have to wait and see.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Peek...","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Heh..Okay..This is the seq. to I Know What You Did Last Summer..and truthfully, it rocks. This movie, in my opinion, is better than the first. Why? I have no idea.. I just got more scares out of this one..and humor in horror has been considered a virtue these days.The Cast Brandy being put in this film had to be the greatest contribution to the film. She not only played her part well, but she had the audience rooting for her and feeling scared for her, like with J.Love.H... DThe Setting I've always thought this was the MAIN reason that the film was better than the first. The bahamas..??? Good idea. The cast is practically stranded on an island with no way off and it just seems so much more interesting, like a maze or something.Just a better movie than the first.... Even though they both rocked big time.10/10 ... 10/10 "},{"Title":"the ultimate sequel to a slasher flick!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a bit different from the original. The original was more of an emotion, psychological thriller. In this film, its more like SCREAM or URBAN LEGEND. It has that dark creepy feeling, while still throwing its self at you! The original didnt have this quality. There was more character development and suspense riding in the first one. This, oddly, turns from that suspense and gives us an example of absolute terror!Stranded on a remote caribbean island with a small off season crew, Julie, her new friend karla, her boyfriend tyrel and a new friend named will arrive to party and have fun. But a large tropical storm rolls in and a mysterious man is seen at times roaming the beach and woods. Julie starts to get the chills and suddenly feels isolated and afraid for her life! Meanwhile, back on the main land, Ray is desperatly trying to save Julie from the hook wielding fisherman that we all know and love. BEN WILLIS! Well, there is alot of action, drama, death, uncertainty and back story to this very entertaining sequel!So sit back and enjoy this roller coaster ride of a movie that takes you up close and personal with a man....who just doesnt seem to die. "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  #1-more action then the original #2-just as much story as the original #3-more humor then the original and #4-more cheap scares then the original. this is the ultimatre sequel! the past is revisited and the future is uncertain! The plot thickens. people die. some people dont die. and there is a.......unexpected ending. i loved it and would see it any day. "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Geez I love this movie! I have heaps of fun watching it every time. I still know what you did last summer beats the original I know what you did last summer It's different, the setting on an island in the Bahamas where the crazed killer that tried to kill the group in the last movie is back and after Jennifer love Hewitt and her friends again. A thrilling sequel.90%  "},{"Title":"Better then the first one.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great a first class thriller all the way through.The cast was outstanding I think that the whole cast deserves an award. The location was incredible. I think the director should make another. It was an exciting and suspenseful film. "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Sequel!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although it fails to exceed the suspense of the original, this sequel was very entertaining. It was stylish, to say the least. As far as production design goes, every scene goes to the extreme by adding little touches that make it look perfect. The HUGE ensemble cast is great, the direction is great, the plot is a little far-fetched but still plausible. What's not to like? Rent (or buy) and enjoy!My Grade B+Cast Jennifer Love Hewitt (Julie James), Freddie Prinze Jr. (Ray Bronson), Brandy Norwood (Karla Wilson), Matthew Settle (Will Benson), Mekhi Phifer (Tyrell Martin), Muse Watson (Benjamin Willis), Jennifer Esposito (Nancy Murphy), Bill Cobbs (Estes), Jeffrey Combs (Mr. Brooks), John Hawkes (Dave), and a cameo by Jack Black. "},{"Title":"I Still Know The Original Was Crap","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Why does everyone have a downer on this film?  Is it because Buffy has gone back to TV where she belongs?  Or is it because this film is that rare thing - a sequel which surpasses the original.We might as well be honest, the original 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' was an uninspired, tedious piece of crud masquerading as a Slasher Movie under the guise of 'teen psychological thriller' (most teenagers wouldn't know a psychological thriller if it jumped up and bit them on the backside - I should know, I only stopped being a teenager 3 years ago).  'I Still Know What You Did Last Summer' may also be uninspired, but at least it doesn't try to be anything it's not - this one is an out-and-out Slasher Fest, radically different in tone to it's predecessor.  And there's no 'Scream' style in joke irony to wade through.The plot is simple, Ben Willis may have lost his hand in the last movie, but he didn't lose his life, and he's back!!  And this time he really is the psycho with a fishing hook for a hand.  All he wants to do is kill Julie James and her somewhat anonymous boyfriend (the awful Freddie Prinze Jr - do you think his daddy is proud?), who thankfully gets next to no screentime.The biggest surprise of the film is the top-notch performance we get from Brandy.  Instead of coming across as a typical scream queen, she comes across as a very ballsy, hot headed chick.  Low points include the oh-so-obvious twist in the tail (not since Halloween and until Scream 3 have I seen such an obvious plot device), but obvious twists in the tail are a Slasher Movie staple, so I'm glad to see it included here.  By far the best aspect of this movie is the setting, on an almost abandoned Island resort in the middle of storm season - which means there is nowhere to run and nowhere to hide. "}{"Title":"Guilty pleasure alert!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1998) Rating 7/10I am aware that I would get in the global critics good books if I said I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was a stupid piece of trite, but unfortunately I'm not going to deny my own enjoyment of this film. I found it totally stupid in parts but nevertheless it entertained me and that is important. The film doesn't have as much quality as say, Scream, but who cares? This was fun, fun, fun and at least had some good points. The sets are beautiful, the camera tricks are worthy and the sound is extreme. I couldn't resist Jennifer Love's jublees and her acting is also good in this movie. A lot of the time the characters mouths move when they aren't even saying anything, which is a result of bad editing. The final reel is totally silly. But the clever death scenes and the characters actually caring about what happens to each other is a change from the usual horror films. It would have been better if Kevin Williamson had been involved, but I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is still watchable enough to pass an hour and a half. Two words sum up this movie guilty pleasure. And I loved it. "},{"Title":"Horrible, but entertaining","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is quite a bad movie. It's predictable for the very beginning, the cast over-acts badly and the dialogue is laughable at times. Combine all these elements together and you get one hell of a funny film.  In short, this film is bad, but it is entertainingly bad.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of 1998! Oh, wait... it's not a comedy","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film (well, movie) is an implausible mess. Another example of a bad sequel. The whole movie is unbelievable and doesn't make any sense. Why won't the killer just freaking die? And why is he so mad. The kids made a simple mistake. Forget and forgive. Move on. This guy certainly has way to much time on his hands.The plot is stupid. Julie and her friend win a prize trip to Jamaca over a radio station. They take two of their friends. Carla takes her boyfriend and Julie wants to take Ray (you'll remember him from the first), but Will comes along instead. Anyway, when the get there, bodies pile up without logic and as luck would have it, they're stuck on that darned island because there's a tropical storm. The killer is back and he's crazier and madder.I watched this movie with my friend on TV. It was a laugh riot straight from the beginning. I mean, Julie has a big axe and the killer has a dinky hook. Why doesn't she just kill him. Or all four of them gang up on him. We couldn't stop laughing at the ridiculous situations these people go into, all the clichés, the flat acting, the numerous plot holes, and the absurdity of it all. But give the movie some credit. It does manage to give you some cheap thrills (few). And there are two humouress characters. So, I won't give this a very low rating because it's so hilarious. Watch it to laugh and just have a little fun. But the movie, when analyzed, it one of the worst movies in a long time. C- "},{"Title":"Shouldn't this film be called I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago?","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie was made.  I mean, I love silly slasher films as much as the next guy, but was this necessary?If anything good came out of this venture, it was the introduction of Brandy Norwood to mainstream feature films.  Though she may not be a great actor and I may not be a fan of segueing other careers into movie careers, she seems to be very comfortable in front of the camera on top of being unbelievably photogenic.  She reminds me somewhat of Aaliyah's first attempts at movies, and I think that Aaliyah could be the one exception to the musician-turned-actor dilemma. "},{"Title":"The first one was great, the sequel is even better.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"                      *****SPOILERS*****I STILL know what you did last summer is a great sequel to the first, I know what you did last summer. This time Julie is back and she's at college. One day her best friend Karla wins a trip to the Bahamas and of course she's going to take Julie and her (Karla's.) boyfriend, Tyrell. Karla tells Julie that she can bring someone too, Julie immediately thinks of Ray. (Her ex-boyfriend, who she still loves.) Ray stupidly refuses (He ends up turning up later to the rescue.) so Karla decides to bring Will, a friend of all there's and a guy who likes Julie romantically. Anyway, once they get to the Bahamas, they find out that it's the storm season and they can't really do things they planned to do, like go to the beach, etc. but they still plan to entertain themselves (And, they're the only guests staying at the hotel they're  at too.) Until, things start to go horribly wrong and people die. At first everyone thinks it's Estes a strange guy working at the hotel. (It turns out Estes is trying to protect them.) but Julie knows it's Ben Willis the fisherman coming back to kill her and her friends. The good twist in the film, is that not only is the killer Ben Willis but the killer has a helper, his son who turns out to be Will. I STILL know what you did last summer is brilliant film and a must-see for everyone. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Only Brandy and Love save this","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"     Brandy is one of the most gorgeous looking girls on the scene. Her exotic eyes, those luscious lips forming a beautiful smile, that booty that is now better than J-Ho's booty. Jenny Hewitt and her wonderful breasts. What is wrong with a movie that features these wonderful assets?     That's the problem. The horror in this film is pitiful. No way is a guy with a fish hook scary (a fish hook is not an ax, nor is it even an attempt at a substitute for dream powers.) All the attempts at fright are forced. The gore is a matter of fact (this is not fun gore, it's boring gore.) The plot is too ridiculous to discuss. The violence is not as violent as it should be, and where it is violent it is unnecassary (I mean what was the reason the fish hook guy had to kill the black female patron? Oh, wait, answered my own question. horror cliche.) Too contrived and characterization is unavailable for comment. The producers will tell you that films like Friday the 13th had no characterization either, and endured cult appeal over the year. The difference is Friday the 13th offered something entertaining, whether it be gore or sex. I STILL KNOW has no sex, in fact blowing it with two scenes that feature Brandy and Jenny in bikinis, but are not featured in full body shots. Aweful directon. And just because it is a horror film doesn't mean it should not have characterization. Films like RE-ANIMATOR and DEAD ALIVE have characterization that elevate it from schlock pop garbage like this movie.   Bottom line It's good for Brandy and Jenny Love, but not for anything else. "},{"Title":"An absolute joke!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***                                                       This film has to be the most implausible film in history. First Love Hewitt & co think they have won a trip to jamaica or somewhere on a radio station that doesn't really exist because it is actually the killer on the radio doing the whole competition. (Why is their radio tuned to a station that doesn't exist? How does killer know they're listening?)They get to their island to find there is no one there except a dodgy janitor in the hotel who serves no purpose at all despite appearing suspicious for what turns out to be no reason. Then, the worst part is that the killer from the first movie comes back and is the father of the new killer!! The fact he was swept out to sea isn't mentioned. Also, the whole ending to the first film that I found to be very effective is dismissed as a dream sequence! That ending was why I looked forward to the sequel but then the sequel basically tells you that it was all a dream. This film is very, very poor and Love Hewitt is the only reason to tune into this dismal affair. 2/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequels to a good film ever made.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  They could've have messed this up anymore than they did with this trash. It's so clear no thought went into this sequel at all.  It's terribly written, the acting is below par for the talent reached by this cast before and it's just overall BAD.  This could've been such a good sequel. Everything was set up in the first for a good part 2, but I guess they just wanted a quick and easy money machine.  They should just do away with this one and leave the first on the shelf as the masterpiece that it is. "},{"Title":"Great fun. I love the setting!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, some of the dialogue in I Still Know is pretty fake, I really enjoy this and love where it was filmed. The original flick was much better, but I LOVE both films the same. I am eager for I Know What You Did Last Summer 3. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy are great also.Another 10 out of 10 from me! "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Teen Slasher Flicks...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summers Is One Of The Most Intence Teen Slasher Flicks...It Is Much Better Than The Scream And Prom Night Series... With A Brilliant Director And A Full List Of Exellent Actors... The Story is So Original With The Story Catching Up Where The First Left Off And Sorting Loose Ends...A Deffenate To Watch On A Scary Night!!! "}{"Title":"Silly slasher fun.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Of course, a ridiculously silly movie which is not at all scary. However, it is admirable in its attempt to keep the viewer hooked throughout. It is certainly entertaining, much more than the rather dull original movie. Silly? Very. Stupid? Yes. Fun? Certainly. "},{"Title":"I still think these movies are... you know","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Remember the time they said on t.v There is a big storm coming brace yourself for this. There is heavy rain , strong gusty winds up to hurricane force ,and high tides headed your way. Hang on tight folks its a big one. You wake up the next morning only to see the sun out shining and then later in the afternoon the rain and winds come but are very light and the rain ends quickly. You say to yourself What happend! Here I go spending some money to protect my home and nothing happends. I was better off without doing any protection. I was expecting a much better movie. The scary part came but was too short and dull.      */**** stars ,a blow!  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Slashers Around...","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"         Many people see I Still Know as a bad rip-off of Halloween.  I admit the first one wasn't much good but this sequel is much better.  It has everything, a great cast and good acting.  The motive of the killer is also genuine.  The plot is amazing and the screenplay is good too.  TRUST ME, YOU MUST SEE THIS!  This movie really is good, so go get it!!   "},{"Title":"My number 162 movie ( contains story + spoiler )","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, you have read correctly. This is my number 162 movie. Although it is one of the not-that-good ´slasher´-movies, this is still quite good.The story  Julie ( J. L. Hewitt ) and her friend ... ( played by Brandy ) win a trip to an island anywhere. ( I think to the Bahamas ). They take this trip with their two boyfriends. On the weekend they spent over there everyone leaves the island, so that these four guys can be alone there. ( surprise surprise ). There are just them and a few employees of the hotel. Pretty soon everyone on the island is killed by a mysterious murderer ( so-called ´Slasher´). They cannot return to the mainland, because there is a storm and the phones do not work. At anytime they notice that they have to kill the killer, or they will be killed by him.  This film is really ridiculous, if you want it to be. Their are two scenes that even I call ´ridiculous´. 1. When Julie wants to sing the song, and she looks at the TV and she reads ´I STILL KNOW... WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER´ instead of the song text. Exactly in that moment all her friends look somewhere else.  2. When Brandy foot is stuck in the broken window ( you not what I am talking about ). But it is a typical horror-film cliché. This movie is worse than I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. It is not that original, not that thrilling and not that violently. ( but there is no movie that is REALLY violently, maybe just Blair Witch 2, because if you see it, you´d like to do suicide ). I do not recommend this movie to anyone who wants to have a scary horror-movie or a logical movie. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10. In Germany someone said  ´I´m really looking forward to the next movie Unfortunately I still now what you did in summer three years ago´. Great humour.  "},{"Title":"Erm...","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *Warning Major Spoilers*I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a movie you must watch a few times to see actually how good it was. When I first saw it, it instantly became my favourite film. Now it isn't even in my top 250, because I realised it has so many flaws and is basically so darn stupid.Oh, things look so great and fresh for Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt). She has won a trip to the Bahamas with her new best friend, Karla Wilson (Brandy Norwood), a remote little island called Tower Bay. Along with the two hot pieces of ass are Karla's horny beau Tyrell Martin (Mekhi Phifer) and Julie's could-be-new-love-interest Tom Cruise lookalike Will Benson (Matthew Settle). But, when they get there, they get told that it is an off-season for the 4th of July weekend (this happens to be the time that they are there, and the time that Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar got hook treatment in the first film) and that there will be a humongous storm. Sooner than later, Ben Willis (Muse Watson) returns with a hook for a hand and dead bodies start piling up all over the place, and once again, Julie is the main victim.Is I Still Know What You Did Last Summer a bad film? The simple answer is yes. But the badness, the dumbness of it all soon becomes fun. The acting is bad, the script is bad, the directing is bad, the only thing that isn't bad is the set decoration and Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts (which we get close-up's of at every moment possible). But, as I said, the badness is fun; the second killer is oh-so-blindingly obvious, the deaths are continously the same thing over and over again, providing as much gore as you can imagine and more, and Ben Willis has many chances to hook Julie to death, but he tries more to terrorise her, and watching Love Hewitt being terrorised is about as fun as going swimming on a hot summer's day.Dumb-ass c***, but a hilarious and stupid watch your bound to dislike, which, in this case, is actually good.I rate I Still Know What You Did Last Summer 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Laugh-a-minute comedy horror spoof... isn't it?","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just like the Naked Gun movies, the cast of this load of old rubbish play it dead straight. Which makes it even funnier. Laugh as they manage to engineer situations that separate them from their friends. Spend last summer watching all your buddies get killed by a big scary bloke with a hook? Just seen a dead body and decided that history is repeating itself? Oh well, why not have a shower or go on the sunbed with your walkman on, then! Scream was a good film, but it's provided the makers of films like this with a get out clause. Yes of course it's c**p, they can say, it's tongue in cheek. It's supposed to be ridiculous. But the bottom line is that this is a lazy film, no excuses. "},{"Title":"At least it was better than the first","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first movie I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER was such a drag! It was just so boring! The sequel is ten times more entertaining and therefore it's easily better. Sure, it's pure trash and it's as cheesy and B as, well, I don't know what. It was in theory not a good movie. And the first one was in theory a better movie, since it at least had a plot. But at least this was not boring. At long as you expect a bad but 'good' movie and not a quality movie, by all means. See it today. 4/10   "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The sequel to 1997's sleeper hit I Know What You DId Last Summer titled I Still Know What You Did Last Summer.The movie was a pretty good movie, it was scary and frightening as the first, a better Ben Willis appeared in this one. The perfomances of Jennifer Love Hewitt, Brandy, Jennifer Esposito and Jeffery Combs are excellent! I liked the music (not the score).I give it 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous sequel","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt returns for this poor sequel to the 1997 hit &#145;I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER' and thank god that she does, other wise it would be difficult to stay with this ridiculous story until the end. The sight of the gorgeous Love Hewitt wearing skimpy tight tops throughout is good enough reason to do so and to be fair the story does get better as it goes on with quite a good twist at the finale. But you can't help but think that this is just another SCREAM rip off, without the freshness and script quality of the Wes Craven blockbuster.  "},{"Title":"*Shudder* Not good... Not good at ALL","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I had given the first film a very high passing grade primarily for Jim Gillespie's surprisingly good first time direction and for Kevin Williamson's clever adaption of an old Young Adult's novel (kind of a Goosebumps for the 12 to 16 set). It was a bad bad bad book but he made a sick twisted movie of it and Jim Gillespie gave it a semi-surreal Santa Barbara/As The World Turns kind of look using phony sets and lot of blue highlights and dark tones.But this sequel... it's unwatchable for two principal reasonsNumber one it's a useless sequel, NOTHING here is new and the main feeling you get watching this is deja-vu, if not boredom. Number two is that Trey Callaway's screenplay is horrible. It's an amateurish and barely coherent effort all the way. First of all we KNOW who is doing the killings the whole time and there is not even the slightest single effort at mystery.As for the directing Danny Cannon pretty much apes the look of the first film and flies on auto-pilot the whole time. No points there.Finally, there's the acting... ewww... Freddy Prinze was horrible in the first movie, sometimes looking like he had just read his lines off a teleprompter (no noticeable acting effort) and he continues this tradition here. Jennifer Love Hewitt was pretty good in the first one but she seems to have gotten worse the more she's done films.So here we have it, bad direction, bad writing and bad acting. A total mishmash not worth the two hours required to watch it. AVOID ! "}{"Title":"Very Mediocre Film","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know followed up the story of the original very well, unfortunately the movie is not the least bit scary or suspenseful. The movie actually drags on towards the end, and the victims do not portray scared, realistic characters. They come off as shallow, and fake. Hewitts acting is very mediocre here, Brandy was a little better, but unfortunately her character was wasted in the end. The setting to this film was very good though, a deserted island is the perfect place to make a mystery, horror film. Unfortunately this movie falls short of that. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Gorier than the first and a better HORROR film, not a better film.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did not exactly excel over the prequel but it was scarier and the plot was more horror like than mystery. The man in the slicker and who has a huge hook for a hand is stalking a girl and her friends on an island resort in the Bahamas. Since it is storm season and all the boats off the island have been cancelled and all the island residents are mysteriously disappearing, it can only mean one thing. Ben Willis is back and they are all stuck on an island with him. You have to give the film credit for a few things, though. Jennifer Love Hewitt does an excellent job as the traumatized Julie James who is a paranoid girl who only thinks about the killer that killed her friends the year earlier and is now back for her. Although the ending is completely unrealistic and the characters are falling through windows and running away uninjured, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a horror film that will not be remembered for a long time. "},{"Title":"Yeuch!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was not only pathetic and boring, it's title doesn't make since.  The original movie I know what you did last summer took place in 1997.  The new one takes place in 1998 and is called I still know what you did LAST summer I have a problem with this because it wasn't last summer, it was like two summers ago, so the title is stupid.  They should of stuck with their original idea of, I Still Know... It would've been a much better title. Then there's the pathetic plot.  Which I won't spoil even though there's not much TO spoil.  Only watch this movie if you're extremely bored and have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but still somewhat entertaining...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After having been pleasantly surprised by the original film, about thirty minutes after having watched that one, I popped this one into my VCR. I thought that the original was a really okay slasher flick, now it was time to see if this one could surprise me also. It was better than I thought it would be, even though it's totally predictable. What else would you call it if I called the surprise twist in the end TEN MINUTES into the film. It was JUST TOO OBVIOUS! But still, Hewitt was pretty good, as she was in the first, and it's kind of fun to see that they've cast Jeffrey Combs in the film. Even though the score is annoying, the film is entertaining enough for me to give it an okay. It's not exactly a must-see-or-die film, but it can at least make for 100 minutes of midnight entertainment. Don't expect to be scared though, but this is coming from a guy who hardly ever gets scared by movies. I can basically count the movies that have scared me on my ten fingers, but unless you scare easy, you're probably not going to be biting your nails. At least it's better to pick up these two films than to watch one of the Friday the 13th films. Now that I have surprised myself that I actually somewhat liked both these films even though I expected to absolutely loathe them, I'm probably gonna have to go and rent then remake of The Haunting, even if I really don't want to. But if these didn't suck, like I thought they would, then maybe that will also be pretty good. Ahh, who am I kidding, it's going to suck badly, and when I have suffered through it, I will be here to complain about it. "},{"Title":"I Still Love What Hewitt Did Last Movies","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In fact, Jeniffer Hewitt does her best; smiling, winking, screaming, the mega-babe sparks the screen with her intense charm.The story is basic thriller. Still fun, but doesn't out run 'I Know...'It's a basic youth thriller, in the same current as Scream. To be honest, the style is much similar with Jason (Friday the 13th), Leatherface (Texas Chainsaw Massacre), but more realistic than Freddy (Nightmare on Elm Street). But what I Know... and Still Know got is more intense mystery and surprises.... and Hewitt.  "},{"Title":"I Still hate this movie","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"    Next to Halloween Season of The Witch this is the worst sequel in horror history. Once again Jennifer Love and her Boyfriend are being stalked by a killer with a hook for a hand. How these two people manage to live through out the movie is a shock. The plot in this movie blows and the acting is half-assed. This makes the first one look like a great movie which its not. I give this movie a 2/10.  "},{"Title":"We've seen it before","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Contains SPOILERS about this film as well as SCREAM 3!Since the first film in this series wasn't particularly good I didn't expect much from I Still Know What You Did Last Summer -- and I was right not to expect anything. It's neither better nor worse than the first film -- that is to say, it is a very average horror film, not very bad, but certainly not very good either. There's hardly anything else to say about it except that the ending was perhaps as silly as a horror film sequel's ending could get. I mean, come one, the son of that fisherman guy? It is so far-fetched I just started to laugh out loud. It was just like the Scream 3 ending, where Sidney's brother unexpectedly (well, hardly, anyone could see that coming since the mother was so much the focus of the story) turned out to be the psychopathic murderer. Ha-ha. Well, ISKWYDLS's ending wasn't as stupid as that of Scream *2*, but it is certainly not far from it. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Was better the second time around","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, there are spoilers in here... deal with it.First of, I watched the movie one year ago after taking an exam in college when I had to relax. A few friends originally planned to come along, but they all gave me a rain check about an hour before we went to the cinema. Anyway, I hated the movie. I liked the first one, although it was (after Scream) too much like the 80´s slasher flicks. It had a nice atmosphere and all.The sequel stunk. It was like a generic 80´s slasher movie, no suspense, no nothing. Each kill happened formula-vise here´s a one minute scare scene where the victim looks around confused, then the fisherman shows up, the victim is petrified and just stands there (without doing something intelligent like running away The best example is the dock hand He hangs there and looks up at the fisherman striking him with the hook. Gee, he couldn´t have let himself drop back into the water...). Oh, and I hated it how easily the guys died in this movie. It´s not even baseball Just one strike and you´re out. Come on, compare it to Scream, people are really GUTTED there before they were finally dead. It may be gory, but at least it´s realistic. I mean, I don´t want gore-fests, I don´t even have to see the blood, but I want to know it´s there. There was a scene were I thought What the... how could she die from THAT???. I´m talking about the fisherman throwing Brandy into the shelf. Okay, now she is alive in the end, but come on. The fisherman goes through all those troubles to chase her, and when he finally has her he just pushes her into a cupboard and LEAVES?Now, I went to the video store a few days ago, and since all the good DVDs were taken, I rented I still know again. Somehow, it wasn´t as painful the second time around. Now, that may be because I went into it with really high expectations the first time (a friend told me it was the best slasher movie EVER... yeah sure). If you watch it as a generic slasher flick, it´s fun. Otherwise, better skip it.  "},{"Title":"Bloody simple","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   We're supposed to be leaping into our neighbors' laps in fear - but once glance at the big ugly fisherman's hate and slicker and I'm guessing Ronald McDonald would have been a lot scarier. Even the killer's name is bland - Ben Willis - and more often than not he has a peculiar way of terrorizing his victims.  Take for instance that lissome tulip Julie James. After helping her college chum Karla win a radio contest, the two arrive along with a couple of boys for a weekend getaway at a deserted Bahamas resort. In the middle of a monsoon, Julie decided to use the tannin bed, and as she's lying there with her headphone on, Ben Willis sneaks in turns the dial up to extra crispy, and binds the door with what looks like a cheap little newspaper bundler. Julie's friends burst into the room, there's a lot of screaming and commotion, but really! - a pair of scissors would have done the trick.  Even when Ben Willis plants his hook into flesh it's all staged rather politely - a hand spiked here, a dribble of blood, with none of the outrageously gross, limb splitting carnage that all but defined the slasher genre in the '80s heyday. The gruesome pay off shocks are by now, as generic as who will be the next to die schematic.  Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy are actresses the way that Annette Funicello and Olivia Netwon John were, but the fact that both of these doe-eyed teen idols happen to be mini-industries means that there's not much doubt about whether they'll truimph over the killer.   Hewitt especially, looks as if she could fend him off with a quick flex of her abs. It's not just her body that's sculpted and toned - her entire personality seems aerobicized. She has no visible dirty thoughts, and that makes her the perfect star for a thriller so antiseptic you could eat off one of the corpses. "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as Scream, but close.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The I know... series tries to be Scream in many, many ways and in some places it does but in others it doesn't. First of all you have to have an attractive lead character and I Still Know  certainly has that. Jennifer Love Hewitt being one of the most gorgeous person on the face of the earth. You also have to have  a good story. The story in I Still Know is good but not quite as good as Scream. Finally you have to have a good killer. And  while the fisherman looks kind of mean and scary he's not quite as good as ghostface. Now I'm not saying I Still Know is bad because it certainly is not, it's just not quite as good as Scream. If you've already seen Scream then I highly recommend seeing I Still Know What You Did Last Summer "}{"Title":"I Still Know How to Enjoy These Grade-Z Movies","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"       I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a kinda shrill, grade-Z teen horror sequel whose sumptuous production values account for essentially all the effort the filmmakers invested in this project.  No respectable viewer could justifiably grade this flick any higher than a `C,' and even that would be require a persuasive argument.  For a shameless fanatic of both teen and horror films like myself, however, this was a satisfying solo trip to the movies, in the dark, by myself, on a school night.  It was a nicely appropriate situation, being that my appreciation of these kinds of movies can be shared with no one; it is to exist within the privacy of myself.  So I will refrain from expounding on the deep-rooted, psychological reasons why I am attracted to this fundamentally bad material, and instead offer another typical analysis peppered with the connotations of my inexplicable feelings (whatever the hell all that just meant; here's the damn review, finally).     As can usually be said of a movie featuring Jennifer Love Hewitt, she is the best part.  The character development she had to work with in the original is pretty much complete, so we no longer watch her change, but rather behave in the ways fitting to who she is, which is an arduous task for a writer (and actor) to achieve.  And though it is not totally successful (did they think I wouldn't notice a replica of that scene in the original where she goes hysterical and starts running around screaming at hooky-guy to come get her?), there is no question that Hewitt is effective and emotionally interesting, a heroine for whom we sincerely care.  Other virtues of the movie beautiful island scenery and an excellently-captured eeriness of the hotel at which the quartet of teen protagonists are vacationing (it's also a sort of sad waste of overall possibilities when you reflect on how they utilized these potent settings); a couple good scares throughout, though nothing scary, as if any movie could be deemed such; Freddie Prinze, Jr. is certainly not a notable talent, yet he exudes sufficient charm and is a likable hero; Mekhi Phifer, in a stereotype black tough-guy role, gives his role some enjoyable attitude, but his disbelief of Julie's claims that a killer's on the loose become tiring and cruel.     Now for the bad stuff a maddening lack of logic, intelligence, and most plausible qualities of humanity in all the characters; entirely arbitrary and thus boring murders of all the islanders we don't even really know is an obvious compensatory ploy for the fact that only two of main five characters are killed; technically mediocre acting (except Hewitt), plus bothersome, forgettable work from newcomer Brandy; low-IQ script; splotches of incompetent directing throughout; an incredibly demeaning and character-betraying shocker finale that essentially tosses this film into the pile of identical slasher formula flix from the past 20 years.  Our only consolation is that it may just be a dream, a la the surprise ending of the first I Know What You Did Last Summer&#133;I guess we'll find out if and when I Still Know What You Did Lots of Summers Ago is made.  I'll be first in line at the ticket window to let you know.My Grade B-  "},{"Title":"Lacking on plot but enjoyable","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know takes place a year after the events of the first film. Julie's college grades are slipping and her relationship with Ray is looking decidedly rocky.  When her best friend Karla wins a free trip to a tropical island Julie thinks that maybe her luck is changing for the better but when she and her friends get there they find that The Fisherman is waiting for them and wants revenge.  This isn't quite as good as the original and Kevin Williamson's razor sharp writing but thankfully it doesn't lack the razor sharp hook slashing lots of people.  Even though it wasn't as plot relient as the original I still found to be very enjoyable especially in comparison to some of the horror sequels out there. "},{"Title":"It was as good as the first one!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  By which I mean it was cliched, the plot was held together by bubblegum, and it was not very scary. The first movie destroyed its modicum of suspense by not having the killer be one of the main cast (take a hint from Agatha Christie it's much scarier when the killer could be anyone), and this movie makes the same mistake -- kind of. By the time I realized that there was something rotten in the main cast, I knew who it was. And because the dialogue consists almost entirely of plot points, I also knew why.Plot aside, the killing wasn't that great, either. Boring as it was, the first movie was at least vaguely original. This one rips off The Shining liberally. Spooky hotel! Off-season! Mysterious rooms! Deserted banquet hall! Fully stocked bar! The best use of a mirror I've ever seen was in Shining, and a similar effect has been used a few times in slasher movies, though not as well. Please, no more scenes where the killer walks behind a character and we can see him in the mirror!Bottom line if you haven't already seen them, Pet Sematary, The Shining, or And Then There Were None, are much better versions of this familiar story. "},{"Title":"Does exactly what it says on the box","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a slasher movie. It doesn't take itself too seriously. There are a lot of good looking women, a lot of gory murders and a lot of intentional (and unintentional) laughs. What more can i say?  People seem to read too much into movies these days. I mean, i love serious or moving films as much as i love the horror genre, but films like these are not meant for analysis. If you want gore, girls and....something else beginning with 'g', then rent his one. Besides, it's got Jennifer Love Hewitt in it, and there's two very good reasons for watching... "},{"Title":"Not much really-just a slasher movie with no plot!!!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen the first movie and I quite enjoyed it-there were some truly awesome performances-but 'I still know what you did last summer' was a weak attempt. There must have been at least 7-8 killings. They were very realistic and very impressive-but not as impressive than i might have imagined. Brandy put up a dull performance. It looks like she was being chased by a mouse rather than a 6' murderer!My Rating-4.  "},{"Title":"I STILL KNOW was a good movie....","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW was a good movie but due to his failure in the US, foreign people enjoyed it. I loved it, here in Venezuela everybody liked it.I give 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Most of the above people don't get it! This is pretty good.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok. Here is the deal. You don't go and see a horror movie for the great acting, or the original plot. You go and see a horror movie for but one reason Kick ass entertainment!  The plot is typical of the genre, teenagers get murdered over and over, as a serial killer stocks the main character (who is normally a girl, and in this case Jennifer Love Hewitt) and that is all there is to it. Pretty basic. This is good as the slasher movie sequels go, watch it, and don't try and make it into something it isn't meant to be. If you still want to whine about dramatic effect, go sit at home and watch Titanic, and if you want to see crap, rent Plump Fiction (horrible). I give it a 7/10, not great, but good. "},{"Title":"No plot, no suspense, no logic (that's why it is a short review)","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't expecting very much when seeing this film and I was right. First of all after having seen this film I have to assume that the screenplay of this film fitted on one page or even less. The story is kept on a minimum (teens visiting island, killer shows up, teens can't leave island because of storm, more deaths; that's about it). I was trying to figure out how Kevin Williamson could have written such a bad screenplay but then I saw that it wasn't Williamson who wrote the story and suddenly I understood why this film never had a chance of being good.I know what you did last summer was full of suspense but in this film the killer appears, kills the person and disappears again. No suspense, no scares, no nothing. This is as dumb as it can possibly get.My rating 4/10 (Jennifer's body=2, Gore=1, Unintentional fun=1) "},{"Title":"where the screenplay, because I see just a body count","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No story, just some murders !!! No logic and intelligence. Okay, the first movie isn't the best scary movie, but at least the characters was be realist and plausible. Here, the character are just the same stereotype that all people have seen is the others bad scary movie.the man who make the script think that the people don't know what the capital of Brazil but when you know it , you unhook of the movie  and you've just one thing to say about it that shit !!!! "},{"Title":"Insults the intelligence","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre and absolutely hated it ever since. Never, ever in my life have I seen a movie with such blatant disregard for common sense. Consider the event which sets everything in motion the radio contest. How does Ben Willis get on the radio to announce the contest? How does he know that at that exact moment that the girls would have the radio on, be listening to that station, and have the urge to call in and answer the question? Wouldn't it be easier to sneak into Julie's apartment and just kill her than to transport them to the island and time it just right for a huge storm to come?  Are we to believe that Ben Willis's son enrolled in college, gained Julie's trust and became her friend over the course of a year just to kill her? In my opinion, the whole premise falls apart within the first 10 minutes. Consider the part when Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is driving with his friend and they come across the body in the road. How did Ben know that they would be coming home that way, at that exact time to discover the body? What would have happened if another car came around the corner before them? This movie is absolutely loaded with garbage like this. If you stop and think about it logically for one second, the every scene in this movie falls apart. I cannot believe that someone was paid money (probably a lot) to write this horrible, horrible garbage. "}{"Title":"Proves the theory that sequels suck","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh geez! What the hell were they thinking when they came up with this one? This is one of the most... stupid movies I've ever seen. This is absolutely nothing below-average direct-to-video 80s slasher-crap made in the 90s. I swear, I think Columbia Pictures must have had about 10-million dollars laying around the studio that they didn't know what to do with, so they made this piece of garbage.The story, oh geez the story, is just so out-there unbelievable. GET READY FOR SOME SPOILERS, THOUGH I MUST SAY IT ISN'T SPOILING MUCH. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy win a trip to a sorry tourist island by answering the radio station question What is the capital of Brazil? with Rio. Oh please! I'm not going to lie, I'm a pretty smart person, but anyone with a sense of geography knows that just ain't right. Brasilia, dammit! Like a person that has been faking his death for a year would manage to dig up the money to send four people to the Bahamas. Yeah sure. I'm going to get revenge on the people (a pair of whom are dead) that hit-and-run me two years ago by sending them on a bit of a vacation first. What a nice serial killer am I? STUPID! Which reminds me, why is it called I Still Know What You Did LAST Summer?  Sorry, Ben Willis, you're a couple of years behind. Anyway, for a reason I have yet to figure out, Jennifer Love Hewitt runs in the rain wearing a sweater and bikini bottom to tell Brandy and the rest of the victims that she ran over Ben Willis 2 years prior and that he went after her and Ray and killed 2 of her friends last year. In one seen, that I think is incredibly stupid, Jennifer's character is in a tanning machine when the psychotic Gordon's fisherman locks her in with one of those cable ties and turns the machine to full blast. As stupid as her friends are, they waste time breaking the machine when they could simply pull the plug. HELLO? Anyway, people die, killer dies, the end. And if that ain't bad enough, now we have the cast.Jennifer Love Hewitt, as lovely as she and her assets are, is not enough to save this film. Neither are Freddie Prinze Jr. and Mekhi Pheifer, who, despite the terrible story, do a good job. And as for Brandy, oh poor Brandy, as much as I like her music, the girl can't cut it (no pun intended) in cinema. Sorry girl, stick to your day job.Basically, this is a terrible film that only has 2 good points a scene that I must admit surprised me, and 2 likeable characters, and no I don't mean Jennifer's breasts. For these two highlights and the fact that this gives people who like bad movies another one to watch, I give the film a 2/10. If you must see it, I suggest you wait until someone else rents it from the 99-cent rack and mooch off of them. "},{"Title":"The trailer was scarier","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst scary movie I have ever seen! The first one was good, but what the hell happened when they made this one. I mean, come on! How scary is it when a man runs around (or should I say, WALKS around) and kills characters that only have 2 lines, or less. And the end is really sad. not boo hoo sad, just sad! Julie shot the man like 7 times and he still has enough energy to not die, follow her to her house, crawl under a chair (like he would fit), and then pull her under it! I'm sorry But this movie sucks! I Know What I Did Last Summer when I watched this movie... I slept! "},{"Title":"skip it CONTAINS SPOILERS","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i still know is just a horrible movie. if Kevin Williamson would have wrote it then it would have been good. first off the movie is really slow and boring, it brings nothing new to the series. the reasons i don't like this movie are 1. we all know in sequels the body count must be higher right, so what they do is put in a bunch of pointless characters just to get gutted. at least give them a meaning then gut them. 2. this is so hollywood. the two survivers form the first are back again and they both live. come on one of them should have died those are the rules to horror. but they didn't die cause of who they are, so this way if they do a third part they can bring them back. 3. the ending is so silly. you might get a little suspense but not too much, and no good scares. very weak sequel i give this movie 4/10. only reason i give it a 4 is cause Jennifer Love Hewitt is just too hot "},{"Title":"Not that bad.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After all the bad press, I decided to miss it at the cinema, but I rented it on DVD, because i was curious after the cliffhanger from the first one, of course I was let down in that department when the explanation was given, and for the first half an hour cheap scare tactics are used, so i didn't expect much for the rest, but the idea of being stuck on an island kept me interested, and watching a film with Jennifer Love-Hewitt can't exactly be bad. The film really picks up, and It got pretty tense, I always thought the Fisherman character wasn't such a scary thing in the first one, but here it works as they are on an island with no where to run. The unexpected things happens and it keeps things pretty interesting. I can see how some people can say it ain't any good, but i had a fun time and found it was much better than i expected.   "},{"Title":"A big improvement over the first","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Here's another one for the kids in Scream 2- a sequel which betters the original. We got into the action a lot faster, there were more deaths and less wandering about moaning, and generally it was just a lot scarier. I liked it. "},{"Title":"A big improvement over the first","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Here's another one for the kids in Scream 2- a sequel which betters the original. We got into the action a lot faster, there were more deaths and less wandering about moaning, and generally it was just a lot scarier. I liked it. "},{"Title":"NOT GOOD, BUT NOT BAD","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's not as good as the first, but the deaths are more numerous and some are really good. It wasn't that scary, but it might scare you. Some scenes were really good while others were bad. The quotes were out there but the cast is cool. UNDER HERE CONTAINS A SPOILERThe ending was messed up. After ben is shot, he comes back to life attacking Julie while leaving you confused. The movie ends in a mystery. Now everybody knows that ben is just like Jason or Freddy and just won't die. I hope the 3rd movie, if  they make one, is better than this. I give it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"A sexist movie only for pigs","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok I have to say that I know what you did last summer was a good movie but it's sequal is a pathetic sexist movie that is meant for sexist pigs to enjoy only because of Jennifer Love Hewitts' boobs. Jennifer, your talent was wasted on this movie, you are far too talented an actress to reveal so much of your body for these airheaded pigs to look at. Jennifer has enough talent that she can be celebrated for her acting and not for her body. Well that's all I have to say about this movie, very disappointing. "},{"Title":"ENTERTAINING, BUT NOTHING OUT OF THE ORDINARY!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Another of the span of teen slasher flicks in the 90's. I Still Know does have a bigger body count and I think the killer is better in the second one than the first. All up I think part 1 and 2 are both equal they'll keep you entertained but they are nothing out of the ordinary. This time the story is Julie James, survivor of the first one, and her friends win a trip to the Bahamas, and when they turn up their people start dropping dead and they are getting killed by the man with the hook and the fishermans slicker.  The film looks good, with young actors running around and JLH bouncing her breasts around. The acting is pretty bad especially JLH but an enjoyable watch. "},{"Title":"typical horror movie trash!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  when I first rented this movie i was very interested on how the movie would continue from the way the first one ended, it fulfilled my expectations on that part...but that was about it! Although Jennifer Love, and Brandy's acting was good that wasn't enough to keep my eyes on the movie the whole time. The movie (in my opinion) didn't really have much of a plot to go with all the killings, it was as everyone says just a typical 'teen slasher movie' that is ruining the reputation of horror movies yet again! I was equally disappointed when i found out that Kevin Williamson didn't write the script for this one! A very disappointing effort, i give this one 4/10 "}{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It seems everybody's calling this movie the worst horror sequel ever made! As far as I'm concerned it's the best of the '90s teenybopper horror movies.GOOD THINGS!  Ray finds out a dummy is on the road, only to look back and see Ben Willis a.k.a. The Fishermen, put a hook through his friend's throat. This was awesome. Pretty creepy too. Another thing, is Jennifer Love Hewitt showing off some skin!Yeah!!!Wooo weee!!!!!!BAD THINGS!  The climactic battle scene is a helluva Scream ripoff, which is extremely embarrassing. Just like Urban Legend. In fact just about all of the teenybopper horror flicks ripoff each other's endings, embarrassingly. Also, this movie seems to be an attempt at a teenybopper  Friday the 13th  movie. And it fails big time! These movies will never compare to....THE GREAT ONES!!!  "},{"Title":"Jennifer's In Love with her breasts...","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the first one. It was okay.  I'm still more of a Scream fan, and since these two movies were running neck and neck with one another, I'm gonna say I'm more on the Scream side.**********SPOILERS AHEAD********** But THIS Sequel... it just STUNK.  Doesn't any one wonder HOW or WHY there was a sequel, since in the first they show at the end that Jennifer Love-My-Cleavage is being attacked in  that shower scene?  And this one, the ending had the SAME stupid GOTCHA that DIDn't get me.  What's up with her man lovin' his electric tooth brush so much since those things have been around since the dawn of horror sequels?  I'm all for just kickin back and being entertained by a movie and not giving a rat's behind to the probability of the story as pertaining to real life. But this movie has no plot. The whole Benson Ben's Son thing was just screaming accept this lame reasoning for us to have an entire movie encasing Jennifer Love Hewitt's Breasts for over an hourThere's going to be a Scream 3.  Let's hope that shortly either before, or after, the release of Scream 3 that we don't see a movie trailer that's titled Last Summer? Still Knowing It To put it in teen aged terms, the Scream kids are the seniors, and the Still Knowing kids are the dorky freshmen trying to behave like upper classmen, and FAILING miserably.  "},{"Title":"I know...BUT I WANNA FORGET!!!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You know a movie is in deep deep trouble when the best thing about it is the fact that the lead actress has a song on the soundtrack, and thats the best thing in the movie.  Such is the case with I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, a tepid little attempt at a horror film.  The directors and producers apparently forgot that in a horror film, the main goal is to create enough suspense to scare the audience.  The only suspense I felt while watching this movie was to see how many minutes elapsed on my watch each time I looked at it.Jennifer Love Hewitt (probably due to contractual obligations) returns to play Julie, the good girl of the group, who is still haunted and stalked by a sadistic fisherman, bent on revenge.Let's face it, you dont wanna read this anymore than I wanna write it....lets just suffice by saying that Brandy is a worse actress than a singer, the supporting cast was dull and uninspired, and the killer was too funny to even be scary.0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I hope this is the end of all the Scream rip-offs. So much hype and nothing to show for it&#133;what a disappointing flick.You guys want 4 lines, and this film is not worth even that. Moesha, you can do so much better than this.  Jennifer Love Hewitt I don't know what's the big deal with you. Please, no more!! "},{"Title":"A fun film","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know this sequel is not Oscar material but it was enjoyable.  It has the some scenes where you think someone is going to be killed but the fear is misplaced. It also does have some surpises - like the ending. There are some colorful characters and the scenery is really pretty.  I think I actually enjoyed this a little more than the first movie, although I know I'm in the minority.    "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise, but Fails on Most Counts","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sequel reuniting most of the original cast features a change of atmosphere and direction, placing the teens on an island in the Bahamas. It is fairly suspenseful but fails on most terms, especially logic, greatly underestimating the viewer. Watch for Jeffrey Combs as the hotel manager.**1/2 "},{"Title":"Please end the madness","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I should have (still) known or remembered what a poor movie the first 'Summer' was.  'I still know' makes the original seem like a classic.  I wouldn't even know where to begin picking this one apart. Why can't the producers hire some decent writers, I know you are supposed to suspend your belief when watching horror movies but it would be nice to see a more believable plot and maybe a few better written characters.Jennifer Love Hewitt is certainly easy on the eye and Im sure she has more talent than the filmmakers allowed her in 'I still know'  Shes pretty much reduced to walking around aimlessly wearing as many low-cut, two sizes too small T-shirts as the makers can cram into an hour and a half of film.George Romero's 'Dead' series and 'Candyman' aside I dont ever recall any strong black characters in a horror film,  Moesha & the fella out of 'High School High''s character's were terrible.  It's got be insulting to the Afro-American community when they are mostly portrayed as Jive talking, foul mouthed and overly horny people in this type of movie.As for the horror element? well... need I say more than killers walking around with plastic cable ties in their pockets in case they want to 'suntan' a pretty young girl to death on a sunbed.  Did anyone ever think of simply reaching out and turning off the sunbed's power during all the screaming and panicking in this ludicrous scene. This series is truly looking like its going to be the 'Friday the 13th' of the 90's. The worrying reality is that its just as stale and crap. "},{"Title":"Better than the original, at least I thought so.....","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although many feel that this is nothing out of the ordinary, I strongly believed that this was a lot better than the original. One year after the incident that provided no suspense throughout since we all knew who the killer was, this movie provided a twist at the end, leaving the audience in shock as to how it was at all possible. Jennifer Love Hewitt is today's sweetheart and she once again came across as the beloved girl that nobody wants killed, except jealous females. This movie, although it had some coincidences, was better than the first, and I totally enjoyed it -- 7.5/10. Definitely worth the price of admission! "},{"Title":"I STILL Know What You SAW Last Summer...and it was PATHETIC!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Standard, and worthless, sequel to standard original has Hewitt back as Julie James, who is still haunted by the events of the original. When she wins a vacation to the Bahamas, guess who follows her there? Havoc ensues. Death after death proves  tiresome after a while, while the usual dumb characters become more annoying as the movie drags on. On the plus side, it has more scary moments than the first one (if you can get through a dreadful first half). Hewitt is excellent as usual, while Brandy brings a freshness to the screen as her best friend. Prinze, Jr. is hardly in the movie until the end (and what a lousy ending!). RATING 4 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence and strong language.  "},{"Title":"Hewitt's Co-Stars are the only redeemable factor in this collosol mess of a Film!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film marks the end for the teen horror come back.In this baffling mess of a film, Jeniffer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Junior return to escape the hook of a fisherman with a new breed of fresh faces all doing their best to get written into a possible sequel. From the beginning you know what going to happen. If you've seen any shlock horror film you'll be ahead of this mess from the beginning. But these criticisms can be explained with the past record of director, Danny Canon. He directed Judge Dredd but even this is new ground for this untalented hack.There are two redeemable characters in this film and their planted on Jeniffer Love Hewitt's chest. They truly deliver exceptional performances and apart from their occassional freedom the film doesn't add up to much. In an attempt to pull in profit though they are given ample of screen time, a factor which encouraged a second viewing on video. Brandy is the only speaking character that leaves an impression. She is a wasted talent in this movie but the girl fights to rise above the horrible material. The rest of the performances are wooden and simply going through the motions. And what a motion for Hewitt! Now if you'll excuse me, I have a date with the slow motion button on my VCR. Grade - D+  "}{"Title":"I wish he'd forgotten what they did...","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream certainly did an awful lot to revive interest in the slasher genre, so that we now seem to get at least one film per month that supplies us with a story about some teen heartthrob being threatened by a mad psycho. None of these films could be considered horror masterpieces, but a lot of them are good fun, and almost all of them have their merits. I Know What You Did Last Summer is a perfect example. It may not have been a classic, but it was a slick, entertaining effort that was a significant cut above the average teen slasher flick we would have received 10 or 15 years ago. But, alas, we now have a sequel to it that is now officially the first entry in the new slasher boom that is completely devoid of merit.With one of the dumbest titles of recent years (I could go into the logistics of explaining that what they did last summer actually occurred two summers ago, but why bother?), I Still Know What You Did Last Summer commits the worst possible offense for a slasher flick it's boring. Unlike the slasher flicks of the 80s, the filmmaking isn't inept enough to provide a good laugh, but not skillful enough to make the film exciting. The violence isn't cheesy enough to be funny, but not frightening enough to be scary. The acting here isn't laughably bad, just uninteresting. And since this new slasher boom seems to be against the concept of gratuitous nudity (despite the attractive casts), there's very little to keep one engaged while watching. What the film does do is constantly remind us how many cliches it contains, but without a sly wink about it. The characters repeatedly mention that they're trapped on a tropical island during a rainstorm with no transportation to the mainland and no way of calling for help, but we never get the impression that the film is poking fun at these standard contrivances since it's inconceivable that the filmmakers would respect the audience's intelligence that much. It is easy to guess LONG before the characters do that the radio trivia contest that sends them to that tropical island is a phoney ploy by the killer (since most of us know that the capital of Brazil is not Rio), and the surprising twist that comes three-quarters of the way through the film can be predicted right away (just pay close attention to the characters' names). The major low point is the predictable final scene, which runs forever and doesn't even bother to reward the audience for enduring the previous 90 minutes by at least ATTEMPTING something new.Is there anything good I can say about this film? Well, the wonderful Jeffrey Combs (Re-Animator, The Frighteners) has a role in it as the hotel manager and is as delightfully offbeat as usual, but in typical slasher form, he has to bite the big one early while the most annoying characters get to survive to the bitter end. Hopefully, the poor response to this film will kill off the chance for another entry in the series though I'd be mighty curious to see what kind of title they would come up with for that one...  "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is an entertaining movie.  Sure, the plot may be a little dull and sometimes predictable, but for purely entertaining purposes, it is a fairly good movie.I Still Know takes place after 4 teens accidentally hit a man in the middle of the night on the road, then he comes back seeking revenge.  The two remaining survivors, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) return to star in this sequel, along with stars Brandy and Mekhi Pfifer.  Julie and friends (except for Ray) go to the Bahamas for a vacationing weekend, and reunite with the hook-wielding maniac.Even though I enjoyed this movie, still one of the best things going for it was, like many other people have said, Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts.  Wow those are incredible!!  Thank you Jennifer, you are truly one of God's greatest gifts.There were definitely plot holes in this script, and some was predictable, but I thought this movie was entertaining.  Definitely not as good as the original, but worth seeing.  My grade B- "},{"Title":"GOOF CITY","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, let me get this straight,Carla and Julie won a trip to a resort,but it turns out that Ben's son tricked them. Well if it was a trick,then why did the clerk at the front desk at the hotel act like they were contest winners? The contest was fake! He should have not known what they were talking about! How can you be contest winners if there were never a real contest? THINK KEVIN! The first movie had a point, and it had RYAN P. This movie was just about killing without a reason.  "},{"Title":"Although not as creative or scary as the original, it provides enough thrills and chills to keep you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Personally, I feel that the first entry in the series was scarier because of the fact that I Still Know... doesn't have that you're being punished for what you did feel to it.  The film makers felt the need to up the ante in terms of blood and gore, which is not always a good thing.  However, Brandy held her own with Hewitt, Prize, and Phifer.  Hopefully she will get to star in her own horror series sometime in the near future.  Overall, the movie was much better than most films of its type.  It far outshined the Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the Thirteenth films.  Great for a Quick scare! "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In the post-Scream world of self-referentiality and Wes Craven guest appearances, its easy to forget what made the horror genre so good in the first place.  Thankfully ISKWYDLS is an enjoyable reminder of how horror films can be straight forward, fast paced, frightening and exciting.  It may be predictable, and slightly unbelieveable, but its GOOD!!  It has a high death count, a good cast and some genuinely classic moments.  In ways this is better than the original.  Horror fans should definitely see this. Pretentious Tarantino freaks might want to miss it out, but thats their loss.  Roll on part 3.... "},{"Title":"It was Ok","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the original film. I loved the premise and the sense of suspense in the film. It had Great acting for the most part and a great atmosphere.But the sequel failed to capture any of these elements. Acting was mediocre, Plot was unbelievable and the suspense was lost. Not to mention the crazy plot twist at the end. This movie desperately needed Kevin Williamson.Jennifer Love Hewitt needs to chose different roles. She's always the good girl or the victim. This needs to change. Brandy is ok, but she's no Sarah Michelle Geller in the best friend role. Freddie Prinze Jr, was aactually good, but his role was rather short campared to the others.( Thank God he got She's All that) Mekhi Pheffer, good actor, Bad character.I know it sounds like i hated this film but i didn't. I still enjoy it. t's a good film when you have nothing else to watch. the chase scenes are really good too. "},{"Title":"Better than the first one..!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie solves the problem the first movie had A bigger body count. The earlier murders are of unimportant characters, but it's a good build up.The movie is much more fun to watch than the first one and has some really cool scenes in it. Pure fun.Fans of slasher movies will like it, there's even plot twists and scares on different levels.  "},{"Title":"Computer animated blood?!? Hello?!?","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I'm not gonna waste time repeating what's already been said here, I'll just add a few things. First of all, computer animated pink blood? We had a good laugh there - and then they did it again later on with the gun shots. Next, we have the computer generated night scenes. Yawn. I'm not gonna say anything about the story other than Gee, who's the killer? Could it be the same guy that was in the first one, because we saw him survive? and Whatever happened inbetween the first and the second movie? Didn't Ben Willis jump out through the mirror in the end of the first one? Keeping it short, I'd like to end by saying that I'm not waiting for Honestly, I DO Remember What You Did Three Summers Ago starring Ben Willis and Wilma Bendaughter as the killer and his daughter. "},{"Title":"In comparison, the original seems like Citizen Kane","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a load of crap.  The first was just O.K, it was no where near as good as Scream, but it had a few suspenseful moments.  This sequel is terrible, it is not the least bit scary, and you are more likely to die of laughter than of fright.  Its obvious who the killer is in the opening five minutes, which leads to zero suspense. The whole idea is just so lame!  Brandy was annoying, as well as proving that  not every movie star can wear tight leggings and get away with it.  Hewitt was as good as could be expected, but she was better in Can't Hardly Wait.  Just a tip, if you are going to make a horror film make sure that it will be at least slightly frightening.  One point of merit is that the trailer for the film is actually quite effective, pity the film does not deliver what was promised.  If you havent seen it, you are not missing a thing! "},{"Title":"let down and hanging around, crushed like a bug in the ground","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the first movie.  This sequel was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The first one actually occasionally made the viewer frightened and feel some suspense.  This one was basically just watching the characters be frightened and people being gored to death.  I never once felt scared. There is also an amazing lack of humor in it.  Whomever wrote it should never write another movie ever again.  The actors were sleepwalking through it.  Same with the director.  The producers should be gauged with a hook. None of these problems were the fault of Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts though, which is why I rated the film a 2 and not a 1. "}{"Title":"Suprisinly better than the first one!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ok ok ok So this sequel might not be a movie-masterpiece. But it is at least better than the original movie. '' I know what you did '' started up very good but then it crashed and became boring. '' I still know '' has fixed that mistake up and instead it is getting 100 % non stop action. The actors are about as good as in the first one, but the biggest difference of them all What made '' I know what you did '' so bad was the obvious steeling from movies like '' Halloween '', '' Friday the 13th '', and ( most of all ) '' Scream '' just to mention a fue. In '' I still know '' there is a bit of Kubricks '' The Shining '' but it is forgivible. Buy the way, the hard rain that is pouring outside is a really cool effect witch brings on a lot to the movie. "},{"Title":"I Can't Remember What You Did To Me 50 Years Ago","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to this movie with the stupid hope that it would be good. Not a chance. Kevin Williamson refused to write the script because he was satisfied with his ending. There is really no reason for this movie, and it is at times boring. Sure, it is a wee bit entertaining, but I was laughing more than anything. In fact, I never got the least bit scared, not even a rapid heart beat. My God, Showgirls was scarier than this. The title is outrageous. Wasn't it two summers ago? Or did we stay in the same year. A much better title would have been I Still Know. And that should've been it. That would have been perfect. Don't blame the creators of this for wanting to make moolah, but please, don't watch this movie. I gave it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun crappy horror movie","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like bad horror movies, so I liked this a lot. If you have good taste you should probably stay away. For fans of movies like Friday the 13th this is a real treat though. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Slasher film.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know why this was called a horror but anyway...it was a fun movie to watch. Jennifer Love Hewitt gives a good performance especially in the wet t-shirt. Check it out because although it's not as good as either Scream or Scream 2, it is still good.  "},{"Title":"I'm having mixed feelings...","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I was slightly disappointed with this film, but only slightly. Having not seen 'I know what you did last summer,' and hearing everyone rave on about how good it was, I expected the sequel to be even better. However, how often does it turn out like that? The original is always the best. But I'm digressing.This film managed to keep my attention. There were some good performances from all members of the cast. Jennifer Love Hewitt has come a long way since doing 'Party of five', and I'm glad. She has talent, which is more than you can say for certain...'actors/ tresses'. Mentioning no names.Freddie Prinze Jr is going to be big. He also has talent, and he's obviously not just a pretty face, but that does help! After seeing him in 'She's all that', I realised just how much potential he has.I also thought Brandy was good. Nice voice, good actress.So the film. Well, it got a bit boring in parts, but was mildly amusing all the way through, so I wasn't too disappointed.I'm glad I went, but I wouldn't see it again.  "},{"Title":"Tsk Tsk.. Kevin Williamson is probably disgusted","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was more ON AND ON AND ON AND ON! The story sucked.. They just wanted to cast in on the success on the first one. If I was Kevin Williamson I would be disgusted! They took a decent SLASHER MOVIE (meaning I KNOW) and ripped it in shreads.. Acting.. Jenifer Love was good.. Brandy was excellent.. Mkhei EH!  > The ending was a little unexpected not as good as Scream killers but good.. I give this movie a D "},{"Title":"Can not compare to the first!!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is in no way even comparable to the original I Know What You Did Last Summer.The first I Know... had an interesting plot that seemed like it could maybe really happen, and a cast that put all they had into these parts. I Still Know.., now hoping to cash in on the current teen horror genre, has literally no plot, just a killer with a hook and a slicker chasing Brandy and Jennifer Love Hewitt (wearing skimpy tanktops I might add) around a stormy Bahamian island. That's pretty much how the whole movie is; they run and hide, someone dies, they run and hide, someone dies. Very boring. Brandy and Jennifer do try to make us care about the charactors, but to no avail. Do yourself a favor and skip I Still Know... Go to your local Blockbuster and rent the original, and did I mention the first has Sarah Michelle Gellar? "},{"Title":"The art of not knowing when to stop","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not only does this sequel lack the writing abilities of Kevin Williamson, but this is one of the films that you REALLY didn't want to see happen; the plot in the first one was so thin (Williamson at his worst?) that any follow-up would just become generic and non-interesting.This also the case - what little mystery and suspense that existed in the first one is absent. We are only left with the question of why did they make this? and not hoping for a #3 (albeit everything points in that direction.. alas).  "},{"Title":"Somewhat predictable thriller","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know offers more gore, but less suspense and is predictable. It still is entertainig to watch, but just isn't very scary. "},{"Title":"Bloodbath gone bad","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hewitt and Brandy acted well. There were a few surprises, and the ending thrilled me. What was missing? A plot, clever dialogue, and lack of emotion you should be able to have for the characters. I may have cared for Julie, who else, honestly. If I didn't love the first film, I would have said this was all around bad. But since I did, I enjoy seeing Julie and Ray, and trust me, you see plenty of Julie. It's good to see if you're a fan of the first. Just don't expect an original, and intelligent film, like the first was. I suppose if Helen hadn't been killed, this film would have survived, but... It needs the hook. P.S. I Will Always Know What You Did Last Summer, is already planned, and signed on by Brandy and Hewitt. Uugh. "}{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone knows that sequels suck but when 'I Still Know..' came to screens in Britain I thought why not? Scream 2 was excellent so I figured that the critics might be wrong and maybe Love Hewitt can live up to the expectations of the first.Although some original murders and superb chase scenes I got the feeling that it missed something to give it that extra 'Pow' factor.More action than the first but less of a plot.Love Hewitt has a great career ahead of her even if it is bra modelling.The whole cast is vibrant with Freddie Prinze Jr and Brandy standing out as the best,so if you have a couple of hours consider 'I Still Know What You Did Last Summer' as you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"It's not quite a scream baby","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay I'm not going to go whining on about how 'no Williamson - no good script'. True, there is no Williamson and true the script does lack. Rumours u may have heard about this just being Halloween II esque are kind of true, but that doesn't mean it lacks have suspense and there are a few twists.The films opener isn't truly terrifying but in terms of direction, this is better than the first. It makes you jump frequently and JLH is great. It may not be a Scream or H20 but it is a worthy sequel which could have been 100 times worse. At least it isn't Friday The 13th. Full of cliche as mocked by Scream, the death scenes aren't over bright, but the movie picks up later once it concentrates on it's principle cast more. The rest of the islanders (where the films set - you know that already) are just fodder (okay so Ben Wilis did work on the island and he had a grudge but still... no excuse).Hopefully the third one will be more plot akin to the original. How about a new killer? Ray, Missy Egan perhaps? How about Kulie herself (concentrate the sotry more on Ray somehow - original). Lets just hope it isn't just another big cliche. This one is, but what the hell, it's enjoyable as any other slasher. "},{"Title":"A rarity of a horror sequel. Bloodthirsty and brilliant.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had been waiting for this movie to be released for six months, and was more excited about seeing it than the new Star Wars movie, and I can safely say that I was not disappointed.In am frustrated at all the bad press this movie has got from fans and critics. They don't have a clue, and I challenge any one who thinks different.The plot is simple, it is set a year after the first one, Julie James is suffering from nightmares of her previous encounter with killer fisherman Ben Willis. When her room mate wins a trip for four to an island in the Bahamas, her and her friends take off for a pleasurable vacation in the sun. However, the island becomes deserted and is engulfed by a harsh storm. Still, things go from bad to worse when fears Julie's fears that the killer has returned are confirmed and one by one the teenagers find their lives in danger from the man with the hook.Being a big fan of the original, my expectations were high. This movie is admittedly traditional, you know who pretty much know who will and who will die, but then when don't you in a horror movie. Scream 1 and 2 are the best horror movies of recent years, but even they cop out, for example, you think Billy's dead, which would be a surprise, but no, he lives. Dewey survives twice, that's a rip off and if you were shocked like I was to find that Randy lived throughout the first movie, don't worry, expectations were confirmed in part 2. People are mistaken, the I Know movies aren't mysteries or art films, they are merely there to throw excitement and thrills to the audience in the name of entertainment, and that's exactly what they do. "},{"Title":"One small step back for Horror Movies","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, Jennifer Love Hewitt gives a sexy and appealing performance.  However this film is a sorry return to the slasher films of the eighties.  Don't get me wrong I love Michael, Jason and Freddy but this fisherman lacks charisma.  The first film featured deaths of which were all justified (to a point, except that Max guy) the sequel shows murder for the sake of murder (not that there's anything wrong with that)cleaning ladies, caretakers etc.  These people aren't even in his way but they bite it anyway.  The ending is ridiculous but kind of entertaining.  Kevin Williamson's writing is sorely missed and would be the only thing that could save this franchise from becoming I SORTA KNOW WHAT YA DID FOUR SUMMERS AGO AND BEFORE I KILL YA I'M GONNA GO KILL SOME CLEANING LADIES. It's fun but Scream it ain't. "},{"Title":"Nice mixture of Drama and Horror","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Normally the only way sequels are better than the originals is if they make fun of themselves (scream 2).  I still know is more romantic and scarier. It has a lot of sudden adrenaline rush scares all throughout the movie. I could have been a lot worse without certain twists, but this movie did a very good job of letting the viewer in on the action.  This post-Scream movie had little pop-culture, but the lack of plot holes left this movie worth going to see.  I recommend seeing the prequel first. 10. "},{"Title":"The Return of the Gorton Fisherman","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There's only two good things about this movie, and they both belong to Jennifer Love Hewitt. This movie makes the original look like Halloween in comparison. The story and acting are pretty weak. There's no mystery as to who the killer is. And the ending is lamer than Scream 2. But hey, if you like mindless movies with scantily clad females, this one's for you.  "},{"Title":"I Thought I Still Know Was An Alright Sequel But I Liked The First One Better","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This One Had An Alright Plot. It Had More Blood And Guts In This One But Still The First One Was Better It Had A Better Plot.I Cant Wait Til Ill Always KnowComes Out .It is Supposed To Be Scarier Than Both Of The First Two.I Already Know Jennifer Love Hewett, Freddie Prinze Jr., Brandy, And Muse Watson Are All Going To Be In The Last Installment To The I Know Trilogy. "},{"Title":"Great if you don't think about the plot.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, so it has an awful, contrived plot and two confusing and useless characters (the bar lady and the voodoo man), but this is still a lot of fun to watch. The first thirty minutes were genuinely scary, and after that the action started to come thick and fast. Don't listen to the critics, they're all 30-somethings. If you're a teen like me who just wants to sit down and enjoy a film with a few mates then go and see I Still Know right now. Incidentally, my mate thinks the sequel should be called I STILL Know What You Did Last Summer And I'm Going To Kill You Eventually So Stop Trying To Get Away You Annoying B***CH! "},{"Title":"Enjoyably cliched","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I must say that this film is the most fun I've had at the cinema for a while.  Playing spot the stiff (pretty much most of the cast), guess when the killer is going to jump out next (just when the character relaxes), & whether it is actually going to be the killer, or some random character who is then going to say Sorry, didn't mean to make you jump, or Ooops, wasn't thinking.  And when you're not doing that, there's always the clunking great plot contrivances & logic gaps to enjoy, or even just watching characters stupidly wander off by themselves, or walk to the other end of the room by themselves, or maybe say something silly like Well, I haven't seen any trace of a killer - Doh!.   As if all that isn't enough, there's a hugely fun score by John Frizzell, some fine camera work (the lighting effects are particularly impressive, far better than the film deserves), and some young females walking around showing off their impressive cleavage.  What more could you possibly want?  Except perhaps good plot, characters, etc. etc. "},{"Title":"Too predictable","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was hoping this would turn into a  Scream 2 deconstruction of the  teen slasher genre after one early  scene in which Brandy goes into  Jennifer Love Hewitt's closet (gag #1)  to borrow a dress (gag #2 -- as if Brandy could squeeze into anything  of Jennifer Love Hewitt's even if she wanted to), whereupon the violently  paranoid Jennifer Love Hewitt lunges  at Brandy with a butcher knife (gag #3).   When Brandy asks her what's the matter  Jennifer Love Hewitt says, by way of  explanation I think I might've  hurt Ray's feelings (punch line).  Not  bad at all. But as the movie wore on, I  realized that the laugh was unintended.   My wife named the murderer five minutes in!   Mr Cranky persists in referring to this  movie as I Still Know What Your Breasts  Did Last Summer, because he believes it's  essentially about Jennifer Love Hewitt's  breasts.  You never do get to see  Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts, so I don't  know what Mr Cranky is talking about.  I think  Mr Cranky has a thing for Jennifer Love Hewitt  and was merely engaging in wishful thinking,  although my wife contends that the The  following motion picture has been modified...  notice at the very beginning *did* mention  something about the scenes showing Jennifer  Love Hewitt's breasts have all been cut.    Could be.  If anyone else rents the movie,  please let us know. "}{"Title":"Breast 5$ I ever spent!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Of course it was a horrible movie but if you saw the first one you should have know and stayed away from this.  I saw this movie for one... sorry two reasons.  Jenny's luscious breasts.  This movie does what it should.  It showcases those beauties.  I hate serious horror movies 'cause I think they're all crap.  Totally unrealistic, horrible story, bad bad script, luscious breasts.  I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"What a surprise - a rehash of the original....","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Pesumably the third installment will be called ,''I Still Know What You Did A Few Summers Ago, And That Was A Pretty Cool Movie, But Unfortunately I Also Know What You Did The Summer Afterwards, Running Around On An Island Showing Off Your Admmittedly Nice Breasts, Hoping That Would Make Up For The Fact That Sarah Michelle Gellar Wasn't Around.''If that would fit on the billboards.  "},{"Title":"It isn't a classic movie, but it's better than many others that are showing.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There's a lot of action. Some scenes reach the ridiculous. But most of them are great. You really can be frightened. Almost all scenes are well done; but one... I'm going to say horrible to not say depressing (I won't say which one to not tell you the movie; you can see which scene it is by yourself).Anyway it's a great movie. I loved it; it's much better than the first. As usual, Freddie Prinze Jr. is gorgeous and Jennifer Love Hewitt's work is wonderful (she's one of my favourites actresses). Well, if you have a chance, go see it. You'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"Stupid title, stupid movie","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This mess of a film was bad until the very last scene when it became ridiculously bad.  The bad guy walks (not runs) after his victims. And shouldn't the title be I Still Know What You Did THAT Summer?  The title to the third installment should be I Sort of Recall What You Did That Summer.  And the one after that should be I Completely Forgot What You Did That Summer But I Still Want to Kill You. "},{"Title":"Rio???","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ISKWYDLS's 2-D characters are so dim that you root more for the bad guy than is considered socially acceptable even in this cynical age. But bonus points are scored for preying on the celebrated intellectual dimness of today's teenagers by planting Brandy and Jennifer Love Hewitt on a Caribbean Island with a maniac after answering the question What is the capital of Brazil? incorrectly on a radio call-in show. "},{"Title":"lame and unrealistic","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This sequel is a let down, it has no plot in it, at least the first one had some kind of plot in it. But this one was so lame that it is embarrassing to watch. All the actors (except Jennifer love Hewitt) was a disgrace to watch. The ending was so bad that I had to cry out loud in the theater Come on.....   "},{"Title":"I Still can't believe I got dragged to see this movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In late 1998 my friends asked me to go with them to see this movie.  I say fine, I thought the first one was decent, I'll try the second.  BIG MISTAKE.  It was worse than the first, a lot worst than the first.  Every single scene was more predictable than the next.  The screenplay made me feel like the people who wrote this movie, did  for someone who has never seen a horror movie before would realize that it's an honest mistake not to turn your light on in your apartment when there is someone inside and you know someone is out there trying to kill you.  I would flick the switch! Bottom line is that this is another movie that wants to be like Scream and the comparable Scream 2, but it does not pull it off. Scream and its sequel were original and tried to challenge us.   "},{"Title":"I guess it's not so bad. . .","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I thought it was stupid and pointless.  But when I went to the video store tonight everything was out except two copies of this film, so I rented it.  As it turns out, I realized that it really wasn't that bad of a film.  It did have some flaws.  Anyway I don't think that Brandy was a bad actress in this movie, as some have said that she was.  I found it more enjoyable the second time. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The kids need the money,the directors need the money,who cares for us?","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well I went to see this comedy cause I knew there would be great laughs.The first movie caught me un-prepared so I was very upset.Well now I was ready not to see a thriller , but a comedy.And a wonder , why people not make good thrillers anymore?I have seen all the latest so - called thrillers but none strikes me as one . The only one I accept , not as quality ,but as a genuine idea is Scream . Everything else is crap.That's the worst word I know.In this sequence the die hard guy moves around the place,god knows how , and kills people like he is a god or devil . However the new thing in this movie is that we get to see a little bit more sexy side of Jennifer Hewitt.I don't blame the actors for this.They are young and they need the money. "},{"Title":"It was the horror film of the year but...","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Personally I liked the first one better. I mean sorry but in horror films it's way creepy if the killer doesn't show his face!(For those that didn't see the moviethe killer shows its face!). But I mean it was still a great sequel, the acting was super good and the scenes and sounds were great! And I absolutely love the actors Jennifer, Brandy and Freddie! My advice if you loved the first one you'll like the sequel.  "}{"Title":"Based on Entertainment Value","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing.  I say this partly because Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy Norwood are very attractive in this movie.  Both I STILL KNOW movies needed more work before they were put out.  A lot of things in both movies didn't make any sense.  Everything else had cheese factor of 100 and that is on a 1-10 cheese scale.  In the sequel during the tanning bed scene the killer turned the heat up to its max and put the plastic twisty;he has a hook for an arm and he's gonna' kill her with a trash bag tie on to lock her in. Mekhi Phifer then attempted to pull the hood off the tanning bed while she is beating the inside of the tanning bed because of the heat while Brandy panics.  How come no one thought of turning the heat down to buy them some time? Again...it is worth seeing with the addition of another beautiful girl and an over all well-rounded cast. "},{"Title":"STAY DEAD, FISHERMAN...PLEASE!!!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At least I Know What You Did Last Summer had some wit and real humor and character despite the simple fact that it was horribly transparent in it's genre.  Now, take that and subtract the wit, the humor, and....uh, well, the character and you get this mess I STILL Know What You Did Last Summer. (Oooo...the horror.)Jennifer Love-Hewitt's acting has never been flatter.  Brandy has never sounded so much like a third grader pretending to be an actress.  And a script has never before been....well, just this BAD!!!  It's amazing how much you miss Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Kevin Williamson when they're not around, you know.  As some kind of strange recoup, the story tries throwing in all the usual sexual babble.  After a while though, you just finally come to the realization that, in fact, these characters are nothing but horny.  They are trite carbon copies of the Porky's kids. Really, does Hollywood actually think teens are THAT shallow?!!  From other recent, better, fare I was beginning to think not, but now that I've seen this I'm honestly starting to wonder.Oh, well.No more, please, Mister Fisherman.  You've come back a second time and, for some reason unknown to me, killed a bunch of innocent people on an island. I was led to believe that you actually just wanted revenge for that whole running-you-over-and-then-dumping-you thing but I guess you're just another mindless slasher after all.  Well, there's no room for you in the '90s, pal. Go find some Friday the 13th film to haunt.  "},{"Title":"A GOOD SEQUEL!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must say that I was pleasantly surprised and impressed with this sequel. It was even better than the first installment. There were more surprises and the movie was fast paced, never a dull moment.  I was jolted more this time around. I was glad to see the return of Hewitt and Prinz Jr., the story would not have been that believable without them both!  Brandy and Meki were both good in their portrayal of Julie's lust hungry friends.  The setting for this film was perfect and rather menacing during the storm. The only let down in the film was rastaboy. C'mon, this character was so unnecessary.  The skeleton staff at the hotel were ok, but their fates known well in advance. All in all this is a great sequel and I believe that it shadows the first one!  If you're in the mood to jump, I recommend this film to you. "},{"Title":"soporific horror","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Tied with Urban Legend for most boring and soporific horror movie in many years.  The basic formula for low brow horror flick is faithfully followed here add sex appeal, a group of stupid teenagers and another story that tries to follow in the wake of Scream (yet drowns in its own mediocrity.) It did inspire a new drinking game however, basically every time Ms. Hewitt leans over and exposes her cleavage you take that drink.Cheers.  "},{"Title":"Grrrrr","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the perfect example of why I do not watch many horror movies. In fact, the only slasher movie I have ever liked is Scream, and only then because of the great unique mystery.  (The second was disappointing, as it resembled the first way too much.  But that's another story.)To continue, this movie was predictable, aggravating and it's outreach program of entertainment was narrowed to the female cast running around wet with their shirts wide open and getting in just a little closer and a little gorier with the hook ripping into its victims.  Mortifyingly sad.  The ending was predictable. I mean, that seems to be the trend these days, doesn't it?The only thing that I did enjoy about this movie was watching Freddie Prinze Jr. stumbled around like a zombie.  I mean, you couldn't help but feel sorry for the guy.The acting wasn't actually that bad.  How much could the actors really do with writing and directing like that?  Still, I can't slam this movie to pieces either, because that isn't fair.  They put effort into making a movie they thought would entertain.  Maybe it did entertain some.  But the whole horror/slasher flic genre needs to be put back to sleep.  Scream was great, but its side effects were not, with the chain reaction it started. "},{"Title":"Please let this be the end!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You know it's not good when you want the good guys to die in a horror movie. About half an hour into I Still Know What You Did Last Summer I knew that I had made a grave (he he) mistake. This production suffered from severe sequelitis - the devastating film industry disease that eats away at the plot and destroys all cast members acting ability.The first movie I Know What You Did Last Summer was good. The storyline was scary, acting was reasonable. I jumped in my seat. I laughed so hard in the sequel that the person next to me had to nudge me several times as I was embarrassing her. Laughter in the scariest moments of a horror film is not a good sign.I was never a fan of horror movies as they always focused on guts and gore and had no real story. Recent teen horror movies have surprised me and I applaud them for taking the time to develop a decent story (eg. Scream, Urban Legend, I Know What You Did Last Summer). I Still Know made me realise that the ridiculous is still out there. This movie is nothing but an attempt to cash in on the success of the first movie. This could be forgiven if they had put some effort into the movie, but they have not even tried to disguise this lame attempt to exploit the popularity of Jennifer Love Hewitt (and they made it clear what they valued in her) and the horror genre.Let's hope that we don't have to know anything more about what happened that Summer. I don't think my funny bone could take it. "},{"Title":"Not at all what I expected!!!!!!!! It was better than the first","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In the spirit of both Halloween films, Urban Legend, Scream, Scream 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer; here comes another slasher flick by the name of I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. Will it be better than the first film; my answer is yes. In fact, I Still Know....... is better than the three I mentioned. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. are back along with Brandy, Mekhi Pfifer, and Matthew Settle. I knew that Freddie Prinze Jr. was going to be in the sequel; but when he made his first appearance on screen it was if I was seeing my best friend for the first time after a long while. Jennifer Love Hewitt exhibited such beauty in this film as she does in every acting role she takes; also, she makes the acting look so easy. She is sight for sore eyes every time she's on the screen. For the most part, the additional cast members did a great job. Though Brandy has acting talent, I wish that I could have seen Sarah Michelle Gellar in the sequel; Sarah had such screen presence with her beauty and style I didn't want her to go the way she did in the first movie. There was a twist in this movie that there wasn't in the prequel or Scream that surprised me and felt was a valuable addition to the script. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer did have something left to be desired but overall it was still better than the first film. GO SEE IT.  "},{"Title":"Excellent! Even better than the first one.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I still know it is the best scary movie I've ever seen. When I saw the first one and knew they were making the sequel, I couldn't wait to see it. It's got much more murders than the first one. It is a total blood bath with hot star Jennifer Love Hewitt. She looks really hot in this movie.If I'm not mistaken, Brandy's boyfriend is the same guy that was in High school High and was the unluckiest of them all. Will is a total wuss in this movie and I'm glad Jennifer Love Hewitt rejected him.What is stupid about the movie is how can they think that the capital of Brazil is Rio. If you don't know what it is study the globe!I think that the cast is better in the first one because Sara Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe appear. They are much better than Brandy and wussy boy Will.They should keep using Jennifer Love Hewitt for scary movies because she's a great actress and she's really hot. Kevin Williamson is the best writer of scary movies ever. I still know is even better than scream so watch it! "},{"Title":"Gory fun","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you feel sick. The scene in Friday the 13th where a knife shoots through a throat just about did it for me. There's a similar scene in this and a lot worse. It starts off with the director going for scares more than gore, but then turns into a complete bloodbath.It's a great date movie and is worth seeing for the few thrills and Brandy's brilliant debut performance. A decent 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"10 times better than the first.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  boy what bad reviews for this movie. i thought it was great. it could be better than scream. it is at least as good as scream. jennifer love hewitt is hot very hot as always. i give it *** out of ****  "}{"Title":"Why? For the love of God, why?","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I saw the first and the trailers made it look awesome. I actually thought it might surpass the orignal. What was I thinking?The directing in the movie was so horrible it made me nauseous. The actors should have saved their time and talent for something far more deserving. Not once did I jump, I was actually getting tired. This was supposed to be a horror movie, mind you.True it had some nice one-liners, but the ending was so predictable and so cheesy it made me sick. Also, shouldn't Brandy have died? I wished she would.This was a pathetic movie, and it seems the main intent was to have Jennifer Love Hewitt wear tight shirts and run around looking for some hook-guy. The motives in this movie should've changed. No matter what someone has done to you I doubt you're going to stalk them for years waiting for a time to shove a hook through their stomach. Lame, lame, and lame. "},{"Title":"Give me a break!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know.... was not a very good movie, but since Danny Cannon (Young Americans) is the director of the sequel, I decided to go see it. And if it wasn't for Jennifer Love Hewitt's  wonderful cleavage, I would have walked out. Can't Hardly Wait was scarier than this.   "},{"Title":"This ship is sinking fast","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A mediocre sequel to a rather gripping original. The ridiculous premise (that any human being can come out swinging after being shot seven times, drowned twice, mutilated, hit by a BMW) is livened up only slightly by a couple of plot twists. Brandy does her best to compensate by being superb in a supporting role--too bad this was the only vehicle she could get. The rest of the cast is pretty pathetic--the only reason this movie probably got green-lighted is the fact teenage boys can be counted on to attend any Jennifer Love Hewitt movie, no matter how silly. Columbia should protect its reputation and Hewitt's by saying NO to any more Last Summer sequels.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it seems","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, let's face it. I Still Know... is definitely not as good as its predecessor. A bigger body count and more gory special effects do not necessarily make a good movie. And Trey Callaway is no Kevin Williamson. But the charming cast is having a lot of fun, and they make the movie fun for the audience. Everyone says that Brandy is a bad actress, but I think that her spunky, sassy performance is a top-notch bit of acting, and she should be commended. Mekhi Phifer is hilarious as the sex-starved boyfriend, and adds just the right touches of comic relief. Matthew Settle is a great new talent, managing to be charming and cool in every scene he's in. Jennifer Love Hewitt, meanwhile, is one of the most stunning young stars today. She really gets to the heart of Julie, making us scream when she screams, and cry when she cries. The supporting roles were good too, even Muse Watson's, even though several times I had to wonder how he could see around the low brim of that hat. The only performance that disappointed was Freddie Prinze Jr., who was the least interesting character in the original, and is even less so this time around. As for the scares - none of them are really scary, but they are high on shock value. And the plot is sadly predictable, even the identity of the second killer. And the return-of-the-killer-at-the-very-end is silly and overlong. Here's hoping that next summer, the story and scares will get back on track. But on the basis of several good performances, I give the film a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first one...","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was prepared to see a B-movie, but I was surprised to see that they've done at good job making this film. It's exiting and frightening - - A great movie if I were judge. "},{"Title":"Weak sequal !","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, the first one was better. No doubt about it. What I really missed here was a story. Nothing but killing and screaming in this one. OK, sometimes it was thrilling but sad enough it was also predictable. After 15 minutes I already had an idea of the killer. I was right. Let's hope they don't make a third one ! "},{"Title":"I'm drunk on BRANDY!!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!! I was blown away by this movie. First of all, I'm one of those sad people who are horror movie freaks from Scream onward, so I don't exactly have that much background knowledge of scary movies, but I know from experience when I really enjoy a movie. And damn, did I enjoy this.Another person who wrote a review said that it didn't have a story line, that it was just a psycho with a hook chasing a bunch of teens. And I can see where he got that. Looking at I Still Know as a stand-on-its-own movie, it has no story line, but if you look at it as a sequel, which it is, it simply just carries the story on from the 1st. But, where the first film had to explain how it all started, I still Know just had to get into it. I Still Know would be a plotless slasher without the first, but there is a first so it isn't.Jeniffer Love was stunning as usual.But Brandy stole the show. If I was asked who was the current scream Queen, I'd have to say Brandy. Love was great and all, but all Julie (her character) did was run away until she got the gut to face Mr. Fisherman. Brandy had sooooo many close encounters and almost got hooked on a number of occasions, (I won't tell you if she eventually did get hooked or not), and was even left to fend for herself for a while. Also Brandy was so funny, and sexy and gutsy, I just want to marry her.Full of ample murders, grusome body disposals, and topped of with a quick twist near the end, let Brandy and the cast take you to a little horror vacation you'll be talking about for weeks. "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson is what I Still Know... lacks.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Seeing as to how much I enjoyed the first movie, I expected to see this one at least 3 times.  Wrong.  I couldn't believe how bad this movie was.  Now I know that sequels are inherently worse than the original, it's that way by definition, but come on.  At least if you are going to write a drab script that brings some of the characters back while adding new ones, you could get new actors that can actually act.  This film actually had me in tears, not because of how scared I was, but because I was so upset that Brandy didn't get hacked up. She was horrible.I really couldn't figure out why I thought this movie was so bad until I found out the key person who was missing Kevin Williamson.  Without him this movie wasn't complete.  He adds his genius to whatever his pen touches. So if you really want to see a great piece of writing, go see THE FACULTY, which actually has the Midas Touch.I think the only shining part to this movie was the performance by Jennifer Love Hewitt.  This young woman is simply astounding, and I just know that her career as a giant star is only just starting to get off the ground. "},{"Title":"Though a sequel, still decent","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that this would be a terrible sequel like Terror on Elm Street or Friday the 13th, but it wasn´t. Many sequels have the potential to fail to their mother-titles as a call it. (Ex. the sequel of Jaws was not in the near of the first movie). I got surprised that this one didn´t follow the long line of sequels that puts a bad name on the first picture. As Scream 2, this was good, but it didn´t match their mother-titles, but still it´s a decent movie, and I recommend everybody to see for them-self. Good acting, and great looking scenery made this one almost as good as it mother-title. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I write about films for a living. I have a passion for film. Point blank this is the worst, most offensive film I have ever seen. Stephen King once commented that horror fans are used to crap and in fact expect it. While I agree that horror films must be graded on a curve, no one should have to sit through this piece of junk. I am offended that the movie studio has such a low viewpoint of viewers as to serve up this $#!%&$.The movie is tired and full of cliches. Bad acting, etc. "}{"Title":"I Know What They DIDN'T Do Last Summer, Come Up With A Worth-While Sequel To The Original","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hmmmmmm so many things to put down about this movie, so little space. Let's start with the plot. I STILL KNOW... was obviously just a film that was made to keep a franchise that was never there alive. The first film had charisma, it had jazz.. It had a point to it. They hit a guy with the car, he wants revenge. That makes sense. A year after Julie and Ray laughed in his face, he wants to ice them again. Doesn't quite work. What also doesn't work is the fact that Barry and Helen are dead ( sure, it does wonders for Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe's careers, but nicht ) If two people are out of the way, it would make sense to just have the other two being stalked, but of course Carla and her boy-toy had to be dragged into it, so the movie lost brownie points. The script sucked, that's all I have to say. Kevin Williamson should have returned, then the movie wouldn't have been AS bad, but it still couldn't be saved. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, great actors","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was thrilling and also scarier than the first one, even though I liked that movie better. It had great actors; Jennifer Love Hewitt was good as always, and I loved Brandy as Karla! Most of the movie was well-made, except for the end, it sucked! "},{"Title":"Trash!Trash!Trash!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has to be one of the dumbest, trashiest, and most un-scary horror movies I have ever seen.The music lets you know when every single scare, and I use that word loosely, is going to occur.  What is the point of telling the audience when to brace themselves for a scare?What sort of morons do film-makers take moviegoers to be?I actually felt embarrassed for the people behind me who jumped when Julie is in the confession box with Ben Willis.  I mean, gimme' a break.  It was obvious that the person was Ben, and would jump through the partition.Overall I rated this movie a 2 out of 10.  0 for originality.  2 for vaguely good sound effects.I hope there isn't going to be another sequel.  They would have to call it something like I Know That You Know That I Still Know What You Did This Summer And The Summer Before Last!Please, don't give us any more crap like this movie! "},{"Title":"Gorier than the first","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie very watchable despite the bad reviews it received. I also like all the characters. This movie does also have more blood and gore than the first one. But I like it! The soundtrack is also enjoyable. Do not think about its weaknesses. Just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not Scary","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Found ISKWYDLS Not Very Scary And It Didn't Keep Me Guessing I Think This Was Mainly Due To The Fact That Kevin Williamson The Writer Of IKWYDLS And The Scream Thrillogy Didn't Write This One. Also The Fact That Ben Willis Could Have Lived After The Last Movie Where He At The End Had His Hand Chopped Off Out At Sea He Would Have Lost Alot Of Blood And They Where Out To Sea Where I Seriously Doubt That He Could Swim That Far, After Being Hit With Oars And So On. I Rated It A 6 Out Of 10.KnifeHappy "},{"Title":"I can't believe I willingly paid money to see this.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Can a movie REALly be scary if it isn't even based in REALity? How did Columbia get up the nerve to promote this as a movie worth paying for? The completely unnecessary 'twist' ending is flat-out stupid and disappointing. I never grew tired of looking at Jennifer Love Hewitt's face and body, and there were some pretty funny lines throughout the movie, but I could never recommend this as a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Less plot, more scares","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not to say I Still Know was horrifying, but it did surpass the original in scares and gore.  This horror sequel did what horror sequels are expected to do more gore, action, and very fast paced.  The ending I think was fairly well too.  Instead of making a second unrelated killer they make it the killer from the first movie and the son of the second.  Clever!!  I'm actually glad Williamson didn't write this one because he would have made it like the first and not scary.  Now all this series needs is a part 3 to finish the trilogy.  I give it a 8 out of a 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful for fans of Jennifer Love Hewitt & cheesy horror movies","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, I should state that my review of the movie is definitely biased by two factors  1) I am a big Jennifer Love Hewitt fan.  She could star in a two hour movie that consisted entirely of her sitting in a rocking chair and reading the Wall Street Journal, and I would see it on opening day and love it.  The other factor is  2)  I love cheesy horror movies.  The cheesier, the better.On those two counts, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer shines.  It's not a great movie, not by a long shot.  I don't think anyone expects it to be a great movie.  It's not even as good as the original.  But, I don't think to many people expect a sequel to be better than the original, anyway.The movie has a stylish opening in a church confessional that provides an excellent means of re-capping the events of the first film, and provides a unique setting for a confrontation between the fisherman and Julie, the film's protagonist.When the above sequence turns out to be a dream, a clever throw-away line is spoken by a would-be admirer of Julie.  He asked Julie if she had the dream about the shower again.  And in doing so, explained away the last scene in the original as being a dream, and not merely a forgotten plot point.The rest of the scenes in Julie's college town are a fine, quick introduction to the core ensemble of the film.The movie falters somewhat once it gets to its island getaway.  It falters because of the introduction of a dearth of uninteresting, outright annoying characters.  There is a fatso-druggie character whose death I was hoping for from the very first scene he was in.  There was also a stupid red-herring character  of a vodoo practitioner.  His death, too, was a welcome one.  The list could go on and on.But that is really my only complaint about this movie.  I have to say that Jennifer Love Hewitt's scene on the tanning bed was the highlight not only of this film, but of every movie I've seen this year.  But that's just hormones talking.Mekhi Phifer was a particular stand-out in this movie.  He got most of the good lines and was the character I most identified with.Brandy, I expected to be annoying; however, she was perfectly fine in her role as Julie's friend.The biggest lost opportunity this movie had was the fact that it didn't really explain what happened to the fisherman's hand at the end of the first film.  He didn't mention that it had been cut off in his final confrontation with Julie.  And he didn't explain exactly how he went about attaching the hook as a sort-of prosthetic hand.Overall, I clearly loved this movie.  But I would recommend it really only to fans of Jennifer Love Hewitt or cheesy horror movies.My rating  a 8.5 out of 10.p.s. (the original was a 10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"What will be next?","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This must honestly be the worst movies I've ever seen! Where is the excitement, the thrill that we all knew from the first movie? This is a movie where nothing is new, and you can tell from looking at the people who will be killed. I will not tell what happens in the end, but my god! How can someone make such a lousy end!?!This is a crappy movie! Don't pay money to watch it! "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I hated this movie!.It was the third worst movie of 1998 just being beaten by Godzilla and The Blues Brothers 2000. There is hardly a plot except people getting killed on an island by a man with a hook.The kill scenes are not scary and there is not one part in the movie where you would be on the edge of the seat or feel like screaming. The acting in the movie was hopeless, Jennifer Love Hewitt's and Freddie Prinze Jr. acting skills have gone down since the first one.I loved the original and gave it 9/10 but this sequel sucked and I give it 0/10. If you really, really, really want to see this movie wait until it is on TV and there is nothing better on.  "}{"Title":"REPORT CARD FOR I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  STORYLINE Has good intentions and this story line has not reached its full potential. Needs a lot more work with writing skills. GRADE B- SCRIPT This is an area where 'I Still Know...' needs much improvement. Tries to be witty and amusing but fails miserably in some areas. GRADE C-ACTING Stronger characters emerge from Jennifer Love Hewitt. Generally, an area which makes this movie watchable. GRADE B+COMEDY As with writing, tries to be funny, but can't quite get there. Some very cute one-liners though. GRADE C-SCARES AND THRILLS Don't try! I was expecting to be on the edge of my seat for this movie but ended up playing with my chewing gum during the scary scenes. I think the fact that the supsenseful parts were just too predictable and ruined it. GRADE D+OVERALL COMMENTS 'I Still Know...' falls along way behind its predecessor. This movie almost tries to shock you with extra gory deaths (the garden shears were a nice touch... variation on a hook) which makes the film look ridiculous rather that scary. I am overjoyed that this movie was short so I didn't have to waste my time seeing it. A scary movie that fails miserably at being scary. OVERALL GRADE D for Don't bother seeing me!! "},{"Title":"whooah.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Really good movie !! Must be seen ! I can't sleep at night anymore... hook-man follows me even to my dreams.  "},{"Title":"Excellent flick-better than the first!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw the movie and I thought it was great!  I don't know about scarier but it was definitely bloodier!!  Plot was good (better in the first) and I like how they explained the ending of the original.  Jennifer Love Hewitt was excellent and looked FANTASTIC in her skimpy rain-soaked outfits!!  Go see it! "},{"Title":"I STILL DONT KNOW WHY I SAW THIS MOVIE","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is not only one of the most horrible movie titles in history, it's an even more vomit-inducing movie. There is not one original element in this movie, from the stupid shock sequences to the stale dialogue to the idiotic gore.  Jennifer Love Hewitt is so annoying in this movie. She's like a fly with a 36C cup. And what's more annoying is they focus on her cleavage so much but they don't go any further. Whats a slasher movie without an obligatory breast scene?  And Moesha is just as annoying! Why would a best friend sneak in the house in the dark and and hide the closet of her best friend who is completely delusional and disturbed?  Sometimes I wished Monica would just run into the movie and kill her and steal Mekhi Phipher back cuz the boy is hers.  The victims in this movie are pure cardboard cut-outs.  And the Killer is as scary as any senior citizen or fan of a Cocoon movie.  How can a killer that's 97 years old and probably wears Depends be a threat? I completely despise the slew of trendy horror movies coming out today.  Everyone of them is about 4 teenagers who think they're horror movie experts ( just because they say stupid movie references to Nightmare on Elm Street ) who are trapped in a Scooby Doo Shelby Woo mystery involving a killer who could be one of them but turns out to be some moronic guy who we don't care about who wears a parka or a slicker or stupid looking ghost mask.  Why are horror movies becoming after-school specials with killers who don't do anything creative but stab?  I STILL DON'T KNOW. "},{"Title":"One Small step Back for Horror Movies.....","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like this film very much,  Jennifer Love Hewitt gives sexy and appealing performance.  However this film is a sorry return to the slasher films of the eighties.  Don't get me wrong I love Michael, Jason and Freddy but this Fisherman lacks charisma.  The first film featured deaths of which were all justified (to a point) the sequel shows murder for the sake of murder, cleaning ladies,  caretakers etc.  These people aren't even in his way but they bite it anyway. The Ending is Ridiculous but kind of entertaining and I'm sorry to say I'll be there when the third one hits the cinemas. Kevin Williamson's Writing is sorely missed and would be the only thing that could save this franchise from becoming I SORTA KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER BUT IM GOING TO KILL YOUR FRIENDS AND EVERYONE ELSE ANYWAY It's a Fun Film but Scream it ain't. "},{"Title":"All you need to know","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Here's what this movie consists of1.  Killer walks really slow.  Victims run really fast.  Victims cannot escape killer.2. Jennifer Love Hewitt will go to any length to find creative ways to show off her chest.3.  Brandy has an enormous rear. "},{"Title":"It's better than the first one.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's scarier, gorier and actually has a story line..........The plot twists and turns as Julie realises what happened last summer is going to happen again. "},{"Title":"Tedious Piece of Trash","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I Know What You Did Last Summer was a whole lot of fun. Sarah Michelle Gellar was awesome and the film as a whole, I thought, was somewhat underrated. I Still Know is an utter piece of trash! I don't even know where to start. I felt bad through the whole thing that someone as fine as Jennifer Love Hewitt was stuck in this awful film. The end is so convoluted that you'll want to puke up your supper right there in the theater and pray to God that there's not another sequel. Here's one example There's a scene where Brandy falls through a glass ceiling into a small conservatory of some sort. Of course the doors that lead from this room to the hotel are locked with a chain. Jennifer Love Hewitt and another woman rush to her rescue. Then (oh my!) the man with the hook comes through doors that lead from outside into this little room and starts walking menacingly towards Brandy. All through this the other woman is fumbling through her keys to unlock the doors (remember I Know What You Did Last Summer??), then Jennifer's character runs over to a glass case, smashes it and grabs a fire axe to try to break the chain and or the doors (remember Titanic??). Then with the axe, Jennifer smashes the small glass windows in the doors and Brandy tries to crawl out (remember the awesome Rose McGowan stuck in the doggy door in Scream??). I'll leave the rest up to your imagination. All I really have to say, though, is that if a sequel has to rip off its original...that's pretty damn lame. "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie, was really good! It kept me jumping out of my seat every other second! The ending, was kind of unrealistic, but it was a surprise and different from how you would have suspected it to be. All in all, it was GREAT! "},{"Title":"Better than the first...","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was better then the first one. It was more scarier, it had more twists in it and I had no idea of what people would die. They made it like the first one, like at the end how the fisherman was still there, and in the first one she was in the shower. But previews to this movie where not in the movie, like it had her on the computer, and then she was talking to a therapist, that was misleading. The acting was overall pretty good, Love Hewitt tried to act tough, but you could tell Julie was scared. Brandy did a very good job as well as Freddie Prinze he was my favorite character, trying to save the day. Overall I would give this 9/10. "}{"Title":"Original was good, sequel was so much better.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was in every way better than the original.  I still know what you did last summer had twists and turns, scares and chills, and some death scenes you just gotta see to believe!  Not only was it more scarier than the original, but it has a death count I'm sure you'll lose track of within the first hour.  The acting by Love Hewitt is strong and believing, she's stronger in the sequel, and Brandy's performance is stunning as well. I gave it a 10! "},{"Title":"Horror movie??","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  INCONSISTENT at best....and tell me again, isn't this supposed to be SCARY?? Predictable at times too.  AVOID this movie. "},{"Title":"A good sequel to the original","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good sequel.  It won't win any awards but the acting was good overall.  It was a little hokey in spots but nothing that detracts from the movie.  The story about the man with the hook is made understandable about midway through the movie and is believable.  The end could have been better but it didn't hurt the movie either.  It's a good movie and most movie goers that like that type of movie should be happy with it overall. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"I don't give a rat's tail about what they did last summer....","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Man, this movie was quite possibly the worst I've seen all year.  And that's saying a lot.  The movie was lousy, and incredibly predictable.  It says something when, in the scene where they finally take out the murderer, that I count how many bullets are shot (answer 6 or 7 out of a 6 chambered revolver, with an empty chamber) and the final scene was the stupidest thing I've ever seen in a movie.  What was the point of that?  It was just one of the most obvious movies I've seen in a long time.  I gotta say I'd give it maybe a 3 out of 10, on a good day. "},{"Title":"Better than the first but not so great","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I hated the first anyway. I never planned on seeing the sequel but here I am. Anyhow, the thing with this film is that you have to take it for what it is a cheesy teen slasher thing. I wasn't disappointed partly because I didn't expect anything but crap (and breasts). After thinking about it, I felt the script had been rushed. Many good ideas fall flat and the characters look so insanely dumb! (why didn't she use that axe??) It's the kinda film that makes you wish you had been involved with the project so that you could have told everyone how to improve most of the scenes in the script. Anyway, not a bad horror film, for what it's worth. On the plus side you have the fantastic atmosphere created by the storm (very classic) and the whole isolation factor (another classic). It's also strangely fun to see Brandy fall through so much glass. And thank God, it's not pretending to be witty like Scream 2 and H2O tried to. Williamson can go back to school if he can't find anything else. Go see it if you like that kinda film; you know who you are. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!!!!!!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was without a doubt one of the worst films I have ever seen. Even though I saw it for free at a private screening, I still wanted to leave and ask for my money back. I was also mad at the fact that I had to wait in line for almost an hour. This film is a rip off of every other horror movie. Even The Avengers was better than this. If Kevin Williamson would have been attached to the movie, it definitely would have been much better. Please don't make another sequel unless Kevin Williamson is the screenwriter. "},{"Title":"Re it was okay","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It wasn't scary or gory enough. but it had its moments. Then again, of course, Jennifer Love Hewitt can redeem any film "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****. Too cliche.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know is pretty much driven by all other horror film cliches. Actually, only one is used so many times, it becomes numbing.  The investigate strange noise cliche.  It is used way too many times in this film.  I have never seen a horror film use it as much as this one did.  The best thing about this movie are the characters.  I actually found them interesting.  There were some clever moments but not enough to keep this film from falling into the pits of other horror films.  The characters never do anything smart.  They seemed too much like they were pretending not to know what was going on when they actually did.  They almost seemed like they wanted to do the smart thing but the script held them back.  Take for example the scene where Ray and his buddy are driving down the road.  They see a guy lying in the street, supposedly hit by a car.  The buddy suggests they should keep going, but Ray decides to get out to investigate.   Of course we all know what happens next.  The movie lacks originality, especially near the end. The dialogue is completely borrowed from other films. There's no logic to the killers (yes two killers) motive for killing. The film would have been greatly improved if it explained more about them and their thoughts and ideas; their motive.  Maybe next time, the script will be smarter.  Also one sequence definitely annoyed me.  At the beginning, Julie is awakened by the sound of someone in her dorm.  She gets up, knife in hand, to investigate.  All the lights are off.  She wanders around the house, then someone runs past her, to her bedroom. She turns around and walks back to her room where there is someone in her closet. Nearly stabbing her to death, it turns out to be her roommate, Karla (brandy).  I thought you were out of town. I just wanted to borrow your skirt, explains Karla.  If you thought she was out of town, why didn't you put on the lights?  Why sneek around?  Way too predictable.  Nothing scared me in this film. I didn't jump once. "},{"Title":" The title is only the first thing wrong with this film","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, the title should be I still know what you did the summer before, Second of all, why would someone try to kill a bunch of teenagers for a stupid reason like this? The plot stinks. I give this movie a 4. "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I do have to say that I liked this awful excuse for a horror movie.  The gore was pretty good, but I still wanted more during the killings, instead of when the bodies popped up later.  Speaking of which, I have never seen a movie where the bodies have been shown being killed, one or two days after they're dead, and then not shown ever again.  Stupid.  This is a movie for people who have a black sense of humor, and those who have an IQ lower than their shoe size.  If you see this stink-bomb expect to laugh at the stupidity of the scared people, and the characters.I have never seen so many recycled scenes in one movie.  They reused the washer for scare effect, and they recycled Hewitt's Come and get me scene, and I felt I was cheated out of a couple of original minutes.  This movie was funnier than most of the other comedies this year, including Dr. Dolittle, which I felt is for the same crowd, stupid people. I was rolling on the floor with this movie, especially the tanning bed scene.  Turn it off moron!  I cheered for the deaths, and I felt cheated at the end.  If he really did kill them, I was cheated out of the deaths that I really wanted to see.  Such bad acting should be saved for low-budget flicks, but this may become a high-budget cult flick.  I did not believe that anybody in the movie was scared, and I thought that it was all fun and games to these people, except for her fiancee.  The first movie's only saving grace was laughing at the scared morons, but for this movie I was able to laugh at the situations and the people.  This was a funny movie, and I was laughing so hard I cried.  As a comedy, 8 out of 10, as a horror flick, 1 out of ten. And to those who did not like it, see it with a big group, like a sold out show, and have the intention of making fun of it.  You'll like the movie much better.  Don't forget to cheer for the killer like I did.  "}{"Title":"Scary but Really Good","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was literally the scariest movie I have ever seen in my whole life but it was also really good!!! It was way scarier but way better than the 1st one. "},{"Title":"Why did I see this?","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If there is one thing I HATE in a movie it is the characters stupidity. Some movies have some of this and others like I know has MANY. These individuals in this movie were just plain Stupid.The one individual that should have been BUMPED off was the Director. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this movie before?","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, that's right.  It was called I know what you did last summer!!  Let's be a little more original next time, okay?    The only reason to see this movie is JLH.  If she hadn't been in this movie, it would have gone from bad to REALLY bad quickly. Title of the next one I Still Know what you did last Summer, Really.  3 out of 10 on this one.  "},{"Title":"The best movie EVER!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this movie thinking it wouldn't be as good as the first, as the original was my favorite movie. Even if it sucked, my money wouldn't have been wasted, because seeing Jennifer Love Hewitt for 2 hours really isn't a bad thing, since I am in love with her. So, I checked it out. And without a doubt, the movie ROCKED!!! I've already seen it 3 times, and hell, I'll see it 3 more times!!! The only complaint I have about the movie is the gratuitous breast shots of Jennifer Love Hewitt. Yeah, I am of the male gender, but I really don't appreciate them, especially when she's the subject. But that small rift in an otherwise flawless movie, in my opinion, dosen't even matter. Trust me...if you liked the first, you haven't seen ANYTHING yet!!!!    "},{"Title":"I Still Know could have been better.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well....I gave this one a 5. By no means is this a bad movie but I had my expectations set too high.  I personally love the horror genre and so I was hoping for more than I got. I would recommend to anyone that goes to see this movie with high expectations such as mine ... just go with an open mind and enjoy yourself. Maybe after a second sitting I'll enjoy it more than before. Jeniffer Love Hewitt was as beautiful as ever and the body count was, of course, higher and bloodier. As a horror movie sequel, it's good, but unless you're a fan, you are likely to find yourself bored.Josh McBride "},{"Title":"MAN IT BLEW!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream came and it ROCKED, I Know.. it was ok, but Scream 2 was MUCH better.. Now we get.. well CRAP. As much a re-hash of the first while trying to be hip with the ending, ala Scream 2. It was just a COMPLETE MESS!!! Some secret I WISH wasn't haunting us this winter...  "},{"Title":"Ug...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer has always been Scream's dimmer cousin, but the sequel to Summer breaks new ground in really bad sequel/spin-off movie making. With Kevin Williamson gone from the project, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer relies solely on slow walks through dimly lit corridors, that will more often than not end with an almost painfully loud orchestra crash. That's pretty much it. Like clockwork, every ten friggin' minutes. If the music score was taken away entirely,  don't think there would be much of a movie, just a series of screams and random, predictable violence that becomes tiring way before the conclusion...you know Hewitt will survive, and you know the killer will survive as well, Hollywood execs will NEVER EVER turn their backs on the possibility of making more money and REALLY milking this pathetic franchise. Hopefully, ticket sales will be less than desirable and we'll all be spared from further Summer projects...though seeing Miss Hewitt in a bra and g-string was entertaining...One Final Note In the end sequence in the new house, when Hewitt's fiancee is brushing his teeth, how in the hell does the bathroom door lock from the outside?? "},{"Title":"complete and utter crap","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the original movie well enough, but this sequel was a total disappointment.  I had hoped that it would be on par with Scream 2, but it completely disappointed me.  The entire cast seems to be operating under one faulty brain.  Individually, they don't make any good decisions.  Such a piece of c***. "},{"Title":"Not a Scream 2","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the first one but this one was not very good, unfortunately. It lacked any originality and all the deaths seemed the same. The ending (where the killer is revealed and so forth) seemed like a duplicate of Scream. Jennifer Love Hewitt was good but the rest was pretty bad, and all the scenes where she was looking through each room became very repetitive very fast. Scream, Scream 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer, and Urban Legend are all better than this. "},{"Title":"better than the first...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So I went and saw this film on opening weekend, and the theater was packed with teenage girls, who squealed at every little thing. So that kinda took away from the film, but I still enjoyed it. I wouldn't shell out $8.00 to see it again, but it was better than the first. Maybe it was just because I like Brandy and I have a biased opinion. Who knows?! Brandy did quite well in her first Big Screen film, even though all she mostly did was run and scream! (Makes me wonder why they showed off all of her kickboxing skills). Hewitt was her regular drab self. When will this girl's 15 minutes run out?! A couple of decent characters, and a decent plot helped this one. With it being a horror film, of course you're going to have more plot flaws than the average Hollywood film, but this one didn't do too bad. Easy to predict who the killer is though.  "}{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS BETTER THAN THE 1ST","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen the 1st one, and I'm telling.  This one is scarier, and funnier. I'm not gonna ruin it for y'all who haven't seen this movie yet, so all I'm gonna say is you'll be surprised on who the killer is!!!  They win a trip to the Bahamas, all they had to do was answer this ? what is the capital of brazil Carla says the answer, I always thought it was Colombia, which I believe it really is because she got the wrong answer she still wins the free trip--SET UP!!!  See the movie though.  It kicks !*&% "},{"Title":"The one reason to see this movie...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just like the first one, maybe a little more predictable. However there is one very good reason to see it Jennifer Love Hewitt. She is as hot as ever and even more so. If you see the movie only to see her, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After Scream, I know what you did last summer, Scream 2, and Halloween H20, the horror movies were starting to get repetitive and predictable, but I still know put some totally new flavor into the genre. Ten times scarier than the first and ten times wittier, this one proved the rule of horror movies (sequels suck!!) dead wrong. "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After Scream, I know what you did last summer, Scream 2, and Halloween H20, The horror movies were starting to get repetitive and predictable, but I Still Know put some totally new flavor into the genre. Ten times scarier than the first and ten times wittier, this proved the rule of horror movies (sequels suck!!) dead wrong. "},{"Title":"My Opinion On I Still Know.....","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is great, not awesome, great. This movie did have a lot more suspense, killing, gore, and even some tiny jokes which all went good. The killer is gonna be a suprise to many people. If you wanna know who the killer is, u will have to study the first 20 minutes of I Know What You Did Last Summer. It's a scream and great to see if you like killing and gore. Brandy and Jennifer acted real good in the movie. Too bad Jennifer sang and not Brandy. Anywayz, the plot to the movie is sorta hard to explain, and some of the almost killing scenes could've been prevented.Jennifer, if you are stuck in a tanning booth tell your friends to turn it off and then help you get out.I give I Still Know... an 8.  Don't really listen to any of the comments, go see it and judge it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Very good movie - better than the first!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very good movie, but the ending needed some work.  Jennifer Love Hewitt is SO hot! "},{"Title":"Much more suspenseful than the first","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'd have to say that I Still Know... is definitely more suspenseful than the first, but I definitely have to gripe about the ending -- I mean, COME ON. Now THAT ruined my day. ;-) Don't worry, I won't give it away, but see the movie and you'll totally understand what I mean! Another thing that irks me is that there is absolutely no pick-up from the very end of the first one -- in other words at the end of the first one, remember the shower scene? They act like it didn't even take place. Like they still think he's dead and the shower scene never happened. What was up with that? "},{"Title":"The best horror film this year, so much better than original by far.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't get it.  This film is getting some of the worst reviews of the year. This film was phenomenal.  However, the film should have been titled, I Still Know What You Did That Summer.  I thoroughly enjoyed this more than the awesome Halloween H20.  Granted, it really didn't scare me very much, but it was pounded over the head with suspense all the way through. Everyone's downing the performances, I thought they were great.  Jennifer Love Hewitt was very convincing in her role as the traumatized victim.  She never overacted, which is typical for a horror film.  Her character has really developed and grown since the original.  She is much stronger and it was a joy to watch her make that transition.  I find her an amazing actress. She has a wonderful presence in Party Of Five as she does here.  I have seen so many horrible actresses lately for instance, Maria Pitillo (Godzilla) and Denise Richards (Starship Troopers). Brandy was fine also. She got the most negative criticism for her performance.  I felt she brought what she needed to the role.  Basically, it was Brandy being Brandy, and she really didn't need anything else.  Considerably, I am no dummy.  Right now, I'm an acting student at University Of Illinois, so I know bad acting when I see it.  There was none in this picture.  Plus, it's a horror film.  Don't expect Saving Private Ryan.  That's not what it's made for.  It's just a horror film, a superior at that.  This film blew the original right out of the water.  Compared to this, I Know What You Did Last Summer was crap. For once, Kevin Williamson was outdone, dramatically.  Also, so what that the film left it open for a sequel.  I knew before then and I still loved it.  This is the best horror film to come out since Scream.  However, I have concluded one thing.  This film wasn't really about the killer.  It was about Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts.  I haven't seen so much cleavage in a film in a long time.  I'm not complaining.  Jennifer's the most beautiful young woman in Hollywood, no joke.  She combines beauty and brains in this motion picture and I would see it again in a heartbeat.  I'm standing strong by this review, and if anyone has a problem with it, we can't talk about it if it really bothers you.***1/2 of ****. "},{"Title":"COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER. I WAS LET DOWN.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie and was excited to see it, but I was let down. First of all, it was predictable, I'm sorry to say. And it lacked the suspense that it easily could have had more of. Don't get me wrong, it did have its moments, but not enough. Also, it did have to meany cliches. I really wanted it to be better. Oh, and did Kevin Williamson just get lazy when he got to the climax of this script and just use the end of SCREAM instead? But on a positive note It was fairly made and well acted,and I have to admit that Jen's boobs are the highlight of this fairly unsatisfying daisy romp.I hope the next one is better. -** "},{"Title":"Worst sequel ever made?","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This, by far, is the worst sequel ever in the horror genre that went to theatres. (Crazy Fat Ethel II doesn't count)  Plotwise, this garbage doesn't make any sense.  For me to believe that the culprit behind this was able to afford such an expensive plan for revenge when they could have knocked on the protagonist's door and slaughter her there is excruciatingly ridiculous.The plot, makes no sense.  In the opening scene, Jennifer (Love?) Hewitt states in confession that she killed Ben Willis and lied to the authorities...Wait? She didn't kill Ben Willis, her friend did, and for another thing, he wasn't dead!!!  Next, as she walks out of a class, (yes, yet another slasher film that starts at some sort of school; Halloween H20, Disturbing Behavior, Urban Legend, and next The Faculty) we learn that it is the July 4th weekend.  I've heard of summer terms at universities, but full-fleged schooling? Everyone was there.  No summer break?  After that, she pulls a knife on her best friend Brandy, (I won't even justify that one with a comment) who is rummaging through her closet for something to wear.  When she asks her what she's doing there, Brandy replies, Girl, I thought you were gone.  Good character development. Where would she have gone?  Why would she even think this?  Brandy is her BEST friend.Skipping ahead, the action becomes very trite and unshocking.  From carrying stuffed bodies on hooks, (Yes, the effects are cheap and unrealistic) to locking her in a tanner...Wait, let me discuss that.  She is locked in a tanner with a plastic garbage clip and can't get out.  Her friends, instead of turning it off, smash it till it breaks open in a frenzy.  Kind of a dangerous procedure, isn't it?  Shouldn't they turn it off and take their time?  The control for the heat is on the outside.As for the acting, well, although he had tons of bad dialogue, Re-Animator's Jeffrey Combs still is a hoot as a nasty desk clerk.  As for everyone else, well, this is all I can say Brandy, don't give up your day job of singing; Hewitt, stay on t.v. where a poor performance is acceptable and everyone else...Alan Smithee it before it comes to video.This has undoubetdly the worst script ever written for a big-screen film. It makes me want to watch Halloween 5 and Friday the 13th 7 a few more times.My grade...F- "}{"Title":"Don't pay full price!!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you liked the first one, you might enjoy this but it not worth the full price. Not as scary!  Also do yourself a favor and leave 10 minutes before it is over to avoid a terrible ending! "},{"Title":"Cash in your Frequent Basher Miles here","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay for all you BASHERS out there,... I would just like to say that you REALLY have no clue what you are talking about here.  I saw BOTH Urban Legend AND Disturbing Behavior and frankly they totally SUCKED.  But this movie was actually good. It's better AND scarier than the first movie. Let's see here,...what is the point of a horror movie,... to scare you,... check,... to entertain you,... check.  We've got the bases covered here,.. let's not over-analyze this one. Let's just accept it for it's surface value,... a good old time horror movie that makes you jump out of your seat a few times, cringe a little,.. gasp,.. and keeps your eyes open all the time,.... it wasn't boring,.. the acting was good,.. and it WAS NOT predictable as some of you seem to BRAG about predicting,.. well OKAY psychic SYLVIA BROWN whatever you say.  I've seen PLENTY of horror movies,.. classics,.. and the new ones. None of them are really OSCAR WORTHY,... but they serve their purpose,.. some better than others,... some not so well. In my opinion this one ranks high.  It surpassed the original.  Just deal with it instead of trying to be all smart about it,... there's no smarts to it,.. just freaking enjoy what you get already.  I as a GEN-X-er RESENT the fact that you say we have bad taste.  I laugh when I'm supposed to laugh,.. I cry when I'm supposed to cry,.. I think when something's supposed to make me think,.. and I run out of the theater with my tail between my legs when I'm supposed to,.. now why can't you critics be the bigger people here and do the same??Ciao babes! "},{"Title":"Get Hooked Again!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see I Still Know opening night (Nov. 13) and let me say it was one awesome movie! The plot was great and Jennifer Love Hewitt was exceptional in the role of Julie James once again. The plot was great and had some extra added twists. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Good direction can't save lousy script","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film for people who think Rio de Janeiro is still the capital of Brazil, and that's the least of the idiocies this sorry script foists on the unsuspecting audience.  Still, the direction is good enough to generate some suspense and the young cast is attractive if not particularly adept at playing their stock roles. "},{"Title":"Off the Hook!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie wasn't as bad as some of the above are overstatin'. I thought it was crunk, especially on the killin' scenes. For a horror movie sequel this wasn't that bad, actually it was pretty good considering all the other ones (Scream 2 included). It had a damn good plot, lot of blood, lot of killin', they kept it real with the ethnicity and everything,; it was worth my $7.50. If you like the first one, you'll like the second. "},{"Title":"Utterly predictable first half, great second half","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ISKWYDLS takes its time to get going, but when it does, it rocks.  Far, far too many generic fake scares in the first half hour or so, but more than made up for by one of the better executed plot twists I've seen recently. (On a par with Urban Legend's big surprise.)And hey! Brandy wasn't annoying!  I was dreading the presence of a pop diva in a horror movie, especially since I already knew her fate.  (Gee, thanks EW.)  Ended up enjoying her performance more than the lone good actor in the ensemble, Mekhi Phifer.  So effective as stone cold killer Junior Bunk in tv's Homicide, Phifer here is reduced to a glowering, one-note horny boyfriend.  He's just along for the ride, but, well, so are we.You've seen all this before, but it's Still an entertaining way to spend the evening. "},{"Title":"Lots of gore and cleavage = fun time at the movies","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this movie for two reasons  1)I am a huge horror movie fan and 2)Jennifer Love Hewitt is my favorite actress.  I was not disappointed on either front.  On a horror movie level, I liked it because there was plenty of gore and typical horror movie scares.  Jennifer Love Hewitt impressed me again with her acting ability by displaying herself in an array of revealing outfits.  Be still my 19 year old hormonal body.  I found Brandy to be slightly annoying and the ending left everyone in the theater dumbfounded - much like the first one.  This is a great date movie for those in the late teens to early 20s age.  It's basically like every other teen slasher to come out and treads no new waters.  Still fun to watch though. "},{"Title":"I was hooked","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had been anticipating I Still Know What You Did Last Summer since the project was announced, and it was well worth the wait. Writer Trey Callaway should be commended for including the requisite gore/scare scenes as well as some surprising plot twists.  The only complaint I have is the lame ending, which copies shamelessly from the first film (and this time it isn't a surprise).  Still, Jennifer Love Hewitt is in fine form and has good support from Brandy.  Mekhi Phifer and Matthew Settle were also good, though they can't compare to the acting chops (and characters) of Part 1's Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. is also likable, though his screen time is limited as it was in the predecessor.  The murder sequences here are also more jolting and graphic this time around.  If you enjoyed the first film, and recent outings like Urban Legend, you'll definitely consider I Still Know a must-see.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was a very good horror film.  It is filled with creative uses of a gaff (the hook) and genuine scares, as well as a couple of interesting twists.  "},{"Title":"OK but by-the-numbers slasher flick","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You know, I'm a sucker for a well-written, witty horror film. I loved both Screams and enjoyed I Know What You Did Last Summer. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is strictly a by-the-numbers affair, however. As a fan of the genre, I can say it was technically well made, the acting was good, and there were a few jolts and tense scenes. Still, it suffered from the absence of writer Kevin Williamson in that the movie was just a set-up for a bunch of teens to run from a fisherman with a hook. The first film dealt with the consequences of four teens who ran someone over in their car, discarded the body, and tried to deal with the guilt they were feeling. This sequel just seems hollow at the core -- a simple revenge story. The ending is a real stinker, too. No more stupid Is-it-a-dream-or-isn't-it? endings, please.  "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It should be called I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago.  When Scream came out, I thought that the studios would start to make films that mixed horror with satire.  But now all we have is glossier Friday the Thirteenth and Nightmare on Elm Street movies.  I think the horror genre is once again dying. "},{"Title":"If you are a mindless teenager(tool) see this movie","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being a young person I am ashamed of the garbage my generation will shell out $7 for.  Ever since Scream rejuvinated the horror movie the whole scene has gone to hell.  ISKWYDLS is  corprate garbage specifically designed to generate movey from teens.  In the movie Julie and some friends are in Hawaii and the fisherman from the first movie is still stalking them.  If you want to see a good horror movie rent Rosemary's Baby or Exorcist. Don't be a tool.  "},{"Title":"Ick. Stay away from this one.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This WOULD have been one of the biggest disappointments this year, assuming I had gone into the theatre with higher-than-mediocre expectations for this rancid sequel; no such luck. This incredibly unnecessary follow-up to a movie already unworthy of funding includes not only a ridiculous set-up (hey, lets go on an exotic vacation to an exotic locale! what could possibly go wrong?), it also suffers from an underwhelming performance from the oblivious Jennifer Love Hewitt (who - UGH - karaokes) and outright bad acting by Brandy. The story is so full of holes that it soon becomes apparent that Trey Callaway wrote this blood farce in his sleep. And, of course, the awkwardly-titled stinker is topped off by an outstanding - *GASP* - ending with a big enough loophole for yet ANOTHER sequel! Whodathunkit? Stay tuned for This Time, I'm POSITIVE I Remember What You Did Last Summer...I Think. Please, stay the hell away from this waste of 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I Know.....","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is definitely only there to cash in on the original.  Althought the death scenes are much better, the film lacks quite a lot (Sarah Michelle Gellar being the main thing the film should have included).  The film is not as memorable as its predecessor, and sadly Brandy (who I admire) is a real disappointment.  She was no way as good as Sarah Michelle in the role of Julie's best friend.Another thing the film lacks is its script & story.  Scream writer Kevin Williamson wrote the screenplay for the original, but this only has a mediocre script (not half as witty).Fans of the original will like this, but that's about all...  "},{"Title":"very  very good","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW  is better than the first it has a lot more scares and a lot more comedy i give it a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jennifer's back!! (and so is her front!!)","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jubbilicious Jennifer Love Hewitt returns as terrified teen Julie James, still suffering from nightmares after her ordeal against hook-handed killer Ben Willis (Muse Watson). When best pal Karla Wilson (bootilicious Brandy) wins a trip to the Bahamas, it would seem like the perfect way for the girls to unwind, but when a hurricane hits the tropical paradise and dead bodies begin to pop up all over the island, their dream weekend quickly turns into a nightmare vacation.I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is predictably silly late-90s slasher nonsense, but as formulaic, dumb and ultimately unmemorable as it is, it still managed to be pleasantly diverting fun for this particular undemanding slasher fan Danny Cannon's direction is slick without being irritatingly showy; the scares are mechanical but effective; horror movie regular Jeffrey Combs pops up to lend a little class to proceedings; there's a modicum of gore; and an uncredited Jack Black gets stabbed through the chest with a big pair of shears (something I wish would happen to him in all of his films&#x97;preferably right at the beginning!). Best of all, this sequel gives viewers another chance to admire the fine form of star Jennifer Love Hewitt, this time not just in a figure hugging white vest, but also in a bikini.And, if for some reason, Jen's ample charms don't tickle your fancy (check your pulse you may be dead), then there's still quite a bit of fun to be had spotting the many moments referenced by the Wayans brothers in Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"I Really Enjoyed 3 things In this Movie&#x85;","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" To call this a thriller is laughable. To call it a horror film is laughable. The whole movie and nearly every aspect of it is laughable. Nothing special, nothing diverse, admirable, or in the least bit scary. Predictable storyline, horrible dialog and Brandy&#x85;oh God, spare me the agony. If it does mange to actually scare you, I suppose anything will. When I first submitted this review, I actually had so little to say that it was too short! That's saying something. So I looked into the positive notes of this 'film'. The only reasons it was saved from being a one are as follows (1) Jennifer Hewitt's ditsy acting is the very least accompanied by a gorgeous body, (2) Jack Black was in it, and (3) it had a memorable title. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'll admit I had some reservations about watching this, as the ending of part one leaves you with the question of how Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) survives. Unfortunately, that question is never explained in part two, but the rest of the story (while a bit predictable)is extremely enjoyable. The characters are more polished, and it seems more work went into this movie. The story keeps you interested with some pretty good jumps thrown in, and a bit of twist as well. The ending is reminiscent of part one and as far as I am concerned the story should just have ended here. A good sequel that won't leave you feeling as if you have just wasted your time. "},{"Title":"Don't even *think* that I've forgotten","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Ah, here we are. The sequel. Yet again Julie James is haunted by the incident(which, surely, by now must be two Summers back? Oh no, not only is there a dangerous killer stalking teenagers(I mean, come on, how much of that was there in horror cinema in the 80's?), but time is being slowed down to a halt, as well!), and in the year that passed both within the series and in real life, she made some new acquaintances, most of which clearly got high marks in the department of being generally annoying(perhaps they watched that John Cleese special?), while the writer(s?) thought up an admittedly novel way of ensuring both inherent creepiness and more or less(read less) dressed young people. The singing was uncalled for(really, what did we do to you?), but I guess they figured there'd be fans of the singer in the audience. Acting is fine. Jack Black is, if possible, even less tolerable than usual(but at least its recognized herein). This tries to jump right into the scares, and outdo the first in general, by having more of what it had. The story isn't bad, and does continue with characters that survived(the cast list and the cover of this could reveal who did and didn't, be forewarned). Not all the scares work. The twists are decent enough. The music still isn't as good as Scream. Some of the effects are nicely done. This didn't engage or excite me like the one before it did. All in all, more of the same, as has been said, not sure why this is less effective, if its the fault of the writer or the director(who did do a quite commendable job on Judge Dredd), or what/who. I recommend this to fans of the movie it follows. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Quite simply the worst horror film ever made","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this sequel to the stupid I Know What You Did Last Summer, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), her annoying friend Karla (Brandy Norwood), Karla's foul-mouthed and ALWAYS talking about sex boyfriend Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer) and bland Will Benson (Matthew Settle) win a free trip to some remote island. Julie THOUGHT the killer from the first film is dead and buried...but he's not. He's on the island, Julie and her friends are trapped there by a storm...and he goes after them one by one...OK--the first one was bad--but not THIS bad! This film shows such contempt for the audience that I actually got angry watching it! First off the plot is stupid (and highly unbelievable) with plot twists that are so insultingly impossible that your jaw drops. Also this is one of those movies where the killer magically seems to know where his victim is and EXACTLY what they're going to be doing. Bodies appear out of nowhere and disappear with truly astounding speed and, naturally, there's no trace of them ever BEING there. The characters are annoying--Julie is whiny; Karla is obnoxious; Tyrell makes Karla look like Ms. Congeniality--constantly talking about sex and insulting Julie nonstop; Will has no personality at all. I never thought I'd say this but I was MISSING Freddie Prinze Jr. from the first film! You know you're in trouble when you miss him. (He does pop up occasionally).Basically this film is insulting to it's audience. Now I realize that most horror films ARE stupid (look at the Friday the 13th series) but this one is just SO stupid nonstop with no likable characters or believable plot. I gave up entirely on the film when the girls are running from the killer--they have two places to run, upstairs or outside. Guess where they choose! Insulting, badly acted, badly directed, full of contempt for the audience--I usually never get angry at bad films but this one pushed me over my limit. A true insult to horror fans everywhere. Avoid at all costs. "}{"Title":"What's next?","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film was a I know what's going to happen type of thing; you know? I mean the first movie made more sense than this one was except from the end of the movie....talking about the story from Ben's history from his wife and children. All I am confused is that IF there will be another movie like this, what would the title be? It's been almost 10 years now and nothing has happened yet. SO either A. There is no more I know what you did last summer films or B. From the end of the second one, Jennifer falling down and seeing the man with a hook pulling her under the bed...would that be JUST dream or could that be someone else. Ben Willis IS dead but what about Will. Sure, he was hooked from his own father but of course movies like that, stupid things happens. I've been waiting for 8 years now but nothing has been happening from another story, so I guess that's it from the second one.... Strikeguy@hotmail.com "},{"Title":"oh my a sequel.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Why oh why did they do this? more gore and more people to hack off will really intimidate the killer, whoever that might be. i know who it is, but if i tell you, you will be like what the heck? so i wont spoil that. it does fit together, but if i had a friend that went through all this drama, i wouldnt have gone back to live with her or date her or go to another country with her until after the psychological examination, and some help from the psycharist. that's just me of course. So, julie james is still wanted, and her friends arent safe either. no use for hiding underneath a palm tree in the carribean.  so, after that plot is set, picture four teens or young adults, in the carribean, all alone and no one around to mess it up. that is the storyline for the longest time, until you find the dead bodies piling up all over the place. YUCK! if you wanna see 10 times more gore, then rent this one. but it isnt that good. its more around the lines to get someone to watch and raise jennifer love hewitts paycheck.  (D+ D)  "},{"Title":"Dreadful!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Avoided this movie; that's what you should've done.I honestly do not understand the large following these movies enjoy. The acting, especially that of Ms. Hewitt, is amateurish, at best; the direction was far below par; and the scares are wholly lacking in effectiveness. Furthermore, the twists in the plot were so predictable that we had it figured out less than half way through the movie. And the plot. Where do I begin? No, I won't do it. It's not possible. There IS no plot. No plot, no story, no cohesion, just mindless slasher-styled death. They failed to capture even the most animalistic need to see bloodshed. This flick is purely idiotic.I won't sit here and break down the entire movie. It doesn't deserve that.And the addition of Jack Black as a wanna-be Jamaican?! WTF?! It looked like he wandered onto the set from another movie. Perhaps an Adam Sandler/Dana Carvey collaboration.This movie's only redeeming quality was the use of the houngon. It was the only nice touch in this otherwise dismal display of a horrid waste of film.It rates a 1.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"One of the worst slasher movies in recent times","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers This film is absolutely poor. The only scares come from 5 minutes of buildup that ends up in a huge anti-climax as the main girl runs into her friend and the like. Half of the movie is spent preparing for a scare that only turns out to be a cat, friend etc. The ending is absolutely c**p. The killer gets shot about ten times and then somehow gets back up and disappears off the island right behind the cops' back. Avoid "},{"Title":"HOW BAD CAN A MOVIE BE?","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The best way to describe this film is a waste of time,money,and a good dvd disc. The characters in this film are a pretty worthless lot.I quickly started rooting for the fisherman.Julie(Jennifer Love Hewitt)is listless and shows little sincere emotion.Karla(Brandy)proves you don't have to have talent to be in a movie.Tyrell oh Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer)is one of the most foul mouthed disgusting charaters to ever appear on film.His constant use of profanity and pre-occupation of putting the make on Karla are the pits. The story line is pathetic.Only four tourists at an island resort at any time of year is a bit far fetched.The nastiness of the staff, the old black guy who knows everything,the stupidity of others on the island.It all adds up to one bad movie. To sum it all up Bad writing,bad directing and bad acting.The only stars in this are in the sky during a nightscene. "},{"Title":"It couldn't be much worse","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie even surpassed all the other teen horror movies regarding the quality of the story, acting and effects.Just when you think you couldn't make any worse movie, then here is I still know what you did last summer.The only scary thing is the thought that they ever going to make another sequel. "},{"Title":"Pathetic Sequel to a Pathetic First Film","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer(1998) is another lousy film that manages to be worst than the first film.  While the first film had a small portion of suspense and horror, this one has almost none at all.  Done by people who have no clue on what makes a horror film great or special.  This is by some people who can see only dollars signs and nothing more.  The title is a misconception because the accident of the first film takes place two or three years from the time of the sequel.  Its a shame that horror films have turned up like this after the great decades of the 1960s, 1970s, and early to mid 1980s.I Still Know What You Did Last Summer(1998) is directed again by another average film maker with little taste for good horror.  This is another film from the Hollywood factory of mediocre film making.  Has no daring scenes of terror nor does it contains imaginative sequences of violent images.  In this film Julie James and her new best friend win a trip to the Caribbean only to be stalked by that pesky fisherman from the first film.  The acting in here manages to be worst than in I Know What You Did Last Summer(1997).  Made for youngster who are not interested in seeing a horror film that will be memorable and great.Jennifer Love Hewitt has yet to show that she can become a good actress with her performances in these two films.  Maybe she will become a better actress when she gets better parts in better films.  Muse Watson overdoes it as the vengeful fisherman, Ben Willis.  My favorite actor in the film was Jeffrey Combs who plays the creepy hotel manager, Mr. Brooks.  I only wish that there was a scene in this film where a head makes love to Julie James ala, Re-Animator(1985).  Now that would be an interesting scene to watch in this bad film. "},{"Title":"Oh man...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is really, really bad. Eew. I could write a 200-page essay about the awfulness of this movie. The plot is lost again. Julie is an unhinged, annoying weirdo who has too many closeups and can't hold the film. No one else helps either. Freddie is just his same old self. Dull, boring, nothing more. Brandy was alright, likable at least, and there were a few others that weren't bad but weren't great either. There is more gore, but it is fakey and forced. There are too many murders of characters that are underdeveloped. And the surprise twist? Oh god. Your 2-year-old sister could figure it out in the first few minutes of the film. Geez. Do the filmmakers really think audiences over America are this stupid? Of course, there are the clueless teenagers who rush out to see this movie and squeak, Like Oh my gosh, this is like gonna be like so scary like,. Then, BANG! The movie makes millions of dollars. Oh god, and I've heard there might be a 3rd one to this cruddy series. Somebody get me a gun...or maybe a hook.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of garbage.........","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a crock of garbage, folks.  It's movies like this that give true horror films a bad name.  Nothing is good about this movie except the highly attractive and extremely beautiful Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Other than her, you wish this movie would take a long walk off of a short pier.  Nothing except JLH could save this sorry excuse of a movie, and it's also a waste of your time and a waste of film to make the movie with.  Get this for a FREE rental only.  DO NOT buy it.  I guarantee that you will be sorry "},{"Title":"Dumb and Boring","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a fan of horror films, and when my teenage son told me this movie was better than its predecessor I decided to check it out.  I should have known better as his standards may have been biased by the amount of cleavage that Ms. Hewett displays.  (Which is an oddity of 90s slasher films as compared to their 80s counterparts in that in the current crop there is very little skin and sex).  Nonetheless I disagreed with his judgement.  Viewing either film is a complete waste of time and money.  And this one is noticeably more boring, poorly written and acted than its predecessor.    "}{"Title":"I still don't care (minor spoilers)","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just got through seeing this poor excuse for a horror flick on HBO, and what a waste of screen time! If you can't predict who's going to get slashed 30min into the film then something wrong with you!  The producers threw in just about every horror movie cliche imaginable (phone lines that  conveniently go dead, stormy nights with lots of lighting, etc..) into this film, coupled with contrivances  right and left. Acting isn't that much better Brandy's good, Freddie Prize. Jr is ok even though he's absent most of  the film, only to later show up as a convenient deus ex machina; but Hewitt must have been told to  over play her part to the point of her coming off as a  typical flaky sorority girl, and don't even get  me started on phifer who's a walking cliche! Why is it that these narrow-minded hollywood  produces feel the need to cast these stereotypical hot headed, jive talkin', foul mouth, sex machine  characters to represent black people? Hopefully, audiences are smarter than the producers think! Rating 1 "},{"Title":"Complete and utter crap","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a waste.  I was hoping for this film to recreate the kind of claustrophobic terror that was the only reason to watch the first film, but instead, the entire film is an excuse for Jennifer Love Hewitt to show off her body.  The plot is so pathetic it's not even worth mentionning; ditto for the script, characters, settings, acting, directing, production values...  Brandy Norwood's performance here wasn't even worth the money it cost to the producers to fly her to L.A. for a meeting to ask her to star.  Her dialogue doesn't make her character seem very stupid, but since she is, she makes everytihng and everyone around her look and act dumb, but once she's gone, they all seem smart.  Only Matthew Settle brings any minimal charm to his character, but he does have a lot of the script's worst lines.  The mentionned third entry in this series, once again featuring Ben Willis, will confirm this series the 1990s equivalent to Friday the 13th...  People will be going to see these movies to see who gets mangled, and how badly, not for plot, suspense, character, etc...  Grade F "},{"Title":"I still know that they don't know how to make scary movies like they did in the 80's","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I am going to be brief here.  This is the epitome of what is wrong with horror films today.  There are no scares, no tension, no nudity ( a 70's and 80's staple of a horror film ) no fear and really no interesting characters.  There is however, an obvious killer, a dumb story and a waste of time.  I am not going to get into what is wrong with this film, the reviews before me have pretty much summed it up, but let me just say this. Horror films are not the easiest films to make.  But they do make money, that is obvious when films like this make money.  But when you really do have a scary film look what happens, as in the case of Blair Witch.  People flock to it in droves.  And you know why?  Because I believe most people feel the same way about horror films as I do, and that is we are starving for a good one.  We are dying for the next film to scare us like Halloween did.  But what we get are crappy excuses for a film like this one that has no idea what fear is.  This is a terrible film and even worse as a horror film.  I understand that the producers knew they had a gold mine on their hands when they made this film, but please, make more films like Blair Witch and NO more films like I Still Know..... "},{"Title":"Hot dammit, I Still Know still sucks!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a good example of what is wrong with many new movies today. First, the plot is seriously screwed up. The entire movie is totally unbelievable and abysmal-tastic. (A trip to the Bahamas? Uhhh...) I really wonder about who-the-hell-ever wrote the script. The only thing the movie actually succeeded in doing was showing off Jennifer Love Hewitt's body. This dumb attempt to sell the film quickly becomes stupid and laughably pitiful-licious. The movie's ending was drivel and did *nothing* to explain what had been going on, not to mention how the evil fisherman (ahem) keeps coming back. They could have used the best actors in the world (which they certainly did not), and the story still would have dragged this down. So, to sum it up the acting is beyond stupid, the plot is terrible, and the entire movie is, all-in-all, quite absurd. There are many things that could have been done better, but weren't. I Still Know screams not good enough. Rent it if you want a few laughs, but personally I pity anyone who could take this seriously. Like they say, been there, done that. And who in the hell think  Ben Willis - the lamest and most insane horror villain to come along in decades! - ah, forget it! "},{"Title":"blah blah blah","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok this movie just sucked. At least Scream 2 kept it interesting. this movie made you think it was going to be good, then they win that stupid trip and then the movie just got worse. I wish I never seen this movie and could get the horrible memory of it out of my head. Lets just pray they don't make a 3rd one. "},{"Title":"It may be a run of the mill teen slasher, but that ain't necessarily a bad thing.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film last Friday (when it opened here In the U.K.), and as I had read numerous reviews for it, I took everything I saw with a pinch of salt.  But as the film progressed I disagreed more and more with what I had heard.First and foremost The main points people raised against the film is that the plot was weak and the ending was unbelievable. I have to say that; a) I think the plot may have been a little bit of a no brainer, But when has any horror slasher been a 'Schindler's List' in the plot department. And; b) I have seen enough Nightmare on Elm Street's and Halloween's to enable me to swollow an ending of this calibre one more time.The acting in this film was not too bad, the teens within this film were at least up to par with the Scream teens, with reasonable performances from Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy.On the whole this film is quite a good attempt at horror, which I rate higher than the more-of-the-same antics of Scream 2. With enough action and suspense to interest most people, If they aren't too busy ogling Jennifer's cleavage or pondering the grammatical correctness of the title.Overall 8 out of 10 (bring on the next film, let's make it a trilogy) "},{"Title":"Three scenes repeated over and over again","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There were three scenes repeated again and again in this movie ~Jennifer Love Hewitt  thinks she sees the Gordon's    fisherman and screams.  Finds she was hallucinating. ~Jennifer Love Hewitt hears a noise and walks around wide-eyed in barely lit hallways for interminable amounts of time before finding out that the scary noise was just a friend or the wind. ~Jennifer Love Hewitt runs into bloody corpses and screams.The only, I repeat- the only interesting scene in the whole movie was when the gordon's fisherman locked Jennifer Love Hewitt in the tanning bed, but I wonder why there was a tanning bed in the bahamas to begin with... anyway, this movie was totally god-forsakenly awful so avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt's cleavage couldn't even save this movie!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst sequels in movie history!  Jeniffer Love Hewitt is fine, but as I said showing off her cleavage every 5 minutes in the movie was the only high point of the movie.  There is absolutely no plot in this film and too many people die.  I liked the first one and the ending made me real anxious for the sequel, but I guess you can't put this one along with Friday the 13th & Nightmare on Elm Street sequels.  Let me just sum this movie up for you, ummm, it SUCKS!!!!!!!  Thank you! "},{"Title":"Was this movie supposed to be a comedy?","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, this movie achieved something I thought was not possible. It was worse than the original. Farcical plot-lines and beyond farcical characters contributed to this movie's awfulness. Halfway through the movie I was seriously starting to contemplate whether it had been intended as a comedy, as nobody in their right minds, I thought, could write such drivel with the intention to pass it off as a serious film. The so-called twist in the end was perfectly obvious to the observant viewer . The very end is quite probably the worst, most unrealistic ending to a film I have seen (well since the original anyway). Not only that but the film boasts one of the least marketable titles in the history of cinema. One final note to the producers please, please, for the sake of the human race, do not EVER make another sequel. Sadly, on the IMDB's scale of 1 to 10, there is nothing below 1. "},{"Title":"Worse Than The First One!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt (Party Of Five on TV) fans might want to see I Still Know What You Did Last Summer but there's little else to recommend this teen (early twenties) slasher flick.Apparently the original I Know What You Did Last Summer did pretty well at the box office, teenagers fronting up for the sparse and cheap thrills that little gem had to offer, but in the tried, and almost always true, cinematic tradition, the sequel doesn't measure up.In this series the slashing is done by a particularly ridiculous fiend. He's no Freddy Kreuger. He's a disgruntled fisherman in a hooded Sou'Wester, who was mistakenly run down by some drunken teenagers and then left for dead at the end of a pier.But in I Still Know What You Did Last Summer we only have a mysterious shape looming out of shadows, lunging with a fish hook, bloodily impaling mostly good looking Party Of Five types and then lugging the bodies off. The squeaky violin sounds get a good work out, but it's all so predictable.The fisherman's face is hardly ever revealed, he rarely speaks, you don't see much of him, he's pathetic really, and that's a major problem with this uninspired horror/thriller. The last half hour of I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is fairly exciting when the blood starts to really flow but don't bother with the rest.  "}{"Title":"I don't care what you did last summer!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is just plain awful! The characters act like standard stupid horror movie kids, the killer is about as one-dimensional as Friday the 13th's Jason, and the scare factor is reduced to false alarms and predictable gore. The tropical setting was just an excuse to showcase Carribean stereotypes (a guy into voodoo and a dreadlocked druggie) and the two female leads in wet, clingy summer wear. This movie and Species II  are in the running for worst sequel of the year "},{"Title":"Hewitt nice shirts, Brandi blah!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay first off the best part about this movie is Love Hewitt running around in tight shirts!                                      It's not the suspense, its not the gore, no it's Hewitt running around wearing tight shirts,  while others around her (the ones who you want to see live) die!    And Brandi please don't act, it's bad enough I got to watch you on MTV!  One more thing the movie is predictable, but ppl still can't stop from screaming! "},{"Title":"Did you know I don't care about what you did last summer?","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That should be the name of this movie, it really reeked big ones.  Nothing but a stupid teen slasher movie, just like one of those people said earlier Brandy meets Captain Hook!  That was a good one.This is what they should've titled this oneA Guy Who Cared About What Someone Did 2 Summers (yes, 2) Goes After People Psychopathically And You Know Something?  I Really Don't Care!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Despite the negative reviews that I had read, I was still hopeful that ISKWYDLS would be worth watching.  It wasn't.  The movie relies heavily on false scares, and it seemed that anytime any character opened anything, a dead body would appear.  Not to mention the fact that there are SO many background characters that get hooked, and you're left wondering Who was he?  Those who go to the movie trying to compare it to the first will be sadly disappointed.  The movie takes itself so seriously that it ends up being funny.  And as for acting, I was also disappointed.  Brandy bragged about her acting skills in many interviews, but I guess that some scenes were cut, because I never got the impression that she was a convincing actress.  I really want to try to think of something good about the movie, but it's hard.  The ending and hopelessly contrived plot twist will leave you thinking I paid money for this?  To those of you that are STILL going to see this movie, I just wish that I would have paid attention to all those people that said Don't go see it!  "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In the spirit of the Halloween film series, Urban Legend, Scream, Scream 2, and I Know What You Did Last Summer; another slasher flick entitled I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was made to frighten viewers. Is it better than the first film; my answer is yes. In fact, I Still Know....... is better than the three I mentioned.Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. are back along with Brandy, Mekhi Pfifer, and Matthew Settle. I knew that Freddie Prinze Jr. was going to be in the sequel; but when he made his first appearance on screen it was if I was seeing my best friend for the first time after a long while.Hewitt exhibited such beauty in this film as she does in every acting role she takes; also, she makes the acting look so easy. She is sight for sore eyes every time she's on the screen. For the most part, the additional cast members did a great job. Though Brandy has acting talent, I wish that I could have seen Sarah Michelle Gellar in the sequel; Sarah had such screen presence with her beauty and style I didn't want her to go the way she did in the first movie.There was a twist in this movie that there wasn't in the prequel or Scream that surprised me and felt was a valuable addition to the script. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer did have something left to be desired but overall it was still better than the first film.  "},{"Title":"I Still Know A Third-Rate Rehash Of An Already Third-Rate Rehash When I See One","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt in a bikini or wet robe, high production values and some passable (but uninspired) gore FX are the only positive things in this otherwise awful big-budget slasher movie.J-Love returns as Julie, who's in college and still haunted by the events of I KNOW. When a radio station calls, she and three friends are off for a fun-filled weekend vacation in Jamaica unaware the island resort is mostly barren (rain season) and a killer with a hook has set them up to be trapped there. The hotel staff (including a completely wasted Jeffrey Combs) are designed to be suspects. Nauseatingly wholesome teen pop star Brandy falls through the attic floor, through a glass greenhouse roof, through a glass table and gets stabbed, but shows up alive at the end to mumble the now-classic STUPID line, Girl, you know I'd survive! Given the fact that she's obviously playing a character who is immortal, they probably should have made her the heavy. She wouldn't even have to hack them up. I know that when I'm somewhere and I hear one of her awful songs, my first inclination is to reach for the nearest sharp object and...Anyway, the ending of this film is much worse than the usual lame brained open endings we've all become accustomed to. I heard a sequel was planned (since this film made a lot of money). Let's hope that's not the case.Score 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Deplorable, formulaic cr*p that is unpleasant and dull and resorts to using the female leads' breasts as it's only selling point(s)","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Julie James is trying to get on with her life and is at college now.  She wins a trip to a tropical island with 3 of her friends.  However, back home, Ray comes across the fisherman again and tries to warn Julie but is too late.  When the island gets cut off by a hurricane the death rate starts to rise and Julie insists that the fisherman is after her again, meanwhile Ray races to get to the island to warn her.I'm not a big fan of teen horror movies &#150; they aren't scary so much as predictable and gory.  I wasn't too taken by the original by gave this a try with a heavy heart.  The plot is as predictable as all these things and goes just where you expect it &#150; even the `twists' are either dumb or obvious.  When a character is left alone in a room or opens a dark door I never was even remotely surprised to find something lurking.The scares never once scare and the whole thing is dull.  It is gorier than the first film but who cares?  More gore does not make for a better film and anyway it's just unpleasant &#150; not frightening.  In fact the only frightening bit was the fact that Hewitt had done the final credits song!  The direction fails to create any sense of tension or atmosphere &#150; rather Cannon seems to go out of his way to signpost the `thrills'.  Whatever small amount of promise he showed in Young Americans or style in CSI is absent here.In place of other selling points the film has added one key (and tacky) thing to the mix to keep people interested &#150; cleavage.  In the first film Hewitt was covered and not too much attention was put on her assets.  This time she appears to have gone up several cup sizes and everytime the film gets dull the camera lingers on her bosom! Likewise both her and Brandy spend a lot of the film with very low cut tops &#150; and when they wear shirts guess what gets ripped first when they are attacked?  Yup &#150; a nice rip to show just enough or it falls open to the mid chest.  I'm not complaining as Brandy's sweaty chest was the only thing that kept me from falling asleep but isn't it sad when a film must sell itself on the basest of elements while still pretending it's a horror movie!The cast are yet another list of teens who are lining up to be killed.  I never had to look at my watch when I watched this to see how much time was left &#150; I only had to count the actors still alive, 1,2,3,4 &#150; must be 30 minutes left at least!  Hewitt is OK but you can tell that she is really pushing the sexy image and not concentrating on acting!  Likewise Brandy is all about being sassy and sexy and falls into an ethnic stereotype for much of the film.  Talking of lazy ethnic acting &#150; how about Phifer, so good in Clockers, here reduced to just sucking his teeth all the time.  Prince Jr is forced into the plot and happily has little screen time &#150; who are this man's fans and why do they like him?  Esposito manages to be sexy but doesn't add anything past more youthful flesh and Bill Cobbs just looks happy to be getting paid!  As before the bad guy lacks any character or genuine menace &#150; they ignore his back story here which helps but, at the end of the day, they almost killed him last time so he is the victim (although going a bit OTT on the revenge tip).Clichéd, dull, predictable and unpleasant.  A lazy sequel that doubts it's own merits so much that it focuses on breasts more than scares!  To illustrate how clichéd it is, it even has the `open for a sequel' type ending that is hated by all but those who like their movies titles to have numbers in the title (no matter how bad the film!).  Avoid. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and her best friend (Brandy) win a Caribbean vacation, but find out that they have just arrived at the beginning of storm season, a hurricane is heading there way, and that the island is nearly deserted. To make matters worse the same killer from the first entry follows them along and has cut power to all the phones and radios.Stylish sequel with a bit more suspense and scares then the original and an appealing performance by Brandy, but lacking the original's humor and tight direction. Plus the cast is a bit of a comedown too.Rated R; Violence and Profanity.  "},{"Title":"I love the REAL stars of this movie...","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...and they're not JLH or Brandy or the annoying guy that played Brandy's love interest. Here's a hint It's ON JLH but it's NOT JLH, but gosh darn it, it sure got a lot of attention and a lot of attention was sure lavished on it! Holy diggity, the makers of this film sure knew who were the real stars when they made that poster for the movie, with JLH prominently displayed -- only overshadowed by two of her EVEN MORE prominent assets, if you know what I'm saying.As to the movie, eh, you gotta be the dumbest person in the world to think this movie had plot or likeable characters or even a decent story behind it. I wanted to waste that black guy the first time he opened his mouth. He was only overshadowed in the damn he's annoying and god please god let him be the next person to die slow and painful by Moesha herself. Now, folks, I've seen a lot of horror movies, and I know the old stereotype of the black guy always dying first -- but bloody hell, the way they WROTE the two black characters and the way the two black actors PLAYED their characters -- holy hell, I wanted to reach into the screen and KILL these guys myself! Never mind, Ben, I'll do it for ya, my man!Everything was so stupid, all the characters were dumb as doorknobs, and character motivations? WHAT character motivations? Seriously, folks, if you see this movie and come away thinking it was okay or even good, you either have NO SENSE or NO TASTE at all. Either way, you're SOL.If you absolutely have to watch this movie, my suggestion is to turn off the volume and fast-forward through all the scenes, stopping ONLY when JLH's two assets are onscreen. That's all this vomit-inducing excrement is good for.But dang, those sure are nice assets you got there, JLH... "},{"Title":"Nothing good.  Overly pretentious, overly stupid.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Viewers sit there watching this movie probably all thinking the very same thing.  We are all hoping that Ben the slasher would kill off the five lead stars and commit suicide ASAP, and leave the supporting actors to make up their own more interesting story. As a male I also wished to transplant the five lead actors into a porno.  Now that would be more worth my time.This movie was very bad.    "}{"Title":"possibly the dumbest plot in the history of slasher flicks","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i thought the first movie was above average. some of the murders were cool and the fact that the killer looks just like the wompler fish sticks guy added to the goofiness.the sequel on the other hand, while still having one or two cool murder scenes, has possibly the most contrived and dumb plot that i've ever seen. to go into it here would be a complete waste of space.only worth renting for Jennifer Love Hewitt's abundant cleavage shots and as i mentioned before, a couple of nice bloody kill scenes.rating3 "},{"Title":"Essentially more of the same, but a notch better due to the direction","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is a year later after the events of the first film. Julie is still feeling frightened and uneasy about what happened last summer, but her good friend Karla wins a trip to the Bahamas and the two decide to go there to relax and ease their minds. They bring along to guy friends and expect to party and relax. Little do they know, the infamous hook handed killer guy is on their tails, only they don't know about it. Ray, also from the previous film, finds out that the killer is still alive and goes down to save Julie. A comfortably predictable and routine slasher fare ensues.The film, while essentially more of the same, is a notch better due to its direction from Danny Cannon. The murders are all given nice camera treatment and the film has a well built atmosphere for a cheesy slasher flick. So die hard fans will have that to look forward to. On the flip side, the film is so routine and predictable that it is bound to be disappointing. For instance, the musical jolt cue is so ridiculously over used that it becomes funny - Julie is fixing her hair and... someone walks by in the background! TUN!!! Also the film's merciless approach to its body-count will have you predicting rather quickly who is going to be knocked off and who actually matters.So all in all there is probably something better on the horror shelf at your rental store. 4/10Rated R slasher violence and profanity "},{"Title":"Very good, but VERY STUPID! SPOILERS","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Once again there are two spoilers in this comment...I still know what you did last summer is the sequel to I know what you did this summer.  This time it takes place on an island.  People start dying half way into the movie, blood, suspense, blah blah blah.  It gets good until the ending where they (SPOILER)  kill off J. Love Hewitts character.  Made the movie stupid.  Glad Scream didn't end this way.  Not to mention the newest Halloween where they kill off Laurie Strode, the shapes' little sister.I still know what you did last summer deserves it 4.0 rating (as of 8/23/02) I suggest that you watch it on TV instead of renting it. Save your money. "},{"Title":"Utterly pointless, worthless film","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't believe a sequel was made. It's not like IKWYDLS was original or that anyone ASKED for a sequel. The idea of sequels isn't a bad idea. If the sequel improves on the original or develops the characters more it is a very good idea. But ISKWYDLS was ONLY made to make money from the naive audiences who saw the first. Well we were very much robbed. This film is worse than the first. Nothing surprising happens. It is a VERY badly written film, I kid you not. This is not the films worst quality. The acting, photography, lighting, direction, music and editing are terrible. Even the title is too long and stupid. I STILL KNOW would have been a much better title.Like many of it's predecessors, in the late 90s and early 80s, we have close-ups of the actors who are suddenly surprised by their friends from behind while being suspicious that someone is at that moment watching them. While this happens a burst of very, very loud music tries to enhance the 'effect' of the 'scare'. The other cliché it doesn't bother to not use is the one where we think that 'The killer' is watching them from a closet or something and then we realise it's just cat or banging window in the wind. THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN (during a moment of false security) THE KILLER APPEARS OUT OF NOWHERE. Puh-lease. Give us a little credit. "},{"Title":"Benson.Bens-on?B.Enson?Wait,give us a hundred minutes","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Captain Hook's retarded cousin Ben Willis comes back to finish of everybody except Julie, in case this film would become a hit you know. He immediately thinks of a plan so cunning, so genius, so brilliant...no wait, my bad, it's the worst plan ever.Willis apparently found out where Julie lives and where she goes to school. Immediately, he goes to get his son out of nowhere and gets him to go to the same school and make friends with Julie. Then he fakes a radio show (I think) and lets Julie and her roommate, played by Brandy of all people, win it by guessing the capital of Brazil (to win a trip to the Bahamas, is this still making sense to you?). Meanwhile, Julie's old boyfriend who now has the promising career of ah, fish gutter or something, has to be eliminated so Willis throws a dummy in front of his car and then doesn't kill him, making room for his son who got the weird pseudonym Will Benson (wouldn't it be safer to give him a name that doesn't contain Will, Ben or son? He should have given him a name that's harder to figure out, like John Killer)and they all head to the Bahamas. So Ben is now paying for their holidays or something? Yeah, that'll teach them.When they arrive, turns out it's the rain season. Why would a radio station give people tickets to the Bahamas in the rain season? Can't they just like, call the station and try to change the date or something? Freddie Prinze Jr.(he has a name,but unlike Ben, I don't still know) also heads for the Bahamas right after waking up from a coma or something to save the day and he kills Ben once and for all, after Ben killed his own son by accident, cos he apparently never watched pro-wrestling.So the happy bunch returns and then Ben attacks Julie in her apartment. I hate to be a wise-ass, but why didn't he do that all along? Why putting in the whole Bahama-thing, which actually complicated everything? On the other hand, I didn't go to psychopatic weirdo-university. My parents were all like,we think it's too expensive for learning so little. This movie is utterly insane, but amazingly, I still don't like it. It's just hard to enjoy a movie about Jennifer Love Hewitt not being killed I guess. "},{"Title":"I Watched It recently, And it DOES make sense!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I will admit, that I did like the first movie better. It had a good story line, it was a good length, it made sense, and it made me and my best friend jump quite a few times. The second one wasn't as good, but did make sense and was a good movie. Karla and Julie's trip was set up by Ben Willis's son, who was pretending to be Julie's friend and was watching her closely. The reason they were taken to that specific island in the Bahamas was because that was where Ben Willis killed his cheating wife and it was small, deserted and a good place to trap his victims. And OF COURSE he is going to kill everyone on the island...1. Because it's scary, and gross. 2. Because he's sick in the mind like that. and 3. Because it prevents the other people on the island from trying to call for help. And of course he is going to walk slowly after his victims, because it would look goofy with him running like a phsyco hooded person with a hook. It's more suspenseful if he walks with creepiness, and it gives people something to laugh at him for. Everyone loves a chance to laugh when you're fricken scared at the same time! "},{"Title":"Part two of slash, stab, hook!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The original, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, at least had a story and some suspense. The continuation of the story about a 'hook man' that likes to kill teenagers, gets very predictable. But watching Jennifer Love Hewitt suffer her flashbacks is enough to tide you over until the next slashing. The setting is attractive and some of the gore is down right nasty. If stabbing, slashing, poking and ripping people up is your thrill...this is your flick.Brandy did a real nice job, while Matthew Settle was pathetic. Freddie Prince Jr. committed robbery by taking a salary for what little he did. Also in the cast were Mekhi Phifer, Muse Watson and Red West(famed Memphis Mafia member).If Ms. Love Hewitt was not in this movie; do you think anyone would by tickets to see it? Probably not. "},{"Title":"I Still Know That This Film Sucks.","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (1998) Dir Danny Cannon / Cast Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Brandi, Mekhi Pfifer, Mathew Settle Jennifer Love Hewitt is still not over the tragic events of the first film so Brandi invites her for a getaway on an island where its scenery is the film's only compliment. Freddie Prinze Jr. stays behind until an attempt is made on his life by the man with the hook. Now he is off and running with a gun. Idiot plot works wonders here. Boats are gone for the weekend and a storm is predicted. How convenient. From there the characters are sliced and diced, run and scream, and make narrow escapes. Director Danny Cannon doesn't bring anything new to the concept. What he does throw at us is every graphic hack and slash murder cliché presented in numerous other slasher films. Hewitt is back with the realization that some guy with a hook has been up on whatever it was she did last summer, or the summer before that, or maybe every past summer since. Brandi and Mekhi Pfifer are lifeless, and Prinze Jr is trying hard to be a hero with that gun and false since of bravado. There is even a Voodoo guy who claims that he can help them. He steals Hewitt's toothbrush. Maybe he was going to teach the hook guy a thing or two about tooth decay. I know what the filmmakers were doing last summer and making a decent film wasn't it. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Piece of Junk","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As much as I did enjoy I know what..., I resented this sequel it's a screaming bore. Actually, it may boast a record of screaming time on screen. If there weren't any screams, we would perhaps not have realized that this was supposed to be a scary picture...With the exception of the remainders of the original cast - who probably did their best - the acting spanned from Bad as in B Movie to ludicrous. Several characters helped to create the die-cast idiocy of this rock bottom gem, especially the black couple whose presence probably served as a vain attempt to attract a wider audience. A Meat Loaf look alike moron with dreads provided a failed comic relief. The plot was located at a hotel whose staff, consisting of merely three persons, seemingly did one appearance each. For some reason the three of them had to act as a parody of Basil Fawlty, being ridiculously discourteous towards the protagonists.The most memorable thing about this junk sequel is that the picture was shot in Mexico with the intention of depicting the Bahamas. A similar I-don't-have-a-clue-about-geography device was the stupid twist regarding whether Rio de Janeiro is or is not the capital of Brazil.R.I.P. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, although sometimes lousy sequel.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is still having nightmares of Ben Willis (Muse Waston), an psychopath killer who murdered Julie's two friends. At times, Julie doesn't believe that Ben is dead. One morning, Julie and her best friend Karla (Brandy Norwood) actually won a contest for the Bahamas during the weekend with four plane tickets. Karla invites Julie, Karla's boyfriend Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer) and their friend Will (Matthew Settle). At first, Julie is disappointed that her boyfriend Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) couldn't come with them. Instead, Ray finds himself stalked by Ben and nearly killing Ray. Julie and her friends find out, they come in the storm season. There is barely any guests expect for some of the hotel's workers. Since Ben is actually in the Bahamas, killing the hotel's employees before getting to Julie and her friends. Now it is only Ray, who can stop Ben before it is too late.Directed by Danny Cannon (Judge Dredd, Pheonix) made an watchable if sometimes lousy and lazy sequel to the original, I Know What You Did Last Summer. Hewitt, Prinze Jr. and Waston are back in their roles from the first movie. At first, the movie starts out pretty dull and it takes too much of its take to get to the suspense and thrills. Although the sequel does have familiar faces like Jeffery Combs, Jennifer Esposito, Bill Cobbs, John Hawkes, Mark Boone Junior and an uncredited Jack Black. The movie finally gets better towards the third act and it has one good surprise during the suspenseful moments. The movie is actually entertaining enough for horror fans. But die-hard fans of the original might be disappointed. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a mixed bag at best. Beware of Jennifer Love Hewitt's song in the movie titled How Do I Deal! Panavision. (***/*****) "}{"Title":"i still know the only reason i like this movie.","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i would have given this movie a 2 but some sort of grace angel casted brandy; and some sort of grace director allowed me to see her in a bikini. even though the scene was short, it was the best part of the movie. brandy is some sort of sexy chocolate. jennifer love was good, and jack black? hahahahaha awesome. movie was basically garbage but i did enjoy watching it . mostly the scenes where brandy was less than fully clothed. main concerns tanning bed scence just unplug the darn machine! priest scence what? this was just creepy. radio prize scene who in the hell did not know brasilia was the capitol of brazil? i guess the whole darn movie was pretty cliché. anyway thank you brandy for being in this movie, other wise i would have been upset that i wasted my birthday in the theatre watching this. i turned 14 the day i saw this. time flies when half naked women are being chased my one handed men. "},{"Title":"Not the worst sequel but still not good","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer was good but yet it needed more hard work in writing. This movie even though it's not the worst but is bad. The storyline was okay, the movie was very different then the original, but it wasn't successful in betting the original (which wasn't even very good as i mentioned).I think Brandy's acting is bad in this movie; I don't see many works for Brandy but I saw her in a TV series before and she was annoying and her acting wasn't good. But her acting in that TV series which I can't remember it's name or even if it was a TV series, was better comparing to her acting in this movie. The movie was just getting interesting when Brandy's boyfriend was killed and it's only three female characters lift. But right after that it just went downhill. "},{"Title":"Wet T-Shirt Contest Disguised as Movie","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is another in a long line of unnecessary sequels to decent, if not particularly spectacular, movies. Basically, the killer of the first movie, Ben Willis, goes to ridiculously elaborate lengths to kill Julie James, the heroine of the first movie, as revenge for leaving him for dead at the beginning and end of the first movie.Julie and her roommate Karla believe they have won a vacation to an island resort after answering a question regarding the capital of Brazil. They end up taking their respective boyfriends and arrive at the island just in time for it to empty out for the rainy season. Also during this period Julie's old boyfriend from the first movie, Ray, is attacked as he tries to warn Julie that bad people are trying to get her and is left for dead. As things go from bad to worse on the island, Julie comes to realize that she actually answered the trivia question wrong and Ben Willis has set a trap to kill her. Murder, mayhem and multiple shots of Jennifer Love Hewitt running in the rain ensue, and Julie ends up facing off against Willis again.This is truly a movie that serves to entertain only those people who have dreamed of watching Hewitt run around in the rain in tight clothing. The plot is simply stupid and defies any human logic. The villain apparently passed up multiple chances to kill Julie in order to get her on the island, and Julie passes up plenty of opportunities to kill him. Essentially, they are meant for each other, but there is no need for you to have to watch it. "},{"Title":"I Still Know What You've Been Doing The Last Summers !","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Easy movie, Easy review.The horror movies can be a great film (Bram Stoker's Dracula), or the B movie (Halloween). Obviously, after the extreme success of (Scream) at the end of the 1990s, the low budget Horror-high school movies came to an explosion (Urban Legend, The Faculty, I Know What You Did Last Summer, even Carrie 2 !). BUT, don't you ever forget that it's still the B-movie.. The determined to be nothing but a loyal one. Comes with that, naturally I think, all the known disasters of the case  blood all over the place, bad acting, cheesy moments, bad script, lots of screams, and no convincing logic; however who said anything about such a forbidden factor? Logic is the ultimate spoiler of this kind of parties, so let's skip it.In any rate that's not a winning deal for me, I don't like the whole genre of Horror so what about its lower flicks ? But the rest of the factors here made it to be worth watching as original campy movie ! Take this list (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is unbearable with her provocative face and her non-harmonious non-sexy body, those assets annoyed me very, and at the scene of her bikini she was extremely PATHETIC, I think Mini Mouse in a bikini can be hotter than this. Mr. (Freddie Prinze Jr.) ! This guy must be put in all the books which talk about the paradoxes of Hollywood.. He got no charisma and such a tiny talent but he was on the posters of the cinema near my house for almost 2 or 3 years as the lead of something like 47 movies ! Who's that guy anyway ?? Moreover, I was blessed by watching the first movie (at least there was sense of coherence) so here, the whole plot looked perfectly absurd, and don't ask questions like who killed whom? And why ? Because they didn't make that kind of movies to ask such very silly questions, or to ask at all !. (The thrill makes me horny) I believe the black dude said that near the third act, and what a line to summarize the whole movie and its kind in the genre.I was sad only when (Jack Black) was killed as he didn't do anything, just like the poor me while watching. Also the sexy girls at the beach, we didn't get enough of that already. Though this bunch of movies was mostly distinguished by their well made cinematic technique, I liked the sharp editing and especially the cinematography, it was like poetry in a bloody wrestling match sublime and misplaced. Thanks anyway to the directorial job of (Danny Cannon) the man who brought us once (Judge Dredd - 1995). Well.. Every summer Hollywood gives us the usual merchandise and you can choose freely. Therefore here, whether to feel how it is adulterate merchandise, or that this is the right thing to do inside that frame of brainless slasher movie for diverting 90 minutes. I liked the explicit desire and work to achieve that, which made it a pure comedy for me. And they made parodies about that?? Why ? This is more comic and higher ironic. As I told you earlier.. It's easy movie, or easy movies.There isn't yet a third one, maybe because the confusion of what to call it (I'm Sure I Still Know What You Did Last Summer ??), but I think this movie's makers understood utterly what movie they were making and its previous likes. So wait for the last shot here to observe the intent of making another sequel, and the mocking at it too. "},{"Title":"Why would you watch it?","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If I Know What You Did Last Summer, the shameless Scream ripoff, wasn't enough for you, then you'll probably enjoy I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, the shameless Scream ripoff that rips off the plot of the first ripoff movie. Basically the plot is degraded a bit from the first... the killer who Jennifer Love Hewitt accidentally killed two years earlier comes back for more revenge. After her friends were murdered last year, Julie (Love Hewitt) is traumatized, so her annoying best friend Carla (the charming and beautiful Brandy, what the hell is she doing in this crap) convinces her to fly out to the Bahamas for a free weekend. Once there, Julie discovers (gasp!) that the free trip was a set up and that the killer Ben Willis is ready to slice up her friends again! It's so devastatingly clichéd and there isn't a drop of suspense where there might have been in the first. No, just double the body count and gallons of blood and you have this, the terrible sequel that isn't even so bad it's good. It's just plain bad. And the characters are so stupid you'll be slapping your head and screaming at the screen, that is if you haven't been insulted enough already by watching the beginning of the film. "},{"Title":"One question WHY????","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I honestly don't see why this was made apart from trying to make some money (if they made anything from this). This movie is terrible in every aspect apart from the high, blood-filled body count. None of the actors are that good (apart from Jeffrey Combs), the story is a basic rehash of the first with a different setting and two different characters, it isn't the least bit scary and the ending, oh the ending! Everything is a rehash of the first with a minor difference, there is not a shred of originality (or decency) to be found in this movie.This is bottom-of-the-barrel stuff, the only reason I can see anyone watching this for is if you like slashers, if you like bad movies or have seen the first and want to see sequel. If you don't fall into any of those categories stay away, you will have wasted precious time! 1/5 "},{"Title":"Well, of course it sucks...","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One should never expect a slapdash sequel to a mediocre slasher film to have any modicum of intelligence. At least this one, unlike a lot of horror sequels, doesn't turn boring by trying to be more than it really is. The filmmakers don't waste time on paltry things like character development, a cohesive storyline, or any of those added trifles you might expect from a thriller, like suspense or frightening moments. No, they skip all that and go right to the good stuff ridiculous deaths, stupid characters just itching to get themselves killed, plot twists surprising only to the mentally challenged, so-bad-it's-good dialogue, and, of course, gratuitous shots of Jennifer Love Hewitt in a bikini. Also fun to watch are early performances by Jack Black and Jennifer Esposito, who would each go on to do a few great movies among many crappy ones. The entire package is better executed than pretty much any random Friday the 13th film, which have never seemed to me to be anything but tedious, but then I wouldn't want to upset the fans. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Two years after the horrible incident, Julie is back in college and is worse than ever having dreams about the killer. She gets comfort from a new friend named Will. Julie's other friend Karla tries to hook the two of them up and when she wins a trip to the Bahamas, she knows that it is perfect. But Ray is still in the picture and Julie only goes as friends. Karla, her boyfriend Tyrell, Julie, and Will take flight right before Ray encounters the fisherman again. He tries to tell Julie not to leave but it is too late. Now in the Bahamas Julie is starting to lighten up and have fun. Then suddenly things start going terribly wrong when a storm hits the Island and people start to disappear. Ray takes a boat to the Island to warn Julie but will he make it on time to save Julie again from the fisherman ? i guess that this movie is awful worse than the first one. i don't recommend it watch to you.acting is bad.same story and case. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is probably the worst film I've ever seen.Nothing can compensate for a horrible story,plot holes,terrible acting,it never ends.There's simply nothing right about this film.It takes itself so seriously like it's redefining cinema but ends up looking like a complete parody of itself.The overly pretentious credit music says everything.This was made so everyone involved could make their wallet a little chunkier and for no other reason.It's supposed to be a scary film,frightening,it looks like a joke.It should without a doubt be in the bottom 100.Watch this film expecting a comedy and enjoy... "},{"Title":"A very worthy sequel!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A sequel to I Know What You Did Last Summer? Bring it On! This sequel is just as good as the first, and they added some new characters to it which is not bad. Brandy Norwood(Moesha) and Mekhi Phifer, can't this get any better. The killer is back, and the other two survivors of the first attack are ready to go at it again. Julie and Karla are intimidated at first. Then Julie(Jennifer Love Hewitt) is really fighting mad after the hook killer tried to barbecue her in the tanning bed. The killer should know he was going to be sorry. The adventure is on going and the quest to find the killer would be painstaking through the movie. Fighting hard and fighting mad, is what Julie and her friends are doing here on the island. It's too bad the the results of the sequel wasn't well advertised, but the credit I'm giving this movie is going to be well deserved not just for Hewitt and Brandy, just for the movie itself, It's got diversity, it's got more sex appeal than the first one, and it's got a fine sense of taste that the first one rarely showed. To me, the movie itself is an equal to the first, and I enjoyed it very well. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Julie James will never forget what happened last Summer!!","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What you Did Last Summer is about Julie James played by Jennifer Love Hewitt and its been a year since they killed a man and since Helen and Barry were murdered because they didn't want to go to the police. Shes not seeing Ray that much because she doesn't want to go back to Southport to see the festival(which Helen was involved in) and instead her new best Friend Karla Wilson played by Brandy(aka Moesha)wins a holiday to the Bahamas and Julie, Karla, Tyrell and will Benson go on holiday, Julie asked Ray but he say no and he is going to meet her there with a surprise proposal. When they get to the island they find out they will be the only ones there because its hurricanes season. suddenly bodies start dropping and only Julie encounters them and when she tells the others no one believes her until its to late. Ray knows something is wrong with this sudden trip and hurries off to rescue her because the Ben Willis gets her. i wont say what happens because it may ruin it for others. Acting the acting was dreadful because in the original it had Sarah Michelle Gellar and shes the one that made that movie, but Brandy cannot be a serious actress (or a comedic actress) Jennifer kept this film on its feet and made it seem real. Mekhi Phifer was like Ryan Phillpe screamed at everything and he is a rubbish actor, Matthew Settle he was pathetic (enough said) last but not least Freddie Prinz Jr- once again he didn't have a big part, but he cant act anyway, so not a huge loss.7/10 thats all its worth. i am looking forward to i will always know what you did last summer, maybe it has new people in it, if its got Julie than it will be Sidney from Scream all over again. It is a decent Watch so watch it! "},{"Title":"They did all right this time.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I mean sure this was far from being a classic in the genre & is nowhere near as good as the first, but ISKWYDLS is still pretty good, giving us some suspense, painful kills & good acting & directing, this time the psychopath with a hook for a hand goes after the survivor of the first massacre named JULIE, who has won a trip on to a beautiful island, with her best friends, she attempts to enjoy her time & forget about the previous summer, where all her old friends were killed, but soon the murders start up again & unless RAY her boyfriend can save her & her friends, they will all wind up on the killers list of victims. This one received a lot of negativity when it was first released, so therefore I thought that I was going to be in for a truly rotten film, but had to see it anyhow just for curiosity, but you know something, it wasn't all that bad, now there are flaws with the film, the ending being at the top of the list, it's disappointing & was just a copy cat of the original ending & another set up for a sequel & the fact that one of the college guys who was interested in Julie turned out to be a killer like his dad (You know who) was just as pathetic. But still it's worth a look for fans who haven't seen it yet, just make sure you've seen the first before watching this & don't compare it up to the original & you should enjoy it & yes I thought the title was kind of stupid, I mean shouldn't the title be, I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID 2 SUMMERS AGO? because for one, they got into this mess two years prior & two they'd have the sequel number in there as well. Oh well, what's done is done. Followed by the soon to be released (At least at the time I'm writing this review) I'LL ALWAYS REMEMBER WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER *** stars "},{"Title":"Fun sequel!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1998)starringJennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Brandy, Mekhi Pfieffer, Matthew Settle, Muse Watson, Bill Cobbs, Jennifer Esposito, and Jeffrey Combs.plotOne year after the ending of the first one, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is still haunted by what happened and is afraid to go back to South Port with Ray (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) for the 4th of July weekend. Julie's friend Karla (Brandy) wins a trip to the Bahamas and takes Julie, Tyrell (Mekhi Pfeiffer), and Will (Matthew Settle). Soon, bodies start popping up when Julie believes that The Fisherman (Muse Watson) has returned and hunted her and her friends down. Meanwhile, Ray knows where Julie is and that The Fisherman is after her so he tries to make his way towards the island to save her.the goodAwesome sequel. This is very FRIDAY THE 13TH, a killer slashing bodies left and right on an island during a violent storm, FUN TIMES! Also, Julie and Ray's characters are expanded here. Julie is now a paranoid mess determined to let her past go and Ray is a Van Helsing type character stopping at nothing to find The Fisherman. Karla, Tyrell and Will also lend some great presence as Julie's new friends who have no idea of her past and just want to have a good time. The odd characters on the island were also interesting and kept me guessing. The deaths are awesome as well. The Fisherman hacks through his victims with garden shears, knives, spears, and off course his trademark hook!the badFirst of all, the twist towards the end of The Fisherman's helper (a new mystery) was very pointless and served nothing to the movie except a SCREAM-type killer. Another thing is Jack Black's uncredited annoying stoner character Titus, ANNOYING! At least he had a cool death. And one last thing, why the hell did Julie go off into a room in a tanning bed all alone one night after she found a dead body in her closet. Stupid bitch.8/10 "},{"Title":"At least mildly entertaining--but not much else.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, the follow-up to I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, has even less to offer than the original. This time around, only Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and Ray (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) survive of the original group of four teens. The other two are replaced by Karla (Brandy) and her boyfriend Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer). Julie and Karla win a trip to the tropics from a radio station, and bring Tyrell and another friend Will (Matthew Settle) along for the ride. Little do they know, that the killer that haunted Julie a while ago is back to terrorize the group some more.While the original was pretty bad, the sequel is flat-out ridiculous. The script is even more pretentious and cheesy, and the new characters are even more wooden and flat than the old ones. While the scares in the first one were pretty predictable, the surprises in this one are entirely predictable--virtually no surprise whatsoever. There is one thing that is mildly shocking, but that happens at the very end, right before the group gets off the island. To go that long without a good scare is almost a disgrace. In fact, I would consider this movie a disgrace to the horror genre. But there is one genuinely creepy moment--when we find out who the killer is. The look on the killer's face at that point in the movie is kind of scary, but that's literally where the scares end.The acting is decent, at least. Jennifer Love Hewitt's one display of true talent comes at the very beginning in her dream sequence, but it's not her fault. There's just no room for talent to be displayed. She does all right in the rest of the film. Brandy does a pretty good job of acting scared, as does Mekhi Phifer. And Freddie Prinze, Jr., revives basically the same role he had in the original movie. The various unnecessary side characters do okay. Look for Jack Black and Bill Cobbs giving cameos in the movie's most stereotyped and unnecessary roles.In short, I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a disgrace to the genre, and even to the original. It offers virtually nothing--but it's at least mildly entertaining. In parts. 3/10. "},{"Title":"A Must see","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In the spirit of the Halloween film series, Urban Legend, Scream, Scream 2, and I Know What You Did Last Summer; another slasher flick entitled I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was made to frighten viewers. Is it better than the first film; my answer is yes. In fact, I Still Know....... is better than the three I mentioned.Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. are back along with Brandy, Mekhi Pfifer, and Matthew Settle. I knew that Freddie Prinze Jr. was going to be in the sequel; but when he made his first appearance on screen it was if I was seeing my best friend for the first time after a long while.Hewitt exhibited such beauty in this film as she does in every acting role she takes; also, she makes the acting look so easy. She is sight for sore eyes every time she's on the screen. For the most part, the additional cast members did a great job. Though Brandy has acting talent, I wish that I could have seen Sarah Michelle Gellar in the sequel; Sarah had such screen presence with her beauty and style I didn't want her to go the way she did in the first movie.There was a twist in this movie that there wasn't in the prequel or Scream that surprised me and felt was a valuable addition to the script. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer did have something left to be desired but overall it was still better than the first film. "},{"Title":"6/10 but in a good way...","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The fisherman is back in I Still Know What You Did Last SummerI remember when I first saw this flick I thought it was really bad we are talking about 2/10 bad but as time went on I saw it a few more times and I don't think it is as bad as I thought. I was being way to hard on this movie I Still Know... Was made to be a fun movie to watch with some friends or whatever, Just don't think you are about to watch some type of horror classic like Halloween or something just try to have fun with it.Overall not a great horror movie but still fun to watch 6/10 "},{"Title":"SPOILERS!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was just as good as the first. because we all wanted to know what happened after the cliffhanger ending of the first movie, this one just had to be made. the movie starts off so well, and everybody is getting along fine, and it makes you wish that the film didnt have to get gory and it could just be a nice movie about normal teenage lives, but then theres the radio question 'win a holiday if you can tell us what the capital of brazil is'. this part of the movie is well made, because there are a lot of people out there who dont know what the capital of brazil is (i didnt), and so her wrong answer goes unoticed, yet she still wins the holiday. had she bothered to make sure she had the right answer, she could have saved a lot of people's lives! it is not til later that she finds out she had the wrong answer, and the phone call was a trick to get the friends to the island. this is a well thought out movie, with a fantastic writer behind it no doubt. i loved it as much as the first! "},{"Title":"So sue me. I liked it.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1998)THE GOOD--I'm sorry, I know I'm supposed to be a stern-up movie critic and all, but this movie was DAMN entertaining. I actually watch it quite a bit. One of the factors I ask for is a good rewatchability factor, and I Still Know What You Did Last Summer delivers on that level.--Though some of the plot twists aren't so good, I appreciated that I Still Know didn't just carry on with more murders but kept the story going as well as adding in new ideas and concepts, such as the history of Ben Willis and the family he had.--The setting for the film is beautiful. I loved the deserted island idea and dug that it took place in a storm (the rain machine is put to great to use). Having such a big setting allows for some great kills and lots of different places to have them.--The film is drenched in atmosphere. I loved the simple techniques used to create tension and suspense, such as the birds flying away when the killer enters the room (kick-ass cinematography), upwards shots of rain falling, the hook on the hand and the several different sets used for murders.--Ben Willis doesn't mess round! There is a truckload of gore and tons of bloody kills sure to please any horror buff!THE BAD--Stupid title. They didn't actually do anything last summer; it was two summers ago.--The editing of this film is shoddy to say the least. It looks like the actors had to go back into a studio and say their lines again while watching the movie and trying to fit in the dialogue like that a lot of the time, and it doesn't work. The words and mouth movements are out of time for a lot of the film.--Stupid characters are what we're used to in the teen horror genre, and this movie is a big thumbs up in that area (of course not a good thing). For example, when Julie is on the sun bed and the killer has turned up the heat and locked her in there. Julie's friends come in, panicking and going nuts and trying to bash it open. Why didn't they just rationally turn down the heat and figure out a way to open the sun box thing? Also they ditch each other too much instead of being safe, very frustrating.--One of the strong points of I Know What You Did Last Summer is that the killer had a real purpose behind his kills, but here Ben Willis just goes killing everyone for no reason. It makes the kills - albeit enjoyable - seem very pointless overall.RATING7/10 - I may be in the minority, but I enjoyed this movie and had fun with it. It wasn't very well done or anything but hey I had fun and consider the movie a fun guilty pleasure. So sue me.If YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDFriday the 13th Part VI - Jason Lives (7/10) Halloween H20 20 Years Later (8/10) Halloween Resurrection (3/10) I Know What You Did Last Summer (8/10) Scream 3 (8/10) "},{"Title":"Which is better? 1st or 2nd","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen i know what u did last summer more than 100 times,because i own it and also the second one,but i want to know which is better,i think the 2nd But sometimes i think that the first is,but this movie (both) are my favorite movies of all time, but what do u all think (which is better?) "},{"Title":"Brazilia!!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The overwrought delivery of this word was a favorite quote between my movie buddy and me.  So ridiculously cheesy, it exemplified much of what is so awful about this movie.I wondered the first time I saw ISKWYDLS if the brain-rotted demographic for it even knew that Rio wasn't the capital of Brazil.  I immediately was like, Hey, wait a minute!  Are teens really that stupid nowadays?  Or was the screenwriter counting on everybody knowing this was incorrect?  I'm not sure, but I'm guessing the former; there's no way anyone of any intelligence could possibly find a moment in this movie credible.  If anyone was surprised by the revelation that Rio is NOT the capital of Brazil, have your nurse or caregiver take away your crayons, wipe the drool off your chin, and send me an email.  I'd really like to know if at least one person out there got a thrill from this movie.Never mind the plot.  It's been rehashed enough here.  I want to know some details, like how Ben Willis financed this vacation package.  Is he on disability?  Social Security?  How much could a Carolina fisherman have saved for (pardon the pun) a rainy day?  And wouldn't he have needed a passport to go to the Bahamas?  At what hotel was he staying?  Wouldn't a man with a hook for a hand raised some kind of alert while boarding a plane, or going through customs?  Am I applying more thought to the premise than the filmmakers did?  I was not much of a fan of the first movie.  Like H20, it got a pass at first because I was pleased with the slasher revival the SCREAM movies created.  But this idiotic sequel to the not-so-idiotic original, with its geography-ignorant heroine, destroyed any bit of goodwill I had towards the first one.  It's just so dreadfully boring to see the same nubile teens get hacked up again, this time by a killer who's less terrifying than the average Cher impersonator.ISKWYDLS could make a great drinking game.  Drink for every gratuitous profanity; at every clichéd fake scare; and for each shot of J.Love's wet, heaving bosom.  And, hey, everyone's wasted, which is the only way to enjoy this stinker.1/10 "}{"Title":"Hook... line... and STINKER!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Welcome, one and all, to one of the most painful movies you will sit through in your far-too-short lives! I've said this before for another movie I think but you know a movie's bad when you're rooting for the protagonists to die. Watching this on HBO, I was sure that my life was ending, the pain was that great. It's really unbelievable how bad this movie is. It ruined the memory of the first one for me, which is remarkable considering that the first one was a crock also. But at least the first one was semi-enjoyable on the first watching. The sequel's story is preposterous. Me describing it right now would cause me to rupture an important part of my brain, which I'd rather save to critically bash other movies. The acting, save for Brandy, is terrible. Actually, Mekhi Phifer wasn't that bad himself but I hope he never lowers himself to these depths again. Brandy, on the other hand, is beyond terrible, if such a thing exists. She is one of those reasons why musicians should always question whether or not they really want to break into acting, if not THE reason. Jennifer Love Hewitt is nice on the eyes but I still wanted her to get eviscerated on screen. I think the Fisherman has a great presence but... no. I am not going to waste another word on this. Rent the first one if you need to see somebody get hooked really nicely but just don't do it to yourself. You can pay people these days to inflict pain on you and at least they'd be honest about their intentions. I watched this through to the end only to say that I did. I really hope they don't make another one of these things. The money used to make it could be used for more productive things like... anything but another sequel. This movie stinks!RATING ZERO out of ***** "},{"Title":"The kind of movie that you try hard to forget","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer/ 1/2 star.Why on earth did they have to make a sequel? wasn't the first one good enough? Could they not have thought of a better idea for a movie and had to make a sequel? I have no idea, but this movie sucked beyond belief.I Still Know What You Did Last summer rejoins two of the old cast and two new cast as they go on a trip to the Bahamas only to discover that the fisherman is back.How original, another stupid slasher movie. I guess a drama or comedy is hard to make? Why? Because it takes some effort? Because a drama you can't just throw together in a week? Either way, this was a dumb movie and I am upset that this was made at all. "},{"Title":"This is time now to get scared!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  He's back, and has found some victims on an island! Well,well,well someone is going to either die or get hurt, beware of the hook! Turn off the light, leave the curtains open plus the windows and watch this movie and see how scared you will get!8/10  "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel For Horror Loving Fans!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I Still Know.. was better than what I heard. Jennifer Love Hewitt returns as julie. Julie is now in college and wins a trip to a island with her friend played by Brandy Norwood. Little does she know that the Fisherman isn't finished getting his revenge. The body count is higher and the death scenes are much more elaborate. If you a fan of Horror Films, This ones for YOU!  "},{"Title":"I still know that this isn't a very good movie.","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze JR., Brandy Norwood, and Mekhi Phifer.The fisherman with a hook is back, still going after the girl survivor of the last summer.  He follows her on a vacation her and her friends won on a radio game.  He shows up and starts slashing up.This one is better than the first, but still doesn't scare me at all. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the predecessor, but still good.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The cast of this slasher-flick includes Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Brandy, Mekhi Pfeifer, Jeffrey Combs, Matthew Settle, Muse Watson, Benjamin Brown, some woman under the named Ellerine! and Jack Black in an uncredited role as a drug-addicted tropical townie. This film occurs several years after I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and Julie James (Hewitt) is still trying to recover from the attack from fisherman Ben Willis (Watson). The film takes place mainly on a tropical island. The plot to this film was quite original. I was not expecting it to be as original as it was. I was just expecting the evil fisherman to come back and start killing Julie's friends, like in SCREAM 2. But, instead of just doing that, they have him pick off Julie's friend on a tropical island.I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (long title) is not based on another book but is based on some unknown writer's somewhat good idea. If you are a fan of serious horror flicks, then you must see this film, otherwise I would maybe recommend it for a way to pass the time. I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER 3/5. "},{"Title":"Some things will haunt you forever...","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE PLOT While vacationing on the island of Tower Bay, the paranoid Julie James begins to claim that Ben Willis is alive and on the island! The same Ben Willis who killed her friends last summer. The same Ben Willis who has supposedly died. Is he really dead? Or has he followed her to the secluded island to finish what he started?THE ACTING Better than the first. Jennifer Love Hewitt is believable as the tortured Julie James. There was noticeable talent evident in the supporting roles, too.THE BLOOD Extremely bloody...THE BODY COUNT 10THE RATING A better movie than the first. Slick looking and flashy. More suspense and scares. More intense overall. I give this 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good slasher horror","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Good slasher horror movie that delivers all the expected goods for it's genre.Nothing spectacular here.Slasher fans will be entertained.Good cinematography and directing which upgraded the movie's quality despite obvious modest budget.Hewitt and Brandy look good here and gave decent performances.Not as good as I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER.Only for fans of teen slasher horror movies and big fans of the lead actors..... "},{"Title":"This movie shouldn't have been done","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i don't think they should have done this because there was know need for this movie. The first one was very well done but the second one was very slow and the storyline was stupid. This movie should have had a scarier plot like the first one. But it was just senseless. I give this movie a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Even Scarier","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh my god this was one of the best movies I have ever seen!  This was even better than the first. Much scarier than the first. I LOVED THIS MOVIE! In my opinion this was one of the scariest movies ever. If your looking for a scare then watch this movie! "}{"Title":"Freaky movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a very interestingly freaky movie.  Ben's back and he's still quite mad.  He's hunting down Julie along with some of her friends who make it to the Bahamas on a little radio getaway.  Right before Freddie Prinze JR. could go, Ben catches up with him.  He doesn't die which is a good thing to some and a bad to others.  Freddie knows where Jennifer Love Hewiit and friends are going an he knows that Ben is just a short way behind.  The acting was very good and I was surprised at how good they were.  The setting is wonderful.  I mean the Bahamas, what better to be where a killer is going to chase you then the Bahamas?Overall the movie is stylishly freaky and I enjoyed it for the most part.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is certanly worth a look.It is just as good as the first with lots more gore and blood.I still know also has more of a story to it than the first and is set in a completly different location to the last film.I would give this film 10/10 for storyline and my most personal favs,lots of gore and the body count is much,much higher.I am hooked to this film!! "},{"Title":"Good Follow Up","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be One of the Best Sequels in Horror Movie History. Sure, It's a Bit Wacky and Kind of Throws off the Original, But Who Cares? I Don't. All I Ever Need is Horror, Fine Looking Women, Cheap or Good Scares, and Some Twisted Jokes, and This Movie Suited Every Department. Recommended for Everyone. Also Recommended Bloody Murder. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love Hewitt Things that make you hmmmm","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a great horror movie, even if Prince Jr have no talent whatsoever, the rest of the crew is very talented. Jennifer Love Hewitt is excellent in this one, she is perfection. It's a shame that she don't show some skin. You got to use your imagination for that, for this reason the film is very good. Here is the story thanks to Geoff.Julie's back in College, with her new friend they won a weekend trip to an island. On the way there, someone dies, and then the girls are tormented on the island. I don't urge you to buy this one, just rent it. If you are a fan of Hewitt then buy the DVD. There is a music video How Do I Deal? by Jennifer Love Hewitt .Great quote Every guy in history who tried to pick up a girl did the good-friend thing first. "},{"Title":"Sequel that compares to Halloween 2","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's not often that a sequel is as good as the original but here we have another one. I can watch this move over and over again, and never get tired of it. The only other sequel I know of that is as good as this is Halloween 2. The only thing I can't figure out is how come there are not more sequels to I Still Know... I mean it has the ability to keep going and going, so what are they waiting for? "},{"Title":"Doesn't Hollywood know yet that sequels don't work!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Haven't producers & directors learned yet that remakes & sequels rarely work and are not as nearly effective as the original?  'I Still Know' is certainly a fine example of that theory.  This unnecessary sequel has Hewitt & Prinze again which barely salvages this nonsense. This time Jennifer and her moronic friends are terrorized on an island in the tropics by the hooked killer during hurricane season.  Again, lots of blood & gore, with some annoying characters and plot cloudiness as it goes on.  And of course, another bad ending! "},{"Title":"Not anything great, but ok.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first I Know What You Did Last Summer had a terrific plot and storyline, but the second wasn't anything great. I enjoyed some of the movie, but it went a little overboard on the graphic violence and gore. It almost made me sick to my stomach. Don't eat any meat before watching this movie, or you might puke. Overall, it wasn't great, but if I graded it, I'd have to give it a C+. "},{"Title":"I Still Know Why They Made A Sequel","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt ('Party Of Five', 'Can't Hardly Wait', 'House Arrest') and Freddie Prinze Jnr ('Down To You', 'Boys And Girls' 'To Gillian On Her 37th Birthday') return in the much better sequel to the 1997 Wes Craven flick 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'.It's set a year after the original gang of Julie, Ray, Helen and Barry were first tormented by Mr. Hook, Ben Willis, and Julie's life had just started to get back to some form of normality. Her and he best friend, Karla (played flawlessly by R 'N' B babe, and 'Moesha' starlet Brandy) win a trip to the Bahamas over a radio contest.With Ray not present, Julie asks her friend Will Benson (Matthew Seattle) to come along, while Karla brings her boyfriend, Tyrell (played by Mekhi Pfiefer, who appeared in Brandy and Monica's video clip to 'The Boy Is Mine'). Ray later follows the four to the tropical island.However, the group find out that the whole trip was a set-up, and once again, find themselves running and hiding from Ben Willis, who is back to finish what he had started a year earlier.This film also has a killer (hehe, geddit) soundtrack, with Jennifer Love Hewitt singing the first single off the album, 'How Do I Deal', (Love Hewitt had released 3 albums in Japan).Still not, as good as 'Scream' or 'Scream 2', but 'I Still Know What You Did Last Summer' is a big improvement from it's predacessor.  "},{"Title":"This Is A Awesome film 10/10","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a awesome movie I own it on DVD, Jennifer love hewitt is gorgeous and the acting is good too ) I prefered this one to the first movie I know what you did last summer, gets a 10/10 from me, the ending has really got me thinking , is there going to be a 3rd movie and if so what are they going to call it huh , something like And I still remember what you did last summer )  "},{"Title":"More of the same.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hewitt and friend Brandy win a vacation to a tropical paradise, but the fisherman from the first film has followed them there and is still up to his old ways. More run of mill, but Hewitt and Brandy have appeal and the film offers some tense and exciting moments towards the end. Rating 6 out of 10 ( I think it is better than the original) "}{"Title":"Boring slasher movie.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When are producers going to understand that people are fed up of watching movies like this? this film could be Holloween,Friday the 13th, nightmare on elm st or Scream , it does not matter , they all start of the same and end the same. This film is especially boring and predictable. 4 teenagers on and island who are stalked by a man with a hook. Nothing new happens so i wont even go into the plot. If you are REALLY stuck for something to do then watch this but if not dont waste your time. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"IT STINKS!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie proves my theory that any movie with a high gore content obviously has no story. And that's what you have here, no story what so ever. The Fisherman is killing people left and right in very sick and disgusting ways. Of all the people that killed, though, I would say only two of them did not deserve it, while all the other victims were annoying and I personally was just waiting for the Fisherman in the end. Another horrible thing about this movie is Brandy. She can't act (or sing for that matter) and whines about everything throughout the entire movie. The only people who have any talent in this movie are Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr., and let me tell you that talent is wasted beyond belief. The whole plot is just a rip off of the first film but somewhere along the line they put in these plot holes large enough to drive a truck through. I could say what they are, but if you scroll down the page, you'll find someone else has already pointed them out. If for some idiotic reason they make another Summer film, I could not see how it could get any worse. "},{"Title":"good but not as good","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This one is not as good as the original but it was still good. It still kept me in suspense. I likes the story where they're stuck in the Bahamas with the killer on the island with them. There is no way off the island. That is pretty original. I love horror movies so i really and this is a pretty good sequel. I wasn't as good as the first, but hey i still liked it. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes teen slasher movies andliked the original. "},{"Title":"Respectful Sequel.  Don't listen to the negetive reviews.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I understand that some people, a lot of people have been giving this movie bad reviews.  They call it another sequel which it is but what's the problem.  This movie continues the story of Julie James and her boyfriend the two survivors of the original who thought the killer was dead.  Julie is still haunted and she decides to go on a vacation with her friends when her friend wins a ticket to the Bahamas.  The killer traps them on the island and dispatches everybody to get to the two who attempted to kill him.  The motive is revenge.  It has a lot of cliches and the kills were great.  "},{"Title":"this is a great film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent film , Great acting gorgeous jennifer love hewitt, a film not to be missed. the first film was good this one is a lot better, its the good looking teens getting hunted down by a murderer. love it. "},{"Title":"The fisherman must die!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can't bear him anymore!I Know What You Did Last Summer was OK, specially because of Sarah Michelle Gellar (the most beautiful woman in the whole world). But this sequel is very very bad.The screenplay is just terrible. I can say the same thing about the actors. Jennifer Love does not convince (one more time) as the silly, boring and annoying girl named Julie. Freddie Prinze Jr. should get real - he's awful! And Brandy should just sing.There are some scary moments but that's all.I think I gave a 7 out of 10 for the first film, but this one doesn't deserve more than a 2 out of 10.I won't be surprised if in the year of 2027 we see something like I Died On The Last Movie, But Now I'm Alive And I Remember Everything Clearly. So I Continue to Know What You Did 30 Summers Ago.Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"Bad Movie Idea","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ha! Ha! What a joke. A killer guy in a raincoat goes on a killing rampage is the stupidest idea in the first place. This is the worst movie idea since Uncle Sam.This film is only scary for little babies. If this movie scares you, you probably get scare so easily.Come on! This guy kills people with an hook. Thats a big rip-off of the great horror hit, Candyman.No-- I didn't liked the first movie, I'd think the entire thing about the man in a raincoat with a hook is so stupid in the first place. I've seen horror movies that went only to video is better than this movie.So, I gave this movie 1/2*  "},{"Title":"Awful sequel to 'Scream' rip-off teen horror flick","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen in a long time. There was no such thing as a good plot, character development, continuity, etc. Granted, Jennifer Love Hewitt is somewhat easy on the eyes, but that doesn't make up for her lack of acting talent. Brandy does a superfluous role as Julie's best friend and Freddie Prinze, Jr. plays the loser boyfriend quite well. However most of the secondary characters lack any special acting talent, each playing a person so 2-dimensional so that easy stereotypes could be attached. The crazy stoner drug dealer, the hispanic housekeeper, the creepy old mystical guy, and other stereotypes could be seen throughout.The premise is that 2 summers ago, Julie and her friends ran over some poor guy and thought they killed him and rolled him into the ocean. He came back to life and kills alot of people on the anniversary of his death. Now, two summers later, Julie's best friend won some tickets for a bahama vacation on the radio and they are going to spend their 4th of July vacation in the tropics. Wackiness ensues and lots of blood and gore and a 'R'-rating later, the movie ends.Another thing that really bothers me is the stupid title. Wouldn't it be I Still Know What You Did TWO Summers Ago? instead of the original form? Much like the original film, the ending is pretty easy to predict, about as formulaic as they come. Don't bother watching this lame teen flick. I rate it 1 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After sitting in the movie theatre for 10 minutes, I already wanted to leave.  The only thing that kept me there was the thought that maybe it would get better.  Sadly, that didn't happen.  Yes, Jennifer Love Hewitt, I get the point that you have gotten breast implants.  I had to look at them for most of the movie.  I guess they were supposed to take people's minds off the bad acting, script and directing.  I was embarrassed for the actors while watching this trash.  This was one sequel that shouldn't have been made.  My advice is save your money and don't watch  this sorry exuse for a film. "},{"Title":"A sequel worse than the original. Big surprise.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I Know What You Did Last Summer killed at the box office, a sequel was inevitable. I wasn't expecting much, but they actually made it WORSE than I expected.Jennifer Love Hewitt and company travel to the Tropics for a vacation, but guess who's decided to crash the party? Yep, the slicker-clad nutjob with a meat hook goes around picking them off one by one. Not that you'd care, since all they do throughout the movie is yap, while Hewitt has a nervous breakdown, the only fun is when they actually get whacked. Nothing new, just the sequential slaughter of teens in new and even more violent ways. Am I the only one who thinks Hollywood hates teenagers?The dialogue is all the same. The characters spend the whole movie talking about sex without actually having it. And it is basically a lower quality copy of the first movie. All this aside, it was also the WORST moviegoing experience, since the audience was full of loud and obnoxious teenagers who would not shut up and stop screaming, yapping, and shouting out rude remarks at Jennifer Love Hewitt. This movie was just a mistake. "}{"Title":"Shameless exhibitionism of breasts","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are only two reasons that this is not the worst horror movie of all time. One Urban Legends came out at about the same time, and two Jennifer Love Hewitt's cleavage. First off, one has to wonder what exactly is going to the writer's minds when they make a film like this. Actually, I take that back. One has to wonder if the writers responsible for this rubbish have any semblance of minds at all. No, wait...that's not it. One has to wonder what kind of moronic single-celled amoeba would take the time to crate such a laughably pathetic script? To be honest, this movie is just plain awful. For one, it seems as though a cro-magnon type beast that listens to too much Barenaked Ladies was responsible for this. It is so full of idiotic lines and references that I heard various viewers whose dates would not let them leave early threaten to inflict serious bodily harm on themselves throughout the course of the film. In fact, the poor guy next to me, upon hearing a particulary atrocious Freddie Prinze deliver another horribly missing tough guy line (again, for the eightieth time), actually bashed his head into the chair in front of him while keeling over in embarrassment for having paid the seven bucks to see it. Me, I was too entranced watching the hypnotic jigglings of Miss Jennifer Love Hewitt's breasts, the real star of the film. Honestly, if it wasn't for strategically placed cleavage shots, a tribute to both the director and the genetic forerunners of Jennifer, this film would not be worth the price of the regurgitated popcorn on the men's room floor in the lobby. People, listen up Hollywood is not going to stop churning out this type of excruciatingly awful type of movie unless we as the public refuse to pay our hard earned money to subject ourselves to the torturous process of watching. Therefore, on the strength of I still know... and Urban Legends and 200 Cigarettes, I urge all of you to just stop going to this hip teen escapist fare. I plead with all of you to not let the standards of movie making drop so far as to making the breasts of a nineteen year old girl (albeit a super-hot and beautiful nineteen year old girl)the main attraction in a movie. Without box office failures, movie moguls will never learn. And sooner or later, it will be I Still Know and will never forget because you won't die What you did fourteen summers ago to my wooden boyfriend, my big breasted best friend and my invitingly compelling cleavage Part 94. Look, I love beautiful women as much as the next guy, but Jennifer, Brandy- next time you agree to do a movie, read the script first. I implore you. "},{"Title":"Brandy, you can do better than that!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Brandy (a.k.a. Moesha) is wasted as Julie James's (Jennifer Love Hewitt) best friend who wins a trip for four to the Bahamas after successfully answering a trivia question on the radio.  Unfortunately, their vacation is ruined by Ben Willis (Muse Watson) who is still carrying that big hook.  New writer and director takes over and misguides this pointless sequel to I Know What You Did Last Summer; even the new characters are annoying and unappealing.  I'm sorry, Brandy.  My evaluation * out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Abominable!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It took me five whole scenes to figure out who the killer was.  (My companion figured it out in the second scene.)  As I see it, any Ivy League students who are so damned stupid that they don't know geographical information every elementary school student is taught SHOULD be whacked -- take 'em outta the gene pool, sez I! "},{"Title":"I Still Don't Know Why They Made This Movie","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997) was a really good horror film.  It had a good plot, good death scenes, and a good ending, that did not need to be changed.  This film was just plain awful.  I can't even say this is a typical sequel, since typical sequels don't usually manage to be THIS much worse than the original, except in extreme cases, such as Exorcist II The Heretic (1977).  This film makes the same first mistake as Exorcist II which is getting a different director AND a different writer.  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer abandons the whole revenge (or any) motive from the first film and uses a good movie as an excuse to make an incredibly bad one.  It would probably be considered mediocre by the Friday the 13th standards, which were incredibly low.  The only imaginable reason a sequel might be considered unnecessary is because the first one ended with Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) getting killed by the supposedly dead killer. I can even understand why people wouldn't want it to end that way, although I really thought that was a cool and original way to end a horror movie to let the main character die AND letting the villain carry on.  The first thing I Still Know establishes is that that was just a dream, which means that a sequel is not necessary, and then, as if to say but now that we've gotten you into the theater, the killings start again.  In I Know What You Did Last Summer the killer killed with a purpose, usually because someone stood in the way of him getting revenge.  Even Max's death had a purpose -- letting the characters know he was serious.  In this movie, the title of which isn't worth re-typing over and over again, someone who the main characters met for about 20 seconds get killed just because there are only two people who he really has a reason to be after, and on a standard horror movie setting of a remote island, he has to go out of his way to kill as many people as possible, and it has to stretch into two hours, which is kind of like trying to stretch a single pepperoni over an extra large pizza.  The thing that I thought was creepy from the first movie was that whenever the killer was near, you'd hear the sound made by the locket thing that David Egan was going to give his fiancee before she died in the car accident they were in, and the killer took it.  David Egan is never even mentioned in this film.  The acting was really weak as well.  Even the few who were in the first movie seemed not to be trying very hard, perhaps because they realized early on that it wasn't really worth the effort.  My only other possible explanation is that the filmmakers were trying to make a very bad movie, which only seems plausible to me because I saw this and know just how bad it was.  It just seems kind of hard to find someone who can make a film so bad by accident.  I suppose the standard plot twist toward the end of the movie, the one I saw coming 38 minutes into the movie (I checked my watch) was supposed to justify the fact that this film was made.  It didn't come close, and perhaps it took me 38 minutes to figure it out (this includes promos) because I was half-asleep by this point.  I really was, too.  After this film was made, basically the only way you can enjoy the first one again is by forgetting this was ever made.  This was not based on a novel the way the first one was, and really had nothing to do with the story.  With lame dialogue, about 7 false alarms before the first real one (the noise that turns out to be the roommate, the scene that turns out to be a dream, etc.) and little happening that you can't predict an hour in advance, this must be one of the worst films ever made . "},{"Title":"one of the worst sequels in history","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie or shall i say disgrace was so bad it was horrid....may i say that halloween 6 did a way better job than this piece of garbage. 1. it was boring 2. it relied on gore rather than a plot and suspense3. brandy is the worst actress in history 4.jennifer relied on wet t shirts rather than saving the day 5.really really horrid acting by brandy,the black guy,and the killers son and # 6 it was just plain stupid and worthless..i have NEVER NEVER EVER seen a horror movie this bad...save your money people..this is a stinker  "},{"Title":"Run away, run away quickly.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After the recent glut of teen-in-peril movies, it seems like ISKWYDLS isn't even trying (despite having the longest title to hit marquees until Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace).  The characters are introduced, briefly sketched out, but never become more than moving action figures, because we know most of them will be toast before the end of the movie.  As the film progresses, new characters are introduced and killed before we're even sure what their names are.  In the end, we get the requisite plot twist nobody didn't see coming, the requisite death of villain, and the requisite Last Scare Before Credits.  It's all, frankly, rather boring, leaving me to ponder details such as How can that guy slash with a hook that has an obviously rounded tip?  How can she fire eight shots from a revolver, especially after one misfire?  And, especially, This is, after all, just some guy with a raincoat.  Why don't they ever just kick him in the balls and shoot him in the head, instead of running around screaming?  I suggest staying home and renting Wes Craven's New Nightmare and Scream to restore your faith in horror's re-birth.  "},{"Title":"Trash!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When the lights came up after this film concluded, I was ashamed to be seen in the audience.  Everyone now knew that I paid $6.50 to see this piece of trash.  Wish I could have found a trap door in the floor.  I would have exited that way! "},{"Title":"Finally, a good cause for rioting.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, you survived the movie with a few brain cells still active, now lets re-cap;  We've got the Bate's Motel on the island from Jurassic Park with a bunch of teens running away from a Fisherman's Friend spokesman.The fact that this movie was made worries me.  The fact that anyone is willing to pay money to see it makes me reconsider my view on genocide. Anyone who wants to know what this movie is really about only needs to look at the poster and answer this Who is the only person who is shown lower then the neck?  And where does our view of her end?  Not that I'm complaining about that, in fact, I'd say it was the movie's only redeeming quality.And why is it that if an actor or actress in a horror movie can display the basic emotions and scream on cue there will be people raving about how good the performances were (see other user comments)?The Fisherman-killer in this movie is rivalled in his idiotic choice of clothing and ability to control unpredictable and uncontrollable events (such as which door a potential victim will walk through) only by the killer from Urban Legend, who we all now know turned out to be Kenny from South Park.In closing, anyone who thought the performances in this movie were great probably doesn't get out much, anyone who found it scary (in any way at all) probably stills wets their bed, and for anyone who finds the plot plausible, I have a bridge I'd like to sell you.This was an hour and a half of my life that I can never get back, don't make the same mistake, free or not, avoid it like the plague!! "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequels ever made!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Despite its cult status, which seems to oddly be growing instead of dying (pun intended), the original I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER was not that great to begin with. It was slick, entertaining, and had a halfway decent story behind it, but the script was predictable and at times clumsy, the acting was pretty abysmal (with the exception of Jennifer Love Hewitt who made a surprisingly good Scream Queen), and there was much untapped potential with the material. Released just over a year after its predecessor (never a good sign), I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is the very definition of a dumb, lazy, and brainless horror sequel. Everything that was bad about the first film is even worse here. Predictable beyond belief and cliché ridden script? Check. Horrible wooden acting? Triple check (Freddie Prinze Jr., Mekhi Phifer, and Brandy are all utterly terrible in their poorly written roles). Unused potential? Check. The film is set at an island resort, a location that would seem to lend itself to all sorts of creative ideas. Yet screenwriter Trey Callaway and director Danny Cannon seem intent on bringing the audience the most boring and uninvented deaths imaginable. I will give them points for the tanning bed scene which actually did manage to create a fair amount of tension, but other than that and Hewitt delivering the best performance she can under the circumstances, the film is completely worthless. Skip it. 2/10 "},{"Title":"A Waste Of Time","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I didn't think much of I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER which featured a bunch of teen drink drivers getting stalked by a character who looked like he was from TISWAS . Seeing as both the original director and screenwriter couldn't be bothered doing a sequel I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER seemed like a bad idea from the start !!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!!The movie opens very badly with one of the characters from the previous movie going to confession saying she killed someone in an accident . If I remember the original film the protagonists run down someone while they're all drunk so I question if vehicular manslaughter is in fact an  accident Don't ask me how but I had the opening scene sussed out as a dream sequence long before the priest says  I still know what you did last Summer  and bursts through the confessional wall . Maybe I'm psychic , or maybe this is just a dire screenplay ? I think I know what one my money is on .But the major faux pas is when one of the characters is asked the question ;  What is the capital of Brazil ?  to which she answers  Rio De Janerio  which isn't in fact the correct answer at all . No it's not a goof because there's a reason for the wrong answer . Alas you'll be able to see the reason for this long before it plays out on screen I'm really fed up seeing movies involving chopped up teenagers . I hope and pray we see more movies featuring a bunch of British squaddies stuck in a Scottish cottage fighting for their lives against werewolves or movies featuring British squaddies holed up in a Lancashire mansion surrounded by crypto zombies "}{"Title":"I Still Think It Sucks","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay...the first I Know... was pretty much a disappointment...but the second I Know... was 10x's WORSE!!!  The plot was stupid and for the most part...POINTLESS!!!!  The movie isn't thrilling or exciting!  It's not convincing!  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was boring, lifeless, and cheesy!  Jennifer Love Hewitt returns as Julie James who is still haunted by the spine chilling deaths of Barry and Helen, and is caught in a love triangle between Will and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.).  When her best friend, Karla, wins a trip for four to the Bahama's, Julie is persuaded to go.  Yet during their dream vacation, Karla and Julie experience terrifying moments that turn into living nightmares.Lame...isn't it?   First of all, even before I watched this movie, I heard it was awful!  Second of all, the characters, especially the new ones, aren't lively.  To me, they weren't bright nor well polished...they weren't persuasive or provacative.  They weren't really alive to me.  Plus...if you got stuck in a tanning bed...wouldn't you have came out as red as a lobster already...and Jennifer Love Hewitt is white as snow!!! Also, how could you NOT know the capital of Brazil???!!!  Oh yeah...RIO!!!  HELLO!!!  And one more thing...I might add...what's w/ the ending????!!!Don't even bother!  This is one of the WORST films I ever saw in my life!  I wasn't impressed...not one bit!!!  I'd take the first I Know... over the second one ANYTIME!!!!!!   ...I rest my case!!!   "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first movie gave this film a perfect setup, but they screwed it up. They turned a solid thriller into a silly slasher pick. The acting was good, but it makes no difference with a script like this. The way the cast gets to the island is enough to make you realize how unintelligent the film is. It starts out good, then heads toward disaster. By the way, what's with all the chest shots of Hewitt? Did they think that would be enough to keep viewers interested? It was another suspenseless film with a nonexistent plot, and a cast that runs around screaming before finally getting killed one by one. The box-office numbers should be enough to tell you that there won't be a third. If somehow they decide to make one, try getting a good script first. The first one is a classic compared to the likes of this junk. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Very predictable.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Poor Jennifer Love Hewitt, she's still plagued by dreams of the Gorton's Fisherman, and he's  still mad at her for trying to kill him and losing his hand.  Well, in this by the numbers sequel,  Jennifer and roommate Brandy are whisked away to an island resort after winning a radio  contest.  Once they're there, they quickly find out that it's hurricane season and the correct  answer to what is the capital of Brazil.  Anyway, the Gorton's fisherman shows up and starts  turning everyone into filets.  Everyone except for our plucky heroine JLH, who manages to outwit  this angry angler at every turn.  Of course in movies like this, you always wonder why the  characters are so dumb.  The twist at the end of the film was nothing spectacular, and the  ending had me laughing.  I just hope that we are spared another sequel, in which the angry  fisherman still knows what happened about three summers ago.         "},{"Title":"This was an absolutely awful,terrible,stupid,idiotic film!!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm looking at all of the positive comments made for I Still Know What You Did Last Summer and I have one question Where are your brains? This movie was absolutely horrendous, an insult to the intelligence, without any wit, logic, or reason for being.Let's start with all the holes in the plot How did Ben Willis know where Julie's boyfriend (Freddie Prinze Jr.) was going to be driving? Why did Ben Willis pay so much money to drag Julie and company all the way to the Bahamas only to kill everyone else there, and especially if he had access to kill Julie the whole time she was at school? Are there really exact days that resorts in the Bahamas have a hurricane season? How could the filmmakers believe that audiences are so witless as to not know that the capital of Brazil is NOT Rio de Janeiro? If Ben had access to Julie's room the WHOLE time, why didn't he just kill her? Why did that voodoo guy return to the hotel after we saw him start to escape off the island? Why didn't Julie ax Ben Willis when he was trying to break through the door? And what is with that pathetic ending?Oh, there are so many questions I had about this movie and to no avail. After awhile, I realized that I was putting more thought to the film than the makers did! The filmmakers were so bankrupt of imagination that I guess they had to settle for just killing everyone off that wasn't essential to the story (a la Friday the 13th). This movie has no reason for being, only to pocket the money of those unfortunate enough to sit through this mess. If the movie was a bore to sit through, the ending was infuriating. It totally demonstated that the filmmakers have absolutely no regard for the audience and Jennifer Love's character all along. Nothing is worse than the old is a dream sequence or not? routine. The surprise in the film was only a surprise for people who lack the intelligence of putting a 10 piece jigsaw puzzle together.  "},{"Title":"Pretty awful","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I did see the original which I didn't like either. These teeny bop-per slashers are a bore. The cast was adequate. Do not like Jennifer Love Hewitt. She's bottom heavy, by the way. Has a large bumper seat. I guess her screams got her cast for certainly her looks didn't. And her hair . . . her hair. In the face, over the eye . . awful look. Brandy, the girl friend. Screams got her cast for that's about all she does well in this poor flick. To me, the guys fared better and were better to look at as well. Matthew Settle, a good looking guy, did well as Hewitt's boy friend. As did Freddie Prinze Jr as her ex boy friend. I did like the dry humor of Jeffrey Combs as the hotel manager He got laughs and they were so welcome. I found Mekhi Phifer a big bore and was glad to see him get his come up-pence.And what a surprise to see Jack Black in this as, what else, an obnoxious dope smoker who grows his own stash on the island. His hair has gotta go.The scenery wasn't that great as most of the movie was shot at night. I hope this is the end of Hewitt and her screams, which drove me up the wall. "},{"Title":"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The first film ended with the last female survivor (there was the male one too) being attacked by the Fisherman killer, a sequel should have been ridden out, but if a film makes money, a sequel should do just as well, and that's the mistake that should sometimes be considered by filmmakers. Basically Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) hadn't thought of two summers ago for a long while, but she is having nightmares again. One day she and her friend Karla Wilson (Brandy Norwood) excited to be phoned by a radio station answer a question, what's the capital of Brazil, and they are over the top when they win a vacation, four tickets to the Bahalmas. So they pack their bags, and bring along Karla's boyfriend Tyrell (8 Mile's Mekhi Phifer) and other friend Will Benson (Matthew Settle), Julie was hoping for her boyfriend Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.) who survived with her, but she doesn't realise the Fisherman killer is back, and has put him in hospital. So the four friends arrive in the Bahalmas, but because it is the 4th of July, the hotel is pretty much empty, besides a few remaining workers, and one or two other guests, they also didn't realise that they came during the stormy season. All that follows soon is the returning Fisherman killer, aka Ben Willis (Muse Watson) returning, slicing and dicing with his fish hook, at least one decent jump and some quite gory deaths, a lot of running and near misses, you find out Will is Willis's son, he also set them up to win that competition to get his way with Julie, and in the end both villains die, but of course an ending similar to the first film happens again. Also starring Bill Cobbs as Estes, The Frighteners' Jeffrey Combs as Mr. Brooks, Benjamin Brown as Darick The Dockhand, and then unknown Jack Black as Titus Telesco, the weed smoking long haired tit. I just give the extra point because the very, very occasional interest, and the exotic Balhamas location, besides that, really cheesy dialogue, hardly any real plot, and only Love Hewitt and Norwood's bodies are great. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"Gutted - again!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. are back for another tussle with Muse Watson - the Fisherman killer Ben Willis. What was so disappointing about the first film, I Know What You Did Last Summer was the Jennifer Love Hewitt's character, Julie, is a sub-par Horror Heroine. That's nothing against Jennifer's acting ability which is think is fine, but compared to Horror Heroines of the past (like Neve Campbell's Sidney from Scream, Lar Park Lincoln's Tina from Friday the 13th VII The New Blood and Heather Langenkamp's Nancy from A Nightmare on Elm Street), Julie is just simply lacking.That aside, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a fairly good movie. Freddie Prinze Jr reprises his role as Ray, though this time with less screen time, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. Brandy stars as Karla, perhaps the most likable character in the film, and certainly fun to watch, Brandy is also a really good actress. Mekhi Phifer is good as Karla's boyfriend Tyrell. Rounding out the cast is hottie Matthew Settle as Julie's potential new love interest...only he holds a secret worse than Julie! Also look out for Jennifer Esposito in a small role.The film is well done with nice location and some scary moments. Jennifer Love Hewitt even shows off her singing ability, a shame that Brandy doesn't get to though. The film is a bit slow in certain places, and has a more confusing than usual back story involving the killer which is typical of horror of course, but this one was more complicated than usual. What's perhaps more significant of this film is the number of survivors. With the exception of the Scream trilogy (which had a large cast to begin with), most horrors these days have two survivors - the heroine or hero, and their love interest (usually), though this time, the film has a noteworthy three survivors. I also recommend that the first film is watched before this one. "},{"Title":"totally unfair!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" actually i thought i still know what you did last summer was better than the first by far. this film contains a lot more emotion and better acting than the first one did and showed the brilliant relationship that the two main characters shared and how the other characters also shared a very good chemistry and even though they were let down in the end as it ended very quickly, the plot and the twist was outstanding and had me on the edge of my seat. the way they lead you to believe that the killer was voodoo guy when he hit Will over the head with the stick, when in fact the killer was Will was the best part of the whole film. this film was one of the best horror films of the 1990's and is my favourite film by far and your comments are very unfair to he director, actors and everyone else who worked very hard on this film. "},{"Title":"It scares me... that people paid to watch THIS!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *I Still Know What You Did Last Summer... I read The SPOILERS* Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt, who is as one-expressioned and scenery-chewer in this as she is in 'Ghost Whisperer') has changed college from the first movie, and is still obsessed with The Fisherman (Muse Watson, who has been given way better material in 'Prison Break' and 'NCIS'), who pays her a visit in the Campus' Disco (hey, Fishermen just wanna have fun!). In the meanwhile her Match-Made-In-Heaven Ray (Freddy Prinze Jr., whose status as the best actor of the bunch says much about the other thespians involved) is not going to be with her for whatever reason, and her friend Karla (Brandi Norwood, who is as insipid an actress as she is a singer) wins a trip to Bahamas for four people by answering a question which asked her which was the capital of Brazil (Brazilia) WRONG, and she does not see anything wrong with that, nor does she understand she gave the wrong answer.Karla brings her boyfriend (Mekhi Phifer, who plays basically the same character he will play on 'ER' a few years later, and just as annoyingly), and Julie brings friend Will Benson (Benson - Ben's Son, geddit?) (Matthew Settle, who really did his best in a thankless role), since Ray is unaccounted.But when they get on the island, it's rain season, and as the killer murders... people we don't give a darn about (which could very well mean any character), including a scary rastafarian Mary Jane smoker (Jack Black?), our core four begin to find out they should have paid attention in First Grade Geography Class, and begin to act stupid (if they ever stopped), which leads to the most stupid scary movie I ever had the displeasure to watch, and to a good thing; Mekhi Phifer's and Jennifer Esposito's characters' death.Then the killer gets Julie, and she has the most unbelievable fight ever - Miss Fraily Girl managing to overpower two strong men? Big no no...By the way, why take the characters out to Bahamas to kill them? Why not murdering them on the spot? And why did The Fisherman not kill Ray? One more question why did Mandalay greenly this script? It has been written by someone who didn't know anything about writing stories, much less screenplays.In short, this movie deserves completely the title it has been given in Italy 'Incubo Finale' ('Final Nightmare'), because it IS a nightmare of a movie, and to use a pun, it's not a horror movie, but a horror of a movie.The Fisherman is cool, though. I was rooting for him in this movie.I Still Know What You Did Last Summer 1/10. "},{"Title":"I still know these movies too well","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew they couldn't make another sequel. It was impossible. Although it had a couple good moments, I wasn't too impressed. I actually was able to predict the ending. That's sad.2/10 "}{"Title":"Paradise Lost","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, the less successful sequel to the very successful I Know What You Did Last Summer, is actually not that bad a slasher film. It takes the plot of the first film and shifts the action to a tropical paradise in the middle of monsoon season. It adds appreciably to the kill count from the original and has an ending almost as stupid.Now if you're watching this, I'll assume you saw the first one and know the big twist at the end. The guy they hit and killed wasn't actually dead at all and Knew What They Did Last Summer because he was in fact the guy they did it to. Well the twist here is a little dumber. In this the killer Knows What She Did Last Summer because he is the son on the guy they did it to. But also, the fisherman is still alive.Mekhi Phifer and Brandy sign up for this one to replace the murdered Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe, who would have been busy seducing Reese Witherspoon and each other in Cruel Intentions at the time this was made anyway. Phifer also got a spot in The Boy is Mine music video out of the role. For a far better Phifer performance, check out O.Well, not much to say so I'll get through this quick.The Plot Julie and her new best friend Karla win a trip to a tropical paradise through a radio show. When they arrive at their holiday destination they quickly find that it is monsoon season and probably not the best time to be there. Not to be perturbed they turn on the Karaoke machine only for I STILL KNOW to appear on the screen while singing. Anyway, these girls are feisty characters and so they do what anyone would do in their situation, they put on bikinis and hop inside a tanning bed. People start getting picked off, including an annoying Jack Black and Julie finally takes her revenge on the Fisherman and his son, with help from Ray, who's crawled from his death bed to get to the tropical island to help her.Overall the setting is nice, but the story is more or less identical to the first one. If you like slasher films, this one isn't so bad. But if you were expecting something in any way different to the original you'd be disappointed. "},{"Title":"This place never had a murder rate until you people showed up. I liked it.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is set one year after the events of the original I Know What You Did Last Summr (1997) where Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) who suffers from terrible nightmares has moved from the small town of Southport & is living in the city with her best friend Karla Wilson (Brandy) while her boyfriend Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) still resides in Southport because of his job. One morning Karla gets a phone call from a radio station which offers her the chance to win four tickets to stay at a posh holiday resort in the Bahamas, all she has to do is answer one simple question correctly which she does. Karla invites her boyfriend Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer) & tells Julie she can have the remaining two tickets, Julie wants Ray to come but he says he can't make it so as a last minute emergency invites nice enough seeming Will (Matthew Settle). Very excited they set off & appear to arrive in paradise as the isolated island is simply beautiful, however Julie soon starts to receive notes taunting her about the events of the previous summer & she becomes convinced everyone is in great danger as a torrential thunderstorm moves in...Directed by Danny Cannon I'm aware that I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has a pretty bad reputation, luckily I'm my own person & I don't pay any attention to reputation so it's with extreme proudness that I announce I really LIKE I Still Know What You Did Last Summer & if you don't agree which I'm positive many don't it's tough. The script by Trey Callaway is your basic teen slasher that were all the rage after the success of Scream (1996) although I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has a very serious tone rather than the light hearted one seen in Scream, one of the reasons I liked this is because it reminded of all those old classic slasher films from the 70's & 80's. While most of these films stuck to a simple premise they were pretty popular which is why so many were made I suppose & I Still Know What You Did Last Summer evoked memories of them for me, it's got the thunderstorm, the isolated cut off location, a cool hook handed killer who takes no nonsense, it's got some nice kills with decent amounts of blood & even though it's silly & improbable & they don't always work perfectly I rather liked the twists & turns which added that little something extra to the overall story. On the down side it also retains many of the problems with those early slasher films, the story is a bit one dimensional to say the least, the cast of young American teens are annoying especially Brandy's character who I'd have paid good money to see die, there are the usual fake scares & highly questionable coincidences which do stretch the films credibility to breaking point at times. It certainly moves along at a nice pace, I was never bored, while not the most gripping film ever I did actually want to follow it through & over it's 100 odd minute duration it entertained me & just for the record I also liked the really silly & cheesy ending scene.Director Cannon does fine, I think there's a decent atmosphere here & you can almost feel the warmth of the sun from some of the location shooting. I thought there were a few reasonably effective scare scenes & I have to say I really liked the way it's shot with regular muted soft colour schemes. There's some good gore as well, the killer gets to use his hook by sticking it in peoples hands, slashing their throats, dragging people across the floor with it embedded in their flesh, he sticks some garden shears in someones chest, there's a machete stuck in someones head, people are impaled on a harpoon & someone has the hook shoved through their throat.With a supposed budget of about $24,000,000 I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has that Hollywood polish about it & it's well made throughout although there is one scene which always bugs me because it could have been rectified so easily, it's at the end when Julie is firing a Colt revolver which holds 6 (count them 6) bullets & she fires at least 8 shots which is psychically impossible because 8 doesn't go into 6, obviously. Surely someone could have noticed this & just edited the scene down so she fired 6 instead of 8? The acting is alright, Hewitt is OK but that Brandy, urgh! It was nice to see Jeffrey Combs in a small role too.I Still Know What You Did Last Summer seems almost universally hated by just about everyone, that makes me even more pleased to try & balance things out a bit & confirm to a curious world that here are indeed film-goers out here that enjoy I Still Know Whay You Did Last Summer warts & all & if you don't like it sue me! Followed by the straight-to-video I'll Always Kow What You Did Last Summer (2006). "},{"Title":"A Must See Horror Sequel","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Still Know proved to be another success for the horror film industry.  Ben Willis(Muse Watson) is back with his shiny hook causing chaos as usual. Main cast members included Jennifer Love Hewitt, Matthew Settle, Mekhi Phifer, and Brandy. I am not sure if the cast compared to the original with names like Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Freddie Prinze Jr.  Prinze was also in the sequel as well, but his part was greatly downsized from the original.  Although the new cast may not have the names, they played their parts quite well.  I strongly believe the new guys will be power names in Hollywood before long. Jennifer Love Hewitt as always played her part with tremendous enthusiasm and in this thriller the success of the movie was put on her shoulders.  I would say she handled the pressures rather well. I found the film to be not quite as good as the original.  The plot on the sequel was a little unreal.  In the movie Julie James(JLH)and cast win a trip to the Bahamas by guessing the capital of Brazil.  When they get to this island called Tower Bay there are people running all over the place. By the next day there is not a soul on the island except for Julie and company, and the people who work on the island. This film may not be quite as good as the first, but it clearly out did Scream's sequel.  I Still Know is a must see for the horror enthusiasts.I give this movie 3 Stars. "},{"Title":"Worse then the original. Insipid motives and stupidity beyond imagination. * out of ****.","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1999) *Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Brandy, Freddie Prinze Jr., Mekhi Phifer, Muse Watson, Matthew Settle, and Bill Cobbs Directed by Danny Cannon. Running time 100 minutes. Rated R (for horror violence and gore, drug use, and for language)By Blake French	I Know What You Did Last Summer was released in late 1997. That slasher film was effective, mysterious, suspenseful, had a reasonably smart setup, and was filled with big thrills and memorably scary sequences. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is none of those things. Most of the story is taken from the first film, leaving the audience with few surprises. The filmmakers obviously imagined that viewers of this movie have already seen the original. For I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has no character development. Nor does it bother to inhabit introduction to the motives of the characters. It concludes with so much stupidity in its script, it is amazing this film ever got the green light in the first place. 	 I Know What You Did Last Summer detailed the misadventures of four young adults who accidentally ran over a fisherman named Ben Willis while drunk partying on the fourth of July weekend. They presumed he was dead, so made the conclusion that they should dump his body in a nearby lake instead of explaining their situation to the police. Ben Willis actually did not die, however, and he mysteriously came back to haunt the teens.  He ended up killing two of the four individuals, and mentally imprinting his horror in the minds of the survivors, especially Julie James. He is presumably killed at the end of the film.In I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, the film opens with Julie having nightmeres at school about her incident with Willis two summers ago. We then see that She has a few new friends, Karla Wilson, who has a boyfriend, Tyrell, and a new interest named Will Benson. The second remaining survivor, Ray, is still in the picture. The story has four teens, Julie, Will, Tyrell, and Karl, winning a trip to some tropical island on a radio station contest. The question asked  what is the capital of Brazil? They say Rio and jump up and down in joy of victory.Wait! Isn't the capital of Brazil Brasilia? Yes, as we learn later, it is indeed. So, why did the characters, who are so inane they don't know a simple geography question, win a trip to an exotic island in the middle of nowhere? Because the entire preparation is a setup brilliantly prepared by Ben Willis. He plans to lure the teens to a place where they will be unable to escape his clutches. The vacation spot is also a place where few people will stand in his way. But if the contest was rigged, why are there so many individuals, seemingly unconnected to any events proceeding, involved with the teens stay at their vacation? And just why would Ben Willis want to kill so many people that just happen to appear in the selected scenes? He kills because of passion, not craziness or relentless torment. This is obviously because the movie only features two surviving individuals from the last film. Thus is forced into providing audience pleasers for the lacking viewers craving such gory sequences.  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer has no common sense or intelligence. It continuously feeds us insipid sequences. For instance, there is a scene in the beginning where Julie hears someone in her house while she is alone. She tries to turn on her lamp, but it  burns out immediately. She grasps a large kitchen knife to defend herself assuming a murderer is in her presence. Then, after the movie builds up enough scary momentum, someone jumps out at her. It turns out to be Karla. But why would Julie's best friend sneak into her house late at night and not turn the lights on? And why would she jump out and scare Julie when she knows that she has been having some scary times in her life? We get this kind of material continuously. Then, finally, after several false shock moments, we actually begin to witness slasher scenes. But by whom? An old man with a hook for a hand who could easily be overtaken by several of his much strong and younger victims? Where can this horror flick go right?The movie offers a potentially scary atmosphere a deserted island with a hurricane on the rise. But doesn't that sound a bit like Jurassic Park? And I had another question dealing with the insanity of this production. If Ben Willis is so determined to seek revenge towards his victims, why does he always walk calmly towards his prey when if he picked up his pace a little, he could have easily prevent the person from escaping his claws. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is one of the stupidest movies to come down the pike in some time.  Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.  "}]