[{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Finally Disney has created an animation that isn't sugar-sweet!What usually bugs me about Disney's films is the constant bursting-into-song sequences that clog up the stories, and the comic side-kicks that keep making bad jokes. No such thing in Dinosaur! It's a serious movie that is very sad and partially cruel a wonderful tale of courage and survival, told with respect for the audience, with unpresidented animations. The dionsaurs merge seemlessly into the real surroundings, and they move and look absolutely real. Finally, computer animations have reached the stage where it doesn't look animated anymore!I was also very touched by Aladar's attempts to save the old dinos, and although I'm a grown-up, I jumped in my seat when the carnotaurs emerged. There was violence in this film cruel battles between carnivores and herbivores. And surging through it all there is a feeling of sadness and loss, for a world that is about to fade away into the pages of history.Thus, it's not for the smallest children, but it's a great story that treats it's audience with respect and pays homage to that great lost Earth that was buried in the dust millions of years ago.9/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was shear pleasure to watch. The movie looks visually absolutely stunning and the animation is done nicely. It's true eye-candy and entertaining as well.The movie has a typical adventurous story and feeling and is at times spectacular as well. Especially the beginning is impressively spectacular. There are some nicely done action sequences that are at times tense as well. My only true complaint of the movie are the characters. There isn't really any character development in the movie and we never really get to know the character or care much about them, this is probably mainly due to the short running time of the movie. Also of course the story itself is somewhat predictable but that doesn't take away any of the fun or entertainment value of the movie.Dinosaur fans will enjoy this movie as well, unless you're one of those persons who complains about the accuracy of the movie. This movie is entertainment, not a documentary.The musical score by James Newton Howard fits the movie like a glove and in my opinion he delivers one of his best and moving scores, in his career.There is much hate for this movie but quite frankly I can't see why. If you simply take the movie for what it is, you'll have a good time watching it. It's beautiful, adventurous and at times truly spectacular.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Dinosaur Classic","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am quite surprised at so many negative comments people have made. It's just a movie and one that is sheer entertainment. People seem to have a problem with the way violence is portrayed but I liked how the directors portrayed the brutally and the honest way death was portrayed. Thankfully, it's not excessively sugar-coated and there are some very sad scenes but it beautifully ends on the note of hope. I liked the way Leighton and Zondag told Enriquez's written story but I thought that some of the situations weren't developed. For example, how does Aladar adjust to the lifestyle of the dinosaurs considering that he was raised by lemurs. Most likely it may have been due to time constraint but nonetheless the current adventurous story of migration and survival is engaging and moving. Aladar's selfless attempts to save the dinosaur's are touching to watch as it reflects how the kind-hearted Plio raised him. The characters are enjoyable and the voice cast, that includes talents like Alfre Woodard, Joan Plowright and Ossie Davis do a fine job. D.B. Sweeney too does a very good job voicing Aladar. The animation is very detailed, giving the characters and setting a very authentic look. Even though the slight stop motion takes away from the realism, this is only a minor quibble. Newton Howard's score flows well with the story. 'Dinosaur' is sheer beauty and a pleasure to look at. It's a dinosaur classic and it's become one of my favourite dinosaur films. "},{"Title":"Another Advancement In Animation","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was yet another example, when it came out in 2000, of the latest strides being made in animation, computer-or-otherwise. At the time, I thought to myself, Man, this just gets better and better all the time. Six years later, I am still saying that but with newer animated efforts.Some of the scenes in here look so real you wouldn't know they were drawings. The colors are particularly good in the opening minutes. They are just stunning at times.The story is pretty interesting, too. It's not great, but not boring, either, and not too kid-oriented. Adults can enjoy this. In fact, I was surprised at the amount of violence. That, and some of the jokes actually make this more for adults than kids in many spots.I recommend the movie for its story and innovative techniques. "},{"Title":"Fantastic awe-inspiring family entertainment! ****1/2 out of 5","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a film that will delight viewers time and time again.It's terrific family entertainment that isn't afraid to venture into darker territory. There are carnivorous dinosaurs chasing herbivores and a giant asteroid that crashes towards earth. As tense as these scenes can be, it's okay. This is a Disney film that shows us in the end we can get through things by sticking together. Ultimately I feel that is the moral of this film and it's a good one.The music by James Newton Howard happens to be one of his best. It's beautiful and adventurous with themes that evoke a sense of wonder.The look of the film is fantastic. The dinosaurs look quite real and the scenery is nothing short of breathtaking.It's a film that contains all the right elements for a family masterpiece. Perhaps, my only wish is that it was a bit longer, but it is what it is and I am more than happy with it. It's a film that earns it's place along the great Disney classics such as The Lion King, Toy Story, Mary Poppins, and all the other classics.Bravo Disney! "},{"Title":"Could have been the best.  As it is, its the prettiest.","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When i heard that the original screenplay o this film planned no dialogue at all for the characters, i became even more disappointed at the end result. While a very good film Dinosaur certainly is, it could have been incredible. The visual effects alone are a sight to behold, never more so than in the opening sequence. This is probably the best stretch in the whole film for me; it's unsanitised by talking animals and genuinely feels like a prehistoric world (ignoring the multitude of historical inaccuracies like grass in the Mesozoic era, particular dinosaurs living side by side). Once the animals start to talk the film is bogged down by the shortcomings of the script, which is idealistic and morally exposition heavy, for the sake of the target audience. It also detracts from the illusion the film so effortlessly produces on the screen at the start; it all just becomes so standard an routine when it seemed to be so much more. With a weak script, the visuals no longer arrest like they did before and would have done had nobody talked. Without the amazing cgi, this could have almost been straight to video.I say almost because despite the shortcomings Dinosaur is a good movie; it's at times thrilling, exhilarating, touching and surprisingly intense, for a movie with a such a routine story. Had it had a better script it could have been great. Had it had no dialogue at all it could have been a classic and perhaps one of Disney's finest. The era of risk taking and inventiveness for the company seems to be at an end, or at least under suppression. Damn you Eisner! They were onto something this time. "},{"Title":"On a scale of 10, it's a 12","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Some of the complaints here are nitpicky things that kept me from rating Dinosaur a 14, but most are missing the point.This is a Disney movie.  Disney plots are straightforward, to reach the very very young as well as the rest of us jaded postadolescents.  Disney movies have talking animals in them.  And Disney characters use contemporary language.  Sometimes, they're downright hip.  Remember The Jungle Book? Louis Prima in the part of the orangutan, King Louie, singing, I'm the king of the swingers, ohhhh, the jungle V.I.P.  It don't get hipper than that. And Robin Williams' Genie in Aladdin...  I mean, if this is your gripe, then you just don't get Disney movies.Despite what you read about the animation getting old after the first sequence, it never lets down.  Disney's Tarzan was complex, but Dinosaur is insanely complex.  Plot points depend on shots that demonstrate heretofore impossible techniques.  And novel animation touches appear right up to the end.  (Anyone who complains about Earl sticking his face in the lens just didn't get that, either).This is absolutely a must-see--and must-see-again--film. "},{"Title":"Story's a fossil. But effects are high in the wow factor.","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take Terrific special effects make this film worth a million bucks. Through their discovery of the magic of CGI, Disney has brought their own expensive big-budget CG spectacle called DINOSAUR in 2000. Although CGI has already brought to life dinosaurs before in JURASSIC PARK and its sequel THE LOST WORLD JURASSIC PARK, sometimes DINOSAUR has certainly improved from which it started from. The special effects in DINOSAUR are truly spectacular. What's fantasy and what's reality is now indistinguishable.In terms of plot and story, however, DINOSAUR is still not well developed. The story is nothing new and for Disney, that's quite a disappointment. Disney, a master in both animation and storytelling, is now lacking in a new story to show. Still, nonetheless, DINOSAUR is still a wonderfully good-looking fantasy that appeals to kids and adults.The story is nothing original, as Disney simply owes from other animated movies, some of which is their own. The plot that dinosaurs, after a meteorite strike, creates a large famine leading to a search for a valley of fertility is recycled from both a segment in Disney's FANTASIA called The Rite of Spring, as well as Don Bluth's animated THE LAND BEFORE TIME. The lead character, an Iguanadon named Aladar, is separated from his mother, who is supposedly dead, is like the character of BAMBI in Disney's own animated film of the same title. The rest of the characters aren't new with any zing.Still, the film is an enjoyable showcase of fine special effects and excitement. It's still good as visual entertainment. A lot more fun to look at rather than to think about. I liked just looking at the very colorful effects, showing us numerous sights of dinosaurs of all shapes and sizes. The opening scenes were the most colorful, where we are taken to flight in the wings of a flying Pteranodon, switching from various scenery that is a breathtaking sight. There's a lot of imagination that went to the effects, and the heart is not forgotten.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Regular","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dinosaur has great graphics When I think of all animation movies I already watched, this one can be easily in the top5. Of course I cannot compare the dinosaurs from this movie to the ones of Jurassic Park, since they are very different from each other, but I can say that they both look very real. But this movie, in my opinion, has more points because of the animation then the story itself. It's cute, but with a very ordinary story; besides, there are some important errors here, specially in the beginning in the part of the meteor, when everything is destroyed in the Plio's island That Impact would kill not only the lemurs,but also many of the dinos. And by the way Lemurs and primates in general did not co-exist with dinosaurs!Even kids know that, come on. I will try to be less critic about this kind of errors,but taking them off, the story is cute. "},{"Title":"A film that goes both ways","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has terrific animation that is so life-like it makes Toy Story look like South Park (not that south park is bad).  The computer animated characters set behind (sometimes) real backgrounds brought back memories of Jurassic Park's visual dinosaur delights.  But there is a drop-off here.  Unlike Jurassic Park, this film is made by Disney, which means to sell to the kids, their had to be as much work put in to make human-like dinosaurs as there was to animate them.  And it struck odd to me that dinosaurs actually had human emotions and characteristics (and lemurs looked a whole lot different 65 million years ago).  Still, there is a two sided mirror to this film.  If you are looking for great animation and effect animation techniques, this film is calling for you more than a worried parent.  But if you are looking for a good story and characters, rent The Land Before Time (because this is a replica of it almost).  A- "}{"Title":"The 'Titanic' and / or 'Pearl Harbor' of CGI animated film","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My first glimpse of this film was an extended trailer (which is essentially the first 5 minutes of the film) in front of The Phantom Menace a few years back.  Everyone in the audience was stunned at the incredible visuals. And when it was over, there was a simultaneous Whoa... from everyone in the theater including myself.Then there was all this hoo ha about the inappropriateness of a Kate Bush song so the movie was re-edited and when it finally did come out, it came out rather quietly so I never got around to seeing it in the theater.I just caught the end of it tonight broadcast on the Disney Channel while doing some channel surfing.  They were gracious enough to show it 2 times back-to-back so I sat there and watched it all the way through on the second run.  I'm really mad at myself for forgetting to go and see it in the theater.  Broadcast cable television quality is garbage and what I saw on my television tonight blew me away - I can just imagine how it must have looked in the theater.Is this story a rehashed mix of Tarzan with a dinosaur and a pack of lemurs, and Land Before Time?  Yes.  Does it use the same technique of meshing CGI and live action backgrounds as Discovery Channel's Walking with Dinosaurs? Yes.  But given it took 12 years to make this film, I would believe that it was Walking with Dinosaurs that copied from this film.I am a big fan of CGI animation and I have to say that the first 20 minutes of this film that are set in mostly lush, tropical settings are some of the most impressive CGI / live action scenes I have seen yet.  It looks so real that I found myself having a hard time trying to figure out which elements were CGI and which were live action.Just as James Cameron's Titanic was a visual masterpiece, so is Dinosaur. If you'll remember Titanic won tons of awards for special effects, set decoration, and music.  'Best Background' if you will.  The story was predictable and boring (and I'm not talking about the fact that everyone knew the ship was going to sink either) and the dialogue was flat.  Same thing with Dinosaur.Just as Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor's attack scenes were visually spectacular and the rest of the movie pretty much was a waste - the same could be said for Dinosaur.  I really like the middle hour of Pearl Harbor (from where the Japanese fleet attacks to shortly after they withdraw).  I don't bother watching the rest of the movie.  With Dinosaur the first 20 minutes are incredible up until shortly after the asteroid hits and the last 10 minutes are also visually impressive.  Skip the middle.If you are looking for a perfect movie - this definately isn't it.  But if you are looking to see some incredible animation, there's a good 30 minutes of jaw dropping visuals that every CGI animation fan must see.Watch only the first 20 minutes and the last 10 minutes and this is a 9 out of 10.  Watch it complete and the middle drags it down to about a 5.The visuals were so good, I'm on my way to buy Dinosaur on DVD first thing tomorrow and have no intention of watching the middle hour of it. "},{"Title":"A Great film and also a hard to resist film too some and editing could be useful","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" this film is hard to resist, I watch it like 24/7 it's an amazing even though the plot is thin, the animation and the cast were the best part of the film, this film is like greatest film ever because of how realistic it looks real including the meteor crash, even though if a remake was being made they had to thicken the plot a bit but still keep the magic this film holds and also add a bit more cast members because their were like only 10 real characters that actually spoke words when the rest were just roars and grunts, so adding more characters would be great, also when i watch this i forget the fact it's a Disney film because of the little amount violence and the fact there is no songs because that would make it quite a silly film so i'am glad that they put any songs on. "},{"Title":"Take this movie for what it is","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" To enjoy this movie, you have to take it for what it is. I used to wonder if Disney were going to make a movie about dinosaurs and when they did, it wasn't a bad choice to combine GGI characters with real backgrounds.I was impressed by the trailer and when I finally saw Dinosaur first time, I liked some parts, but overall I found the movie a little mediocre. Seeing it for the second time, I appreciated and liked it more, so, once again you've got to take it for what it is to really enjoy it.The visuals is absolutely the big highlight of the film, especially combined with the beautiful and (in my opinion) quirky score of James Newton Howard. The characters are quite all right too (especially Aladar, Zini and Eema), although the film focuses more to move the plot forward. The only character I don't like is Kron. He's so straight forward and narrow-minded that he gets just uninteresting. I was never a fan of The Land Before Time (in fact I hated that movie), who has many similarities to Dinosaur. Like most of us know, the story is unoriginal and (as expected) comes with the usual Disney moral. But the real problem with this film is that it seems like the directors and screenwriters disagreed for which audience this movie would fit too (although it was rated PG). For kids it could be too scary (especially the Carnotaurs, not that I'm a coward, *laughing*) and for the older viewers some parts may be too childish.Like other Disney films, Dinosaur has some tender moments (for those who like romance, there's some of that, too), but the film it self is not too sugar-coated, it's surprisingly straight-forward and serious. There are some comical lines that makes you chuckle, but without sacrificing the integrity of the film. The first act, which shows Aladar's arrival at the lemurs, is actually portrayed in a different, more detailed way than Tarzan's arrival at the apes, which is refreshing to see.Overall, this is not a perfect movie, but it has some great moments, so I like it "},{"Title":"What is peoples problem?","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I honestly don't see why people are so upset whit this movie. Yes, there is talking dinosaurs, but how are you supposed to understand them otherwise. Mute dinosaurs walking around wouldn't be interesting at all and remember, this is a kid's movie. And yes, the animation might not be as good as in Jurassic Park, but this is a fully animated movie, JP used a mix of animatronics and CGI inside an otherwise live action movie, and in a interview I saw, Spielberg (or if it was a special effects guy, I don't remember) said that they would use the animatronics when ever possible and only cover up rigs and refine movement with the computer 'cause the CGI models looked like crap in comparison the robots. And yes, the story has been used before, but so has the story in most films we're watching today, only in varying degree and in different mixes and it's not like Disney is known for their originality story wise. As good as everyone of their Classics are based or inspired by other works.Personally I love this movie. The CGI is still good, and at times more realistic than many rushed animations we see today, the characters are fun to follow, unlike Land before Time were they were unbearable and made me hate the movie (even as a kid the first one was never my favorite) despite a similar story to Dinosaurs', which I by the way like, and the moral of it is a really good one. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have seen this movie many times over the years with my older children and they all have loved it. I have just introduced it to my 2 yr old. He loves it too!! After only a few days he knows almost all the words. Its an entertaining movie, that has a great story line of friendship, love, and acceptance for children. It shows how being a friend to all no matter what species, and age wins in the end. It shows how being mean and tough doesn't get friends. And to those that are complaining about the accuracy for the time period, I am pretty sure that the dinosaurs didn't talk either. I do like this movie better then the Land Of Times movies for kids. if you are looking for accuracy try a documentary "},{"Title":"I would have preferred some things to be changed, but overall I love this beautiful spectacle!","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Genre CGI and real-life-backgrounds film with dinosaurs.My thoughts All right, I have to admit some things. This could be better. I have to say that the CGI is perfect, beautiful, stunning real life backgrounds. THAT doesn't need to be changed. It's the characters. Well, not all of them. Most of them are fine as they are. Url, Kron and Bruton are not all that good. Oh and this film didn't need a herbivore baddie, they just needed the Carnotaurs, they could have just snipped out Kronk with a pair of scissors. Bruton and Url I am happy to stay, but for me to enjoy the film up to its highest level, it would have been better for Url to be less silly (this film DOES NOT need a silly character) and Bruton should have been in much longer, he shouldn't have played such a minor role. All of the other characters are fine. The other thing that could be changed in the film for me to make it top entertainment, is that SO FEW lemurs are in most of the film. There should be more travelling with Aladar across the desert.Otherwise, I love this film very much. It doesn't have much excitement (PHEW) and it doesn't need it! All these films nowadays have unnecessary excitement. Also, the characters (apart from Kron and partly Bruton) are warm, loving and likable. They also use good dinosaurs for the film and stick to the right era (unlike in the Land Before Time films, although they're good as well). I think this film is underrated and if people do not like this first time, or rate my comment not useful, then I think that they're DEFINITELY missing an important detail of this lovely film!Recommended to People who like dinosaurs, the best CGI around (along with Finding Nemo 's and The Polar Express 's), beautiful real backgrounds, lovely characters and a good storyline, which isn't all too exciting yet it doesn't make the film boring! Enjoy! -) What happens A mother Iguanadon has some beautiful eggs in her nest. Unfortunately, trouble is ahead for most of them, when a Carnotaur attacks, leaving most of the eggs more like raw omelettes&#133; "},{"Title":"My life story!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is truly an excellent example of how computer animation is supposed to be done, realistic look is unbelievable and the feeling of movie is unforget-able and need to see again like experience. extraordinarily well done expressions were so humanlike and had this thing called SOUL in them. Awesome accomplishment from animator/s! So many good things in it that if I try to write them all down I'll never leave this computer in this life. "},{"Title":"Amazing Visuals, Average Story...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As the title says, this movie has amazing visuals and is worth going to see or buy on DVD or VHS just for that reason. But the plot although interesting and immersive does seem quite weak and overall degrades the rating for this movie.Some of the characters vocals will make you sick and seem very inappropriate for this kind of movie but if the graphics were not so amazing then I would tell you to forget this movie. BUT WAIT!There is some sort of feeling you get while watching this movie either for the first time or for the fourth time. Maybe it's the amazing musical score provided by James Newton Howard, or the drop-dead gorgeous visuals or maybe the story isn't too bad after all. It is hard to explain but I would say that this movie is a MUST buy on DVD and maybe worth renting on VHS.IMDb Rating 8/10 Percentage Rating 82% "},{"Title":"A Prehistoric Potboiler That Simmers With CGI Excitement.","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Although nobody has ever seen a real-life dinosaur, the multi-million dollar, computer-generated replicas stomping and chomping through Dinosaur appear pretty close to what scientists imagine the actual animals may have resembled. This predictable but entertaining tale set in the late Cretaceous Period some 65-million years ago seamlessly integrates live-action footage with sophisticated, cutting-edge digital animation.Unfortunately, all the visual special effects magic in Hollywood cannot make up for the depressing, often preachy Dinosaur plot that recycles elements from last summer's Tarzan as well as Disney's The Land Before Time. Basically, this above-average kiddies' opus emerges as a prehistoric spin on Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom TV series.Nimbly directed by Eric Leighton and Ralph (We're Back!&#151;A Dinosaur's Story) Zondag, Dinosaur starts with an incredible ten-minute sequences that not only sets the story into motion but also showcases the impressive advances in computer animation since Toy Story. When a bloodthirsty carnivore (a T-Rex style dino with nose horns) rampages through a herd of peaceful dinosaurs that have just laid their eggs, only one egg survives the catastrophe. A variety of scaly scavengers fight over this egg like the proverbial hot potato until a Pterodactyl snags it and flies across oceans and continents before it loses the egg on Lemur Island, too.A family of primates discovers the egg, and baby Aladar (voice of D.B. Sweeney) wins the hearts of grouchy head lemur Yar (voice of Ossie Davis) and single mom Plio (voice of Alfre Woodward). Naturally, the monkeys adopt this over-sized orphan as one of their own. Of course, Disney writers John Harrison and Robert Nelson Jacobs have taken liberties with history. Lemurs and dinosaurs didn't co-exist, but these historical errors can be condoned as long as they heighten the entertainment value. Oh, yes, Iguanadons are T-Rexes without a bad attitude, but they can swing a mean tail in close-quarters combat. All this peace and prosperity ends spectacularly when a meteor shower devastates Lemur Island, and our animal heroes must flee.Aladar, with his lovable Lemur family clinging to his back, joins up with a herd of dinosaurs crossing an arid desert (like the Jews out of Exodus) to a fabled paradise called the Nesting Grounds. Initially, the idealistic Aladar butts heads with the bossy head dino Kron (voiced of Samuel Wright) who is willing to sacrifice the older dinosaurs, Baylene, a huge Brachiosaurus (voice of Joan Plowright), and Eema, a sluggish styrachosaur (voice of Della Reese), to keep a couple of predatory carnivore at bay. Aladar disagrees with Kron's survival-of-the-fittest strategy and fights the carnivores to save these older, slower dinosaurs.Although the House of Mouse sank nearly $200-million into this ambitious, eye-catching epic, the Disney Studios should have anted up at least a tenth of their lavish budget on a story as creative and original as their special effects wizardry. "},{"Title":"Land Before Time VI....-)","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, if you take the Land Before Time, make it into a completely CGI film, you get this. Throw in some big name voicers(Della Reese, Ossie Davis, etc.), the standard Lion King type plotlines and sidekicks...you get the idea. It was fun to watch, it's a little short, hmmmm, the theatre was packed with 3-8 year olds who were entralled...I think that Disney could try to shake up the story telling just a little more, but over all, this isn't bad. I'm 34, I had fun watching it, and I think most of you out there will too.Just don't go expecting anything greatly orig. storywise.*** outta ****, great F/X carry the day, pretty good villains too. "}{"Title":"Oh my childhood...","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" IMDb's suggestions brought me back to my life in the early 2000's. The plot, the effects of this movie... I used to watch it almost everyday. I hope someday my kids are able to watch this. This movie kinda changed my life. It improved, side by side to Jurassic franchise, my reading skills as a kid, because I wanted to know more, and more and more about dinosaurs, and consequently, nowadays, I read for living. I'm feeling nostalgic to remember the right amount of violent, romantic, friendly moments of this movie. I can totally suggest this animation to parents. To let their kids watch this. When Disney makes a good animation, it is unforgettable. The Aladar's journey is inspiring, bringing a message of hope and bravery. To see the beauty in the most difficult times. "},{"Title":"Great movie great characters but reused plot","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I want to get this out there I loved this movie. However it's the story line, people its Moses again a young-ling is separated from its kind and is raised by someone else re united with his kind and emerges a leader. Reused but okay another thing is THEY TALK! Come on I thought they were going for a serious approach and with the story they're trying to tell I think you can't do it with this kind if dialogue. However I liked aladars character and his compassionate nature, I liked when bruton realized his mistakes and is willing to die, and I loved the elderly dinosaurs who despite being slow still have hope. The one quirk is the talk you can't have that dialogue with this kind of story. Despite that it is a great movie with great action and lessons that remains as one of my favorite Disney films "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated childhood movie that I still love today!","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I mean, I don't understand why lots of people hated this movie. Sure, it isn't a masterpiece due to it's flaws that I will point out in a moment, but before I can get to those flaws, I would like to point out the redeeming qualities. I like the premise An iguanadon named Aladar and his adopted family of monkeys walk to find a new home after their's was destroyed by a meteorite to find themselves in a conflict by joining the other dinosaurs led by Kron and Neera while being chased by Carnotaurs and velociraptors. It was very interesting, but Disney, being a master of storytelling, didn't bring anything new to the story and it's character development was lacking.The characters, while undeveloped, are at least likable and the voice acting suited them really well. The script has some nice moments including the romance between Aladar and Neera which makes them a very cute couple to watch. The music from James Newton Howard is amazing and has been stuck to my head since I was a little child when I watched this a few more times. The strongest aspect goes to the computer animation. The prehistoric environments are amazing and are some of the best visuals I've ever seen in an animated film from my childhood.Overall, Dinosaur may not be a masterpiece, but I still love it today and I think this would always be recommended to those who like computer animation and traditional animation. "},{"Title":"Amazing animation and quality story","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved the opening to this movie, which was one of the most interesting 10 minute openings I have ever seen. It reminded me of Milo & Otis, but all of the excitement and interest wrapped up in a mere 10 minutes, instead of an entire movie - and Milo & Otis was good too! The animation was so lifelike that I was regularly unsure what was computer generated and what was real. And this came out in 2000? Seriously, but for the 3D elements, this was a lot better graphically than Avatar - and this was some 9 years earlier! Truly a masterpiece of cinema. The story was very interesting though it lost a couple of points for 1) unnecessarily making the dinosaurs appear a bit too much like humans and 2) in many ways the story ripped off The Land Before Time - though not entirely. It wasn't a big hit at the box office and if you watch it, you can see why. They tried to make the dinosaurs relatable by giving them human-like features, including their front legs looking and acting more like hands than they should. They even had some dinosaurs that acted more like dogs! Perhaps this is justifiable in a sense but it isn't actually realistic. The story was a good moral lesson for kids and generally I think would be great for kids to watch but it also had something in it for adults, and adults could enjoy the lessons. The story was genuinely interesting and not at all predictable. While there were violent elements, I would still think that children could enjoy it. Overall, a very good piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"If only the plot were so good as the animation","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Just like Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, Dinosaur is an exercise of style over substance. While the animation from this film is incredibly good (Even by modern standards) the plot lacks of any kind of interest, being shallow and unoriginal. And to get it worse, it is incredibly boring. The beginning of the film is quite impressive actually. Without any dialogue (Besides a brief opening narration), that first sequence is way more interesting than the rest of the movie, which basically is some sort of CGI version of The Land Before Time, but lacking of all the charm and the endearing characters from that film. And that's why Dinosaur doesn't work Besides of the good animation, the plot remains bland and dull, with many scenes that are pretty to look at, but are quite forgettable, at best. All the attempts to include some elements of comedy in the serious context of the story are ineffective, being most of them quite annoying. Dinosaur could be magnificent in what concerns to the visual aspect, but sadly, it fails at the most important thing Being entertaining. It is way too silly and shallow too be interesting for the adults, but at the same time, it is way too boring and heavy-handed to be enjoyable for the kids. To be honest, I enjoyed more any episode from Walking with Dinosaurs than this. "},{"Title":"Pure Art!","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie has stuck with me for years. I was hooked when I was 3, and I still adore it! I was relieved to see a Disney film where there isn't somebody bursting into song throughout the film. This is a bittersweet movie, and has everything. Happy, sad, regretful, adventurous, romantic, tense, and humorous moments. The animation is wonderful, the dinosaurs blending in beautifully with the environment. The characters each have their unique personalities, some evil, others good. The plot is amazing, and you are truly captivated by what the characters are going through. I still have my moments when I'm sitting on the edge of my seat for what is about to happen, and I have seen the movie countless times. I do not think this is for a younger audience, though. Even I am shocked by some of the violence and such in the film, but is necessary and only helps with the entertainment. I only wish it was longer! 9/10. You will not regret watching it. "},{"Title":"A childhood movie which is still amazing over 10 years later","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie, when it first came out, was one of the most advanced movies I had ever seen. I was very impressed with it and thought it was the coolest computer animated movie ever. The dinosaurs were very realistic, the music was amazing, and so on. My family had just moved to a new house when I had seen the movie, and I remember during the moving process that I had gone to the basement to re-create the nest with eggs using Play-Doh.I got to now see this movie many years later. My gosh has technology improved since then, but this movie still seems to be a milestone of modern graphics and amazing scenes to me. Anyway, the movie is still as great as it was years ago. I enjoyed the plot, the suspense wasn't as suspense as it could have been, which for younger kids would be great.No swearing, minimal violence, almost no sexual references, my gosh what a great movie that didn't have any of the 'modern world' *** in it. I love it! Rated 9/10. ) "},{"Title":"Possibly the Most Visually Stunning Film of All-Time!","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I first saw the trailer for Dinosaur on my previews of my Tarzan VHS and I immediately said Wow and begged my parents to go see it. I saw it about a month after its May 19 (a year after the release of The Phantom Menace) release in theaters and it was so good I wanted to see it again. It's the story of an iguanodon named Aladar (voiced by D.B. Sweeney) who, when he and his lemur family, Plio (voiced by Alfre Woodard), Zini (voiced by Max Cassela), Yar (voiced by Ossie Davis), and Suri (voiced by Hayden Panettiere) were almost extinct from an eye-popping meteor shower, they follow a herd of the remaining dinosaurs lead by the stubborn and unreasonable Kron (voiced by Samuel Wright). Along the way they'll befriend a feisty triceratops named Eema (voiced by Della Reese), a courageous brachiosaur named Baylene (voiced by Joan Plowright), a carefree stegosaurus named Url, and an iguanodon named Neera; they'll also dodge blood-thirsty carnotaurs on their voyage to the nesting grounds. This movie has just about everything great story, great characters, action-packed climax, suspense, stunning, unbelievable graphics, and a great film score composed by James Newton Howard. I recommend this to anyone who loves dinosaurs, a fan of Disney, or looking for a movie to watch with the whole family. Rating10/10 "},{"Title":"A film that looks beautiful, but has some very frightening scenes.","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I thought Dinosaur was a lovely film. The computer animation is beautiful, and I thought the music score was wonderfully dynamic. The vocal ensemble, lending their voices to a very likable bunch of characters, do a very commendable job, especially Samuel E.Wright, DB Sweeney, Joan Plowright and Haydn Pannettiere. My complaints with the movie are that the carnotaurs were very frightening, and some parts do drag in the story particularly in the middle. Still, it is redeemed by some beautiful animation, likable characters and very interesting parts in the script. In conclusion, compared to what it could have been, not that bad at all, though it never was supposed to surpass Pixar delights like Toy Story. 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"The greatest animation","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I do not animation like it . This animation is completed in all ways. The sound,story,drawing,and the direct. I want to see another animation like it. Please guide me. On other hand this movie told us to be one man against the problems ,the hman being should do that. I sew ano0the animation but like it I really do not see. Dinosaur I saw it over 120 times. I like the sound effect so much. If one of you did not say it, he did not the truly animation although it produced before 7 years. Tis animation did not any diadvantage in my opinion except it has not get it the powerful ad like another animation.In the end thank you to read my comment and forgive my because of my language. "}{"Title":"My kid and I loved it!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have read some very negative comments about this movie and I think some people take themselves way too seriously!! This is a movie, people, and a Disney at that, so please just relax and let yourself be entertained! The plot is simple, but there are a few minor twists that keep things interesting. And the word 'animation' to describe this movie seems to be a misnomer; this is not a cartoon or even a cardboard-cutout lay-over a-la Toy Story. 'Computer-generated action' or animation would be better terms, since the characters all look 'real', especially to a child. I was impressed with all the nuances that were caught, such as the way pupils dilated, the way flesh of the creatures' bodies shook with movement. If you want to get deep into meanings, the film is also a story about how being arrogant and self-centered (Kron) and not being willing to accept others' input, eventually brings you down; and how standing together can help defeat evil. My kid can't get enough of this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the better Disney efforts","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an excellent effort by Disney to ditch the cutey image and produce something with a little more 'edge' to it.  The Dino's are cute as you would expect but several of them dont make the end of the film and are dispatched in a manner not usually seen in a Disney film.The characterisations are excellent, script is good and the animations is .. well .. Disney.  Its the best Disney film for a while, minus the tedious songs that are put in to sell CD's.  More films like this from Disney would put them back on a level playing field with Pixar and Dreamworks.  "},{"Title":"Great, great movie","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is a very cool movie, it's one of Disneys better films.  First plus no songs, songs just wouldnt fit for this movie.  Another plus is the soundtrack, it is all instrumental and it too is very nice and coveys emotion well.  The digital effects in this movie are some of the best Ive seen since the Phantom Menace, Aladars skin looks so very real in all the shots!  The plot is a little loose but it doesnt take away from you being able to enjoy the movie, also the only real enemy is two T-rex like Carnatours.  Aladar has a soft spot for the older dinos but at the same time he still has anger within him, giving his character depth.  And by far Zini, Aladar's lemur brother, is one of my favorite characters as he self proclaims himself the love monkey.  This movie is a must see, but maybe not for the younguns, several dinos do die, which adds to the real feel of this movie.    "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Very good cartoon movie, superb effects and wonderful graphics. This is the best cartoon i have ever seen before.The story is slightly similar to other dinosaur movie but this one got all the spices, humour,story and excellent screenplay.  "},{"Title":"Yes, the Carnotaurus WAS a real dinosaur","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, I need to clarify this.  So many other people have commented on how Dinosaur doesn't look as good/wasn't as good as Toy Story 1 and 2. Well, Pixar is the name of the company that made those movies.  Pixar has an 5 movie contract with Disney.  The Toy Stories, the upcoming Monsters Inc., and A Bug Life were created by Pixar and released under the Disney name. Now, Dinosaur was made by Walt Disney Feature Animation.  This was their first attempt at making a CGI film.  I think for a first try, they did pretty damn good.A lot of the critiques of this film are just Disney bashing, for its own sake.  I'm sure if this film had been produced by another studio it would have received a more positive reception from some imdb users.  We expect perfection from the Mouse, and they don't quite deliver here.  Some people just hate Disney to hate Disney.  I prefer to rate the film, not the studio that made it.  Dinosaur has its good moments and its bad ones.  It's not a bad film, but it's not wonderful either.  It's just average.I think the visuals in this movie are beautiful.  To my eye, the CGI dinosaurs and the live action background plates don't quite mesh together, creating an otherworldly feel.  It doesn't look quite real, and that is okay with me.  I got chills during the courtship scene.  I didn't think anything of how (supposedly, according to reviews I have previously) Disney is teaching children bizarre sex rituals.  I took it for what it was; the sunset and the music and the lemurs flitting from vine to vine just captivated me.The 2 disc DVD set is well worth the extra ten bucks.  You get a ton of making of bonus features and deleted scenes.  The amount of work that went into each scene just boggles my mind; DVD users, check out the section on the meteor strike.  There are about 8 layers of special effects in just this one shot of Aladar running towards the camera.I was mesmerized just watching how each creature moved.  I found myself looking at the muscular structure of the lemurs and being impressed at the accuracy.  Eema actually moved like something who was carrying far too much weight.  The Iguanadons, though ugly, moved well and I liked that they shook themselves like dogs.  That was an interesting touch.  You could actually see skin settling and fur moving in a realistic manner.  I liked that the animators thought to include the Iguanadon thumb spike in the few battle scenes, as they were probably used for just that fighting amongst males, and defense.  My only problem with movement, overall, was Baylene's rearing up to knock down a stone wall; scientific evidence has shown that sauropods were probably too heavy to do this.As far as the character animation goes, the film has its good and bad moments.  I didn't like Aladar's horse face expressions very much.  The animators couldn't do much with the stiff facial muscles of real Iguanadons, so they animated Aladar sans beak, and with the facial muscles of a horse instead.  This looks awkward at times, especially for 3/4 view and front facing shots.  Yar's flapping jowls put me off at first, until I realized that was supposed to convey age.  At first viewing I thought he was supposed to be toothless.  Neera just had a scary, scary head; an Iguanadon with a horse face AND girly cheekbones?  Uh, no thanks. Kron and Bruton looked very similar, and very ugly.  I'd imagine that Iguanadons were much more uniform looking than this film would have us believe.And yes, I liked the way the villains were handled.  The Carnotaurus pair were animated very well.  I'm glad they didn't give them some hokey villain voices.  We didn't have to deal with any overblown, villainous monologues. I'm glad their role in the film was kept simple also; they were simply hungry dinosaurs.  That herd must have looked like easy pickings to them. And yes, the Carnotaurus was a real dinosaur that did exist at one time. They did have those horns.  Disney didn't make these guys up, they just borrowed an obscure dinosaur from history since the T Rex has been used so much in other films.Now, the bad stuff.  I cringed at some of the dialogue (jerkasaurus), and I didn't like the prevalence of modern slang coming out of the mouths of dinosaurs and lemurs.  The monkey jokes were awful.  And that line about the buffet of love was pretty much lost on the film's target audience, older children.  I didn't like that the dinosaurs called each other by scientific names we humans gave them well after digging up their bones. How odd it was to have Eema explain to Aladar what a Carnotaurus was.  And why in the hell does a dinosaur keep a pet dinosaur, anyway?  Url should have been dropped from this movie.  I wanted him to be picked off by the raptors.The plot is simple.  I'll have to admit, when I first saw the teaser trailer my mind started to whirl with possibilities.  My heart sank when I heard there would be dialogue.  Like I mentioned before, the slang is uneccessary.  Why does one dinosaur (Baylene) have a british accent?  The moral at hand for this film was teamwork.  Harmless enough.  But how do you explain to a child that, in real life, the weaker herd members are killed off in most animal species?  That a straggling oldster is sure to be ignored by any animal species you can name.  That dumbing down of the food chain bothered me a little.  But then I remembered, this is a kid's movie.  And the mixing of species from different time periods was sort of a puzzle to me as well.  I can place Eema and Aladar in the same time period, and thats about it.  Those lemurs are modelled after modern day lemurs, not any primitive types.  I'm not sure why they stuck them in there, but they are pretty damn cute.Overall, I find this film to be a flawed masterpiece.  It is not a family film.  I would not allow any child younger than 10 to view it, however, as there as strong depictions of violence and some intense dinosaur fights. I hated the prevalence of Disney morals.  I thought the score was excellent. I enjoyed the dinosaur sounds, trumpets, squeaks and roars.  I wanted Url to be eaten.  This is a film for the hard core Disneymaniac, dinosaur enthusiast and animation buff.  Be thankful the Old Gotoma subplot (as seen on the deleted scenes of the DVD) was dropped.  Enjoy the movie! -) "},{"Title":"WOOHAA","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Like the tagline says, you've never seen anything like Dinosaur, at least not from Disney. The good people of the Magic Kingdom have been in a rut for a little while in my opinion. They've managed to make some the most classic and well loved stories into sugar-coated, campy musicals (who ever heard of singing gargoyles). Now these all work well for little kids, but I was ready for a movie that would stand out in some way, and I found that with Dinosaur.For one thing, the visuals are astounding. You could turn the t.v. on mute and still enjoy it. Some of the scenes, especially at the beginning, literally take your breath away. The viewer experiences a myriad of locations from the lush rainforests to sand dunes to caves and back again. The amazing thing is that all of the backgrounds are real.For another thing the story is great. Don't go in expecting an incredibly deep movie with sharp dialogue. These are dinosaurs. Their brains aren't that big. They can't use large words. Nevertheless, the story is compelling, and for once I actually felt some emotion with a Disney movie. You really pity the old Dinosaurs who can't keep up (one of whom is voiced by Della Reese, which made me incredibly happy). You really feel the love of the lemur family and you really feel the fear of a carnotaur attacking you. The plot may not by sophisticated, but there is substance.And for a third thing the music meshes perfectly with the rest of the film. The composers expertly use different world music combined with a dramatic orchestral score to provide a very dinosaur-esque soundtrack. It's really beautiful.This movie isn't for the faint of heart, but I think a mature audience will really enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"An incredibly well done movie","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie was absolutely amazing. The way Disney created this movie seemed so realistic that you felt as though you were there.This movie is definitely recommended for people of all ages. A definite must see. "},{"Title":"A Charming, Warm Hearted Film","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I went into Dinosaur expecting the worst, considering the poor reviews I read. I actually ended up enjoying this film quite a bit. The plot was typical disney formula, ripped almost entirely from Tarzan, yet I found myself delighting in the on screen drama like a small child. Dinosaur is a very engaging movie that succeeds because it portrays nature in a realistic manner (no doubt responsible for the rare PG rating for a Disney animated feature), all the while managing to keep that magical charm Disney is famous for. The technology here is simply astounding as well.  "},{"Title":"Good or bad? Depends on view!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur had me at mid-expectation. When I go watching a Disney-movie with my girlfriend I expect light, humorous entertainment. I enjoyed, Hercules, Tarzan, and Mulan, along with the others on video. I expected a similarly pleasing experience with Dinosaur. I was surprised by the seriousness of the movie. The visuals were amazing. Impressive camera angles, nice pans and a soundtrack that I found very good - but that's a matter of taste, I guess. The animations might not have been flawless, but what would you expect with *speaking* dinosaurs? Dinosaurs from different periods were wildly mixed, along with a few mammals. But this was a movie, not a documentary. I expect to be entertained, not educated. (My recommendation for a documentary Walking with Dinosaurs) I found Dinosaur in a few instances maybe a bit too strong for young kids in the depiction of violence.Someone commented that the movie would have gained a lot if the dinos hadn't been speaking. And that reminded me of the French movie The Bear (I hope that's that title in English) in which a baby bear is orphaned and struggles for survival in the French mountains. The movie involves almost no speech, only the occasional narrator and a few words by humans that the bear (unfortunately) encounters. I think Dinosaur could have worked very well without spoken dialogue, too, maybe even better.Some people criticized about the plot. The script was modelled as a western movie with dinosaurs and if you go into the movie with that knowledge you quickly recognize the patterns - trek, dangers, rivalries about leadership, etc.Whether you like it or not depends on what you are looking for. It is NOT a realistic documentary-style movie. It is also NOT a Disney-movie in the style of Pocahontas, Mulan, or Aladdin. The plot is NOT of the depth of War and Peace or a Stanley Kubrick movie. If you keep that in mind you can expect to be well entertained by an adventure story with exciting visuals. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw it just last night and i must admit Disney have outdone themselves again. The visual effects were so good I really thought that the whole scenery was real. But wasnt the story kind of short? And is it me or did the film resemble The Land Before Time? (you know, the fact that the lead dinosaur was an orphan and the fact that different breeds of animal went off to find the green land on their own. Oh and the tyrannous (cant spell it) rex was killed at the end.) I really expected a bit more acrion, with it being a PG and all. It just ended too quickly for me.Otherwise I thought it was really good. Id give it 8 out of 10.   "}{"Title":"An Absolutely Stunning Disney Flick.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you are thinking Dinosaur is just going to be a Land Before Time rip off, then your wrong, because Dinosaur was incredible! The cinematography really took my breath away, while the CGI's and directing effort left me amazed. The story is beautiful, and though it may not be for the slightly older students and adults, it is still an entertaining and absolutely stunning Disney flick for any fans of brilliant and well-done dinosaur movies. Dinosaur was really underrated, and should of been appreciated more as it was a really awesome film to watch. You should catch it on the big screen before it goes, on there it is even more good!Rating 9 "},{"Title":"An underrated animated experience.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As usual, some of the best films that our time has seen have been underrated by many critics. Dinosaur is one of them. It is not just one of those 3-D Land Before Time Movies. It is, like, the trailer said, something no one has ever seen before. It is one of the most entertaining and fulfilling animated cinematic experiences I have ever seen. The cinematography is breathtaking, the story is great, the acting is good, the visual effects are stunning, the production and decoration are excellent, and it doesn't look like it is animated, it looks real. I guarantee, Dinosaur is worth all your money, because it took alot of effort and work to get this movie together, and it deserves alot more praise. My rating 9 "},{"Title":"You..Have..Never..Seen..Anything..Like..This","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is absolutely breathtaking. It is done just the way I like it, straight to the point, with a good story, excellent cinematography, awesome visual effects, lots of effort and perfectly editing and a spark of every genre there is. I recommend you see it.It is finally an animated Disney feature film that children will love and see again and again without making the adults gag.Dinosaur is #36 on My Top 150 Films of All Time.My Rating 9/10. "},{"Title":"Megasaur","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was destined to be another milestone in animation movies. The computer images are closest thing to perfect, resulting a vivid-dinosaurs acts.The first minutes able to put our jaws open wide, in case you haven't seen the preview in 'toys story 2'. BUt there's more to be seen here than the journey of an uncracked egg.The creatures, on the other hand are too perfect. Making it closer to animation than a real creatures. But the details are very good and the combinations between computer images and photography techniques really done it.The story almost trapped in a disney's tarzan frame, but in the middle it's able to find it's own style, although too predictable and basic (hey, it's a usual animation movie, right?). But still enjoyable.In the end, it's just another stunning things we can see, thanks to the computer graphic magic and another movie innovation. Hopefully there's more interesting and breakthrough movie we can see presented in this quality and details.A must see movie. "},{"Title":"If you like animation or dinosaurs, you shouldn't miss this film.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Overall, Disney has managed to create the best dinosaur animation to date. Grand scale, great dinos and a seamless blend of the real world and computer. Walking with Dinosaurs has a slight edge on realistic movement, but Dinosaur is the overall winner. Kids will love it as will animations freaks like myself. Those of you who are concerned about plot development, continuity or any other technical aspects of story development, you are watching the wrong movie. This is basically a 3D Disney cartoon. Entertainment is the key and Dinosaur delivers. "},{"Title":"could be a classic","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for Dinosaur, I was amazed. It went on my must-see list immediately. Seeing as there was no talking in it, I somehow got the idea that the whole movie was going to be sans dialogue. A bold move, I thought, makes me want to see it even more.I should have known better.Before long, I'd heard the disappointing truth Dinosaur was going to be another Talking Animal movie. Then I actually went and saw the movie and was surprised to find I LIKED watching these animals talk. For the first time, a full cast of digitally animated characters is set against a live background and it works. They weren't trying for absolute realism here. These monsters aren't as real looking as those in Jurassic Park or The Lost World. This, I believe, is intentional. What the animators were going for here was Beauty. The most daunting challenge Disney's new digital studio faced was getting audiences to forget how the movie was made and concentrate on the story-something Pixar was able to pull off with both Toy Story films. Like Toy Story, Dinosaur is an enormous achievement because it surpasses simply being a technical marvel to end up being a really Good Film.Seeing as nobody knows exactly what caused the dinosaurs' extinction or even how they really behaved with each other, the filmmakers give themselves a lot of license when it comes to historical accuracy. If you go, or I should say, When you go see it, don't expect the most original of stories. Dinosaur follows the Disney formula closely. The odd-man-out story line they've employed time and time again--you know the one--the main character is rejected by or separated from his own people, makes a journey of self-discovery, then finds the courage to institute change and become a hero to the people from which he was estranged. I'm not complaining. I loved this movie. The Disney formula is a good one and, as long as they come up with original ideas to plug into it, I'll keep going to see the movies they make.The odd-man-out hero here is Aladar, a young iguanadon, who is separated from his mother in an attack by a carnotaur. He's then found by a family of lemurs and, in a plot point that resembles Disney's own Tarzan a bit too closely, rejected at first, but then accepted into the clan. The Tarzan thread continues when Aladar starts feeling pangs of loneliness watching the girl and boy lemurs pair off. All hope of finding a suitable mate seems lost. A meteor then crashes into the ocean, destroys half the world, and sends Aladar and his surviving family members on a desperate search for a new place to live. Aladar and his family soon come across a herd of dinosaurs traveling across the desert to the nesting grounds. Kron, a fellow iguanadon and the herd's leader, believes in the survival-of-the-fittest philosophy of life and has no pity for the weaker, slower members of the herd. Aladar believes that everyone can make it across the desert safely if they all work together. It is upon this conflict that the rest of the story is built. Oh, and Kron has a sister, Neera. She's single and Kron would like to keep it that way.There's no telling how long people's fascination with these huge beasts will last. My theory is, it's only just beginning. The only thing more intriguing than thinking about the world they lived in is thinking about how they became extinct. The most popular theory nowadays is that an outside force, such as a giant meteor hitting the earth, was responsible. It's the most scientifically plausible explanation. This gives us a sense of connectedness with the dinosaurs. Just as humans now rule the earth in the age of mammals, dinosaurs ruled the earth during the age of reptiles. When we stand and stare at the bones of one of these creatures in a museum, the question is not &#145;Will it happen to us,' but rather, &#145;How long before it happens to us?'So now that the technology is available, a special effects-driven dramatic film with recounting the dinosaurs' struggle in the aftermath of a meteor hitting the earth HAD TO HAPPEN. This put the film's creators under a lot of pressure to create a work that would give people what they were looking for. Only time will tell if they succeeded. I know I'm happy with it.Grade A-   "},{"Title":"Was a very interesting movie!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I took my grandkids all under the age of seven and they loved it. They can't wait for it to come out in video. Want to go see it again! I also enjoyed the movie, the movie was great for all ages. I will buy this movie as soon as it comes available in video. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, realistic animation, beautiful backgrounds, no plot","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to see an exclusive preview of this film, not yet released in Australia. The producer Pam Marsden was there for the presentation too. AFter the showing she told the audience about the making and the lengths the computer animators went through to get realism into the characters and scenes. So, obviously, the movie should appeal to anyone who is interested in computer animation and/or filmmaking. By the end of the film I was still dazzled by the beautiful animation (especially the fur on the leemurs) but left thinking that the plot could've fitted into 30 minutes. Of course the story is made so children will understand, but thinking to the last Disney movie I saw (Tarzan), it had a lot more substance, humour, and fun which Dinosaur just didn't. On another note, the music for Dinosaur is quite good and interesting in that there aren't any lyrics or a famous voice behind it. "},{"Title":"Good for all ages.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"   I really enjoyed this digital projection cartoon! Any one of any age would if they wanted to be  absorbed by the simple plot that takes these animated creatures on a trek toward survival and and decency.  Mike Foley.  "},{"Title":"Jurrasic Park meets Toy Story.","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The jury is still out on this on, I've only seen it once and found it a strange mixture of the 'Photorealistic' dinosaurs from Jurassic Park, yet with human qualities given to the dinosaurs ie facial expressions and the ablility to talk. As an animation student I loved the CG stuff and the scenery in some parts was just breathtaking, in the opening few minutes when Aladar as an egg is passed from one dinosaur to another, he is taken in the beak of a giant bird and if your stomach doesn't drop as it soars over a cliff edge showing a 2,000 + ft drop on the other side, you must be clinically dead.The animation is brilliant, the facial expressions on the animals especially the monkey characters is great and the meteor storm that forces Aladar and his adoptive family to flee is just spectacular. I've read some of the other comments about this film, and some of them, seem to be picking holes for the sake of it, one stated that the dinosaurs were the wrong colour and they walked differently, to me this is just sematics, if you want realism to that extent, you want 'Walking with Dinosaurs' from Discovery not Dinosaur from Disney.I must admit finding the talking idea a bit hard to handle to begin with coupled with the ultra realism of the dinosaurs but after a while you just accept it, although I am glad they drew the line at having the dinos sing a la the usual Disney style.The story is well worn, and taken straight from  'The Land Before Time', you have the feeling that with the amount of films that seem to have this story all the dinosaurs would be living in happy retirement in a green, sunlit valley.All in all a good film, fairly typical Disney, brilliant animation - regardless of the story (which I would have to say is the only real down side to this) the good guys (plant eaters or Veggie Saurus as the are referred to in Jurassic Park) and the bad guys meat eaters - (if I was A T-rex or similar  creature I might want to sue for deformation of character) and a meaningful story, in this case, survival of the fittest may be the case in the Jungle, but when your a Disney Dinosaur you take care of the smaller and weaker guys as well, proving that team work is the way to go, which to me isn't such a terrible message.some who take small children might want to look out for the 'Bad Guy - Meat Eaters' happily chomping a on some of the smaller less fortunate creatures, nothing gory, but some younger viewers might find it a bit too 'real'.Remember this is a film and a Disney film at that, it's not a documentary, although it seems at times the film isn't to sure of this point. I know with the realistic dinos you figure if Disney go this far, why not go the whole hog and get every little detail right, well I'm sorry but that's nit picking, films in general no matter what genre, Live Action, Animated or a mix, have a degree of artistic licence which you have to accept. Go see this for what it is, a Disney film with some lovable characters, good cinematography and some great animation. "}{"Title":"this is not only a good movie; this is a great movie","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Finally, I have seen an animated film I have enjoyed.Dinosaur is a movie that will touch the heart of every moviegoer young and old.Dinosaur is a feel good movie that was excellent from beginning to end. I can't believe how this movie moved me. From the touching friendship between two different species of animals to exhilirating special effects, Dinosaur is a film that deserves consideration for an academy award.With celebrity voices such as D.B. Sweeney, Ossie Davis, Alfre Woodard, Dinosaur has truly become one of favorite films of the year.It is not often that an animated film comes to the silver screen, so when it does it needs to be a top notch piece of film making. I highly recommend this film and ask everyone see this film not once, not twice but at least three times because the special effects are awesome, the plot is unique and the setting is among one of the prettiest sights I've seen on the screen in a while. "},{"Title":"The real star of the film...","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Is the scenery and music. The scenery is magnificently rendered, with prehistoric lush green valleys, harsh deserts... The music fits the scenery well.The other highlight is the adult theme There is a difference between sacrifice and expendability. "},{"Title":"Incredible Animation - Fun Story!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  An incredible example of the state of animation!  I would guess that within 5 years we will not be able to actually tell what is real or what is animation.  I liked that in the beginning that they did not have the characters speaking so you could have that opportunity to just appreciate the animation.Fun story~ Aladar is a great new addition to Disney's favorite characters!  "},{"Title":"Land Before Time updated?  Maybe, but it works.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I had to see this film twice because the audience was so disruptive the first time.  Now that I have been able to enjoy the film better, I finally feel that I can write a comment.  I agree with everyone else that the story is little more than The Land Before Time revisited, but I still think it works (for the most part).  But the score by James Newton Howard is just magnificent.  Kudos to the sound effects wizards for concocting the sounds of the raptors.  I also like the fact that there is no sound when the meteor hits, but you hear the surge afterwards.  And Samuel E. Wright is absolutely perfect as Kron, the stern herd leader.  As for the film's visuals, I will say nothing about them because they speak for themselves when you see them.  I will say, however, that I wish they had shot the film in the 2.351 widescreen format, but I am sure they had their hands full with the 1.851 format.  But I enjoyed Dinosaur the second time around. "},{"Title":"Ambitious and visually stunning!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seeing this movie was a very enjoyable experience. The animation was very credible and the real backgrounds were mixed seamlessly with the computer-animated dinosaurs. Sure, the story was not the most original (the film felt like Land Before Time meets Jurassic Park meets Lion King meets Tarzan) but it kept my interest throughout.As for the PG rating, I applaud Disney for going for it, rather than trimming here and there just to skim by with a G rating (like they did with Hunchback of Notre Dame). This movie is not appropriate for very young children and there is absolutely nothing wrong with that. Who says every Disney movie has to be appropriate for young toddlers? (The Tigger Movie was that age group's Disney flick this year; and one this age group, namely myself, avoided at all costs).That said, Dinosaur is perfect entertainment for adults and older kids. I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Are you sure this is Disney??","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was incredible!  The visual effects left me in awe from the first moment.  The dinosaurs were everything that people are in real life.  Some are kind and gentle while others just want to kill.  I hadn't really heard much about the movie except that it was computer generated and Disney.  I could not believe something this wonderful came out the Disney Studios.  I am a fan of Disney, but it is unusual to see something that both parents, children and the general public would enjoy.Some of the comments on this site are a little harsh, they seems to overlook the fact that this is a PG rated movie and there isn't going to be as much killing as they may be used to these days.  I have often heard people saying that this movie is not realistic enough, and the fact that is was stupid to have the dinosaurs talk.  But think about a movie with absolutley no speech, and no there were no humans alive at that period in time, despite what the Flintstones tell you.  Movies do not have to be realistic to be enjoyable. I think that Disney has really out done themselves this time, this movie is really stunning.  The story is not as enjoyable as the graphics but it is never-the-less interesting.  Please see this movie and judge for yourself.  I hope that you enjoy it as much as I did.  I give this flick a solid 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Most definitely a message movie...","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The messages were many cooperation, perseverance, strength in the face of adversity and to not fear new ideas.This is supposed to be a movie for children; but some of it is pretty brutal I would not take small children in spite of its `G' rating.The story is sweet and simple; allowing more time for the messages and character development.  I found myself actually caring for these hideous creatures and cringed when one of them was injured.Max Casella, who seems to be eternally cast as some kind of geek on television and movies  again plays a geek -- only this time a primate.Della Reese's voice is instantaneously recognizable as &#145;Eema' the old, caring, mother figure.  Kind of the `Mother  of All Dinosaurs.'   She does it well.The many outstanding locations used as backgrounds were magnificent.  You will recognize the waterfall from `Jurassic Park' immediately.The CGI was done very well -- but not (sadly) as well as `Stuart Little'.The score (apparently by James Newton Howard) is absolutely outstanding majestic, serious and haunting in all the appropriate moments.I am pleased to say that this was a much better film than I was expecting -- I enjoyed it completely. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Having heard the rumblings and grumblings from people who had seen the sneak previews, saying things like typical Disney fare and mediocre, I had very low expectations of Dinosaur even if it was the big Diz's most ambitious endeavor.  I am happy to say I was wrong.  I loved it.  It was NOT cookie cutter Disney.  There were NO songs, no gimmicky sidekicks placed purely for plush toy marketing.  The plot had a points on several levels, the most prevalent of those being simple survival, the most elusive being the qualities of leadership.  I left the theater thinking to myself, That...  was a nice story all around.Notice I didn't mention the graphics.  There's a reason for that They speak for themselves.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"A Visually Stunning Film","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  We took our 6 year old boy to see Dinosaur this weekend, but I think my wife and I were even more amazed than he at the MARVELOUS imagery in the film.I saw every penny of the $200 Million it cost to produce this film ON SCREEN.  The sheer beauty of the water glistening off the wet dinosaurs was enough to make us sit up and pay attention.You could see all the hard work the programmers and animators put in this film, and if the breathtaking opening sequence doesn't get you, the mating dance of the monkeys surely will.Simply put, this may be the finest work of animation ever.. and I'm a LION KING nut!**** from me! "},{"Title":"anti-Disney guy opinion","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie certainly has the elements.  The plot is mediocre, and suspense is terrific, the CG is spectacular, with a lot of attention to details. The motions are exacting to the tiniest intricacies.  (although the dinosaurs depicted didn't exist all at once).  The dinosaur era lasted for millions and millions of years.  So I kind of feel bad every time I go for a fill-up @ the pump.  I'd initially expected this movie to bomb like Waterworld, but after the initial openings almost topping 40 Mil, it may do as well as Titanic (not quite).  I usually don't like Disney movies, but I do recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"Outstanding visual effects.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Everyone says this movie is bad because of the plot. In some ways it is recycled material, but then again many Disney movies have similar plots. The computer animated dinosaurs were fantastic. The animators paid attention to detail, and that's usually not a problem for Disney. The backgrounds were stunning too and in some parts the POV the animators gave you were fascinating (i.e. when we see the ptaradactl fly over the herd of dinos in the opening sequence). Is the plot taken for Land Before Time? Some parts seem so, but then the Land Before Time followed little child dinos and Dinosaur followed a herd of Dinosaurs.Their destination was basically the same place, but in many ways their journeys are so different. I liked the movie and I would recommend it. However it's not for little kids who don't like to see characters fighting and mild blood shed. All in all a good Disney movie. I have to give them credit it took them twelve years to make and a lot of effort! The best visually so far, but not the best plot ever. It would be better if you saw it on the big screen though. I give it an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"An impressive achievement","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw a Saturday matinee of Dinosaur in a theatre filled with an equal number of adults and children.  At the end of the film, something remarkable happened.The audience began to applaud.In years of moviegoing, I don't think I've ever seen that happen.  And, coming out of it, I had to join in.  It is perhaps one of the most remarkable films I have ever seen.The film centers around a dinosaur named Aladar, who must bring his adoptive family to safety after the extinction event 65 million years ago.  He treks through the wasteland that was once a fertile continent and joins a herd looking for a mythical breeding ground that may still be untouched.While this is a film for almost all ages, I would recommend against letting the younger children watch it.  It has to be the bleakest Disney film ever produced.  Not only is there on-screen death, but there is a lot of it.  Aladar and his mammalian family wander through a dangerous and truly shattered world, where survival of the fittest is a reality and compassion is the ideal.I should probably say at least one thing about the special FX; this is a dinosaur movie almost without visible FX.  It is literally photo-realistic, making it the first live-action quality film to have completely computer-generated actors.  Jurassic Park has not only been given a run for its money, but been beaten at its own game.Perhaps the big criticism I would have to give is that it should have been longer by at least half an hour.  The story was certainly tight and well-done, but there was enough material to go on much longer and say far more.Still, I left the theatre feeling that I had seen something profound.  Dinosaur is a truly special film, and I think it just might end up changing filmmaking in the manner as Star Wars did in 1977.Final mark 4/5; probably should have been longer, but definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Actors need to start looking for another profession","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This films animation is fantastic. Even though it has a typical Disney storyline, the movie is exciting to watch. I predict in the very near future that motion pictures will be produced cheaper (no actor salaries, props, locations). Most importantly, since the films will be limited only by imagination, the films will be much more interesting than the current live action films.   "},{"Title":"Breathtaking!!!!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Reading over the other reviews, I start to wonder if everyone else was watching the same movie.  The plot could have used a little more meat, I'll grant you, but the acting was wonderful, and the music some of the most beautiful and uplifting I've heard.  Overall, this was one of the best movies I've seen in a while.As one can probably tell from the previews, the realism of the animation is unbelievable; certainly better than any I've ever seem.  The fur on the lemurs looked so real and fluffy I wanted to reach out and pet them (it's quite a quantum leap from any other attempt at furry creatures I've seen before, including everything from ILM), and the way the flesh moved on the dinosaurs, you would swear they were alive.I would warn parents to take the PG rating seriously, though.  There are some violent and bloody scenes that might be too much for young ones.On a scale of one to ten, I give this movie a 9.5. "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dinosaur is a fantastic movie with a great plot and lovable characters. Film critics all around have picked out this movie's faults and expanded on them to make them seem worse than they really are, but the truth is, this movie has so much to offer and should not be missed.I saw this movie at the cinema when it first came out, and have watched it numerous times since then, and every time I watch it I notice something new about it. For me it is one of those rare movies that you can watch over and over again.This film took 12 years to make and the amount of effort put into it was amazing. The animation is fantastic and it never ceases to amaze me, the dinosaurs look so real. Also the original score by James Newton Howard is brilliant, and I highly recommend the soundtrack.The characters in the film are really easy to get attached to and you really find yourself worrying about them and hoping they will make it through. Even though one of the main qualities of this film is obviously the spectacular special effects, the storyline and characters are so entertaining that it is easy to forget that the dinosaurs are animated and the locations are not really from 65 million years ago.People pick on this movie because its unrealistic, but they have to remember, movies are not meant to be realistic, they are meant to be unrealistic. Thats what movies are made for. If we just watched movies that were realistic we would be watching everyday life on the big screen. Don't we make movies to escape the real world?Overall, this movie is great for people of all ages, especially dinosaur lovers. I give it 10/10 because of the effort put into it and the fantastic film that is the result of that effort. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  'Dinosaur' is a Disney CG film that was made without the help of Pixar, and its success reminds one that Disney may have fallen from grace, but the House of Mouse can still produce something special every now and then. That said, this is no Pixar film, and can't seriously challenge Pixar's ascending product. A certain watch for everyone who's ever liked a Disney film, since this should be watchable at least for anyone who's been enchanted by a Disney classic.Unlike most other films, 'Dinosaur' doesn't revolve around a single-layer story line. Usually, the plot centres around a hero-beats-bad-guy-and-falls-in-love-with-heroine theme. In 'Dinosaur', the two themes are present, but are interwoven carefully and pulls it off with near-perfection. The computer effects are ground-breaking, if just a level below the stuff these days. One complaint is the lack of attention given minor characters. The nameless lemurs have static fur and look like stuffed toys rather than real animals. The major characters, by contrast, are meticulously designed with realistic fur, seemingly produced strand by strand. The best (or worst) example of this is when Suri sits at the top of a tree surrounded by random lemurs. She looks magnificently real, but the animators' accomplishment with Suri is overshadowed by the absolutely unrealistic characters surrounding her.Besides the occasional laziness, the visuals are spectacular. The meteor shower sequence is one of the best examples of technical wizardry in films. The menacing beauty of it will imprint itself upon your mind. The characterization is satisfying on the whole, with a more extensive use of side-kicks than usual. The characters of Eema, Balene, Yar and the rest of the lemurs isn't just for laughs; the characters also feature in emotional scenes, key sequences in the film's structure. Another example of laziness in 'Dinosaur' is the robbery of scenes from Don Bluth's masterpiece, 'The Land Before Time'. Some shots are almost exact duplicates of the traditionally animated film. Some of the themes are repeated as well. Even though 'Dinosaur' is a great film by modern standards, it cannot beat 'The Land Before Time', as 'Dinosaur' just isn't a classic. It will not stay with you forever like the old films. It will enchant you every time you watch it, but you won't think of it that much when you're not watching it. That's why I'm writing this at the moment. My 'Dinosaur' DVD is playing right now. Otherwise, I wouldn't be able to write this kind of review, because with 'Dinosaur', you forget all but the best of it.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur was a great movie!  The movie is a visual feast.  The acting is great, the story is great, the soundtrack is spectacular, everything about it is great.  Disney has outdone themselves this time.  I will, without a doubt, purchase this movie as soon as it is available to own.  Dinosaur is a very happy, feel-good movie.  Do yourself a favor and see the movie.  I give it a 10 out of 10.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Best!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dinosaur is truly a spectacular computer-animated film that if full of non-stop thrills, action, excitement, and sadness at some times. The script is very well-written and the story was pretty good too. The opening of the film was marvelous and very capturing. And what can I say about the characters? They are beautiful unforgettable dinosaurs that have their own unique personalities, which is one of the things that makes Dinosaur a terrific film. This film actually lets you interact with animals that existed 65 million years ago! Also, there are a lot of great climaxes and transitions from one scene to another. The ending of Dinosaur was also very marvelous as it lets you see the splendor of the circle of life. Dinosaur meets all my standards of a great film and I must say that it is a truly beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic family fare.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The people at Disney keep out doing themselves. This a wonderfully computerized animated movie about the life, struggles and triumphs of a dinosaur named Aladar. Some of the scenes may be too intense for younger children, but on a whole this is a very enjoyable and safe movie for the entire family.Lending voices to the animation are D.B. Sweeney, Julianna Margulies, Ossie Davis, Alfrie Woodard, Samuel E. Wright, Matt Adler and Della Reese. "},{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" An Iguanodon egg is lost and travels a long journey. It's eventually taken by a Pteranodon to an isolated island populated by lemurs. The egg hatches and they name him Aladar. Years later, Aladar has grown up with the tribe of lemurs. Meteors rain down. One large meteor devastates the island and blow Aladar and others away. He and the lemurs escape the scorched island. They encounter new dinosaurs, both friendly and predators.The CGI looks great and realistic. It is top-notch advanced work for its time. The story is less compelling and very straight forward. It may be too scary for little kids. The characters are functional but not that memorable. The lemurs are not the most distinguishable. Also there is a problem with pairing almost modern looking lemurs with dinosaurs. I don't think it's scientifically sound. This is visually great but a lackluster story. "}{"Title":"The Land Before Time, Disney style.","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's 39th full-length animated feature film and almost follows the same plot device as The Land Before Time, where the dinosaurs journey through the desert in search of the green and luscious nesting ground following a meteor attack.I believe this is the first Disney full-length animated feature to have CGI effects. Though I am partial to the much vibrant and much more colorful hand-drawn animation, the visual effects here are very realistic and detailing compiled, making it look like it is a live-action film versus an animated one. The story starts off quite intense with an attack of a carnivorous dinosaur on a herd of peaceful plant-eaters. But, the plot then becomes quite slow with the uninteresting subplot about the lemurs raising an orphaned Iguanodon named Alidar, and them playing matchmakers to the younger lemurs. Once the animals start to talk the plot is bogged down by the modern-sounding dialog, which is very distracting since the story takes place in the prehistoric period.The journeying-to-the-nesting-grounds-while-avoiding-carnivores plot is the main plot of the film and is at times thrilling and exhilarating, producing some intense scenes and heartfelt moments, particular where Alidar stays behind the traveling herd to help older dinosaurs Baylene and Eema and where the stern-hearted Bruton fights the Carnotaurus to protect Alidar and company. However, the film has a rather routine story due to predictable moments and very few emphasis on other dinosaurs.Overall, it's an average Disney film with some exciting moments. It can be appealing to children, though.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Amazing computer graphics mask a generic plot","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Another movie I watched (many times) while my 3 year old nephew was visiting. He loved this, but what boy doesn't love dinosaurs? I liked it too. The story was very similar to 'Ice Age' but I'm told this actually came out first? It's an adventure (of course) about an orphaned dinosaur who gets raised by lemurs and then when a (scary) meteor shower strikes earth, leaves his home and treks to the nesting grounds far away.The computer animation was really pretty amazing here, stunningly beautiful but also interesting as its been blended with real scenery (water, trees, landscape etc.) Lots of familiar voice-overs including Julianna Margulies, Hayden Panettiere, Alfre Woodard. 07.11 "},{"Title":"It looks great, but why won't the characters just clam up?","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Watching the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park I remember wondering how magnificent these creatures might look in a film set in their own habitat showing us how they might have lived. Hearing that Disney was working on such a film my heart leapt. What a magnificent idea, I thought, a film that will show the majesty of these creatures using CGI to bring them to life.Then I saw the trailer and learned that the dinosaurs spoke, my heart sank. Why would you want to great pains to create real backgrounds, using all the state-of-the-art computer animation at your disposal to create these incredible looking dinosaurs only to dimish them with not only human personalities but modern-day sensibilities and catchphrases. Possibly because it's easier to sell toys at a fast food restaurant when the characters are cuddly and have names (but that's just a guess).I began looking for the moments in between when the dinosaurs didn't talk and there aren't many. The story is fine (it actually has more story then any of the recent Disney animated flicks) with the dinos moving across the desert following a devastating meteor storm.I imagined how this film might look on an IMAX screen at 45 minutes with no dialogue and more realism. Wow, how magnificent would that have been? "},{"Title":"Dinosaur","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this animated film a few times when I was younger, and anyone who has seen it would be forgiven for thinking it was made by Disney with the help of Pixar, it wasn't, the opening sequence by the way was shown as a teaser trailer. Basically over a million years ago the dinosaurs lived and roamed the Earth, and we see one dinosaur grow up raised by lemurs after finding his egg, that we see travel a long way. Years later orphaned Iguanodon dinosaur Aladar (D.B. Sweeney) has grown up with the lemurs as his family, but danger soon shows itself when a small meteor crashes and causes a tidal wave that destroys their home. Moving on to find a place to settle they all come across a herd of other dinosaurs from all species, but all herbivores, who are heading for the nesting ground, i.e. big green valley. Leading the dinosaurs is the little caring Kron (The Little Mermaid's Samuel E. Wright) who says that any weak that fall behind and give up should be ignored and forgotten about, of course Aladar cares about them. There is a point when they think they are not far away travelling through the desert, and they are desperate for water, and even though a way to get it is found digging and pressing the dry ground Aladar is still ignored. He finds himself attracted to same breed Kron's sister Neera (Ghost Ship's Julianna Margulies), and he has a few friends in the herd who listen to him, including Brachiosaurus - Baylene (Joan Plowright), Styracosaurus - Eema (Della Reese), and Ankylosaurus - Url. Aladar and his friends find themselves separated from the herd and end up resting in a cave, and they find out it is a passage into the nesting ground, but of course Kron again ignores them because he is so arrogant. In the end, after escaping the vicious Velociraptors and a Carnotaur, Kron dies, and Aladar is finally listened to, all the dinosaurs reach the valley in safety and live happily ever after, well, until their killed off. Also starring Alfre Woodard as Plio (lemur), Ossie Davis as Yar (lemur), Max Casella as Zini (lemur), Hayden Panettiere as Suri (lemur) and Peter Siragusa as Bruton (Iguanodon). The voice casting is fine, the animation is obviously very good, it is just let down very slightly by the story, it is very slightly dull and rather predictable, easy for the kids to enjoy though, an alright computer animated adventure. Okay! "},{"Title":"A decent film to see and graphic are great","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When this started to hit the big screen, people made a real big deal about it, I thought it was rather good, but I was kind of young so the story did not really make sense to me.The story is about a Dinosaur (Aladar) who is raised up by some prehistoric monkeys, the island they live on has no carnivores, but is soon destroyed by a fleet of meteors, the dinosaur and his family escape to another region of land where they meet a herd of dinosaur that are not as friendly as the peaceful monkey isle, that where a new adventure begins. Aladar must persevere against the slap of reality that the outer realms of his former sanctuary are all too real.The graphics left me in awe, it was very realistic! The story though, it's kind of cheesy, I mean people must of really loved all points of the story, romance, epic violence, sappy emotional scenes (no offense), the scene in the cave was rather cool, I've got to admit. But the artists of the film made the good guy characters look to humanoid, especially Aladar's species (Igaunodon), he almost looked like he had a human face. Ema, the Triceratops, was rather realistic though, but her pet thing was sorta like a dog. The Carnotaur was a notable entity in this flick, it was extremely savage and forbidding, it was creepy how mentally haunted it was just to get food, creepier yet living food that you found charming.Buts its a film you'll want to see once every few years. "},{"Title":"A good attempt, but one that doesn't totally work","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 39th animated Disney classic, while not a bad movie, in reality it also is nothing special. As a possible 1st attempt of Disney to make a movie only about dinosaurs, it leaves to be desired.It also has a lot to do with the time it was made. It is already from the CGI era instead of Disney's Golden Ages. As such, it can't be compared to the Disney classics from the good old days.Many people seem to compare this to 'The Land Before Time'. I can see where that comparison comes from. While not a copy of 'The Land Before Time', it certainly has its resemblances - not just because it has dinosaurs, but also some of the plot. Anyway, this (by no means) doesn't have the magic of 'The Land Before Time', which is a masterpiece, one of the most charming animated films and one of the greatest films in general. There will never another one like that.I liked some of the lemurs and Aladar (the dinosaur) was the best character of the whole movie. But I didn't like Kron and his attitude. The other characters were not very interesting either.The velociraptors made me think of 'Jurassic Park', but they just don't fit in this film, unlike in the great 'Jurassic Park'.This film is a combination of live-action backgrounds with computer animation, which results in some great images. In some cases, they seem so real that you'd have a hard time of thinking of them as CGI stuff. "},{"Title":"First, anthropomorphise your dinosaur...","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The problem with Dinosaur is not in the execution, which is first-rate. It isn't with the anthropomorphisation, which is fine (if a little cutesy at times). It isn't with the inter-species harmony (who knows? Symbiosis is a wonderful thing).No, the problem is that it is essentially a reworking of The Land Before Time, a movie which delivered the story of the long march across arid wastelands to find the fertile breeding grounds with traditional hand-drawn animation, and did so rather better than Dinosaur does. Dinosaur has a rather nifty crashing comet sequence and light relief / parent substitute lemurs, and maybe that's enough. Personally, the execution of the movie was so good that I thought it needed to be in service of a better movie. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all 6 from me would be pretty good and this is definitely 6 in my category. BUT Finnish sound acting makes this almost impossible to watch. I feel shame for my countryman. Actually not all voices are rotten, there are 2 good ones. Only the rest are rotten.Movie is great CGI graphics. A bit plastic for a while but mostly very good.I'm not a children movie fan but if I get to see this with original actor voices I will watch this one again.Story is suitable for children. No big wonders there. just trying to fill up ten lines to make my voice heard. Stupid rule that this writing has to be 10 lines. "},{"Title":"a wondrous opening followed by a rather generic and predictable narrative, resulting in a merely adequate family picture","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When the trailers for Dinosaur were released in late 1999/early 2000, I was about nine years old and I was experiencing one of the greatest anticipations of my childhood. The trailers for Dinosaur showed the first seven minutes or so of the movie, where we saw first-class, revolutionary animation of CGI dinosaurs superimposed against real backgrounds and the blending was seamless. These dinosaurs looked just as good as the beasts that wowed us in Jurassic Park. What's more, they acted like real dinosaurs. They didn't speak or behave like human beings covered with scales at all. Added with a majestic score by the great James Newton Howard, the trailer had me excited. I'd had my fill of talking dinosaurs with The Land Before Time and its excessive sequels; I wanted to see real dinosaurs without people in the foreground. That would have been a dream come true for a young dinosaur-lover like me.And Disney was originally going to give me that dream. That's right, folks, the first seven minutes of Dinosaur was originally going to set the mood for the entire picture. The dinosaurs would act like dinosaurs and not like people; it would be like a feature-length version of the Rite of Spring sequence from Disney's 1940 masterpiece Fantasia. But a Mr. Michael Eisner of Disney insisted on changing this all and revamping this concept for a real winner into basically just a retread of The Land Before Time with CGI instead of hand-drawn animation. Mr. Eisner ought to be ashamed of himself, because instead of getting this wondrous spectacle that the trailers and the first seven minutes of the movie promised us, we got just a generic family movie special only in its animation, but destined to be forgotten outside of the special effects department.I suppose Mr. Eisner's reasoning was that kids could not follow a story about dinosaurs without a) people or b) dinosaurs that act like people. Well, to him, I say your reasoning is backward. I was a kid at the time and I was disappointed to hear that the dinosaurs were going to start acting like people after the opening sequence. I would have been okay with narration; heck, I would have been okay if the lemurs in the movie voiced by Ossie Davis, Alfre Woodard, Max Casella, and Hayden Panettiere talked. But why the dinosaurs? What's more, even if they were to talk, why did they have to have such humanlike qualities? They have conversations, morals, love interests, and even philosophies. Oh, and some species of dinosaurs keep other dinosaurs for pets, too. The romantic subplot between two dinosaurs in the movie is completely wooden, generic, and worst of all, boring. That's a real disappointment for me because these dinosaurs are animated via some of the most impressive CGI I have ever seen. Like Roger Ebert noted in his spot-on review for the picture, the filmmakers spent a lot of effort making these dinosaurs look real, but spent more effort undermining that illusion. The only dinosaurs that do thankfully carry the illusion through are the carnivorous dinosaurs, who only snarl and roar and don't appear to have any morality or philosophy. And besides, did Pinocchio have a love interest? No? Then why should a dinosaur?But enough of me bashing what doesn't work. Now I will tell you this despite all of my complaints and suggestions (ones that would have made this a great picture instead of a good one), the movie does, I repeat, *does* entertain. It's a most adequate family picture that is sure to wow and amaze its many-aged audience members with its wonderful animation, strong voice acting, and dazzling moments of energetic action. I also appreciate that for the snarling antagonist, they chose a carnotaurus as opposed to the typical tyrannosaurus or allosaur. It's refreshing to see a new dinosaurs here and there. But why, oh, why, Disney, did you have to go and throw away such a brilliant idea for a more generic and forgettable one? The first seven minutes of Dinosaurs are absolutely wonderful. Before the dinosaurs talk, when they act like dinosaurs, when we see the real wonder and viciousness of that strange prehistoric time, the movie scores with absolute brilliance. But save for the animation, what follows is rather generic. Oh, there I go again....I like Dinosaur but I really feel that it is a missed opportunity. A colossal one. This was my reaction when I first saw in the movie at the age of nine in 2000. Now seeing it again for the first time in years, my reaction is exactly the same. The people running the company once owned by the brilliant Walt Disney ought to reflect upon his genius and his ideas and his masterpieces. If they had done this (as they had wanted to before Mr. Michael Eisner stepped in) Dinosaur would have been a great movie, one destined to be remembered like the Rite of Spring sequence in Fantasia that its opening so reminds us of. But beyond that opening sequence, there is nothing that isn't well, like the dinosaurs themselves, fossilized. I will not deny that I ultimately liked the movie, nor will I deny that given its potential, I felt a little cheated. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film, but not much of a story","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dinosaur (2000, Dir. Eric Leighton, Ralph Zondag) Story During an attack on a pack of Iguanodon, an egg is separated and ends up with the possession of a group of lemurs. The lemurs care for this egg and the young creature born from it, which they call Aladar. When a meteor shower hits earth, Aladar and his family must leave their homeland. Away from home and as close to danger as they have ever been, they meet up with a huge group of dinosaurs, led by Kron and Bruton. All together they are trying to reach the nesting grounds, but it's not going to be easy.Actors The choices of actors for this animated film are very well chosen. Their voices fit well with the characters. The actors aren't too well known, which is a good point as it doesn't distract you from the characters. You can actually imagine the creatures having that voice. The voices also make feel emotions towards them, especially the Brachiosaurus with her frail voice.Music The music in this film, although not very memorable, it can be very beautiful. James Newton Howard composes a score that fits in so well with the image which is happening on screen, that you can sometime feel emotional. One wonderful example of this is the end scene, where everyone is in the nesting grounds. The score is amazing during this scene and you can really feel for these animated characters.Special Effects The way this film has been made is interesting. The dinosaurs are obviously computer generated, but the background scenery is live action. Although this would have looked remarkable back in 2000, today, sadly it doesn't have as much of an impact. 'Jurassic Park' which was released in 1993, has better looking dinosaurs. This can be overlooked though, as the dinosaurs are beautiful and do have that Disney feel to it.Conclusion 'Dinosaur' was destined to be an advancement in computer generated films, unfortunately it isn't all that it was made out to be. There are some good effects and very emotional, but the main problem for this film, is the story it has. There isn't really much of a story. The dinosaurs are basically following a heard of dinosaurs to a new location. The film seems to be more focused on the relationships between the characters. Apart from this, 'Dinosaur' is still a lovely film to see, and is perfect for the little ones.You'll want a little help from the 'love monkey' &#150; Zini (Max Casella) "}{"Title":"Ups and Downs","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Story moves on in a predictable way. Some, but only some, vibrations are felt from 'Eragon'. Since I just recently invested in 'HD', this is one of my first 10 HD movies. This, in it self, is quite revealing, read on. 'Over the Hedge' was in the DVD format almost just as sharp. And with a Panasonic TH-50PV60 (uses a G9 panel in 'HD-ready' aka 1366x768). The quality of the picture varies a lot. Some times it takes your breath away. Other times it is.. well. Not up to the 'top notch'. If you get my drift. It is not at all a bad movie, even if you do not bother about the technical details. It 'rolls on' and will not leave too much of an imprint. In 5 days you won't be able to remember it in any detail. The soundtrack is OK, but lacks a signature song. "},{"Title":"story and characters take a back seat to superb animation","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie featured computer-generated graphics to tell a story about the possible extinction of some dinosaurs thanks to killer meteors. And, while the story rarely gets much deeper or memorable than that, the animation quality is so amazingly great that this could be forgiven. I'm sure that even by now people might see the movie and think the animation is good, but that is all. Well, when it came out in 2000, it was absolutely state of the art and had critics and the public talking. Sure, movies like Toy Story had already been out, but here was a non-cartoony film done by computer that looked essentially like real dinosaurs running about and having adventures. An amazing technical achievement. "},{"Title":"Not much brain exercise","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's Dinosaur is, well, mediocre. The character models for some of the dinosaurs could have been bought from the BBC. There are many, many anachronisms and small mistakes - LEMURS?! The main character, Aladar, has an annoying voice, and the plot is nothing new. This doesn't mean it's a bad movie, though. Young children will probably enjoy the dinos, explosions, and cute fuzzy things. There are a few humorous parts - mostly this involves Aladar being sarcastic. The animation is very good, as everyone expects from Disney. As well as that, there are a lot of really gorgeous overhead views. //Possible minor spoilers! Possible minor spoilers! Possible minor spoilers! Possible minor spoilers!This movie references Land Before Time in a few places. For example, Aladar's egg floating down the river and almost being eaten. At least they know their roots.//Possible spoilers overOverall I wouldn't mind watching it again, but if Jurassic Park is on, guess where I'll be. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, although too much like The Land Before Time.","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The graphics are wonderful, everything looks so real that was the first thing I noticed.  I'm a sucker for these types of films.  I love all the animated animal stories, The Lion King, Finding Nemo, Land Before Time the list goes on and on.  However as I mention in my summary this film is too much like the Land Before Time. It has the same premise, Dinosaurs looking for the nesting grounds, the only remaining greenery. They even kill a Carnivor just like in TLBT.  It ends on a happy note with the group all making it to the grounds.  The end is a little predictable, however the film is likable, especially for kids. "},{"Title":"high quality and low story","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie is a must-see for every computer designer. The pictures are great. The figures are also very adorable, but the story is too thin. Anyway once more Walt Disney presents a confincing proof of their quality to make good movies on every topic. "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's surprising to see that a film with so many epic qualities about it can have so little to be desired. We should give Disney credit, what better way to make your animations realistic than layer the characters on top of real landscapes? But this very same credit could very well be taken away for the exact same reason because some scenes are beautifully contrasted and work wonders yet some scenes seem unrealistic with sloppy layering. The story revolves around a dinosaur named Aladar who was raised bye a pack of lemurs from birth. Aladar the goes on a quest to find himself and conquer over evil with messages about how size doesn't matter and how you should stand up for yourself and you can be stronger as a group than as an individual and so on, are you asleep yet because this seems to be the same basic story that has been told in almost every Disney movie made? The animation is spectacular and the settings are beautifully shot but Disney made a suffers a huge downfall in making this film not appealable to a distinct age group. It is much to intense for their younger audience and it's far to goofy to keep adults interested but still it became a huge summer blockbuster. Instead of providing the viewer with any fast on the history of dinosaurs, Disney made up a fictionalized bias of what could life have been back in that period of time making it rather uninteresting for more mature minded audiences. If not for anything else you should see this film for its attempt (although be it a weak one) to bring something new to the fold and that dazzling animation (the meteor scene is simply jaw-droping). Maybe I didn't enjoy this because I didn't know whether I should laugh or cry about the events taking place in front of my eyes so I did neither, I went emotionless through almost the whole thing because I could not get a firm grasp on what the film was trying to present to the viewers. In the end it was worth seeing for its original direction but other than that it was mediocre at best and needed a lot more thought and feel put into it because it was nothing that I hadn't seen a hundred times before. "},{"Title":"Average story, Great effects","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have to admit, I saw this movie on pay-per-view rather than in theaters, so it might not have seemed as good to me for that reason. the story is a simple one, and has few plot twists (most are at the end) and it seemed that the writers aimed to make the animation the story.The animation is fantastic. The artist used computer generated dinosaurs, which they placed on a live action background. The dinosaurs' skin move like they would in life, and combined with the background, it seems more realistic than Toy Story-ish. Watch it with your kids for a good family night.  "},{"Title":"A tale - not for real","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don't expect anything remotely close to being historically correct. Lemurs? Living at the same time as dinosaurs? Why not throw in some aliens and wizards too?I guess that it's not Disney's intent to do true stories, but I wish they wouldn't confuse people so much with stuff that appears to be for real but is so very wrong. (Remember Pocahontas?) "},{"Title":"Haven't I Seen This Before?","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's tough to beat computer animation these days.  It all the rage, the next generation.  The movie companies believe that they can come up with any type of plot, call it computer animated and people will flock to see it.  True--it's amazing how realistic they can make animals/humans look.  Backgrounds look like they photographed it and added it to the movie.Enough said about computer animation-let's get to the movie.  Dinosaur's visuals are astounding and they look realistic enough to actually touch.  The meteor shower can take your breath away.  The music is not annoying, just right for the scenes.  The voices fit the characters fine except for the brachiosaur with the brit accent.  The PG rating is appropriate (some scenes can be frightening for the younger viewers).So what's my complaint?  When I was growing up, the one movie I watched every time you turn around was 'The Land Before Time.'  This movie's plot is dangerously close (legal action?) to this cel-animated movie about dinosaurs as well.  It looks like Disney shoved Universal's plot in the microwave for about fifteen seconds--not necessarily long enough to entirely deform it, but keep the same idea.  That and the fact there are monkeys in this film (um, a little out of the time line of evolution are we Disney?).  The one that has a 'love attack' for females is kind of strange (the love what?).  I would only rate this movie as a six out of ten stars since they couldn't come up with a better plot after twelve years in the making and all the new facts about dinosaurs we know today. "},{"Title":"Oh, I've seen something like it alright...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Tarzan anyone? This is just a carbon copy of Disney's own Tarzan in Dinosaur wrapping. Absolutely nothing special about the story, you've seen it before. The graphics are pretty darn good, but the trailers and teasers are all you really need to see, since there is no meat to this animation showcase. "}{"Title":"GREAT EFFECTS, BUT OVERRATED OVERALL","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur has perhaps the most riveting special effects I've seen in the movies so far. It took them well over 12 years to make this film and the results do show. If only they had created a strong story to back up these effects, Dinosaur might have been a heck of a movie. But the story is inaccurate and silly and the movie suffers as a result.There is one truly spectacular sequence in the movie the meteor shower which is plausible and suspenseful and lasts about 12 minutes (just a ballpark figure) There are other great set pieces also such as the fight between Aladar and Kron near the end (no, this is not a spoiler; the trailers hint at this) and an escape sequence reminiscent of The Ten CommandmentsIf only Cecil B.DeMille were still alive. He would have definitely tightened the screws on this screenplay. You would think that in a span of 12 years, they could have researched and found that there were no lemurs in the prehistoric period? Worse yet, they have to do bad jokes with the lemurs in a pathetic attempt at comedy relief? It is unnecessary in a strong dramatic premise such as this. If they had taken their time and done some simple research, this film would have been a masterpiece. But, sadly, they didn't even bother.Yet....those effects are so vivid and memorable, I find myself recommending this mess, against my better judgment. My defense could be that there are worse things a parent can show their child. After all, doesn't the great Disney classic Bambi have scenes of violence?*** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"A Revolution in Animation","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disregard the story, this is a revolutionary step in the cinema industry. It seems we will watch all our favorite artists animated in the very next future without knowing that it is an animation. Computer graphics have gone crazy. A new movie of Marlyn Monroe playing against Tom Hanks in the year 2003 will not be surprising accordingly. Dinasour is perhaps one of the best Disney full-feature films. Superior sound effects ( try to watch the DTS version DVD ) and a surprisingly well-designed script. Thanks to Disney & all Disney artists who put their efforts in this great movie. "},{"Title":"Read Me!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Got your attention, good! I saw Dinosaur at a movie thearter because the Patriot was all sold out, it turns out its one of my favorite movies. It obviously isn't everything that the critics wanted it to be, but no one can make a perfect movie. I think Disney did an exellent job on this 12 years in the making movie, and I like how they made their dinosaurs look more like characters then what the Dinosaurs in the discovery channel thingy did.After seeing the movie I went online to check out critics opions and stuff, and I totally have different ones. This is a kids movie by Disney. They already cut out the songs and made it eye candy for the parents, the only thing they were lacking was some humor for the kids. All the humor is towards my age group (teens) and the kids don't get it. I now that everyone gets a little tired about Disney reusing ideas, like Tarzan in this one. But its totally different. Since these were dinosaurs Aladar could have surely died if he couldn't adapt to new things, which he can and thats puts him ahead of Kron. I doubt Tarzan would have died if he went back to England. Also, theres a big size differnce in the fact that Aladar could kick Yar's butt any day. I think people need to lay off disney unless they can come up with a better movie themselfs. Sure this movie had a couple of scenes it could have done without, but has anyone ever listened to Titanic's dialoge? I think people should stop comparing Dinosaur to Jurassic Park because its in a totally different category and its script is almost 8 years old.Ouch! Anyway this movie rocks! "},{"Title":"an FX spectacular with a compelling story","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  DINOSAUR is one hell of a cool movie. The scenery is actual footage, the dinos are genuine visual fx, and the storytelling is unconventional yet intriguing. But still, it's a Disney animated movie, which means lots of talking animals. I love how 5 different locations (Florida, Venezuela, Australia, Hawaii, and California) were used for filming, and were at times combined in the same scenes. The DVD features are pretty cool, too. There's a cute little game for little kids where you play as Aladar the Iguanadon, and you must find your friends, water, and the nesting grounds by navigating through the dark caves of the dino world. Dinopedia presents some amazing facts on all the kinds of dinosaurs in the movie, narrated by the kid who plays the voice of Leonard on Disney's One Saturday Morning's Teacher's Pet. The making of the fx, sound, filming location, and animation is also included.A good adult equivalent to this movie (all though this movie alone is very appealing to many adults) is Walking With Dinosaurs, an amazing TV movie that was originally made by the BBC and premiered in the U.S. on the Discovery Channel a couple years ago. It follows the same format as DINOSAUR, but in a nature documentary style. It contains very similar yet spectacular visuals, and the dinos DON'T talk, which makes it all the little more realistic. And it's not just for adults, kids will love it too. It's available on DVD (and most likely VHS also), so I hope the video store(s) carries it. If not, ordering it off of Amazon.com will be a great alternative. Amazon.com is great for ordering anything entertainment wise.   "},{"Title":"Feast for the eyes, but famine for the brain.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  One can always find one good thing to say about a Disney movie. Great songs. Great animation. Great story. I, however, find it difficult to ever find MORE that one good thing to say. This holds true for Dinosaurs. It was an amazing thing to watch. The combination of live shots and CGIs was astounding and, at times, breathtaking. But my praise stops there. The story was flat and predictable. I actually caught myself groaning trite several times. I was immensely disappointed. I suppose so much time went into the visuals, that coming up with a fresh script (or at least one that wasn't growing mold spores) was just out of the question. Kids, who probably haven't seen as many movies (Disney and otherwise) as I have, will probably still love it. "},{"Title":"Dinosaur is a good film, but lacks in adult appeal.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney has been known for their ability to make good family oriented films that appeal to adults just as much as children. The best example of this was Toy Story which had some jokes in there only more mature audiences would even understand. I felt Dinosaur strayed from this completely. The story line was the basic children's format involving the choices of right and wrong and clearly showing good versus evil. The story line was good, but I found myself bored at times and wondering when it would end. The storyline more simply seemed more like a Saturday morning cartoon. The voice acting on the other hand was excellent. And the computer animation was incredible. There were times that you could tell it was animation, but there were other times you would swear that real life dinosaur talked. Dinosaur will appeal to your children and they will ask to watch it again, but some parents may feel left out in this film. "},{"Title":"The visual effects in Dinosaur are good, but in the JURASSIC PARKs are MUCH MORE PERFECT!","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is a good movie for small children and for those who appreciate good visual effects.And I'm that kind of people who apreciates great visual effects. Dinosaur has great visual effects, the result is very good. But NEVER Dinosaur can be compared to the great JURASSIC PARK and THE LOST WORLD - JURASSIC PARK. Dinosaur and the JURASSIC PARKs can't be compared because they're diferent kind of movies. Dinosaur is retrating the dinosaurs in their time and the JURASSIC PARKs show the dinos in our time. But in only one case these films can be compared, in visual effects. And the effects in the JURASSIC PARKs are AGRESEVELLY better! Sometimes the JURASSIC PARKs do you think that the dinos didn't get extincted, that they are alive till today! When you see the JURASSIC PARKs you think that that dinos are really on the set with the actors! It's phenomenal! And the T-Rex in the JURASSIC PARKs worked better than a lot of real actors in many movies! And till today after almost 8 years (for JURASSIC PARK) and after almost 4 years (for THE LOST WORLD - JURASSIC PARK), the JURASSIC PARKs have the most perfect visual effects of all time! There's no movies till today that has better visual effects! The Industrial Light & Magic made good effects for Star Wars - Episode 1, but you can clearly see that the effects that the same Industrial Light & Magic did to the JURASSIC PARKs, look MUCH MORE REAL than the Star Wars'!JURASSIC PARK was a revolution, made history, was phenomenal! THE LOST WORLD - JURASSIC PARK is as perfect as JURASSIC PARK! And this two films have the most PERFECT special effects of ALL TIME! "},{"Title":"Stunning Story And Effects","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw Dinosaur at the theater when it first came out and just finished watching it on DVD and loved it even more the second time. So did my six-year old. A great story about the struggle of the dinosaurs after the meteors fell. My son found it neither boring or scary. It's about time Disney goes back to making movies for Kids and Adults alike without dumbing them down with silly songs and the whole life is sweet mentality of the Politically Correct crowd.As for a comparison to either of the Jurassic Park movies, weren't those in modern times and about resurrecting Dinosaurs? I thought so.This is a truly stunning and beautiful movie. Of course if you like it sugar-coated go elsewhere.P.S. And I am buying it for my kids. "},{"Title":"Dinotastic!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Walt Disney have made some classics in their time, and I'm sure that this one will follow it's predecessors.  First of all, this is not a kids' movie.  There are some nasty fight scenes between dinosaurs and even though it's animated, it's seems very real.  Secondly, the animation is amazing.  The backdrops are a mixture of reality and animation which is combined to make a very real experience for everyone in the cinema.  I enjoyed this, even though I wouldn't go to a lot of animated movies.  I would recommend this even if it's only for the animation.   "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is weak in several points. The plot is inexistent and replaced with a collection of boring cliches. Many of the scenes are literally carbon copies from Jurassic Park. There are many graphic scenes not suitable for children and many 'sweet' scenes that can end up annoying adults, thus, this film is not for children nor for adults. Who is it for then? I don't know. There are many goofs like animals escaping a giant nuclear explosion, a clean blue sky after the meteorite collision or the presence of monkeys 65 million years ago.Some scenes are technically perfect, and a fantastic computer work. The hairy monkeys are brilliant, and several fight scenes are outstanding. But it's not enough for the overall quality of the film. I give it 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great animation, horrible music","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  You get what you want from Dinosaur. Spectacular  animations, happy ending, solid story. But what bugs memore and more is the complete out of date music Disneyuses to 'sweeten' their products. Although the animationsare made with the most recent techniques, the music  sounds as the head of the disney music department  passed his eightieth birthday. Ask a band like the Prodigyfor the soundtrack next time. There's just too much sugar inthis movie. "},{"Title":"Same story great animation","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I went to see Disney's Dinosaur with my six year old, she loved it and did not seem to be frightened by the graphic digital violence on screen although some idiots behind me thought it would be a good idea to bring their two year old who screamed his way through most of it. I was very impressed with the fantastic intro which is mind blowing, I though this is going to be fantastic WRONG! Things went downhill when characters  started speaking (in strong American accents) why couldn't Disney have gone that extra mile and made the film tell its own story without human speech! they could have created a masterpiece in the way Fantasia was made in the 50's. Unfortunately there was every Disney clich the cutesy character, the irritating friends, the non trusting elders, the cutesy love interest, the villains of course in the form of two nasty flesh eating dinosaurs, the ensuing power struggle between our hero and elders, dispatching of villains, promised land found & finally love interest produces more cutesy babies and the circle continues. It was all I could do but to keep awake. Why can't Disney use a different plot for god's sake! Its in virtually every Disney film from 101 Dalmatians, Tarzan, Lion King, & so on. Having said that it's what my six year old was happy with and enjoyed it nevertheless. Although in essence an complete remake of Land Before Time which came out ten years ago "},{"Title":"An eighty-two minute long effects reel.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A long time ago (the summer of 1993), a fifteen year old Gremlin went to see Jurassic Park for the first time.  It completely blew my mind.  I knew, without a doubt, that the producers of this movie had been wanting to do a dinosaur movie for years and years, so they went ahead and made the Ultimate.  Jurassic Park has become the last word in dinosaur movies, and it looked like everyone involved really had fun working on it.I didn't get that feeling *at all* while watching Dinosaur.I'm willing to bet that, in future books discussing different animation techniques and the movies they've been used in, that Dinosaur will be hence forth known as The CGI Dinosaur Movie That IS NOT Jurassic Park.Does it even qualify as a movie?  Dinosaur, for all intents and purposes, is an effects reel.  It's pure eye candy that's uninterrupted by anything remotely imaginative; the story is more of a checklist of the Disney movie cliches we have all grown a tad tired of.  Now I have to say that this isn't necissarily good or bad, but you may want to lower your expectations before you watch it.I think I've been a little hard on Dinosaur already, so I won't rant about how there are more anachroisms in it (ask any ten year old) than Titanic and the Wedding Singer *combined*, and how I got the sinking feeling that the only reason we have Cenozoic era monkeys in the Cretaceous is so that the marketing comittee can have something cute and furry to sell stuffed toys.  Sick. "},{"Title":"Just as in Godzilla, Plot Matters","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Not that *I* liked Lucas' latest soap opera (since the title of this review comes from a comment he made in his web site about Godzilla), but that phrase sums up the movie for me.I wanted to like this movie so much. I watched the trailer so many times, and I hoped to watch a dino-epic. Something like The Lion King, perhaps, a gripping story set in a digital world. Somehow, somebody made a cruel mistake and let this movie become a child movie with very limited appeal to adults.Furthermore, the cruelty depicted in the scenes of this film is so graphic that a lot of parents had to walk out of the theatre, because their kids couldn't stop crying. So it isn't even a kid's film. It is too violent and graphic for that, too. That leaves Dinosaur in a very interesting situation. It is too graphic and cruel to be a kid's movie, but too simple and not gripping or emotionally engaging enough (ala Lion King again) to be a movie adults can enjoy.Those are the weak points... but one look at the lush landscapes, the PERFECT dinosaurs, the incredible hair and facial expressions of all the creatures in the forest... makes you know CG have reached a new high for Disney. This can't be all that bad... they have the technology, now they need a good story (Like Toy Story 2) to show it off.My rating 8 (because of the CG, which simply must be seen to be believed). But you might like to wait for the video release. "},{"Title":"Good Animation. Okay everything else.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is a movie in which the environment upstages the dialougue. That is very sad. The script should have been better to keep up with the great visuals. The script makes stupid jokes like a monkey saying a pick-up line like, Wanna play Monkey in the Middle? or You're a jerk-a-saurus. The movie is also forgettable. The animation is great though, with it's realistic eyes and movements but this also makes me aware that Disney will one day conquer the world AND ENSLAVE ALL HUMANS! MWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Anyway, this has great visuals but...okay everything else. **1/2(the half because of the graphics) out of **** "},{"Title":"High technology; low intelligence","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The technology and special effects in Dinosaur are, indeed, very good, almost as good as in BBC's Walking with the dinosaurs. I know it's Disney and it doesn't have to be didactic, but fun. But it need not be so shallow, so far away from natural history; the plot is too thin, and too traditional (where have I seen the story of the male youth who defies the leader and gets the princess?). Besides, the Dinosaur's dream land looks a lot like Mr. Average American's dream land a golf course. There should be no contradiction between technology, intelligence and fun... if you don't confuse ends and means.  "},{"Title":"Let the cheese fly!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I was somewhat expecting a more original plot. I know, this is a kids movie, and the kids don't really care, but being a skeptical fifteen-year-old, I can't help but feel that this movie is *really* stretching the limits of Disney's originality. (Mild spoiler warning)I couldn't help but have high hopes for the first few minutes, where the dinosaurs interacted in a non-anthropomorphic style, however, when the lemurs (which probably didn't exist in the late jurassic period when this movie was set) started talking, I quickly decided that I would enjoy the movie for it's spectacular graphics rather than it's cheesey plot (if you could call it that).The graphics were astounding. The scenes that I enjoyed best were the pterodactyl flight over the breath-taking landscape, and the large meteor shower. I also enjoyed the eyes of the characters, which had lovely coloration.However, the graphics in all their magnificence could not recover the movie's plot (or lack of it). Honestly, the whole thing was really Disney 101. Why did the dino's have to talk? And why couldn't the big evil carnotaurs (which I don't think are even a real kind of dinosaur) talk if the good vegetarian ones could? The entire movie was pretty much a splicing of The Land Before Time and The Lion King. The main character raised by an adopted family, trecking through the desert when his home was totaled, while all the time dealing with slobbering, villainous carnivorous dinos, the testy girlfriend, and her bad tempered brother. I sat through the whole film saying things like, Hey, they did that in 'The Land Before Time', or,Gee, that scene looks a lot like one from 'The Lion King.' Of course, there was hardly any one else there to complain about my complaints.Yet, all of those comments are the skeptical fifteen-year-old talking. If I were a kid of about seven or eight, I would probably have loved this movie. But I'm not, so give me Walking with Dinosaurs any day.In conclusion, take your little kids to see this film, but let your older ones go see Titan A.E. I'm going to go watch The Land Before Time now. "},{"Title":"Nice grafix but pretty boring","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Only went to see this film because I had a free ticket which would have expired if I didn't. The special effects in the first 15 mins were great. Having said that 15 mins of the amazing effects was all that you really needed. The rest of the film was pretty dull and drab and had a biblical storyline about a bunch of talking Dinosaurs trying to get to the promised land. This is definately a movie for the kids. "},{"Title":"Recycled ideas","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For 82 minutes living dinosaurs dominate your mind. OK, they speak, and that does not fit the tone of realism present on the images. But, it is a Disney film, that's how it works. I was prepared for that. What I wasn't prepared for was the recycling of ideas. Some people compared Dinosaur to Bluth's A Land Before Time. For me Dinosaur is nothing but a new version of Bluth's movie during a shortage of food and water, herds of dinosaurs cross the land in search of a valley where food and water are abundant. Similar, isn't it? How about the predator falling to death? Or the dinosaurs getting out of a cave directly in the valley?  Needless to point the lost child being raised in a strange environment by a different species story has been told before also (recently in a Disney movie called Tarzan). After that, original Screenplay on the credits almost made me laugh.  "},{"Title":"Visually rich, walnut-brain script","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney has made a beautiful but empty movie. It ties with Titan AE for attempts to fuse animation types, and for failure to add a story. I wish them all the best luck in future endeavours. G. "}{"Title":"I liked the dinosaurs in Fantasia better...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I can just imagine the producers trying to sell this one to the Disney studio execs...Remember that awesome scene from Fantasia where the dinosaurs are walking through the desert and dying from thirst?  Well, we're using the latest digital technology to make that into a feature length motion picture!  It will be awesome!And so the film Dinosaur was born -- paying great homage to the Rite of Spring dinosaurs in Fantasia, as well as all six versions of Universal's The Land Before Time.     And just like `The Land Before Time,' the dino's can talk. (At least the plant-eaters and the mammals have this ability.)Of course 82 minutes of watching dinosaurs walking through a desert would be somewhat boring (as well as depressing), so they cut that part down to a mere 72 minutes, and added 10 minutes worth of story concerning how the lead character; a dino named Aladar; was brought into the world.In typical Disney fashion, the lead character is not allowed to be brought up by his own parents -- who knows what sort of crazy ideas people might get if they saw Aladar being raised by his mommy & daddy?  So in the great tradition of The Jungle Book, Tarzan, The Lion King, George of the Jungle, Mighty Joe Young, Hercules Pollyana, etc., (you get the idea...) Aladar is brought up by someone other than his natural parents. In his particular case, it is a tribe of cute little lemurs (primative primates) whom Aladar has to be careful not to step on, less the family troop becomes the family goop.   Aladar spends his time attempting to show how fruitless and immoral  the Darwinian philosophy of `survival of the fittest' truly is.It is also seems to be an act of high treason to portray carnivores as a positive role model in a dinosaur film.   It is a steadfast rule that the herbivores (a.k.a veggie-saurs, `plant-eaters') are ALWAYS the good guys, and the carnivores (a.k.a. `raptors,' `tyranosaurs,' etc...) are ALWAYS the bad guys.  As a matter of fact, to make them come across exactly like the demonic creatures from the pits of hell that they surely must have been, they are not even allowed to TALK; even though every single veggiesaurus is quite conversant in various philosophical and political whims of their prehistoric culture.  And to make absolutely sure you GET THE POINT that meat-eaters are bad, bad, bad; they even come up with a pseudo-dino name for the biggest of them, the carnotaurs  (Just like carnivores -- get it???) Think of the T-Rex from Jurassic Park, having a really bad hair day. No, can't let those guys have an intelligent conversation, less we find ourselves identifying with them, and hope they wipe out those sad little herbivores as they go forth in their rampant deforestation of the earth. No wonder most of planet is a desert.The carnotaurs provide the usual protaganist element that they've been typecast into so relentlessly, as if raptors, the desert, and a fascist igaunadon named `Kron' simply weren't protaginistic enough.   Seeing this movie really makes me appreciate the Pixar characterization of `Rex' in the Toy Story films.As you might have guessed, if you've seen all the films I've listed above, or even some of them, then you've already seen this film.   The only thing that makes this film worth while is the amazing feats of computer generated imagery that Disney pulled out of their hats.  The visuals are absolutely stunning, especially the meteor shower that causes widespread destruction. Too bad they didn't have an original story to go with it.  (If I were Universal I'd sue...)There's a nice little moral tale concerning teamwork and getting everyone to work together.   I'm all for teamwork, but somehow having it illustrated by a group of large, extinct prehistoric creatures just doesn't work.   Other Disney films, especially the Toy Stories, do a much better job of illustrating the concept.Disney is certainly lacking in the originality department lately, as they remake or rehash all their best films of the past, or the good films and TV shows of other studios.   But if they should ever dare to remake Pollyanna, I'm going to personally request that the Chinese use Hollywood as a testing ground for their nuclear missile program.If you want your kids to get see an educated film about dinosaurs, get the BBC's Walking with Dinosaurs.   If you want your kids to be entertained; and learn a good moral lesson; then go fetch yourself a copy of Iron Giant, the last good animation to be released on video/DVD.  The new Dinosaur film is neither educational nor entertaining, except for the smallest (4-6 year old) of kids.   Sure, they'll be scared to death of the carnotaurs and raptors, but then who wouldn't be??? "},{"Title":"COMPUTER GENERATED DINOSAURS! WOW!!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I only went to this to see what the hype was about. I liked the documentary 'Walking with Dinosaurs' considerably more than this. The dinosaurs didn't look as 'realistic' as the beasts in this flick, but at least it was a wild life documentary, not a live action cartoon. Disney was simply aiming fluff at the kids and that's exactly what the audience is served with. Fluff.SMALL SPOILER ALERT....But making the dinosaurs talk? Complete with human expressions and modern-day speech? The character with the worst and most irritating 'present day' lines is the lemur what-ever-it-was, if you've seen this film you will know what I mean. Personalities were your average cliche types. We have our happening young hero dude, the bad-tempered, crusty old veteran soldier, the cold-hearted leader, and the clown like loser (the lemur-thing). However, beginning of the movie was amazing... up until the beasts started spouting modern day catch phrases. (*why* does Disney have to have so much annoying, fluffy dialogue in their films?)Question if the plant eating dinosaurs talk, why don't the carnosaurs talk?Computer generated animation was impressive over the live backgrounds. This gets 8/10 only because in several scenes it is easy to see where the C.G.I.-created dinosaurs are rendered against a blue screen that has live background added in later. Story is a carbon copy of an animated feature 'Land Before Time' I saw years ago that also involved a group of dinosaurs looking for a home in a fabled place. This time round Very un original CONCLUSION Amaaaazing eye candy. That aside, as flat as a pancake.Rent Disney's Tarzan from your local video store instead.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining visuals but sadly typical of current Disney fare","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Has anyone been to Disneyland, California lately? Are you old enough to remember what a novel joy Disneyland used to be? I feel sorry for kids today. Personally, I refuse to return to Disneyland ever again. It's way, way too crowded. But there's something else - sinister, about the place. It was always there hidden beneath the wonderful fantasy and charm. I think you know what I mean. Every attraction was sponsored by a corporation. This was fine when it was subtly presented. Even though current Disney executives are certainly intelligent enough and capable of exhibiting subtlety, they do not exercise it. This may have something to do with the rampant commercialization of society today - i.e. people not only do not expect subtlety, they firmly do not want it as we are in an age of hard realities. Whatever it is, Disneyland has been ruined by it. Dinosaur is but one more example of such commercial interests having overwhelmed any semblance of charm and fantasy in Disney's current fare.This is why I feel sorry for many of today's kids. Kids SHOULD have sweet, charming stories either read or presented in some other way to them. Remember Danny Kaye singing The Ugly Duckling? Today Elton John sings a ballad and we adults are supposed to appreciate the similarity, the apparent notion that Disney is carrying on a tradition of sentimentality. But something has changed in the interim. The Kaye tune heard by kids today would likely be rejected as too sweet. There is an edge that Rock grooves present that Swing tunes comparably do not have. It has something to do with the heavy backbeat. Then there's the intelligence quotient factor which, believe it or not, is directly related to one's ability (or not) to feel and appreciate deeper, grander and more delicately sentimental entertainment. Which leads us to Dinosaur and why this film was made.Some saw Walking with Dinosaurs, a documentary film recently produced with identical state-of-the-art animation techniques as Dinosaur. In fact, Dinosaur is the mainstream commercial feature presentation of this new, cutting edge animation technique while Walking with Dinosaurs was the original, experimental and more intelligent documentary feature presentation. I suppose we should feel lucky to have even received Walking with Dinosaurs; we could have got only Dinosaur.The fact that Walking.. was a documentary feature reflects, at least to some extent, the old Disneyland, pre-Rock culture, before we became sophisticated enought to expect more from film and television entertainment (Remember Sunday nights with those old Disney docu-movies on wildlife?). Nowadays, when those old wildlife films are occasionally rerun on TV, those too young to remember scoff and ridicule them, criticizing their lack of finesse. This is what I mean about a society too jaded to appreciate subtle, intelligent entertainment. We have allowed our corporations to de-sensitize and overly stimulate and sophisticate our children. Like I said, I always sensed something sinister about those corporation signs next to the Disneyland attractions.As far as Dinosaur is concerned, there were absolutely wonderful moments and sequences of this film. The introductory sequence is a marvel on the level of classic. This is, of course before the creatures start talking and the Rock beat starts playing. The scene where the Pterodactyl flies over the terrain is completely engrossing, so promising of something marvelous to come. But, as has been lamented over and again in this forum, that marvel never comes. Instead we get wise cracking monkey-mother-in-laws and other cheap dialogue.Still, there were a number of beautifully photographed/animated sequences sporadically presented throughout the movie. It was like there was a battle of priorities going on between the modern jaded mentality on one side, which apparently believes that it is responsible for presenting standard bad humor for kids, and the more seriously visual beauty that this marvelous new animation so obviously is demanding to be made in order to show us its gorgeous, shining self.In the end, it's an old Hollywood behind-the-scenes story revamped. Great sweeping cinematography with grandiose vistas a great Western (or in this case, a great pre-historic epic) make. But then we have to remember that this is still just Hollywood, where somebody's tasteless son-in-law is the executive producer (or something equivalent) and he says We gotta have humor in this picture! Etc. etc. etc. "},{"Title":"Dinosaur impressive, but why the monkeys?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The folks at Disney are definitely getting a feel for their computer animation software -- Dinosaur, their latest offering in the genre, is nothing short of a visual spectacle.But why the monkeys?After all, there is absolutely no evidence to support the proposition that monkeys existed during the time that dinosaurs roamed the earth.It's likely that the never-too-safe Disney people thought it best to inject something cute and fuzzy into a movie that is largely about something huge and reptilian.If that's not the first sign that Dinosaur is very much a Disney vehicle, then the fact that both dinosaurs, the good ones at least, and the monkeys can talk is proof positive. In other words, be prepared to leave any pretext of believability at home, and be prepared for characters that are so sweet and saccharine that watching them could induce a diabetic coma.And while the animation continues to be groundbreaking -- the monkeys in particular are something to behold -- the story is highly derivative of some past classics, both Disney and non-Disney.But I'm speaking as an adult.The little kid inside me is saying this is not a bad movie, albeit one that can be confusing in some parts and downright scary in others.Largely a movie in three acts, it opens with the egg of our still-to-be-hatched hero snatched away from its nest but somehow surviving a meandering journey through the claws of various predators along with a very long swim in the water and a very big fall from the sky.Act two begins in the spirit of The Jungle Book and Tarzan, with a pack of lemurs reluctantly adopting the baby Aladar. It ends in the spirit of Bambi, specifically when the mother dies in the forest fire, as the island of this odd but happy clan is destroyed by a meteor shower. (Parents be warned This scene may be somewhat overwhelming for the little ones).Only in the final stage of the film does the movie settle into anything resembling a story, rather than a series of impressive but disjointed sequences. In the spirit of The Land That Time Forgot, Aladar and what's left of the lemur pack join a herd of dinosaurs making their way to some mythical nesting grounds, fending themselves off from a couple of meat-eating carnosaurs along the way.By the end, we learn that great things can be done by overcoming our differences and joining together and working as a team and have experience some awesome animated action in the process.Cute animals, impressive animation and a moral to the story. What more can a family movie offer? "},{"Title":"Dinosaur impressive, but why the monkeys?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The folks at Disney are definitely getting a feel for their computer animation software -- Dinosaur, their latest offering in the genre, is nothing short of a visual spectacle.But why the monkeys?After all, there is absolutely no evidence to support the proposition that monkeys existed during the time that dinosaurs roamed the earth.It's likely that the never-too-safe Disney people thought it best to inject something cute and fuzzy into a movie that is largely about something huge and reptilian.If that's not the first sign that Dinosaur is very much a Disney vehicle, then the fact that both dinosaurs, the good ones at least, and the monkeys can talk is proof positive. In other words, be prepared to leave any pretext of believability at home, and be prepared for characters that are so sweet and saccharine that watching them could induce a diabetic coma.But I'm speaking as an adult.The little kid inside me is saying this is not a bad movie, albeit one that can be confusing in some parts and downright scary in others.Largely a movie in three acts, it opens with the egg of our still-to-be-hatched hero snatched away from its nest but somehow surviving a meandering journey through the claws of various predators along with a very long swim in the water and a very big fall from the sky.Act two begins in the spirit of The Jungle Book and Tarzan, with a pack of lemurs reluctantly adopting the baby Aladar. It ends in the spirit of Bambi, specifically when the mother dies in the forest fire, as the island of this odd but happy clan is destroyed by a meteor shower. (Parents be warned This scene may be somewhat overwhelming for the little ones).Only in the final stage of the film does the movie settle into anything resembling a story, rather than a series of impressive but disjointed sequences. In the spirit of The Land That Time Forgot, Aladar and what's left of the lemur pack join a herd of dinosaurs making their way to some mythical nesting grounds, fending themselves off from a couple of meat-eating carnosaurs along the way.By the end, we learn that great things can be done by overcoming our differences and joining together and working as a team and have experience some awesome animated action in the process.Cute animals, impressive animation and a moral to the story. What more can a family movie offer? "},{"Title":"Great animation, same old story","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The animation in this movie, taken on its own, would be worth a 10.  Too bad they couldn't come up with a better story.  The plot is a mixture of Disney's own Tarzan and of The Land Before Time, and there's not one piece of this story that hasn't been done a million times before.  It's also disappointing to see the dinosaurs animated so realistically, yet acting like (in the typical Disney mode) humans in animal form - a more courageous movie would have dealt with the creatures in their own right, without the cute and totally unrealistic dialogue.On the whole, the movie strikes a good balance in appealing to different age groups, but some scenes may be scary for young children, and the film requires a few big leaps of faith for adults.Rating  see it for the animation - the predictability of the plot will make it easier to notice details such as the lemurs' realistic fur. "},{"Title":"Disappointed -- Not for youngsters. . .","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was pumped to see this film. The trailer was enough to get me drooling about the prospect of seeing yet another groundbreaking piece of animation. So, over Memorial Day weekend, my family and I went on the Dinosaur adventure. Yes, the animation is spectacular -- good enough to earn an Oscar. But. . .the plot is weak -- really weak. And, it's really scary for kids under 13. I took my 6-year-old and 3-year-old. Take your children at your own risk. Overall, the movie is worth a look if, for nothing else, to see the great animation work. But don't go expecting a great film or a family treat. "},{"Title":"INSANELY awesome Computer Animation But bad story...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie will do 2 things.  It will impress you more then you thoght it would and dissapoint you more then you thought it would.  huh, what?The Computer Animation in this movie is absolutley incredible.  Almost every person who has reviewed this movie so far has mentioned it, and it is the sole reason I saw the movie.  Also, the dinosaurs are a little more colorful, which is actually realistic because no one has ever seen a real dinosaur right?  Bones can't tell us what they look like, so I was glad to see that.  The combination of real backgronds and CGI dinosaurs is incredible.  Think of the special on the Discovery Channel x 10!The dissapointing side of the movie is the story.  After Tarzan, which gave jsutice to the classic story, Disney unfortunatley canceled itself out character/plot wise.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"More CGI Growing Pains","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is technically impressive; the dinosaurs are placed onto real backgrounds fairly well, the skin textures are good, and the lemurs' fur is surprisingly realistic. The story is simple, the characters a bit bland. Aladar shows none of the quirks one might expect of a dinosaur raised by lemurs, and in fact the lemurs barely figure in the film at all. The journey to safety is a time-tested plot element, but here it seems to lack the necessary epic quality and thus the payoff isn't very rewarding. (Oh. They reached the fabled valley. Seems like they only set off about a day and a half ago.) Still, the movie might have succeeded as eye candy even with these flaws, if not for one serious problem the character design. Take a photorealistic dinosaur, and then stick a rubbery, anthropomorphic face on it, and the result is jarring. Aladar's (and the other dinosaurs') small mouths, flexible lips, and front-set eyes looked really out of place. (In fact, I thought Aladar bore an unnerving resemblance to John Travolta in heavy makeup, and if I'd wanted to see that, I'd have gone to Battlefield Earth instead.) The type of caricature that looks fine in cel animation looks distractingly creepy in CGI. I flinched inside every time Aladar pursed his cow-like lips in thought. Disney either needed to go with entirely realistic dinosaurs (as in the excellent Walking with Dinosaurs) or lessen the realism of the film as a whole (as in The Land Before Time.) "},{"Title":"The Problem with Dinosaur","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  OK, so the animation is extraordinary.  And the opening scene leaves you breathless.  And the sound is great.  But...Dinosaur's greatest achievement, its animation, is also its greatest hindrance.  If the characters in this movie had been animated the old way, say like The Lion King, their completely anthropomorphized story would have been easier to get into.  But the animation is so photo-realistic that it pulls you in the direction of wanting to believe everything you see on the screen.  Meantime, the completely unreal story and characters (dinos that talk, have a sense of duty that overrides their sense of survival, etc.) keeps you constantly aware that you're watching a man-made fantasy.  The result is a short circuit, unintentional of course, but a short circuit nevertheless.One problem with buying into Dinosaur is the familiarity contemporary audiences have with animal behavior and with the history of dinos and the evolution of the earth in particular.  After 1,001 National Geographic shows on the subject, it is impossible to even remotely buy that any animal would risk their own survival to save a beast from a different group, or that different groups of animals would herd together, or that a dino who got beaten up by a bigger one will come out in his defense moments later out of a sense of duty.  But it's a fantasy, you say.  True, and it might have worked if the visuals had been unrealistic too, but somehow the fact that they aren't creates a kind of inconsistency that kills it.One more thing that doesn't help matters the story is poor and lacking in depth or originality.  Why, I wonder, would Disney invest so much money on a story that from the get-go must have reeked of predictability?  Well, it doesn't matter -- they'll make their money back and then some, and that's what matters to them.  One thing is for sure the great dinosaur movie has not been made yet.Got any ideas? "}{"Title":"Decent start, boring middle, and good ending","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  DINOSAUR has a decent beginning that reminds me of the recent films from Disney-TARZAN and THE LION KING come to mind. The problem I had with the film was the second act, with the dinosaurs trekking across the desert in search of THE GREAT VALLEY,which reminds me of another childrens film- THE LAND BEFORE TIME.The character's are never fully developed, the whole look of the film (in the middle) is too dark for my taste(when it comes to childrens films),and the story drags on until the third act.The third act pulls the film up out of obscurity, with bright colors, an action packed finally, and somehow the message of the film- about having faith and sticking together through rough times,manages to come across. Which leads me to one last thought-wonderful computer animation and terrific visual effects can not save a film with a bad story. Look at GODZILLA, or THE LOST WORLD.MY RATING 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Thundering Heard","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  O.K. so there were no lemurs back then.  Monkeys and their ilk evolved much later.  Nevertheless, I refuse to get too critical with movies where animals talk.  On one level I enjoyed this movie.  It was pretty much formula.  The plant eaters are the good guys.  The carnosaurs are the bad ones.  The good guys converse in happy-go-lucky dialect or philosophize over their respective plights.  Why do the meat eaters never talk?  They trumpet and growl, drool and chase.  They never stop to have a conversation.  Remember The Jungle Book with the tiger with the cold British accent.  His slyness and duplicity provided temptation.  There is too much chase in this movie.  The antagonists may as well be volcanoes or boulders or fire.  They have not personality, no evil volition, other than their stomachs.  The contemporary references, especially one to booking an airline flight seem strained.  Some are just for the sake of jokes--There's a monkey on my back. 	The other side would included the visual magnificence, the very realistic movements of the creatures, and the beautiful landscapes.  The first five minutes are wonderful.  I liked the contrasting of the meteor shower which starts out as a fireworks display and soon becomes close and violent. 	There is, of course, the quest for peace, the promised land.  Only the good dinosaurs are allowed in.  The getting there makes a fun ride with lots of action.  If only the characters had been a little more developed.  They are human, after all. "},{"Title":"Scared My Kid Silly","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The dinos were really great - their movements and their characters interesting but here is where I had a problem.  For one thing, it is for kids but I didn't stop to think it would scare my four 1/2 year old. there were other kids  his age going in and it seemed like a good idea.  T-Rex terrified my son.  I kept having to soothe his fears and once we got past that it was okay.  Simple little story, great animation ... not sure where this film belongs, though.  It was impressive to look at, though.  I think the right age for this is between 7 and 10 years.  My kid couldn't grasp the plot points - having to get to the nesting grounds and the meteor showers destruction ... right over his head.  I couldn't help thinking that we now have the technology to make a real epic dinosaur film - perhaps without dialog.  Now there's a challenge. "},{"Title":"Land Before Time on a NICE 3D accelerator card (SOME SPOILERS)","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  VISUALS Being a computer graphics buff, I anticipated the release of this movie for a long time. I was surprised to find that it was NOT a collaboration between Disney and Pixar; it is actually the work of an internal Disney department code-named The Secret Lab.What the Lab has cranked out is the most impressive piece of computer animation ever seen. Combined seamlessly with real backgrounds, the visuals were absolutely incredible. Of particular interest- The fly-by of a huge herd of dinosaurs is very impressive.- The falling meteors looked VERY good.- The lemurs' fur moves like REAL fur, in individual strands, not in clumps like most computer animated hair. CG buffs will appreciate the difficulty in achieving that effect.- The expressions on the characters' faces were surprisingly lifelike (especially on the lemurs, as they looked a little goofy on the dinosaurs).DON'T WAIT FOR IT TO COME OUT ON VIDEO! There is no way the small screen could ever do this movie justice.STORY Unfortunately, the story is the low point in the movie. It was very reminiscent of The Land Before Time; a group of dinosaurs flees the destruction caused by meteors in search of a safe location. There are some important issues addressed, such as the importance of compassion, in addition to the typical Disney friendship message.The PG rating is there for good reason; there are some big bad scary dinosaur scenes that are a bit too intense for very small children. It isn't terribly graphic or violent, just scary.SOUND The sound effects were well done and gave an immersive feel to the movie. One thing I really liked was the fact that the meteor impact, viewed from a distance, was silent until the sound wave arrived, a subtle touch that is often overlooked.MUSIC Viewers will likely be relieved that there are no singing, dancing dinosaurs. The stunning graphics were perfectly complimented by a fantastic soundtrack. I actually liked the music to Dinosaur more than that of Jurassic Park.Overall, I would recommend this movie to anyone, for the incredible computer graphics, if nothing else. If you're looking for a good story, you're likely to be disappointed, but the awesome visuals and sound make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"It's pretty, but is it art?","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Anyone who's into computers knows that impressive computer graphics do not necessarily equal quality entertainment.  Apparently the folks at Disney haven't realized that.  Yes, I enjoy realistic computer graphics, but if I want nothing but pure eye-candy I'll go see an IMAX movie.  Fantasia 2000 had a great deal of impressive graphics uncluttered by plot, but most people knew that going in.  I for one hadn't even realized they were going to make the dinosaurs talk.  (Or at least the herbivores... the carnivores seem to have been made less intelligent by default.  Unfortunately I don't have time for a debate on the political agendas of the film.)   I thought that perhaps Disney would do something akin to Homeward Bound, where the talking would be implied by voiceovers.  Instead we get a disturbing view of these photo-realistic creatures making facial expressions nature never intended... a decision that greatly lessened the believability for me.  I agree with others who make the comparisons to Land Before Time and A Bug's Life, though I must disagree with the Tarzan reference.  At no point do we really get the impression that Aladar (the main character) has been raised by lemurs.  In fact, if you removed the entire lemur element, you might even have a better movie.  (Though the hair was oh-so-impressive... except anytime something causes you to notice how impressive it is, it's probably stealing the scene more than it should.)Finally, I'd like to end my review by listing every major plot twist, surprise element, and original concept-----------  "},{"Title":"How can they be in the film if they are extinct?","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  How can they be in the film if they are extinct?That is what a kid said, seeing dinosaur. The special effects were extraordinary. The fur of the monkey was moving with the wind. The integration of real life image with computer generated ones was perfect.The story was simple, perfect for the 6 or 7 year old. For younger kids, It depends on their sensibility. Some kids were had to stop watching the movie and turn around because they were afraid! It's not that the movie is too violent. (There is violence, but those are dinosaur!!!!) It is the way they show the Carnosaurs and the Velociraptors that is scary, in combination with the music.  Also, younger kids may have trouble to focus their interest on the movie because there is a lot of dialogue. My daughter that is used to see movies and usually watch them could stop moving the whole representation.So it's a good child movie for 6 year old and older. Younger kid may be afraid or may lose interest. And for the adult? It's a cute movie, perfect for a first date. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Family Oriented","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It was pleasant to attend a film that did not spew forth buckets of profanity and expletives.  There were some pretty rough scenes that could disturb the youngest in the audience but the pleasant ending with a good moral message was uplifting.  It did not dwell on the differences between evolution and creationism but delivered a nice message packaged in a well laid out package.  It was hard to determine what background scenes were real locations.  Shame, they looked like places I would love to visit.  Even the vicious scenes were tame and free of gratuitous blood, guts, and gore. This is one that will end up in my home video collection. "},{"Title":"Our family loved it, especially the 4 year old","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My son, age 4, is a dinosaur fanatic. We went to this movie knowing that many people had said that it was Land Before Time crossed with Jurassic Park but we went anyway. Good thing, too! This movie was great! Unlike so many Disney movies (and, incidentally, the LBT movies) there are no scenes where the characters sing! Woohoo! That alone puts it ahead of LBT. Second, the plots really aren't that similar. Finding your way home is a major theme in a LOT of literature/film/etc throughout history; people ragging on Disney for not being original are just, in my opinion, jumping on the slam the movie bandwagon.The Land Before time movies follow a bunch of children through learning about friendship via facing this and that adventure. The characters in Dinosaur (primarily adult characters) learn about friendship also, but then that is a theme in almost every movie ever made. They also learn to question tradition in favor of new ideas, helping and teamwork, and a lot of other stuff that is just good kids' movie values.I agree that some children might be scared by parts of the movie. My son wasn't, he loved the whole thing and wanted to see it again... but he's pretty fearless.  "},{"Title":"Graphics are good, but story is rehashed from better movies.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The computer graphics are very good, but the story is a much duller version of THE LAND BEFORE TIME.  Kids between 7-10 will enjoy it (it will probably frighten children younger than that), but adults will get bored with the characters.  Films like THE LAND BEFORE TIME and THE LION KING flush out many dimensions of their animated creatures in the same short period of time that the story of DINOSAUR is told.Again, I saw the movie for the graphics, not the story.  If it's not that important to you to have a fresh story, then the film should be enjoyable. "},{"Title":"It's Disney - What Did You Expect!!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't think it'll be considered a spoiler if I tell you that Disney has followed it's tried and true formula.  Think Tarzan but at a little bit slower pace.  What Disney does well, very well, is make you sit up and say Gee, I didn't know that animation could look like that.  It's fun for the family but you might want to consider leaving the really little ones home with a babysitter - unless you like that terrified look and nightmare screams in the middle of the night.  "}{"Title":"1st 20 mins is it....don't take LITTLE kids","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As far as adults are concerned, the first 20 minutes is pretty amazing from a visual point of view. The movie LOOKS incredible. After that, the dialogue is bad, the scenery is weak, no real music, plot is a copy of Land Before Time (with Littlefoot).As far as kids are concerned, my 6 year old loved it and thought it was the coolest thing ever. My 5 year old was scared to death. There are some relatively graphic, violent scenes for a kids movie. I think for kids over a certain age (maybe 5!), it's no big deal, but I think it is too scary for very little kids.So go see the first 20 min, then leave and catch another movie that will challenge your brain a little (like Road Trip!) ) "},{"Title":"An interesting agenda (some spoilers)","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw a test screening of this movie last night and I thought I'd post my British perspective on the movie.What was interesting was the scientific, social, and religious perspective from which it came. The basic premise of the movie is of an orphaned dinosaur leading both mammals and reptiles to the promised land, in terms of both a physical location and a state of mind. In getting to the promised land the movie manages to challenge Darwinian evolutionary theory, posit that vegetarianism is preferable to being a carnivore, suggest that reptiles are inferior to mammals, and challenge strong leadership.The key conflict in the movie is between the lead character, Alladar, and Cron, the old leader of the herd. This conflict is based on whether the weak should be left behind for the good of the herd. This is, of course, a cornerstone of evolution - the strong survive and pass on their genetic code, and weak genes get removed from the pool over the course of time. Alladar shows compassion and in saving stragglers perhaps changes the mindset of the herd (a nature versus nurture argument perhaps?)A further conflict was carnivor versus herbivore. Of course, this was played out on screen as the herbivore herd was pursued by assorted carnivores, but it was also part of the agenda of the movie, which was unashamedly pro-vegetarian. At the start of the film Alladar's adoptive lemur parents say Don't worry, we'll teach him to hate meat. As Alladar is a herbivore, this turns out to be uneccesary, but it is unusual in a Disney movie to hear such a strong statement from a good guy character. Whilst it is not surprising for the herbivore herd and lemurs to fear carnivores the film does manage to portray meat-eaters as the evil bad guys who must be destroyed.Whilst the carnivores are portrayed as the bad guys, reptiles in general are also consistently portrayed as being inferior to the lemurs. One can assume that Alladar's characteristic of compassion and teamwork is a direct product of his upbringing by lemurs (another nature versus nurture example). When we meet the herd they are portrayed as the blind followers of a dispassionate leader (Cron). At one stage even the weak who themselves are being left behind suggest that a wounded dinosaur should be left to the pursuing carnivors. As the film progresses, Alladar convinces first the stragglers and then the rest of the herd that compassion and teamwork are the way forward and that therefore the old reptilian way of thinking is inferior. Without this compassion and teamwork the herd would not have reached the promised land.It is unusual to see a Disney movie with such a strong agenda. Standard Disney fare does stress the importance of family and friendship, and is some respects Dinosaur is no different, although the battle between the young Alladar and old Cron can perhaps be seen to be a challenge to parental authority. The pro-vegetarian standpoint is also an interesting one, as is the attempt to suggest that some of the principles of evolution are undesirable. Whilst I don't have a problem with the politics of the film (I can make my own mind up about these things, and everyone is entitled to express their opinion) you may well have. Anyone with young kids knows that they tend to watch Disney films on permanent rotation and as such this film (like other Disney films) will have an impact on their world view, so don't be surprised if your kids become vegetarian and start arguing about evolution!I did actually like this film, although it really isn't one for an adult audience - it certainly is not Toy Story 2 (which I think I enjoyed more than most of the kids in the cinema!). The animation is superb, as is the soundtrack. It is visually stunning although I feel it would have benefited from being 2.351 wide rather than what appeared to be 1.851. I did go into the film with high expectations, primarily because it was an exclusive test-screening (apparently it was the only one they were conducting, and the print was specially flown in for the occasion under tight security). The film certainly didn't live up to my expectations, although from my comments it obviously has made me think quite deeply about what it was trying to say. If you're an animation/CG fan go and see it, but don't expect to be captivated by the story. As I said, however, the kids will love it... "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals, disappointing story.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Last night I took my boys ages 5 and 10 to see Dinosaur. Some of the scenes were a bit too intense for the 5 year old, who got scared and had to sit on my lap.The visuals were stunning. The story was disappointing.  As my 10 year old pointed out, it was a rehash of the animated dinosaur movie (series now) Land Before Time. Could it be that the only things talking dinosaurs ever want to do is to find a hidden valley after a meteor strike? "},{"Title":"The effects were the REAL star....","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"       It wasn't the plot that drove me to see this prehistoric tale, but the effects.  They are the REAL star of this movie.  As for story and plot...take Land Before Time, Jurasic Park, and mix in a little bit of Tarzan, and you have Dinosaur.  (I mean, come on, little monkeys raiseing this HUGE dinosaur?) The charactors were cute, but you can't help but feel as though you met them all before, from another movie.     But there is NO other movie that can be compaired to in EFFECTS.  I must admit, I was ASTONISHED at how INCREDIBLE it looked.  So astonished in fact, that a couple of times, I was too busy admireing the visual effects and really studying it, that I lost track of the story.  It looked so darn REAL.        Like I said, the true star WAS the effects.  I LOVED the meteor shower scene, it was so pretty.        Now, was this movie suppose to be for children?  Because I know that there were some scenes that are just the RIGHT ingrediants for NIGHTMARES!  It was a bit too intense for small children, I had to listen to one poor frightened child a few times.          "},{"Title":"Hodge podge storyline","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was disappointed in the storyline of this film.  Though the 'gee-whiz' animation and animation-over-live was fantastic, I thought that the combined plot of 'Moses Meets The Lion-King in a Dinosaur Suit' was disappointing; same-old same-old.  I think that Disney Studios should review their upcoming story lines...  and spend more money on writers... than simply concentrating on animation wizardry. "},{"Title":"Nothing that Disney hasn't done before.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The effects were great, but the story was the same old stuff that Disney hasn't done before.  The opening reminded me of Tarzan and at the end I was waiting to hear Circle of Life.  I think kids will like it, and in the end that is who the movie was made for. "},{"Title":"A visual Feast","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a mother of 3, I was disappointed not to see a new fully animated Disney movie for 2000.  My expectations for Dinosaur were very high after seeing the trailers and I must say I was slightly disappointed.  Though the movie is beautiful, the sound is sublime and the CG animation very realistic, the story is hollow.  The imagery is far too complex for children to understand and the plot seems all too familiar (Tarzan meets The Lion King). Still, I would recommend taking older children to see Dinosaur, my 6 year old was mesmerized, BUT my 2 year old got up and played on the floor.  "},{"Title":"Disney Rises to the CGI Challenge Again","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are two reasons I enjoyed Dinosaur; first, the computer graphics combined with live action film made for a very realistic movie.  Strangely enough, however, I never slipped into believing the characters were real. The fact that dinosaurs were talking probably had the most to do with this... not to mention that dinosaurs are extinct.  Of course.The other reason I enjoyed Dinosaur was because of the story, which was excellent and heart-warming.  It was easy to imagine that, if animals were actually able to reason on things, they might reason that one NEEDS to leave a weaker animal behind because of natural selection - else, it might bring the whole herd down, right?Anyway, my wife, son, and I all enjoyed the movie.  But, especially my five-year-old son and I - my wife said she fell asleep a couple times during the movie.  Oh well; thus begins the summer of GUY movies. "},{"Title":"Well its not Dino-mite","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  OK I think we all will agree the visual effects where outstanding, but this story has been done before (Land Before Time). I cant help but feel disappointed in this movie, It was nothing like I expected. First off the movie would have been better if the movie ended with the astroids instead of 10 minutes in to the movie. Second, it was showing off too much I mean come on how many times can we sit through a T-Rex chase. Third, the movie was way to violent I'm sure Disney was trying to appeal to teenagers but there not going to see it little kids ages 5-10 are. Well if you want to see a good family movie this summer go see Pokemon the Movie 2000, I know I am. "},{"Title":"Just DAMN!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First off I must say the graphics were stunning! As I read though the other user comments, I wonder if some just see movies to pick them apart and not for the sheer entertainment. Sometimes, people really can't see the forest though the trees. The movie did have a similar storyline the The land before time and could have been very well contrived as TLBT 6. But,that did not take away from the entertainment of the movie! And not even close to a previous poster's review! A couple of times I was surprised that they showed the dino's actually ate each other. No  reason that kids should think that it was a happy go lucky time period. Yes, it was a little short. But,thats Disney. They market to short people with short attention spans and lots of energy! All in All I thought the movie was great. Thats it what it means when there is applause. Sometimes people just forget what it was like to be a kid.Expand your mind people. Grow down some!  "}{"Title":"Seven writers seem plumb silly","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seven people have writing credits on this movie, and the producers could have saved a bundle by reading a TV Guide listing of the animated Land Before Time. Which wasn't a triumph of originality in itself, but still, seven writers? The story line might have been written by a computer or more likely, a market analyst. Nor does the drawing style reveal any originality. It was odd to see the same face bad guy face of the grasshopper from A Bugs' Life, on the face of the bully dinosaur brother of Dinosaur.Every character had been market tested in every way. It was truly a film by committee. But I love seeing dinosaur movies, even one as slicked near to death like this. Dinosaurs are just plain fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Some great effects, very little story","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film has ground-breaking animation (the water and hair animation is unbelievable), but the story is anaemic and atypical of the half-hearted Disney efforts we've been seeing the past few years.  Good for little kids (except for the weak-hearted ... I was more afraid during this film than during Gladiator), but 1 hour and 10 minutes too long for adults. "},{"Title":"A kids movie with BITE!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is a very cool kids movie, that will probably scare the heck out of a lot of kids.  It's nice to see a Disney movie with NO singing for once, and second this film has some real action to it &#150; almost  as much as heavy hitter `Gladiator' and certainly more than the poorly done `Romeo Must Die'.  I thinks it's cause you walk into those movies expecting tons of action and violence, and then can't help but be let down.  With a Disney movie, any action you get is totally unexpected and ultimately appreciated. The animation is just incredible, the combination of live action backgrounds and animated characters works great.  Some scenes are questionable, but the movement of the creatures and the scenes at night and in the rain are flawless &#150; a must see for the animation achievement alone.Oh course, it's a Disney movie, so the story is very simplistic as are the characters.  But combine the animation and the action of the film and it's just a fun movie, and a push in the right direction for Disney to use their huge budgets for some move powerful images.  It's no Toy Story, but I give Dinosaur a nice solid 6.  "},{"Title":"I think this movie was better when it was called The Land Before Time","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Too much time spent on the Dinosaurs, not enough on the script. There was really nothing there. You know a movies a bit disappointing when the 1st thing you think after watching it is, Wow, that cg monkey hair was amazing!. And I wish Disney would've had some backbone to try something new. After seeing the trailer for it in front of Toy Story 2, it seemed like it was going to be a fake documentary (much like Walking with Dinosaurs). But alas no, instead you've pretty much got The Lion King with computer animated prehistoric beasties. And to be quite honest, although the fx were quite impressive, it was no Jurassic Park. At least they didn't sing. "},{"Title":"DINOSAUR-- C+","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Apparently, Disney has the technology and the money to make the most digitally enhanced movie we have ever seen.  In the first five minutes of Dinosaur, Disney tries to impress us by showing everything they can do with their computer generated effects.  And let's face it, that's the only reason we saw this movie in the first place (at least those of us without kids).But it's not the special effects that make a great special effects movie, and in the long run, Dinosaur will be forgotten among such landmark films as 2001  A Space Odyssey, Star Wars, Jurassic Park, and Toy Story. These movies combined creative ideas with special effects, and are now lodged in our cultural memory.Dinosaur exhibits no creative thought.  It's pretty much the same story as The Land Before Time, only this go-round we're dealing with digital dinosaurs.  Beyond being unoriginal, the story is weak  it's about a herd of dinosaurs trying to find their nesting area.  Everything that happens along the way has been done before and done better.  Even the celebrity voices suck (D.B. Sweeney?).  Particularly bad is the comic relief, which comes in the form of horny, yet unattractive monkey (I know it sounds funny, but it never is).  The movie is oddly short (about 75-80 minutes), for which I suppose we should be thankful.One comment about the special effects  they're great, but are they any more realistic than Jurassic Park's dinosaurs?  Spielberg wanted to show us what dinosaurs actually looked like millions of years ago.  In Dinosaur, we see a bunch of generic dinosaurs who make ridiculous facial expressions. The monkeys also make crazy faces from time to time.  My point here is that while the animals certainly don't look like cartoons, they don't look realistic either.Bottom line  Dinosaur is as interesting and creative as its title. Most people won't like it, with the exception of kids who get caught up in the craziness.  Parents should note that this is not a traditional family movie (it's rated PG for violence).  Hopefully, in the next couple of years, studios will use the technology of Dinosaur to make quality movies that we'll enjoy after the first five minutes. "},{"Title":"Little Foot Lives a Bug's Life","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yeah, yeah, yeah, we've seen the story before (I can't believe they didn't get slammed by a lawsuit from Don Bluth studios), and it was disconcerting to see the dinosaurs *smiling* (ugh).  Certainly it would have been much better (and more impressive) had they done the story telling without talking dinosaurs... from the trailer I was hoping for something similar to The Bear.  Given the standard plotline, that shouldn't have been too difficult a stretch.BUTThe message was inoffensive, the visuals stunning, the pace brisk (perhaps too much so for the sake of character development), and heaven knows that I'd rather spend my hard earned bucks on this movie than on this summer's Pokemon ad-disguised-as-a-film.  I saw it with six ten-year-old boys and two other adults; predictably the adults thought it was okay, and the kids thought it was great.  Not a bad way to rest your frayed nerves after too much time spent herding adolescents around the mall... "},{"Title":"Definitely not for the kiddies","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think young ones might have nightmares for years after sitting through this picture. The big bad dinosaurs have big teeth and a dynamic roar, and the little bad dinosaurs have big teeth and an eerie screech. There is a lot of running away from predators. This movie teaches lots of values that will be lost on the tots sticking together, taking care of the aged and weak, and refusing to die even in hard times. It deals with a difficult search for the nesting ground after a meteor has destroyed everything else. That's how it starts, with the Dinosaur Holocaust. There are some monkeys, but they're not particularly cute lemurs who look like people, not chimps who make you laugh. There are some intermittent light moments, but much of their humor is adult and in the dialog, there isn't much slapstick animation. Having said that, this might be the perfect movie for the jaded ten-year-old Nintendo fanatic in the family. But I wouldn't take them much younger than that.  "},{"Title":"Incredible animation - but a story for children.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The blend of computer animation and live action photography is the best I've seen yet!Unfortunitaly the story was for children only. I was hoping this movie would be one of the recent movies of past years that bridges the gap and is enjoyable for children as well as adults. Examples of these are the Toy Story movies and A Bugs Life. Unfortunitaly this movie didn't do that. The storyline and dialogue were strictly for kids. I groaned silently at parts of the movie that were aimed for the intellect of the children around me. However as an adult I found it very pleasurable to look at the images on the screen.I will rate this movie a 7. Based on the IMD rating scale this movie makes it to the minimum 7 rating that makes a movie worth watching. Just barely though - the story was for kids and only the animation could entertain this adult. "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects But This Is Not For Small Children!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm a senior citizen and enjoyed Dinosaur. The special effects are amazing but we really never get to know the main characters very well. There are tender loving moments and there are violent confrontations as the large beasts fight one another.  Sometimes, it is hard to distinguish the good dinosaurs from the bad.  If you have children under 10 years of age, they could be very frightened looking at some of the scenes.This film runs just a little over an hour.  Enough for kids I guess but I really felt  cheated. If you pay $8.00 dollars, I think you deserve more than that. I enjoyed the overall film but remember it is designed for children.  "},{"Title":"The plot? Oh well! The CGI? Oh my God!!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Watching this movie kind of felt like watching an episode of Star Trek TOS. No matter what happened during the show, all the characters met on the bridge happy and whole, ready for the next show. The plot was very perictable. But the Animation, oh my God!!. I have never seen CGI as smooth or as detailed in my life. I would take my kids to see this movie again just to marvel at the total immersion I felt. The animals were so life-like that the could have been filmed at a dinosaur park somewhere. BTW, my kids were so captured by the reality that they literally screamed when the saw the T-Rexs.  "}{"Title":"Another Land Before Time Story...on Steroids","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Here it is short and sweet This is almost exactly a Land Before Time episode.  You've got the same characters, the same storyline, and the same politically correct re-write of the Jurassic era.  Add some CG graphics and a meaner-looking Sharpooth and that's basically it.Except don't take your little kids to it.  It was too intense for our 5 -year old and almost too much for our 9 year old.  There are teeth jabbing out of the screen, snot, spit, blood and death and general dino violence going on throughout most of the picture.Some of the coolest sequences in the whole movie are the ones that were playing months before on the trailer.  So if you saw the trailer, you've already seen some of the best parts.Disney really blew it with this one.  Yes, the graphics are good. Perfectly good as in Computer Generated.  Its been done before and is becoming commonplace now.  You'd think they could've been a little more creative with the story - this is no Toy Story 1 or 2.  If you have seen any of the Land Before Time movies you have seen this story and all the characters in it. The music is OK but it can be summed up as Epic Fantasy Movie Music You've Heard Before and is completely forgettable.Our family of 5 gave this movie a 3 for OK special effects.  That's about it.  The kids say they'd rather watch Toy Story any day.  And that sums it up perfectly. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Some films take paragraphs to analyze, at least for me (as you know if you've read any of my other lengthy reviews).  This one is pretty simpleOkay story. Okay dialogue. Stunning visuals.A note on the speaking animals In creating Dinosaur, Disney debated whether to have the dinosaurs speak or just to have them make, well, dinosaur noises, with or without a narration.  Choosing to have them speak was a trade-off characterization and story-telling doubtless became easier, but they lost a lot of the majesty and awe that the visuals inspire.  It would be an interesting experiment to take the film and remove the speech, and see if the story would be understandable with only animal noises and the score.Still, as it is, it is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Visuals - No Script","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was once again in awe of the beauty, imagination and technological advances of the Disney folk.  And the majesty of it justified the list of credits that went on forever acknowledging the hundreds of genius' behind the look.  But they really needed to cut back on some of those visual folks and put more weight into the script writers.  I was disappointed to see and hear all kinds of morfed scenes and score from Lion King with dinosaurs instead of animals from the current day African jungle.  The dialog did not endear any of the characters to me. This film doesn't come close to Bugs Life or Toy Story.  And  Randy Newman's heartmelting music was sadly missed. (He's been robbed of the Academy Award for best song 2 years in a row as far as I'm concerned).  It's worth seeing - but not up to Disney's highest standard.   "},{"Title":"Another... disney cliche...","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Somehow I never liked Disney's movies. Being dragged into the midnight sneak preview by some disney fan, I naturally had low expectations for this. So it did not turn out quite bad. The story revolves about how this male dinosaur ended up in the care of a horde of monkeys and grew up in the jungles with them. (ecological nightmare?) Then some meteor shower came and destroyed their home so they were forced to migrate with this herd of other dinosaurs to some breeding grounds where it was untouched by the carnage. Sounds familiar? Yes. You saw it before in The Land before Time. They just didn't have monkeys in that movie. Good humor, great family fun but not for me, too much cliches (such as our hero wins the heart of the big baddie leader dinosaur's sister and it erupts to a jealous struggle for the brother or some bad tempered dinosaur finally realises his mistakes when he is injured and the only people to care for him are our hero and his company...) The movie also earned a PG rating instead of G. Why? I didn't think that any scenes were violent or top that effect. Maybe they thought that the sight of T-Rexs tearing up their prey was very much over the line. I thought those scenes pop up pretty frequently in Discovery Channel documentaries? "},{"Title":"Great entertainment...","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  `Stand together', a furious Aladar, voiced by D.B. Sweeney (Fire in the Sky), yells to the tired when they are confronted by a hungry T-Rex. 	 The young plant eating Aladar is a dinosaur raised by a family of lemurs after he is snatched from his nest before he is hatched.  He grows up on an island with none of his kind but&#133;here comes the exciting part, a meteor shower strikes pushing Aladar and his family to a neighboring island, one flourishing with dinosaurs, or has they call them `Aladars'. 	 Now the family has to pull together along with a few of the stragglers in order to trek across a desert in search of the precious `nesting grounds', where one and all can drink water all day and sleep in tall grass all night during their mating and nesting seasons.  Unfortunately the herd is pushed too hard by a dino with a vision in Kron, voiced by Samuel Wright (Sebastian in The Little Mermaid).  Aladar believes in what is right and takes a stand against Kron and his mindless followers.  Well, let's let you enjoy the rest. 	 Eric Leighton and Ralph Zondag's new film Dinosaur is an absolute visual feast.  The luscious beautiful live action backdrops are combined with Disney's wonderfully computer animated creatures create a film to behold.  Thankfully, the film was good besides that.  The voice acting is precise, the direction is right on target, and the film is funny, dramatic, and manages to always deliver.   	 All in all, a great fun filled action packed family film that delivers with precision.  8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Great Visuals, but disappointing","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Going in to Dinosaur I was hoping for the best.  The trailer made me want to see this film and I was expecting it to be great.  The visuals and animation are amazing and it's a very nice film to look at.  However it lacked character and story development and was far too short (1 hr. 15 min.). The plot was uninteresting and more than half the film takes place in the desert.  It is a movie geared towards little kids and there is no doubt in my mind they will love it and it will be a huge success, but as for anyone over age ten, they will be disappointed.  ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Family at one moment and too realistic the next.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur By Dean KishCan Disney's most ambitious computer animated movie ever survive the onslaught of the summer? Dinosaur tells the tale of an ambitious dinosaur named Aladar (voiced by D.B. Sweeney) who is plucked out of his mother's nest and carried off to some unsuspecting primates. As he grows he accepts the frisky primates as his family. Just as the yearly mating ritual begins, Aladar's surroundings are engulfed in a cosmic event forcing Aladar to scoop up his adopted family and flee the safety of their island. Returning to the real world proves a challenge for Aladar and his adopted primate family as they try so hard to fit in with a huge migrating herd. Dinosaur's amazing visuals and breath-taking scenery shots hold you breathless as you escape into a world completely fixated on the instinct of survival. What seems to be the fault associated with Dinosaur is the story and emotion associated with its characters. Sure when Disney creates animated characters our human emotions and actions are often placed into the hearts of the depicted characters but here it seems almost strange. Here we have photo realistic surroundings and characters trying to be lifted from dinosaur history books. A couple years back a breakthrough film called `The Land Before Time' embraced the idea of telling a dinosaur story using Disney-style animation. It was a marvelous accomplishment but here it's very weird. That very thing addresses some issues concerning what exactly is cartoon-violence and what is real to you and your child. Some scenes are vicious and profound as we watch Aladar's constant struggle for survival in an untamed world. Through these scenes we do have to wonder which particular audience was the film being aimed. I know for younger viewers the realism and the intensity in the art of survival may be too much to handle. It's hard to judge which exact child may cringe while another might be excited. Dinosaur has pushed the envelope in regards to how real we really want to get with animation. The plot elements that baffled me were during Aladar's communication with the huge titanic Brachiosaurus, Baylene (voiced by Joan Plowright). In the introduction scene to Baylene, she is a giant and Aladar is worried about being stepped on. But as he gets to know her she seems to shrink and not be that large at all. And to top it all off Aladar is able to fit Baylene, himself and three other dinosaurs in a cave. That must be some cave and how come the herd never could see a cave that huge? Sure I am being analytical on a family film but the film is trying for as much realism as necessary. Dinosaur is more convincing and real than the `Land Before Time' but no where near as family or sincere as that film. I think it tries to be family at one moment and too realistic the next. (3 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Land Before Time, but still a good worthy dinosaur movie","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I watched Dinosaur this time, I was a little surprised that The Land Before Time didn't come to mind before. It's kind of the same type of story. Dinosaurs in search of a land of plenty, with sharp-toothed dinosaurs on their tails, and they learn the meaning of teamwork on the way. The Land Before Time is one of my favorite movies, and it's more classic than Dino, but Dino is still a great dinosaur movie.The narration at the beginning sometimes the smallest thing can make the biggest changes of all is so true.James Newton Howard, whose other worthy music credits include King Kong, Batman Begins, The Village, Signs, Dante's Peak, and other good movie music, produces some of the best movie music I've ever heard from Dino, which music I can't see why anyone wouldn't like this music. JNH is becoming one of my favorite movie musicians along with the greats John Williams, Danny Elfman, and Alan Silvestri.The animation for Dino is very good. I don't know how many other movies have computer-animated characters on a live-action background, but the idea's good and the overlap of animation on live-action is almost seamless.Almost the only things I didn't like as much were three things First, the supporting characters of lemurs. They were nice characters, but don't quite fit in a dinosaur movie. They didn't bother me too much though. Second, I originally thought that the meteorite shower at the beginning would end the movie with the end of the dinosaurs. Third, there were some themes that didn't quite fit in a kid's movie, such as courtship (the scene with the monkeys at the beginning) and life-and-death/sacrifice-and-survival situations. All of these errors were minor and overlookable.Dinosaur is actually one of my least favorite dinosaur movies (some other ones I'd rather recommend are The Land Before Time, Jurassic Park, and King Kong), but dinosaur movies fascinate me and almost always get an 8 or higher on my scale. They're all really good movies. This is one of them.8/10 "},{"Title":"I'm not sure what Disney was thinking with this one","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" - I'm not sure what Disney was thinking when they gave the green light to this film. Sure it looks good, but that's about it. The opening scenes are a thing of beauty with a dinosaur egg going through an amazing journey until coming to rest on an island of lemurs. But once you get past the look of the movie you realize how trite the story is. The thing I got out of it that disturbed me was that meat eaters are bad and vegetarians are good. Maybe I'm reading more into this than I should but with Disney's track record, I doubt it.- I bought this DVD for my 2 year old without knowing much about it. While he loves the dinosaurs, he has problems with some of the violence. It's one thing to have a character die in a movie aimed at children, it's another to see characters being eaten. "},{"Title":"a beautifully made gem","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is a movie that will touch the heart of everyone young and old who watches it.Dinosaur is a feel good movie that was excellent from beginning to end. I can't believe how this movie moved me. From the touching friendship between two different species of animals to exhilarating special effects, Dinosaur is a film that deserves consideration for an academy award.With celebrity voices such as D.B. Sweeney, Ossie Davis, Alfre Woodard, Dinosaur has truly become one of favorite films of the year.I highly recommend this film and ask everyone see this film not once, not twice but at least three times because the special effects are awesome, the plot is unique and the setting is among one of the prettiest sights I've seen on the screen in a while.  "}{"Title":"Spectacular Disney","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" DINOSAUR (2000) ***1/2 (Voices of D.B. Sweeney, Julianna Margulies, Alfre Woodard, Ossie Davis, Joan Plowright, Della Reese, Samuel E. Wright, Max Casella, Hayden Panettiere.) Big-budgeted computer generated animation epic from Disney about the giant lizards and their time on earth with heroic Iguanadon named Aladar (Sweeney) who winds up being raised by lemurs when his family is wiped out (a la 'Tarzan') and becomes a leader of sorts when a devastating meteor shower threatens his fellow species with extinction as they lead a nomadic existence in finding a new habitat to exist while butting heads with the villainous fellow Iguanadon Kron (Wright) while falling for Kron's sister Neera (Margulies). Spectacular state-of-the-art digitally enhanced scenes of thrills makes up for the rather recycled (see 'The Lion King' et al) storyline from The Mouse House, particularly the aforementioned fireworks display and the opening sequence in following Aladar's egg a la baby Moses down the Nile. (Dirs. Ralph Zondag and Eric Leighton) "},{"Title":"Always Amazing","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think the animation of this movie blends seamlessly with the real life filming of some of the scenery.  The level of reality in the animations is absolutely amazing.  I love this move and watch it every time it is shown on Disney or elsewhere.  Wish they would make more movies like this, one the kids and the adults can both enjoy!  I know the movie does not have that Disney feel, but it goes to show that they can do more than draw beautiful animals at the Disney Studios.  The perfection of motion and detail in the drawings shows just how advanced they are.  I think Disney has really raised the bar with this production, and they were able to do it without Pixar in this one.  I, for one, would like to see Mr. Isner leave Disney so they can make more pictures like this! "},{"Title":"an animated gem","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Finally, I have seen an animated film I have enjoyed. Dinosaur is a movie that will touch the heart of everyone young and old who watches it.Dinosaur is a feel good movie that was excellent from beginning to end. I can't believe how this movie moved me. From the touching friendship between two different species of animals to exhilirating special effects, Dinosaur is a film that deserves consideration for an academy award.With celebrity voices such as D.B. Sweeney, Ossie Davis, Alfre Woodard, Dinosaur has truly become one of favorite films of the year.It is not often that an animated film comes to the silver screen, so when it does it needs to be a top notch piece of film making. I highly recommend this film and ask everyone see this film not once, not twice but at least three times because the special effects are awesome, the plot is unique and the setting is among one of the prettiest sights I've seen on the screen in a while. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I love this movie! The animation is incredible! Everything looks so real! It has an unusual cast that includes D.B. Sweeney, Della Reese, Alfre Woodard, Joan Plowright, Max Casella, Hayden Panettiere, Ossie Davis, Julianna Margulies, Samuel E. Wright, and Peter Siragusa! The music is excellent by James Newton Howard! The movie is handled quite nicely and in My opinion Dinosaur is arguably Disney's greatest next to the original Fantasia! Really I think Dinosaur is one of the best films ever! Strongly recommended!Movie Nuttball's NOTEI also recommend Disney's original Fantasia, The first Land Before Time, Jurassic Park, Jurassic Park The Lost World, & Jurassic Park ///!  "},{"Title":"Sit back, relax and enjoy","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  From the touching friendship between two different species of animals to exhilarating special effects, Dinosaur is a film that deserves to be rented. It is a feel good movie that was excellent from beginning to end.Dinosaur is a movie that will touch the heart of viewers young and old. I highly recommend this film and ask everyone see this film not once, not twice but at least three times because the special effects are awesome, the plot is unique and the setting is among one of the prettiest sights I've seen on the screen in a while.  "},{"Title":"The most beautiful animations","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  'Dinosaur' is a good and very entertaining movie. It has a nice story although it is very predictable. The movie didn't feel completely like a Disney movie, which it is, and I still haven't figured out why that is. I think it just looked too real. Especially the scenery is so perfect and beautiful it felt more like a real movie. The dinosaurs look more animated but they still look very much like real dinosaurs. In 'The Lion King' the animals were beautifully drawn, but it was not computer animation so it felt right. 'A Bug's Life' has beautiful computer animations but the insects didn't look like the real (creepy) insects. Of course it was close enough to see what insect we were talking about, but you know what I mean. It says much about the animations in this movie and I would say that is the main reason you should see this one. "},{"Title":"An underestimated, but glorious movie.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is hardly Disney's finest, but it still is a visually and audibly stunning film.  If one is open-minded, they can enjoy this movie without a second thought.  Granted, it is very reminiscent of the Land Before Time in some respects, but it is very much it's own movie.  It can get violent and even downright sad in this movie, so the age group may need to be older less some explaining afterwards may be needed.  This is what makes this movie so good IS the violence and sadness, makes it a more real experience, makes the viewer care more about those they are watching.The characters aren't overly memorable (sans, perhaps Zini, the orange haired and lanky lemur) but they're all fun and very much alive when you watch them on the screen. One of the best things about this movie is the absolutely wonderful soundtrack, easily one of the most powerful and moving in a long time.  It is highly recommended.If given a chance, Disney's Dinosaur is truly a fun movie and an enjoyable watch time and time again. "},{"Title":" Truly one of Disney's Best (Spoilers)","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The animation is enough to blow you away! This is a very good movie in the right senses. When a Carnotaurus attacks a herd of herbivores an egg of an Iguanodon egg is stolen by a Ovaraptor (should have said that this probably has the most exotic collection of dinosaurs in any flick) it goes through a quick little change of events and is taken by a pternanadon who accidently drops it on an island of lemurs who raise the hatchling (one of the few comedic acts is when the preachy old lemur lefts him up and we hear a wet sound) Latter when the dino is full grown a meteor shower destroys the island. The Iguanadon only manages to save his own lemur family as fire engulfs the island. After making it to sure and surviving a Velocirator attack they meet up with an enourmous herd of mixed dinosaurs and they meet some new dino characters and the movie gets going then (When this premiered the Sunday after Dinotopia my friend that I was watching it had already given it **** out of 5 stars. I saw this in the theatre with a friend and we marveled it from the beginning to end.I don't see how anyone could say this is a boring movie. That is anything from the truth. If you read anyother reviews on this site just ignore the negative ones. Trust me, they are nothing but malarkey (with all due respect) I'm far from the first to call this movie wonderful and then call it great. 10/10 Also recommended The Jurassic Park trilogy, Dinotopia, the many adaptations of the Lost World, Land before time "},{"Title":"Stunning CGI in a Disney movie for all ages","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First of all this is a Disney movie for all ages, and as i watched it i was admiring the great Cgi's(computer generated images) but also thinking to myself, What a simple and yet so complicated movie, not much of a spectacular movie in terms of super entertainment but who says being a simple story can't be good?Well some reviewers said that the movie should have had more scenes like in the first 10 minutes, yes it would have had more impact , but survival , in which the rest of the movie is focused on, isn't some playground and even children should know it, of course it ends well, but the script and story weren't so shiny and appealing in the middle of the movie to show the cost of survival and the possible extinction of an entire species.Spectacular graphics and picture, perfect voices (not those sweet as in a normal Disney movie, but almost real like in normal life), stunning sceneries, great story, a mix of phantasy and some true facts( scientists are never sure how it really happened-The extinction of dinosaurs), and above all a movie everyone would like to have on a DVD collection.9 out of 10 Excellent "},{"Title":"Disney's best!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney has been putting forth a new genre.  It's called action.  Dinosaur is the first of this new genre that is made to appeal to young as well as old now.  First it gets rid of the crummy childish songs and stretches out on a dangerous limb by using James Newton Howard as the only composer.Basically, Disney has gotten it right for once.Dinosaur is an exceptional movie, with excellent family values and great action sequences as well.Let's start with the graphics.  Absolutely astounding!  The amount of effort in the characters' facial expressions is simply marvelous!  I was and am still impressed by the way these characters interact with their environment.  I don't care what anybody says--this is one of the most visually astounding movies ever.  The idea of filming certain areas and meshing it with the CGI was brilliant.Next, the characters.  They are the importance of the film.  Although they did not have enough development, I still believe we knew enough about them.  They have their great characteristics, speak the same throughout the movie, and the actors really did an excellent job.  Especially D. B. Sweeney as Aladar, who the second coolest character in Disney history (second only to Pegasus from Hercules).The plot is simple  island destroyed by meteorites, join with herd, find the nesting grounds.  Some say this is another Land Before Time, but I must completely disagree.  It does resemble it a bit, but Dinosaur is VERY original.  It follows its own story and plot, never really copying Land Before Time.The music is gorgeous.  Never have I heard such an amazing score, especially for a Disney movie.  James Newton Howard is one excellent composer--one of my favorites, thanks to this movie.Dinosaur is definitely not only for young ones.  There are death scenes, we see blood, and the action scenes involve terrifying Carnotaurs that could easily make you jump out of your seat.Dinosaur is obviously Disney's best.  I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys clean, good entertainment and doesn't mind having an imagination (since the animals talk). "}{"Title":"Terrific Music!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My favorite part about this terrific movie is the great music.  The music for Dinosaur is so soothing.  It was wonderfully written by James Newton Howard.  If there wasn't such great music in this film it would not be as good.  My other favorite music is nothing compared to this.  The story is also heart warming.  The CGI (Computer Generated Images) are outstanding.  I recommend this to all people who like wonderful music.  10/10.  "},{"Title":"A technical masterpiece","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think the summary says it all.  Although the story has been told before, it is great.  Kids and adults will love this movie.  Kids will love the story, and adults will love the visual aspect.  This one deserves to be in your collection.T "},{"Title":"The trailer was better than the actual film!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really couldn't care less for Disney films. If it's Disney, and it's animated, I'm going to try my damnedest to try to avoid it, and most of the time, I'll succeed. Then comes Dinosaur. And it's Disney, and it's animated, and silly me, I went to go see it, and I wasted my time. From a technical standpoint, it was amazing. From a movie standpoint, it was just bad.Apparently the producers of Dinosaur were more interested in seeing what they could do with computer generated animation than making a movie people might actually enjoy. I mean, seeing what they could do with dinosaurs and other assorted creatures was cool for the first few minutes, but after that you look for a story that keeps you interested in what's happening on screen. The best example of that is of course Toy Story. Seeing these toys that we all used to play with when we were kids, come to life was incredible. But what made that movie great was the fact that there was a good story line, and characters that we cared about. In Dinosaur, I didn't care for any of the characters, and the story line seemed lifted from the Land Before Time series of films. Dinosaur follows a dinosaur named Aladar who is raised by some monkeys. When the meteors (or asteroids) that eventually end dinosaur life on Earth start to fall, all the dinosaurs must head to the nesting ground, where this is enough water and plant life for everyone. Along the way Aladar and his monkeys meet these other dinosaurs, who are lead by Kron. Kron and Aladar butt heads over how fast and how the group should be run. As well the group is being chased by other dinosaurs looking to kill them for food. In the end of course, Aladar is right and Kron isn't, and Aladar falls in love with Kron's sister. And they all live happily ever after. Other than the fact that their species will relatively soon be wiped off the planet. Like I said before, the detail the animators put into creating these dinosaurs are amazing. And I can appreciate the amount of work it took to make these creatures look so life like. But I wish they had created a story with characters we could connect with, and a story that was little more than a search for water. I never felt like I could care about any of the dinosaurs or the other creatures. Maybe it's because dinosaurs by nature aren't cute. Who doesn't love a cute creature? The entire movie had a cold feel to it. Lots of blues and greens, lots of dark skies and brooding characters. Only when everyone finally reaches the nesting ground does the movie start to look enjoyable. And by then it's over. As an aside, can I tell you how much I love Julianna Margulies? I've always loved her on ER (and am rightfully sad that she decided to leave the show) but even her voice is great. I'm ready to put her on my list of great animation voices along side of Michael J. Fox, Nathan Lane, and Robin Williams. Maybe that's another problem with my dislike of the characters, none of the voices was loveable enough (other than Julianna's). I suppose I'm being too hard on the movie. Creating something like this is an enormous task, and you have to cut corners somewhere. Put the money and effort into the animation, and let the story just happen. But in the end if you want people to go see your movie, there has to be something other than fancy imagery to keep the viewer involved. The initial amazement at the animation faded very quickly, and I found myself wondering when the movie was going to be over. There was just nothing else there to capture me. Maybe I went in expecting this to be like other Disney films, full of loveable characters, some cool songs, and a happy look and feel to the movie. But it had none of that. This was just an opportunity for Disney to test out their computer animation abilities. So overall Dinosaur was a technological masterpiece, but as a movie it was just so-so.   "},{"Title":"Magnificent! A milestone in film making!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Few Disney films are ever as wonderfully great as the colossal achievement DINOSAUR. Being in production since the year I was born, DINOSAUR creates dimensions and computer graphics so mind-blowing, there hasn't been anything like them since TOY STORY. The other thing that makes this film better than most sardonic Disney movies is the fact that this one isn't constantly being interrupted by stupid, retarded songs and lame and un-funny jokes from some stupid sidekick guy. This film is an extremely awesome one. It teaches lessons about life and courage. Sometimes even quite mean, I felt at times, that I wasn't even watching a Disney movie. After the initial release of TRON, Disney has pulled back and only directed pathetic children's comedies which are very stupid. But the kids seem to enjoy them. The only current releases from Disney that I can say that I actually enjoyed are TOY STORY, TOY STORY 2, DINOSAUR and THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE. Other than that, most of the recent films from Disney have not been receiving as much publicity as they should be and are not coming up with enough of an interesting plot to keep the audience watching. Fox's current release, ICE AGE got many people hooked by the period that it was held in, but it is basically a repeat of Monsters Inc.. And although DINOSAUR is somewhat similar to THE LAND BEFORE TIME, it is slightly better. But, I am a huge fan of The Land Before Time Series. I grew up watching those movies, and even when a new installment comes out, I must buy it.DINOSAUR is that kind of movie that should not have a sequel. But, judging by the success of it in theaters, I'm sure that in another eight years or so, we'll have a second installment out. But if there is, another great franchise will have been ruined.....5/5.  "},{"Title":"Dinosuar - A second Look","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw the film `Dinosaur' with my five-year-old son when it first came out. He really liked the movie, I couldn't wait for it to be over.   I told him as soon as we walked out of the theatre `We are NOT getting the video for this one.'    Flash forward several months-you can now find the `Dinosaur' DVD sitting amongst our children's DVD collection.   My son saw it in the stores, and kept begging me to buy it.   So one day I did, after finding a place that sold it for the lowest possible price.   In short order, I found myself being subjected by this interesting attempt of Disney's to set an even higher standard in computer animation.Now you can read through all the reviews of this film at IMDB, and find some lengthy critiques that document in great detail all the flaws contained in this dino epic (including one of from yours truly.)   Most all of the criticism is reasonable and accurate.   `Dinosaur' is a flawed film.   But I will give credit to Disney for attempting to broaden the frontier of CGI.Upon watching this film for a second time via the DVD, I found myself appreciating a couple of points in this film that I did not notice the first time I saw it in the theatre.   In some ways, these positive aspects of the film help to mitigate against some of the flaws.The first thing I realized is that there is a very good and counter-cultural message being sent about the value of elders and the need to look out for the weak and infirm.   The dinosaur Aladar, the lead charater in the film, makes it his business to look out for two elderly dinosaurs,  Baylene and Eema, who are having a difficult time keeping up with the herd as it treks through a harsh desert looking for the `promised land' (or Happy Valley - whatever allegory you prefer...)The unselfish attitude displayed by Aladar and the respect he shows the elder dinos is a wonderful message that you don't often see portrayed in recent Hollywood movies.   Aladar obviously sees value in these two elderly ladies, and does what he can to aid them in the long harsh journey to green pastures, even though it may put his own survival at risk.   It is interesting to see how the example he sets even goes so far to influence an old warrior igauandon named Bruton, who bravely and unselfishly gives his own life so that the old ones can survive.Another positive aspect of this film that really caught me off guard is how the Darwinian notion of `survival of the fittest' is shown in such an evil light, as it should be.   The leader of the herd of herbivores wandering through the wildnerness is a cold-blooded (pun very much intended) igaunadon named Kron, who is the very personification of `nature, red in tooth and claw.'   No, Kron isn't a carnivore, he's just a true believer in the tautology that states `the strong will survive' - and the weak serve as necessary sacrifices to the many predators that follow the herd like vultures circling a carcus.This repudiation of a central tennet of Darwinian lore is quite striking. No, `survial of the fittest' is not the best way to run things, not in the fictional world of Disney dinosaurs nor in the realm of human beings.   In a way, we have an inkling of the true basis for the creationist vs. evolutionist debate in the dinosaurs of Kron and Aladar.   Kron is the dyed-in-the-wool evolutionist wanting to just let nature run it's course (and perhaps even give it a helping hand...), and Aladar is the fundamental moralist who sees value in all of God's creation, even amongst the weak and infirm.  Think Mother Teresa vs. Adolf Hitler.I don't believe the writers of `Dinosuar' meant to portray some of the central aspecits of Darwinian evolution in a bad light, but the careful observer will note that Kron uses Darwinian ideas to justify his cold hearted leadership, much like some other cold hearted leaders that have come forth in the 20th century.Dinosaur's dinosaurs demonstrate to children the value of the elderly and those who are less fortunate, and the the need to come to their assistance. It also demonstrates the need to stand up to bullies-- to stand up for what is right even when facing overwhelming opposition.    Good lessons for children to learn.   The demonstration of the moral bankruptcy in using Darwinian evolution as a foundation for political leadership is also something that is good for children (and their parents) to know.  "},{"Title":"Who says Disney can't make a good movie?","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I must say I never expected Disney to make a movie like this. I suppose I underestimated them. This movie is excellent. The first I noticed when I watched this was the great mix between real live footage and CGI. Whoever thought that up is brilliant. With a real background, the dinosaurs all look very realistic. The second thing I noticed was the music. James Newton Howard had his work cut out for him in composing the music for this movie, and I must say he did a very, very good job. The storyline is pieced together very well, but the characters seem to be lacking in depth. You don't ever really find out much about any of them, excluding Aladar. He's the only one who's background is uncovered within the movie. Fortunately, that is the only downside of Dinosaur. There are no corny songs, no childish acting. This movie is mature enough for anyone. If you can watch this movie, do so. You'll enjoy every second of it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's been over a year since Dinosaur came out, but I've never seen it until now.  The critic's reaction to the film kept me from seeing it, and now, I wish I had never listened to them.  This is one of the most awe-inspiring movies I've seen in a long time.  It's simply a joy to look at.  While the story may be a rehash from half a dozen other Disney movies, but it works, as it does for every Disney movie.  This is one of the few films that I've kicked myself in the butt over, for not seeing it when it first came out.  A splendid masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The formula fails","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is incredibly disappointing for a Disney production.  The technicalities are superb...but did no one think of saving some budget for the script or plot?  The same old story set millions of years ago is still an old story.Dull, despite the graphics. "},{"Title":"Visually the Best Disney Film Ever Made","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Visually the Best Disney Film Ever Made!  I got this from my local library and rushed out to buy it.  The plot is a little thin but the visuals look like 3D and adults and children alone will love it.  I liked it enough to buy the 2disc set on dvd and its loaded with fun extras.  Keep up the good work...Walt would have been proud. "},{"Title":"Technically brilliant, creatively inept","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  At the most basic level of film-making, the first decision has to be what kind of movie are we making?.  The makers of Dinosaur fail at even this opening decision.  This is an uncomfortable and clunky combination of a movie for serious dinosaur enthusiasts, and Disney pablum, and consequently, it works as neither.  It follows the Disney formula to a fault, leaving out only the saccharine-filled musical numbers.  Aladar's upbringing by lemurs is too cute by far to be followed up by the grim, colorless, depressing middle of the film.Part of the problem is that there are no rules here; fantasy needs rules, even talking-animal fantasy.  It's bad enough that it follows the age-old standard of herbivores good, carnivores evil, but in this case, the carnivores aren't even characters.  While the vegetarian herd speaks and interacts, the carnataurs are reduced to monsters who do nothing but chase and eat and roar.  Even among the herbivores, one of their number behaves like a dog instead of a person.  Is he mentally ill?Even on the technical level, it's problematic.  A decision should have been made early on will the dinosaurs talk or will they be realistic?  Doing both ruined whatever chance they had.  While we can accept talking animals in simple, line-drawn, iconic forms, the sight of a photorealistic dinosaur speaking is just clumsy.  I never felt fully comfortable with them in the way that something like The Lion King accomplishes.  Given their ultra-realistic bodies, I kept thinking that their jaws and lips shouldn't be moving like that.Hopefully, it's box-office failure will prevent any further thinking down this road. "}{"Title":"Good movie, entertaining, great animation, not for small children.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  CAUTION -- REVIEW CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS --Ever since I had seen the first few minutes of Dinosaur as a teaser on the Tarzan DVD last year, I have been looking forward to seeing this film.  I must admit my impression from the teaser was a bit better than the film actually turned out to be. Still, it is a good film, it uses ground-breaking techniques where animation is blended with real filming of locations around the world, and it pulls it off very effectively. Overall I rate it 7 of 10.Dinosaur is about an egg which is stolen by mainland creatures, dropped into a river, retrieved by a large bird, and finally dropped into a forest on a nearby island, where it falls amongst a family of lemurs, voiced in a style similar to the apes in Tarzan. The egg hatches and the baby dino, Aladar, grows up as a member of the lemur family, and calls the older lemur grandfather.A very large meteorite falls not too far away (effects, BTW, are terrific) and the shock wave and fires basically destroy the island and its inhabitants. Except for Aladar and his immediate lemur family. With fire at his tail, he jumps off a cliff into the water, with lemurs on his back. They eventually make their way to the mainland, and encounter a large mass of dinosaurs heading for the nesting grounds. It is a long, difficult trip across a desert and not all make it. Between flesh-eating dinosaurs and drought, Aladar does a couple of things that anger the leader but helps the masses. One is his discovery of water beneath the dry lake bed. Another is his discovery of a cave that leads to the valley paradise, as the old entrance has been closed by a great landslide. He eventually convinces the others to follow him, as the leader dies after a fight with a bad dino.They get to the valley, nest, have little dinos, Aladar ends up being the new leader of the pack and is married to the sister of the old leader. And, the film ends with a monologue about hoping that their existence will have some positive effect on the future. Sounds a bit like they had this terrific film but didn't quite know how to end it.I'm not totally sure how to take this film. On the one hand you have barbaric old dinosaurs who operate like a mafia boss with his sidemen, with absolutely no concern for others around them, yet they all speak with perfect modern English. As does Aladar, the lemurs, and all the other characters.  Which is fine if you are making a light comedy, but doesn't, for me, work so well with a more serious animated film like this one is. Unlike Chicken Run, A Bug's Life, Tarzan (animated), all of which I will watch periodically and enjoy, Dinosaur does not have that same compelling allure.  It is a good film, I found it totally worth watching, but there isn't much charm there to think back upon.The DVD has both DTS and Dolby surround tracks selectable. I watched several scenes in both modes, where there was a lot of sound, and in each case I found the Dolby Digital 5.1 sound to be more pleasing, fuller,slightly more aggressive, with better low bass. The picture, of course, is fabulous. The extras on the basic DVD (sells for about $20) are spartan, but the making of and the dinosar tutorial are both very interesting. "},{"Title":"An Instant Disney Classic!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur in a word is as the title says An Instant Disney Classic. Dinosaur is an interesting mix of stunning visuals, one damn amazing soundtrack and a storyline which in all fairness is not the best but considering the theme of the movie, it places you into the movie itself. The prospect of dinosaurs that talk may not be your cup of tea however due to the dazzling visuals and prehistoric musical score you feel like you are part of the adventure, all done so well too. I went seeing the movie with an average outlook but came out of the cinema feeling for the characters and the movie as a whole.Top Disney Movies (my list)1. The Lion King 2. Toy Story 2 3. Dinosaur 4. Tarzan 5. Toy Story 6. A Bugs LifeIf you have not seen it yet, I recommend that you do! "},{"Title":"This visually stunning allegory is highly recommended.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie does not deserve the bad rap it has taken here and in much of the press.As others have mentioned, the affects are stunning. Characters are established early and the story moves neatly along given the personalities and events. But beyond that, Dinosaur works on another level that was heralded with the visual of the meteor that precipitated the environmental crisis that drives the main action of the movie.Dinosaur is clearly an allegory for Christianity. The meteor represents the Star of Bethlehem. The monkeys, who represent Christianity, teach Aladar to care for others , especially the elderly and infirm. That philosophy guides all of his behavior as he comes into conflict with Kron. To be successful, Aladar must overthrow the old (Roman) order of domination and brute force.The irony is that Aladar is biologically of the older order. The monkeys, who are reduced to bits parts in the second half of the movie, represent all mammals. And we know that as the dinosaurs pass away, the mammals will rise to ascendancy. Just as the Roman order passed away and Christianity ascended.As for comparisons with the saccharine Land Before Time, yes, there are plot similarities, but the affects, the rich sub-text, the music and the pacing of Dinosaur put it in a league Bluth can only dream about.I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I had thought it would be, but it's still basically a rip-off of The Land Before Time (1)","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  To my amazement, I didn't find this movie reprehensible. I was actually moderately entertained by it. I saw it because of the eye candy (and, at 82 minutes, I figured that, even if it was awful, I could last through it).I was expecting an awful script with awful voice actors spouting awful lines. That prejudgement was only 50% true. The script wasn't awful, but it wasn't very good either. It was a lot like The Land Before Time without the compelling characters and adventure. I really liked that movie. It was a movie that I (sort of) grew up on (I think it came out when I was 10). There are even some shots in _Dinosaur_ that seemed directly taken from The Land Before Time.The one thing that I was entirely correct about was the dialogue. Whew! It stank. The jokes were especially at fault. The many children in the audience very rarely laughed. I think one kid laughed at the awfully silly word jerkasaurus. No one laughed at the Love Monkey joke, no one laughed at the obligatory I've got a monkey on my back joke. Luckily, the comic lines weren't that great in number. And there was only one lemur who was meant to be comical. Actually, the lemurs were the most interesting characters. Their designs and their characters were the most interesting in the film.Anyway, to sum up, you might want to see this in the theater because of the animation. It is truly remarkable. I don't think that dinosaurs work particularly well with it. The way they look when they make human gestures and facial expressions is kind of stupid. Disney wanted Dinosaurs simply because they're a perpetual source of interest for young children. Most of the kids who will really enjoy this movie have grown up after the Jurassic Park era. Dinosaur toys will be extremely easy to market. In fact, my favorite part of this movie was when the little kid across the aisle shouted Look Daddy! I have that toy! It's Pleo! (if you are an adult, you should wait to see this movie at a 900 PM show, because kids talk all through movies nowadays; don't parents teach their kids that this is rude anymore? I never was allowed to talk during movies when I was that young). This film might be a preview of the future of the computer animated movies, e.g., the Final Fantasy movie that will open next summer. It is worth some money. 7/10 "},{"Title":"cloying dinosaur epic","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  How much you will enjoy this recent Disney production may well depend on which view of dinosaurs you most prefer  the hard-edged, kill-or-be-killed, survival-of-the-fittest `Jurassic Park' model or the softer-edged, warmhearted and cuddly type like Barney.  Either way, by trying to have it both ways, `Dinosaur' emerges as an uncomfortable mix of National Geographic realism and storybook schmaltziness.  By now, we have all pretty much accepted the rather appalling sentimentalizing of nature that has become standard practice in virtually all mainstream animated films these days.  We are used to seeing compassionate lions, tigers and bears in such films, but maybe dinosaurs should really be considered off limits.  Of course, `Dinosaur' does feature some `bad' dinosaurs &#150; i.e. those who act according to their real nature &#150; because, like all dramatic works, it needs someone to function as a villain.  But when we find a bunch of furry pre-monkey type creatures befriending and then rearing a lost baby dinosaur into adulthood &#150; and when we find that grown up dinosaur acting as baby sitter and playmate to the children of that mammal tribe &#150; well, something tells us that we are going to be in for a rather sticky time for the duration of the movie.  (Think of this as `Tarzan' 65 million years earlier).  Ask not, for instance, what this carnivorous creature has been feasting on all these years to have reached its present size.  That piece of information is conveniently left to our imaginations, I guess.  The plot involves the trek to a fabled nesting ground that a group of dinosaurs (and a family of nondescript simians) must endure after an asteroid crashes onto earth destroying their living areas.  Despite some vicious attacks by predator dinosaurs, the tone of the film is decidedly gooey and sentimental, with the cloying voices in particular contributing to the bathos.  With their big sad eyes, mile-wide smiles and sunny dispositions, these dinosaurs register high on the sappiness meter.  We want to let out a big `ahhhhh, isn't that cute!' every time one of them speaks or looks directly into the camera.As this is obviously a film aimed at children and families, I guess many of these criticisms are rendered moot in the long run.  And, yes, the computer-generated effects are truly remarkable (though nothing we haven't already seen in the `Jurassic Park' movies).  But as an adult writing for adults, I cannot say anything other than that this is a pretty dull movie overall.  Show it to your kids if you must, but you may want to sneak another peak at `Jurassic Park' after they've gone to bed. "},{"Title":"Bland corporate movie making","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The special effects aren't all that special (give me a Ray Harryhausen stop motion dinosaur anyday; cgi creatures just don't seem to have weight or substance), the story is a ripoff from Land Before Time and Lion King, the characters are beyond annoying. I was rooting for the Carnataur or whatever to eat all of the principles. Even worse I saw this on a double bill with Chicken Run, which was stylish, funny, thrilling, and original. After seeing what could be achieved with lumps of clay, patience, and geniune creativity it was just too much to sit through this bland lowest common denominator garbage.  "},{"Title":"Horrendously dull and clichd","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I think the only thing keeping Walt Disney from rolling in his grave due to this film is the fact that at least it is a sign that his company was still trying out new things, learning new ways of animation. Because as a movie it doesn't hold up at all.The first mostly CGI-animated film - the backgrounds are mainly live-action - to be produced by Disney, it tells about a young iguanodon dinosaur named Aladar, who gets taken by predators, but eventually ends up on an island inhabited by a conspiracy of lemurs, which end up adopting and raising him. But then a meteor forces them out of their island and looking for a safe haven known simply as the Nesting Grounds. Along the way they meet other dinosaurs, get chased by predators, learn things about compassion and perseverance, et cetera, et cetera. If the plot sounds a lot like The Land Before Time mixed with some Tarzan, it's because it's exactly that. It's not trying to be subtle about it.Furthermore, it's a dull movie. None of the characters are all that defined beyond a characteristic or perhaps two, which means that you don't really care what happens to them. Though yes, there's Zini, the self-titled Love Doctor Monkey, but he's more annoying than anything else. The romance is supbar, Aladar's rivalry with Kron goes nowhere, the story barely has an arch and the ending climax doesn't feel like one, because the movie has barely set any stakes. Plus, it looks dull. Though the first act on the lemur island is actually not so bad. At least then we had colours. But as soon as they leave the island, it's nothing but shades of brown and grey for the rest of the film. I shall repeat that. Nothing but brown and grey. Nothing.To the film's credit, the actual animation has aged pretty well. Having the backgrounds be live-action helps a lot and the dinosaurs look mostly okay even still. The opening shot of Aladar's egg being carried around is very impressive and the lemur island part of the story is not so bad.I don't like that this is part of Disney animation canon. It was added retroactively in order to give Tangled the status as the 50th Disney animated classic, but it's an ill fit. Its story has no ambition, its characters are lackluster and all in all it's a very forgettable experience. It's everything a Disney classic should not be. "},{"Title":"Old Formula.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Dinosaur (2000) Dir Eric Leighton, Ralph Zondag / Voices D.B. Sweeney, Julianna Margulies, Ossie Davis, Joan Plowright, Alfre Woodard Family film that operates like a computer generated Land Before Time. It regards time gone by and introduces Aladar who was raised by monkey-like creatures after his egg went through a difficult moving process. After a fireball destroys the island Aladar and his primate friends depart and seek life elsewhere. They join a herd that ventures for a nesting ground but first must cross a desert. Yar leads the herd with the attitude that only the strong will prevail. Aladar resists this rule and assists a brontosaurus named Mera and a triceratops named Emar who are old and weak. Clichs abound with violence inappropriate for the intended age group. Overwhelming with convincing full scale dinosaurs reduced to stereotypes voiced by D.B. Sweeney, Julianna Margulies, Ossie Davis, and Joan Plowright. Alfre Woodard voices Plio who cares about her family and is basically as dull as every other character in this film. Directed by Eric Leighton and Ralph Zondag who makes a great effort to bring these creatures to life but the screenplay is quite simply boring at best. The digital images are lively creating the reality of such creature but unfortunate the screenplay never becomes as overwhelming and awesome as the creatures that inspired it. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Stunningly realistic animation, but this Disney effort still lacks in other departments","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This computer animated feature from Disney came out in 2000, but I don't think I ever heard of it until last year. I rented it to watch for the first time about fourteen months ago, and by that point, I had been impressed by a good number of computer animated features, blown away by some, so I was hoping to find some good entertainment value in Dinosaur. However, I didn't really find it too entertaining during my first viewing, and it didn't leave me with the clearest memory I've ever had of a movie. A couple days ago, I rented it again, and thought maybe it would be better this time, but while it may have been just very SLIGHTLY better, it was still somewhat of a disappointment.A mother Iguanodon watches over her eggs, but unfortunately, after an attack, only one of them survives. This one egg is stolen and lost by a number of dinosaurs, but eventually ends up on an island inhabited by lemurs. Here, the egg soon hatches, and the baby Iguanodon comes out. At first, Yar, the elder lemur, is afraid that the dinosaur will become a dangerous predator to them when he grows up, but soon agrees to keep him. So, the dinosaur is named Aladar and raised by the lemurs on that island, and fortunately doesn't turn out to be a threat to them after all. However, a different threat awaits this island's inhabitants... a meteor shower! After this meteor shower hits, their island is destroyed, but Aladar manages to rescue his lemur family and take them across the water on his back. Searching for a new place to live, they soon join a herd of dinosaurs who have survived the meteor shower and are headed for the breeding grounds, but with predators, lack of water, and an oppressive leader, getting to their destination will be a challenge, and since Aladar was raised differently than the others in the herd, he may have trouble fitting in! The animation in this film is widely praised, and I'm certainly not complaining about that. The film sometimes uses live action backgrounds behind the realistic looking computer animated characters, which works. However, the amazing animation isn't enough to hide the movie's problems. I personally found quite a bit of it fairly boring. It may often get tedious (I was definitely bored at times), and most the characters, if not all of them, don't really stand out as very memorable. Also, while I did find some parts mildly amusing, I didn't usually find a lot of humour, and good humour is something I like to see in animated family movies. I did find some parts exciting, especially towards the end of the movie, with maybe some remotely touching moments as well, and the animation and music sometimes helped. I also have a clearer memory of it now that I've seen it a second time. Still, the film was a tad disappointing, and not one I would want to watch over and over again.After seeing Dinosaur twice, I still think that overall, it's just slightly above average, definitely not one of Disney's gems. I guess since this is a family movie, I should mention that there are some rather violent dinosaur fighting sequences, which some may criticize it for. Well, I guess that's why it's rated PG, and at least there's no blood in these sequences. That aside, while the appeal of this 2000 Disney flick isn't as wide as that of many other computer animated features (which I can understand), it seems that quite a few people like it more than I do, and even I think it's far from terrible, so saying avoid it like the plague would be a bit harsh, but I wouldn't expect it to be one of the computer animated classics, despite its memorably stunning animation, which seems to be what it's most widely praised for. "},{"Title":"A decent film to see, graphic are great, though!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When this started to hit the big screen, people made a real big deal about it, I thought it was rather good, but I was kind of young so the story did not really make sense to me.The story is about a Dinosaur (Aladar) who is raised up by some prehistoric monkeys (?), the island they live on has no carnivores, but is soon destroyed by a fleet of meteors, the dinosaur and his family escape to another region of land where they meet a herd of dinosaur that are not as friendly as the peaceful monkey isle, that where a new adventure begins. Aladar must persevere against the slap of reality that the outer realms of his former sanctuary are all too real.But, the graphics left me in awe, it was so realistic! The story though, it's kind of cheesy, I mean people must of really loved all points of the story, romance, epic violence, sappy emotional scenes (no offense), the scene in the cave was rather cool, I've got to admit. But the artists of the film made the good guy characters look to humanoid, especially Aladar's species (Igaunodon), he almost looked like he had a human face. Ema, the Triceratops, was rather realistic though, but her pet thing was sorta like a dog. the Carnotaur was a notable entity in this flick, it was extremely savage and forbidding (of course), it was creepy how mentally haunted it was just to get food, creepier yet living food that you found charming.But its something I'll want to watch over a period of years, Land Before Time is emotionally interesting, however. I rather watch Walking With Dinosaurs instead. "}{"Title":"A dinosaur Apocalypse for kids that can be too scary!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you've got kids, take them to see this movie!  It's incredible -- sort of.  BUT, personally, I wouldn't take kids under 7.  It's kinda scary in places, and when the Carnosaurs eat the friendly dinosaurs -- or when the family of monkees gets killed -- the kids will ball their eyes out.  They don't need to see whole families wiped out and eaten at that age.  Call me conservative or something, but I just don't see how that helps kids.The story is basically the same as THE LAND BEFORE TIME --dinosaurs looking for a safe haven.  Here we have the a meteor shower which supposedly is going to lead to their extinction -- but the meteors fall like rain.  It's nasty and all that... but hardly good science.  Plus, the dinos act just like people, and that is sort of a put off -- especially because of the way the film begins -- very nature based and keen on painting a realistic visual.The graphics are at times incredible and at other times blurry and indistinct.  This animation was supposed to be the best ever -- I thought some of the shots were just that, and then most of it was bland and dark. I've noticed that most of these computer animation shots are dark --  perhaps because if they were lit up enough the eye'd be able to spot all their flaws.  I dunno.  But it was annoying and the effect was like watching a drive-in movie at dusk, before it's completely dark -- the color and detail is sort of washed away.  I think that explains it well enough.But the story did have a good message, and it was clear and strait-forward enough.  And at least it was a family movie that adults could sit through without getting stomach cramps and wanting to vomit in the aisle -- I think I'll pass on the new Pokemon movie coming out this summer, I don't care how much my nephew begs!I give it 2 stars all along... perhaps a bit more from a kid's perspective. But I'll say this much... my nephew (little JJ) was far more excited about the film BEFORE seeing it than he was afterwards (he even got us a couple dinosaur hand puppets and we sat in the theater attacking each other before the movie started! ).  And at one point in the film he even said, Uncle Johnny, this is a bad movie.  He said that when the Carnosaur was eating the poor defenseless dinosaur.Sure, that may well be the real world and all that... but too much for kids. "},{"Title":"Romantic adventure about dinosaurs","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is a very nicely crafted digital 3D animation feature and depends very heavily on 3D simulation to create very realistic creatures.  Our characters are very nicely fleshed out as real living things.  Since we are dealing in fantasy by making our characters speaking with human like sentiments, one should not expect a completely seamless portrayal of biological reality in this children's film.  Yet I was especially alarmed to see flighted birds in the scenery.  Maybe I just misinterpreted what I saw, but even your average elementary school dinosaur fan would know that they were not contemporary with dinosaurs.  Lemurs weren't either, but one abuse should not lead to another.But that's all for the critical eye of an adult.  Once you get past the technical violations and suspend disbelief, the story is very nice and well told.  A (vegetarian) dinosaur is raised by lemurs until an asteroid hits the planet and the resulting catastrophe casts away the lemur and dinosaur family who joins dinosaur refugees seeking the nesting ground.  These include dinosaurs of the kind of our lemur adopted hero.  The story occasionally dips into the usual Disney excesses, but the experienced viewer will easily brush them aside. "},{"Title":"The Christina Aguilera of CGI - sounds good, often looks good, but overall unappealing.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur was a lot better when Spielberg, Lucas and Don Bluth did it in 1988 as The Land Before Time (this film even lifts some of the imagery, like the climax) - though this probably won't spawn several made-for-video sequels. But the Xeroxed storyline is just the first of its problems.The animation, apart from some shimmering during the lemur courtship scene early on, is impressive - the digital characters blend perfectly with the live background footage that's used in some scenes - but the tale's lumbered with far too many bland characters, especially Alidar (the dullest main character in a Disney movie since Pocahontas). Compared to The Land Before Time's funny Petrie or loveable Ducky, this batch of critters almost totally fails to cut it; you can only admire fur or skin texture for so long before you want to consider the inhabitant, and find it lacking.There are some good moments to be had during the trek, and the movie gets a major assist from James Newton Howard's rousing Goldsmith-esque score (and no songs!), but in the end Dinosaur is but a lumbering behemoth which, like the real dinosaurs, hasn't got a life of its own.  "},{"Title":"Haven't I Seen This Before?","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, although Dinosaur has obvious similarities to Don Bluth's wonderful The Land Before Time, Disney does do quite a lot of innovative things in the dinosaur world and their animation is always tops!  Dinosaur tells the story of a large dino being raised by monkeys and then he and his monkey family join up with a lot of dinosaurs after the meteors hit and ravage dino-land.  There is no water or food to be found, and they all trek toward a breeding spot thought to be spared from the cataclysmic devastation.  Along the way, the dinos develop personalities(in typical Disney fashion), fight amongst themselves, a few die from the weary stress of life or in the jaws of rampaging carnivorous dinos, and a light romance befalls our main character(Big surprise!).Yes, the film is very realistic when it comes to dinosaur life and dino behaviours(talking not included).  The film has glorious animation and in its final form is quite enjoyable and entertaining.  Yet, I found myself a little disappointed.  I think Disney has just not been making the films they made so well in the early 90's like Aladin, Beauty and the Beast, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, The Lion King, or even The Little Mermaid.  Is their creative spark nearing being extinguished?  Much of this film is very derivative of other Disney films, characters, situations, and the film owes a huge debt, whether Disney thinks so or not, to Bluth and The Land Before Time. "},{"Title":"There Are 2 Movies Better In Visual Effects Than This","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Their names are, JURASSIC PARK and THE LOST WORLD. If you have a good pair of eyes you can easily see that the Dinos in Jurassic Parks looks MUCH MORE REAL. The T-Rex and the Raptors of Jurassic Park gives fear in you while that Carnotaur in Dinosaur makes you laugh. When you see the Dinos in Jurassic Parks you say that that dinos are REAL, they are perfect. Altough, Dinosaur uses real scenarios, you can see that the dinos are superficial. Till nowadays the visual effects in the Jurassic Parks are the most surprising thing that the eye of a human being could see, they are the most perfect of the cosmos. Disney, you are far away from making a movie with the visual effects at the same level of JURASSIC PARK and THE LOST WORLD - JURASSIC PARK. "},{"Title":"Great visuals, weak story","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really like Disney animations and I'm not afraid to say so. I like them so much as I hate the live-action Disney flicks. The first ones always have a good story, engaging characters and cute songs, while the second are cliched and bland- just take a look at The Big Green or The Jungle Book, for example. However, I almost never see the animations on the movies, because they are released in Brazil on school vacations (July and December/January), when I go to my hometown in the country, where we don't have any cinemas since the middle of the '80s. But this year I was able to see two of them because I stayed a little longer. The first was the excellent Fantasia/2000 and the second was the bland Dinosaur. It's not a totally disappointing film, because I wasn't expecting much of it, but it is disappointing if compared to other animations.Is it a bad film? Not really. But it is also not good. It recalls me the live-action Disney flicks I've mentioned for its stupid story, one-dimensional characters and lack of dramaticity. So forget the depth of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus in The Lion King or just the joilness of Aladdin and Toy Story. It's more for the emptyness of Pocahontas, definetely the worst thing Disney has done in the field of animation. The story of Dinosaur gets stuck because it has nowhere to go. Actually, there's not a tight story. And that's a real problem. It seems that they forgot the screenplay to invest in the visuals. Now we get to what interests here the visuals. As the most expensive animation film ever, it had to have a good thing to hold the viewer's attention. And do you know what? The visuals are the only good reason to watch Dinosaur. It's not just amazing, not just jaw-dropping, not just incredible... It's impossible to describe how terrific those images are.But then we remember the weakness of the screenplay. Such wonderful images deserved a tight story, not something we've seen 1000 times over and dinosaurs talking nothing very valuable. That's why I can't recommend it enough. And that's why Disney should have employed better writers.5.5 out of 10 = NOT VERY RECOMMENDED "},{"Title":"A waste of time, money and talent.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  While the visuals are definitely special, they are the only thing this movie has going for it. All it is is another generic Disney animated film with a plot that resembles the studio's own Tarzan far too closely. Also, Disney decided to give the story a happy ending, even though it is common historical knowledge that none of the Dinosaurs survived.Even so, the movie might have actually been better had Disney decided to keep the songs out of the film for once. The Disney Animated Musical Numbers (DAMN) have gotten far too old, and frankly, the genre of the musical, animated or otherwise, has been soundly beaten to death by Disney. Of course, without the songs, the film would have been even shorter than its already short 70 minute run.In short, this film was colossal, a colossal waste of time, money and talent. Dinosaur should have been left extinct.If you really want to see a deeply detailed computer animated movie, I suggest you wait until the Summer of 2001, when Final Fantasy is released. That film shows far more promise in all aspects. Realistically animated humans, environments, and a deeper plot line should have people forgetting all about Dinosaur, if it isn't already forgotten by then. "},{"Title":"computer effects + dinosaurs = bad movie","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Before Jurassic Park dinosaurs in movies had to contend with hokey effects and bad stories(most of the time). then, after JP, dinosaurs just had to contend with bad stories.It was hard enough to sit through JP for a few minutes of cg-rendered effects with such annoying human characters...Lost World was better-but had some baaaad moments, then came Godzilla(ugh). Walking with Dinosaurs, despite its own melodramatic liberties, was excellent however.  Now we have this. Making the dinosaurs talk was a huge huge creative mistake, but that has been covered already. A couple of other comments mentioned that real animals dont flock together in groups--but actually during droughts animals have been known to travel in mass--with  predatory animals walking close by.  Making the carnivorous dinosaurs bad was especially ironic considering the current burger chain ads that show the veggiesaurus dinosaur puppet behind the cash register serving burgers to mammalian carnivores by choice! "},{"Title":"A leap forward in technology, not in storytelling","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  We've all gotten used to amazing changes in technology.  Dinosaur is another one that achieves realism we haven't seen before.  Anything is possible now. Too bad the story was so completely Disney-predictable I knew exactly what was going to happen at every step.  I've seen this already, over and over, and I'm really pretty poorly motivated to bother with any more.  Compare this with the wit in Toy Story 2, or the wisdom and wonder of a Miyazaki movie. It's all too bad.  Dinosaur was superbly well done and a big achievement. But was it worth it? "},{"Title":"Ugh, hairball!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney once again has pushed the envelope on techniques of animation with this grand endeavor.  The visuals are fantastic, giving you a feast for your eyes that lasts for about 82 minutes.  The dinosaurs are so realistic that I am reminded of the 1981 film, `Looker' where models and actors were replaced by computer generated images of themselves.  That alone gives this film the rating it receives.  But, other than the look of the movie, ain't much happening here.  There's no endearing character, no catchy music, no tugging at the heart strings; none of things that make Disney, well, Disney.  My kids weren't glued to it as they normally are with a Disney movie, but they did say they liked it.  I want to see it again to catch all the things I missed, but it's not high on my list of things to do. "}{"Title":"Ugh, hairball!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney once again has pushed the envelope on techniques of animation with this grand endeavor.  The visuals are fantastic, giving you a feast for your eyes that lasts for about 82 minutes.  The dinosaurs are so realistic that I am reminded of the 1981 film, `Looker' where models and actors were replaced by computer generated images of themselves.  That alone gives this film the rating it receives.  But, other than the look of the movie, ain't much happening here.  There's no endearing character, no catchy music, no tugging at the heart strings; none of things that make Disney, well, Disney.  My kids weren't glued to it as they normally are with a Disney movie, but they did say they liked it.  I want to see it again to catch all the things I missed, but it's not high on my list of things to do. "},{"Title":"Stunning but annoying.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Points to this movie's creators for the rich, sometimes breathtaking look of the film, but I don't know where to begin listing all the things about the story that I found annoying.  This is NOT a movie for small children; my 8-year-old niece would have found it emotionally rough going.  It's harsh and violent.  So is nature, yes, but this is supposed to be entertainment, not a documentary.  I came away feeling disappointed. "},{"Title":"They did this with a computer?  Come on, I can do better with a couple of days and 3DSMAX!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was utterly unimpressed with this movie.  Being a 3D model designer I have done better looking stuff on my PC with 3DSMAX in only a couple of days. As for the dinosaurs themselves, when I was younger I was fascinated by dinosaurs, and I collected a lot of scientific books on dinosaurs.  The things they put on screen were not dinosaurs as we know them, they were incorrectly colored, they didn't move correctly, nothing was right!  On top of all this where was the plot?  Oh, I see the plot came from A land before time, haven't they had enough years to come up with something better? Let's go further, I thought that Jurassic Park protrayed dinosaurs better, looked better and felt better than this movie, and Jurassic Park is what, 8 years old?My thoughts, just stay away, after all the hype the Disney channel was giving this movie you'll be so disappointed that your wallet will hurt from shelling out all that money so you and your family could see it.  They should be giving us our money back on this sub-par film. "},{"Title":"My eleven and seven-year-olds walked out of the theater","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I understand that Dinosaur broke records for earnings last weekend. Thanks largely, no doubt, to feckless adults, like myself, being talked into purchasing tickets by persuasive children.  What I haven't heard about is what percentage of the audience felt disappointed by the film.  Although I didn't expect to enjoy it much myself, I hardly expected that an eleven-year-old and a seven-year-old would both be begging to leave after the first half hour.I think that the problem is that, although the animation is very impressive, that novelty wears out after the first five minutes of so. After that point, story and character should kick in.  However, there is very little story and the voices of the actors are so undistinguished that it is difficult to tell one character from another.Last week I ran a videotape of Gunga Din, the old version with Cary Grant, for those same kids, and they loved it.  They were a little reluctant at first because it was in black and white but, after a while, they really got into it.  Although the film is the epitome of `political incorrectness', Gunga Din remains the ultimate Saturday afternoon kid's matinee because it has strong characters, plenty of humor and action, and a story that moves along at a rapid pace, exactly the characteristics Dinosaur lacks.  "},{"Title":"Two-Hundred Million dollar remake of The Land Before Time","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" THE STORY  (Warning! Plot Spoilers) After a Dinosaur egg is stolen and then dropped, re-stolen and then dropped some more by various clumsy prehistoric animals and mammals, it finally ends up in the hands of some adorable primates who raise it and love it as one of their own. Just when things couldn't be nicer for this family of mixed species, a nasty (albeit impressive) meteor storm all but obliterates their surroundings, forcing both Dinosaur and his furry family to join a herd of other Dinosaurs in finding a new home.THE REVIEW The first fifteen minutes of this film are jaw-droppingly beautiful. The animation is unlike anything we've ever seen, at least not since the original `Toy Story.' Mixed in with actual scenic cinematography, everything looks incredibly vivid and lifelike. I wanted to reach out and pet those cute-as-pie black and white primates, (all except the &#145;love monkey,' I was hoping a Brontosaurus would accidentally step on him. More about him later) and it looked like I practically could. So twelve years in production (or should I say in various offices and rooms loaded with sophisticated computer technology) and a budget exceeding two hundred million dollars, gets us a stunning looking animated film.That's all fine and dandy, but what about story, what about characters? I'm afraid that's where `Dinosaur' is a few bones short of a skeleton. There really isn't a story here, just a rehash of the much better `Land Before Time' and elements of Disney's `Tarzan,' all without songs of course. As for characters I wish Disney could find it in their hearts to give us one film WITHOUT some cute wisecracking creature. The one found here, the furry fella who calls himself the &#145;love monkey,' is as irritating as stepping barefoot on a hairball. Forget the fact that this primate spews bothersome dialogue that seems to be out-of-place in a family film and totally ignore the major writing blooper suggesting that these two species could find themselves existing in the same time period, the fact is the mere presence of him and his family is just ridiculous in a story that is supposed to be about Dinosaurs and survival. It wouldn't have been so bad if the non-Dinosaur characters would have been &#145;seen and not heard' but this is a Disney film and there's millions to be made in plastic and furry renditions of these characters, so words are vital I guess, no matter how stupid they ultimately are.Oh I know...lighten up Tom...this is a kids movie...not Bergman. However I cannot totally agree that this is just a kids film. There are a few scenes in this film (closely resembling some of the more intense moments from `Jurassic Park') that frightened some young children in the audience I sat in with, those that weren't bored by the whole affair that is. As I got out of my seat I noticed a little guy of about five who was sound asleep in his mom's lap. I would have loved to have a picture of that. I would send it along with a video of the little girl two rows in back of me who began screaming as a T-Rex attacked and quickly devoured one of the gentler Dinosaurs in the movie... to all those Disney folks 'so proud of their ultra-expensive &#145;family' movie.Also absent here is emotion and a sense of wonderment. There is one segment in `Jurassic Park,` the one in which the plant-eating Dinosaurs visit the children in the pre-dawn hours, that holds more wonderment than `Dinosaur' does as a whole. As much as I absolutely hated the cutesy-pie dialogue in this film and felt so disappointed at the lack of a good story and the fact that too much of time is spent on non-Dinosaur characters, I cannot say enough for the visuals to be found in `Dinosaur.' Just looking at this film, for the first half-hour at least, is worth the price of admission alone. This film simply sets a new precedent for animation. James Newton Howard's score, pretty much a clone of everything done by James Horner, (especially `Land Before Time') is excellent as well. So it&#145;s a mixed reaction to this movie. I am saddened that a film that looks so fantastic could be so lacking in almost every other department. See it for it's 'look' and the score alone.   "},{"Title":"Watch Walking With Dinosaurs on the Discovery Channel instead","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  They spent 200 million dollars on this movie, and it looks like they blew their wad on one seen ten minutes into it.The rest of the movie (seems longer than it is) consists mainly of dinosaurs walking through the desert being parched.Disney takes an obviously formulaic story, which took about seven people to come up with, and does nothing original with it whatsoever.Kids and adults alike will be bored with this film, despite one or two funny lines and a neat-o meteor shower that we all saw in the credits. Special effects lose their gee-whiz impact after a while, no matter what movie you're watching. Unfortunately, this movie has nothing to offer aside from the CGI critters (which look disturbingly fake in several shots).You're better off trying to catch a rerun of Walking With Dinosaurs on the Discovery Channel. And can you believe it, the dinosaurs look *better* on the TV show! "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's hard to say I was disappointed, because I wasn't expecting a whole lot. It's a Disney movie, and Disney's produced almost nothing but disappointments since The Lion King.  But I was disappointed.  I can't believe they spent ten years and two-hundred million dollars on this thing. Did they use sub-standard screenwriting software to come up with the story? There wasn't a single plot point that wasn't lifted straight out of another Disney movie.  I could've lived with talking dinosaurs, I guess, but did they have to sound so modern?  At least they didn't sing.  The animation was beautiful, but who cares?  Dinosaur is lacking in every other department. It's the emptiest movie of the year. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Dear to My Heart...","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney-Pixar's Dinosaur carried with it the usual things you would expect from the Dynamic Duo of Kid Movies really stunning visuals. It was entirely CGI-animated, which was still a formula for success following Disney's blockbuster hit Toy Story, which to this day remains a damn fine movie. I'll always remember Dinosaur, though, not for the gobs of prettiness surrounding it, but because it was the first movie that I ever walked out of thinking Well, that was a waste of my time. As a ten-year-old, I was easy to please, cinematically. Give me a good storyline that could keep me interested (not at all difficult, really, seeing as I managed to watch almost all of Elvis's films without losing the plot) and I'll be a happy camper. Dinosaur, though, lost me early on. I can't honestly remember most of the details; a group of dinosaurs face environmental disaster, some are separated from their group/clan thing...really, I was bored pretty quickly. The dialogue of this film was surprisingly flat, the characters uninteresting, and the overall scenario pretty mediocre. Yes, it was pretty, but then as now, that means next to nothing to me. I had no interest in the protagonist throughout the film, caring more about getting a refill of Coke then what was actually happening on the screen.This was Disney-Pixar's one dangerous encounter with George Lucas syndrome, taking a good formula and botching it up, touting the effects rather than the story. I'm sure there was a painfully overt moral involved somewhere, but I didn't care. I left the movie theatre that day feeling gypped, and when my mother asked about the film, I just shrugged and said It was okay, not wanting to offend because she had paid for my ticket. Still, this film couldn't keep a ten-year-old's attention. Bad writing overall, no character development, and a slew of other basic mistakes in the script...but it was shiny every step of the way. Three stars out of ten for the CGI goodness, which was all it was worth to me when I was 10. I'd give it two now, but I'd have to watch it again to give it a fair review, and I'm not that bored. "},{"Title":"Disney's Dinosaur, A Forgotten, ill-fated, yet awesome live action/CGI film","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Remember Disney's unbelievably bad CGI film from 2000, Dinosaur (A Disney CGI film with talking dinosaurs and monkeys?!!!! What were they thinking?!!!!!)? As you know, Disney's Dinosaur is a forgotten, ill-fated, but awesome animated masterpiece. Well, For all the bitching and moaning that has been raging over the plot, characters, and scientific inaccuracies of the film, you folks find Dinosaur lacking in the soul and spirit of the earlier 1988 screenplay and you thought it was way too Disney. You even thought it is the Plan 9 From Outer Space of Dinosaur movies. They all make mistakes, but Dinosaur was a honest one.A Critical And Commercial Disaster, Dinosaur is a movie that all of you who went to see Jurassic Park in the theaters and Watch Walking with Dinosaurs on TV would like to forget.You consider Disney's Dinosaur as the worst Disney 3D cartoon of all time. And it even put you, the fans and critics off even more than Star Wars Episode I The Phantom Menace. Well, there are a lot of you out there who are purist about Dinosaur (2000). There are praises for the CGI and Live Action Backgrounds, but the main blasts came from all of you who are opposed to the plot, the characters, the inaccuracies and such.This was Disney's great dream of making a dinosaur movie, but when it was released on May 19, 2000, and died a dog's death, the trust you put to this company is now broken. Dinosaur's critical and commercial failure led to the bankruptcy of the Secret Lab. In your eyes, Dinosaur is not a great blend of CGI and Live Action Backgrounds--It was a failure to you, plain and simple. And that film is not a mistake that Disney or the others will eager to repeat!!! None of you wanted it. But the CGI, the Live Action Backgrounds kick ass! But...I Have a question. What Shall Disney do to improve and make over Dinosaur and to answer all of you who hated this, Disney's Dinosaur? Well anybody answer my question, please. Thank you.-Timothy Robert McKenzie "},{"Title":"No feelings - just technique","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The spirit of Disney has gone away, it is just remaining the technique.Elementary feelings. Good little dinosaur is fighting again horde leader old, ugly and stupid. It is always the same story ; lion king, Tarzan...The plot of the film is so stupid  the quest for the promised land of the Dinosaurs. Villain raptors, cruel Tyranosaurs nothing new, just old easy things.  "}{"Title":"The worst Disney movie ever made.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really hate to agree with Roger Ebert, but the trailer for this movie made it look wonderful.  So I went to see it and was amazed by the beauty of the opening sequence.  But then, he dinosaurs opened their mouths and started to talk.  That is where they went wrong.  They could have easily made a wonderful movie with no dialog and just the amazing cgi dinosaurs. But no.  We get the same old retreads of boy meets girl, boy has to win girl over without being considered a stalker, villain dies by falling off a cliff.  We even get that wonderful lesson that we all would like to teach our children, if it's not cute, it's evil. Whenever anyone says that it took 12 years to make, I can't believe that. In the past 12 years, Disney has made some great movies.  Mulan had a wonderful story behind it and it was funny too.  Tarzan had great visuals and wasn't mind numbingly dull when it came to plot.  Toy Story 2 surpassed the first one.  So why, if it took over 12 years to make Dinosaur, did no one stop and say, Maybe we should hire a writer.  This thing was churned out over a weekend and is a prime example of how, when it comes to making animated films that appeal to both children and adults, we're going to have to start looking elsewhere (ie. Dreamworks). "},{"Title":"** Boring!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The worst fully-animated Disney film is this incredibly boring retread of every hero-fighting-the-odds-of-normality tale that takes place in the world of the great prehistoric lizards. The computer animation is completely dazzling; the folks over at the Mouse studio have certainly outdone themselves. Unfortunately, without a good script and quite frankly, without any songs to liven the place up a bit the technical achievements fail to impress you past the first ten minutes.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable on one level, but confused messages!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I went to see this film with another adult, fully expecting to enjoy it as I had done 'Antz' previously. However, I felt that although the animation was very good, it seemed aimed at too wide an audience. As a viewer in the UK, I had, along with millions of others, watched the BBC Dinosaurs series which was extremely well done and researched. The 'cast' of Dinosaur 2000 seemed to be humanised, and not too well I felt - too graphic for very young children (I can understand the 'Parental Guidance' rating - and yet how can a parent know without first viewing it?), and too 'human' for older viewers.  "},{"Title":"Not so good Disney","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay. This movie tries. I'll give it THAT much. But once you get past the eye candy, Dinosaur is more paint by numbers. It's just a tired rehash of several different animated movies before it, and it doesn't even have an inspiring story. It also plods along at the same level, not changing directions, throwing in plot twists, or even having a climax. The humor is exceedingly dry, and the story is bleak. There's not very much character development, either. These are some of the most boring ever created. You should also listen to the dialogue. It's absolutely horrible! If you want a cookie cutter babysitter, this doesn't fit the bill either. It's too violent for kids. If you want good Disney, find something else. Like Mulan. Or go back to the old classics. Those are always good. Or if you want something more recent, Chicken Run is just fine. Just don't watch this. "},{"Title":"That was it?","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I saw Dinosaur for the first time back in May 2000, I was thinking to myself, That was it?. First off this movie shouldnt be called Dinosaur, it should start with The Land Before Time. This was as bad, if not worse than the sequels to The Land Before Time. The story lines are identical. Here is a question, They spent 12 years making this film, and this was the best story line they could come up with? Plus people are saying that the CGI is outstanding. Believe me, they arent that amazing. The Jurassic Park Trilogy is much better than this sad try at a movie. Go out and buy Jurassic Park or The Lost World Jurassic Park. Also go ahead and start planning to get Jurassic Park III on video when it comes out on December 11th. Do not waste your time with Disney's Dinosaur.0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The love what?","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I've never been much of a fan of full CGI.  Sure the two Toy Story movies, Antz, and A Bug's Life are great, but that's because they were written well and were animated by people who knew the ropes of traditional animation.  On top of that, the animators took the time to make *really interesting shots* that would be difficult to emulate with cels (i.e. the reflection of Buzz's face on the inside of his helmet) instead of just trying to save time and money (as in the train sequence in Anastasia).The opening of Dinosaurs was pretty astounding, but in hindsight, it was way way too quick and was reliant on about a hundred separate coincidences to get the egg where it was going--it was like the attack sequence in Bay's awful Pearl Harbor.  Then the meteor thing was real flashy, too.  After that, it's not much better than The Land Before Time.Once everyone starts talking, though, the real weakness of this movie appears.  I swear, the script must have been written by a twelve year old hippie, ignorant of any patterns of speech but his own (You need a little help from the love monkey) and ignorant of the true nature of nature (the kind of naive belief that saving a cute species is helping nature, with no regard to the wisdom of the kind of laissez-faire environmentalism that would kick all the tourists out of Yellowstone and other nature preserves so that we as humans would truly respect nature by protecting it from ourselves).  A reviewer (I think it was Roger Ebert) pointed out the basic paradox of having dinosaurs preach against survival of the fittest, since (life spoiler) they all died off about 64,000,000 years ago.  But of course, Disney doesn't care about all that, and neither did the screenwriters of the Land Before Time series.  That wouldn't sell tickets and videos to children.  Who know, maybe Littlefoot, Sara, Ducky, Petrie, and Spike will still be children when The Land Before Time 23 comes out, just in time for my grandchildren to be born.  I just hope Disney doesn't follow suit. "},{"Title":"Sock puppets are better!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The film finished, and I thought, hang on, is that it. Thankfully it was.This film seriously lacks any story that I want to pay to see.  The animation is okay, but when the dinosaurs speak they look like sock puppets.  That was the most entertaining part of the film.To make it really simple, if this was a regular animated Disney film it would never have got released.  The script is just too dreadful, and the plot is dull.  It looks great, but that just isn't enough.When I went to see Toy Story 2 the entire opening sequence of Dinosaur played.  It looked marvelous, and I couldn't wait to see the film.  But as soon as the dialogue started the film just lost it.  I think the film could have been better without any dialogue at all.How can Disney have got it so right with Toy Stories 1 and 2, and so wrong with Dinosaur?  It looked so promising in the preview.  The mid-90s TV show of the same name had more subtlety and more complex plots.Don't waste your money, unless you have a very small child to entertain.  Or sew some buttons on a sock and make your own! "},{"Title":"Dinobore","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Not just the 'standard' Disney story, this movie was a piece of crap, pure and simple. So crappy was it, that I couldn't even bother to be amazed at the CGI; in fact I saw this film as an immense waste of technology.First off, I HATED the fact that these realistic dinosaurs and quasi-realistic primates spoke and all but acted like humans. It's one thing to have traditional 2D animated characters speak or even a 3D animal talk in a live-action fable but to have astoundingly realistic creatures have such horribly anthropomorphic qualities in a realistic setting is very jarring, especially when the dialog is so 'cute' and anachronistic.Secondly, the story mimicked the superior Land Before Time. Let me state I don't think Land Before Time (the 1st one) was a masterpiece, but for what it was, a charming story mostly aimed at the younger crowd, it was successful. Dinosaur tells practically the same story, but with boring characters. "},{"Title":"shut up! shut up! shut up!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie is such a lost cause.  So beautiful and yet saddled with the Disney formula which I'll admit has worked in anthropomorphic features of the past but seems totally misused here.  The dinosaur models though impressive graphically are damned ugly.It's never more apparent how ugly until they are given voice. While there is nothing wrong with the performance, perse, the fact that the dinosaurs speak seems wrong in and of itself.  Watching this movie with a bunch of friends we all silently came to the same conclusion. Disney should have stuck by their instincts and made this a pseudo exploration in non-verbal narrative. It works for the Japanese comic strip Gon and it could have inspired wonder and majesty here. Instead their decision to play it safe leaves you wondering where the majesty of dinosaurs has gone.  "},{"Title":"Disney's worst theatrical release since Tarzan.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****When I watch a computer animated movie called Dinosaur, the only thing I expect out of it is 80 minutes worth of entertainment. So why is this one of the more interminably dull Disney releases I've seen? For the most part, the film plods at a snail's pace, with little but the first-rate dinosaur animation to keep things afloat.The movie does get off to a breathtaking start, as it features an egg that goes through series of mishaps and adventures before it finally ends up in the hands of a monkey colony. The egg turns out to be a dino (looks like an iguanadon, the ones with those pointy thumbs) who is cared for and raised by the monkeys. He is named Aladar and this perfect life of his with the monkeys comes to a complete halt when an asteroid strikes the vicinity, destroying their home, forcing all the animals in the area to search for new land. Through the journey, they must brave the dangers of the carnivorous raptors and carnotaurs to reach paradise.In case you haven't noticed, the plot closely resembles The Land Before Time, so much so I wonder what Don Bluth would think if he ever saw this movie (or maybe he already has). There's one crucial element that separates Dinosaur from The Land Before Time, and that's the fact that TLBT was at least kind of fun. It gave us a genuine dilemma, a few slighty memorable characters, and a terrific score from James Horner.My appreciation for Dinosaur, however, is entirely on a visual level. The folks at Disney have done a marvelous job of crafting these ancient creatures and rendering them to life. It's dynamic work, but as visually stunning as these creations are to look at, listening to them is another story. The voicing is subpar, and even worse, the characters are completely lifeless. Disney's animated offerings usually give us at least one or two memorable characters per film; this one features a grand total of zilch. Only this movie and Tarzan can lay claim to that dubious statement.Probably the worst decision from the filmmakers was to set the majority of the movie in a desert wasteland. Here are all these great, expensive CGI visuals, and they end up getting dumped in a thoroughly drab, unimaginative setting that does little to spark or fuel the imagination. There's no sense of wonder, no awe, no excitement, and most importantly, no fun. For great escapist entertainment with dinosaurs, stick with Jurassic Park. "}{"Title":"to all parents considering this film . . .","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is not a movie for anyone, especially kids.  Sure, the first few minutes, including a spectacular flight on the back of a pteradon, had me dazzled.  I was glued.  And then I was not.  This is not just a bad movie.Fault 1.  This is a boring movie.  Kids don't like to be bored, but they will with this one.  Yes, the first few minutes are set in a beautiful tropical landscape overflowing with amazing creatures.  Then the rest of the thing is set in a boring and utterly depressing desert.  If the execs at Disney wanted to flaunt CGI, couldn't they have found a more interesting backdrop.  A kid's movie should be anything but boring, right?Fault 2.  This is a violent movie.  I like violence in films.  It's often stimulating and always gets a reaction, but in a kids film, to see a cute little triceratops get pounced on by a giant monster and then watch as the innocent thing is torn to shreds is appalling in a film aimed at youngsters. And this incident is very soon in the film.  Then you see the aftermath of this one poor dinosaur all ripped apart, blood all over, barely alive from his ordeal.Fault 3.  This is a film with bad ethics/morals (apologies to Election). As has been stated numerous times, all those who eat meat are considered pure evil.  Vegetarians, that's mother nature's elect, I guess.  What happened to Mufasah explaining the circle of life?  And kids will no doubt be asking their parents to explain the mating ritual of the lemurs, which was supposed to be cute and mirror real life, but it explained nothing, just confused kids more about sex.  And then there's much hypocrisy concerning the moral of the story, about standing together and yet beeing a rebel when the occasion called for it.Fault 4.  This is a stolen film.  Not only was I constantly reminded of The Land Before Time, but I realized that I was just watching The Land Before Time, but gone were good characters and dazzling poetic backdrops.  All the plot points are identical, it's just that here, we don't care, largely due to the fact that Dinosaur is supposed to be realistic, which it is not (they talk), but the previous had characters which were kids.  The audience could relate.Parents, please do not buy this film for your kids.  Go buy Chicken Run, came out around the same time, was inspiring, intellectual, absolutely exciting, and I laughed throughout.  Land Before Time was also great if kids want dinosaurs. "},{"Title":"One of the worst family films I have ever seen","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  OK, first, you probably notice that I included the genre of the film in the title.  This is because I generally enjoy family films.  The Iron Giant and Toy Story 2 both made my top ten list of last year.  One of my favorite movies is Alice in Wonderland (disney), and Aladdin has always been a favorite.  I enjoy family films, if they can entertain both adults and children alike.  This movie did not.  It was about the same as Inspector Gadget.  I walked out of that movie, and walked out of this movie, but had to go back in.  My friend was in there, and he hated it, but he wouldn't walk out.The movie itself has graphics that are good and bad at the same time.  You can tell that the backgrounds are Kodak Digital stock, and that they are real.  The dinosaurs don't belong in it.  I didn't notice any inaccuracies, but that was because I was never really interested in Dinosaurs to begin with.  The graphics were ok, but i have seen better.  Maybe IMAX's dinosaur movie has better graphics, who knows?The plot of the movie is The Land Before Time.  It also reeks of The Lion King, and many other established cliches.  The end death is straight out of the Lion King, so much that I was waiting for the new baby to be held up against the background, and in essence, that is what happened.  The worst part about the movie was the dinosaurs showed emotions and human traits after a very realistic-type start.  I was so aggravated, I wanted to say pick a style realism or bad.  It chose bad.  The first 15 or 20 minutes (just before the dinosaurs start talking) are great, but it is all downhill from there.  Trust me.Also, if it is such an allegory for Christianity, then what does the third set of oppressors represent??  Huh?  Don't look too deep into this film, it is tripe of the maximum kind.  Just as I say, don't show anybody Inspector Gadget (the movie), don't show anybody the last hour of this 1 hr 15 min movie.  The cliches are abound, most of the humor falls flat, and everything goes according to plan.  The funniest two parts were when the meteors blew up the planet, in the silence that followed, a kid said loudly mushroom.  The second was the horny monkey saying Hey girls, anybody up for a game of monkey in the middle.  So don't stay for the whole movie.  Get up, out of your chair, and demand a refund.  We snuck into MI-2, and that was somewhat better.3/10 (for the first fifteen minutes. "},{"Title":"This movie offers nothing but slick computer animation.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie starts with very fine looking computer animation, and ends with the same.  In between, there is nothing for either children or adults in the way of a plot, action, music, or anything else to recommend this movie.Never mind that the concept of the movie is totally warped.  The story, what little there is, involves primates coexisting with dinosaurs.  Huh?  Not hardly.  The dinos were gone more than 50 million years before primates appeared on the Earth.Then there is the hokey scene of the asteroid shower.  The asteroids impact the Earth with tremendous violence after falling gently toward earth, much like rain from a stratus cloud.I suppose the idea of the dinosaurs having human mentalities is just a device for the children.  O.K.  Let's give Disney that much, but if you saw Lion King, you already saw this plot, and done in a much more entertaining fashion.Forget this movie.  That's the best advice I can offer. "},{"Title":"Good Special Effects doesn't make a great movie, take PM as an example of this.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Good special effects don't make a good movie. Look at last years Phantom Menace as an example of this. This movie was boring. The only reason I stayed awake was that it was load. And I was hoping the meat eaters would eat all the talking dinos. Both my 3 year old and 6 year old couldn't wait for this to get over. My daughter was scared half the time and my son was just bored.The story is just awful and been done 30 times already. Disney is going to go out of business putting crap like this out. You wanna see something great go see Gladiator or rent Iron Giant. "},{"Title":"Multi-million dollar rip off.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie.....when it was called `The Land Before Time.' In 1988 (over a decade ago), Don Bluth (creator of the greats `An American Tail,' `All Dogs Go to Heaven,' `The Secret of Nymph..') already told this story before, albeit with less impressive animation. Let's compare notes 1) Both films begin and end with the voice of a wise, old narrator.2) Both films begin with the birth, hatching from an egg, of the  main character (Little Foot in `TLBT' and Aladar in `Dinosaur').3) Both films have the main character separating from his true  parents and living with another species. 3) Both films have a natural disaster (earthquake in `TLBT,' asteroids in `Dinosaur') that brings starvation and famine to Pangea and separates the main character from his family.4) Both films feature a nomadic move towards a beautiful place filled with water and lush vegetation (`The Great Valley' in `TLBT' and `The Nesting Ground' in `Dinosaur'-Aladar in `Dinosaur' even describes the nesting ground as a `wonderful valley').5) The main antagonist in both films is a voracious  Tyrannosaurus Rex chasing the nomads the entire journey.6) Both films have a scene when they think they discover the Great Land (coming up over a cliff), but it ends up being a deserted canyon with no signs of life.7) Both films feature a scene when they finally discover some food (`green stuff' in `TLBT' and water in `Dinosaur') but is quickly wasted by a parade of selfish, hungry dinosaurs, who don't leave any behind.8) Both films feature the (what appears to be) `death' of the  Tyrannosaurus Rex, but he comes back alive to continue the chase.9) Both films feature a stubborn leader (Neera's brother in `Dinosaur' and Sera in `TLBT') who fights with the main  character for control of the herd in which direction they should  be going. There is a violent scuffle between them.10) Both films have the Tyrannosaurus Rex die at the end by falling off a cliff and plummeting.11) Both films end with finding the Great Valley/Nesting Ground. "},{"Title":"Dino Droppings","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney continues to establish themselves as the masters of wasted opportunities.  With years in development and an entire studio of technology built to make it, Dinosaur comes off as a flat, boring, standard-issue Disney animated film that just looks better than it's predecessors.  To call its plot standard-issue Disney is almost giving it too much credit.  All the basic elements are here but Dinosaur's script is so patch worked together from other Disney films that it has no personality of its own.  It's just a collection of repeated Disney themes.  Making things worse is the film's tendency to undermine what little drama there is.  Part of the film involves following a heard of dinosaurs across the newly scorched landscape to where water should be awaiting them.  They get there and find no water.  Our hero discovers that the water lies just under the surface, everyone rejoices and drinks.  The next day it rains.  The film continues on in this backwards manner.  There are two ill-tempered dinosaurs leading the pack and all for leaving behind the weaker ones to be picked off by following predators.  The film's persistent and somewhat annoying message of teamwork should have the most impact on these contrary attitudes.  Instead, enlightenment is granted to one of the two, quickly followed by his death which renders the whole gesture pointless.Is there anything worthwhile here?  The visuals are astounding, but in this day and age of constant one-upsmanship in the field of cinematic CGI, one can't help but feel a tad flippant about the whole thing.  James Newton Howard provides a score that is at times interesting, the dinos don't sing thank God, but too often proves derivative of The Lion King.  The voice work is unimpressive all around and adding ethnic undercurrents to each personality was a bad idea.  The whole idea of voicing these characters further proves the film's determination to undermine itself.  Create the most visually real dinosaur film you can possibly imagine, and then make the dinos talk and throw in modern references for good measure.  The Disney machine needs a serious overhaul, now. "},{"Title":"Fell Asleep !!","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When i went to see this film in theatres, i was young as was most of the other audience there, all i can remember is being so excited to see it and skipping into the cinema, sitting down and suddenly I'm being woken up by my dad telling me it was good i fell asleep as it was the worst film he'd ever seen, there was still about 15 minutes of the movie left and i found myself drifting off still, it was the worst punishment ever. If you want a film about animated, talking dinosaurs i recommend one of the many land before time movies, the graphics arn't as good but the story definitely is !! 1/10 for wasting my dads money !! "},{"Title":"If Jack Horner saw this movie, he'd hate it.","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Monkeys in the Mezezoic era? Please, that's pure bull s**t! One of my best friends is a fossil expert and we both agree that this movie is scientifically incorrect. The director of this movie isn't a genius that's for sure. You should really get at least a M.D. in paleontology before going to make a dinosaur movie. Because the director made one big mistake, a vary, vary, VARY big mistake. Jack Horner definitely been offended by trash. If you're a nerd, you shouldn't get this movie, I haven't seen this movie for a long time, but I was a stupid kid back then. Any little kid who doesn't know that T-rex didn't eat brontosaurs would like this movie. But I'm a genius, little kids don't know that the only mammals that existed in the Mezezoic were rodents. But let the watch Walking with Dinosaurs a couple times and that will brainwash a little kid and they'll hate this movie for the rest of their life. Their tiny brains are like sponges, really. I hate Disney more than any other studio. "},{"Title":"Watch Land Before Time or Jurassic Park instead.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Unlike the films above, Dinosaur lacks charm, pathos, humour, personality, plot, development of character, adventure, excitement and everything else that makes a great movie. It may look impressive for much of the time (not all - look at the raptor sequences) but underneath it's paper thin. Don't waste your time.  2/10  "},{"Title":"Absolute Garbage!","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My cousins and I reckon this film sucks more than a dummy in a child's mouth.  The animation was OK, but there is a bigger plot down at the bottom of our garden (sorry, vegetable patch!).  Matthew, Malcolm & Paul. "}{"Title":"Is this a kid's movie?","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur is not even a breakthrough in computer generated effects for Disney. That title is reserved for the spectacular hit Toy Story. What you have in Dinosaur is basically a re-make of The Land Before Time, with the cell animation replaced with computer generated images. The story is so unoriginal that the end result could be referred to simply as yet another Disney movie. However, this time the normally ingenius Disney product seems to be alienating its biggest target audience, the younger viewers. They tried to make this movie TOO real, and in making an animated film about nature and using extremely realistic special effects, it is to be expected that the violence can be a little excessive. I'm not saying that the violence is glorified, I'm just saying that in a movie like this it is not a good idea to show some of the things that were seen in Dinosaur. I saw mothers taking their kids out of the theater during the film because of its violent content. I was bored with Dinosaur from the beginning. As soon as I found out that all of the dinosaurs were given cute little voices, I knew that I would be disappointed with the film, and I was. The Disney effect simply did not work with a serious Dinosaur story the way that it worked in The Land Before Time, and because they tried to combine two completely different elements like that, the film fell flat. The all powerful Disney corporation has indeed produced a flop. "},{"Title":"Nice preview. Nice CGI. Sappy. One point.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The preview was the best part, since it didn't have any sappy dialog.   Rapid downhill slide after that. What a waste of money.  "},{"Title":"Excellent graphics, but where's a good story?","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A baby dinosaur is raised by little monkeys. When a meteor strike hits, everyone flees for the nesting grounds the utopia of the land. Excellent and flawless computer animation done make this for any computer/animation buff, however the movie is showered with an unappealing cast. Lack of singing music also makes this a lot less fun to watch as well. Although at 82 minutes, DINOSAUR feels much longer, especially for adults, your kids will probably fidget too. Combine THE LION KING, JURASSIC PARK and THE LAND BEFORE TIME, and you have this movie, although maybe Disney tried a bit too hard. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The worst and weakest of all films, Dinosaur isn't just profoundly bad, it's also stupid and incompetent. On the dramatic level, all Disney movies are held to generously lower standards and praised as masterpieces. Why, I can't imagine. It's just Disney, says everyone. You shouldn't expect a great script, the movie will be great anyway!Material tailored to children will naturally have a vast adult audience--parents unfortunate enough to have kids who beg them to take the family out to see movies like these--so why not make something that adults can appreciate? That aside, I insist that the enormity of an unredeemably bad screenplay (Disney seems to have a patent on these) should not be dismissed simply because the movie is for children.I say all this because Dinosaur is a horrible moviegoing experience in so many ways that it is probably considered torture in some parts of the world. For the life of me, I cannot see why everyone was so impressed by the visuals. The opening sequence, called breathtaking by many, is a ludicrous rehash of the far better opening of Forrest Gump. The graphics are unrealistic, the characters' faces way beyond cartoony with hideous human tics and gestures. Why was everyone so convinced and drawn in by the artistry of the film that they were snapped out of a stupor when the animals started to speak? I just don't get it.Perhaps the disappointment of hearing the dinosaurs and the lemurs talk stemmed from the fact that the dialogue with which Dinosaur tortures us for eighty minutes is so bad, it makes the Godzilla screenplay look like that of L.A. Confidential. Yeah, I said it! And I meant it.To begin, I was never impressed or convinced by the visuals. The blending of ridiculous, excessively cartoony computer models with live-action scenery was anything but seamless. But in comparison with the dialogue, the sights were near masterful. The plot is unoriginal. In fact, it's plain done to death. Disney fanatics, of course, package this phenomenon of recycled garbage as tried and true or a new twist on a classic theme. Fair enough, except it's an old twist on a classic theme. Several classic themes, actually. The movie raises several ideas and just throws them in briefly, giving each the spotlight for a few minutes without dealing with a single one, then retreating back to the search for that darned mysterious valley. Issues are raised not to be resolved, but to interrupt the progress of the plot (possibly to eat up time, because the movie would otherwise have seemed too short, even though it feels too long).There's that theme of the rivals, the new kid on the block versus the hard-hearted, iron-fisted leader of the pack. Then there's the romance issue, which never goes anywhere (hey, they're dinosaurs, not humans!). And the individualistic ideals raised by our hero as a humanistic thorn in the side of fearless leader's Darwinian methods. That's always good for a laugh. Not here, though. Dinosaur is the worst kind of bad movie. Not like Mortal Kombat Annihilation, where it's so ridiculous that it's entertaining, literally laughable. This, I couldn't laugh at. It was just too painful.And of course, in grand tradition, the carnivores are demonized and denied speech, which all herbivores are granted. It's the way Hollywood always cements the message that all meat-eaters are monsters from the depths of you-know-where. Nothing like a subtle touch. Interesting, though, that here the predators (carnotaurs, a real but little-known dinosaur) deliver in their roars a kind of dialogue more worth hearing than that of the veggiesaurs. I tell you, the script is BAD! And it really kills the whole movie, for those of us who didn't already find the look of the movie unappealing.No children's movie is complete without the obligatory scene where the hero defeats the villain in a thoroughly implausible action sequence. Convenient that a solid rock footing would crumble to dust just when the bad guy steps on it, no? This movie takes what was passable in The Land Before Time (better by far) and makes it uniformly bad, copying everything and filtering out whatever had any charm, imagination, or credibility. With a never-ending parade of STUPID one-liners, Dinosaur is so bad that it almost seems like the product of a collaborative decision to make it stink.For me, a movie is only as good as its script. Complaints of implausibility (a big problem here) die out where the drama is appealing or the action entertaining, two ideal strokes of luck facilitated in the first place by the words on the paper. No such luck with Dinosaur, a movie whose unjustifiably good B.O. performance seems to have legitimized the studios' free-spending habits. So much for imagination. I don't care what else comes out this year; Dinosaur IS the Worst Picture of 2000. And so far, in my opinion, it's the Worst Picture Ever. "},{"Title":"Suckiest A-Film Ever.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was unbearable. They stole the plot from /Land Before Time 4/, then dumbed it down. If you don't believe me, watch LBT4. The stock clever Disney characters were replaced by brainless slugs who didn't bother trying to be interesting.Disney Animator Hey, we can animate this so it looks real good. Disney Exec Great! That means we won't have to use any writers on this one.A lousy review for a painfully lousy movie. Quid pro quo ad nauseum amen. "},{"Title":"Disneys latest attempt for summer success","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Dinosaur. Disney's latest movie with plenty of special effects and a stunning mix of real backgrounds and computer animated dinosaurs, but it basically lacks 3 things; length, story, and character development. It starts of with basically the trailer that was shown in the theater of a dino egg being bounced and rolled around and in that egg was a baby dino failed into the hands of some prejudice monkeys who at first decide to dispose of it until they stop acting like monkeys and come to their sense and take him in. Then it skips from the baby dino to a full grown dino without any indication of this time lapse leaving you guessing that its the same dino because there is no indication of his name till after this time lapse. Then there is a meteor shower and aladar(the now full grown dino) carries his parent monkey to a safer place. While roaming throughout the desert they come across other wandering dinos and team up to find a better place to live. After 20 minutes of roaming in the desert the dinos finally find a better land. After they find this better land they come across some mean dinos that don't like the other dinos on their land decide to fight. In the end its just a happy ending with aladar getting some female dino that he's had his eye on and defeating the bad dinos. Its too short being only 1 hour and 22 minutes and because of that the story doesn't have enough time to grow and develop. Disney should stick to regular animation till computer animation becomes less costly because for price they payed to make dino was a waste. "},{"Title":"Good movie but lame","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie, Disney made is good, I mean the giant carnivore was huge than the Tyrannosaurus Rex, but somehow it has the attitude similar to the Tyrannosaurus Rex, the beginning was cool, it have the instinct of a Tyrannosaurus Rex would do, sneaking up to it's prey, when it attacks one of the herbivores, it strong jaws took it down hard, is something the Tyrannosaurus Rex would do too. When the asteroids came causing trouble all dinosaur they have no choice but to go to a place where there is nutrients for them to feed again. When two giant carnivore attack the monkey and the 4 herbivore dinosaur, the rock caved in killing the female carnivore and one male dinosaur. But as the leader of the herd, he leads them to a dead end, the male carnivore attack them, when 1 dinosaur came to rescue the herds, why should the male carnivore get scare and back-up for anyway, it should attack already, seems Disney have make some mistakes. The cliff screen was wrong, after the male carnivore bit one of the herbivore's back, wouldn't it tear even more bigger? After all, this movie is Good in the beginning, lame after the end of the movie. This movie put all the dinosaur movie into shame. "},{"Title":"Can Disney's most ambitious computer animated movie ever survive the onslaught of the summer?","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Can Disney's most ambitious computer animated movie ever survive the onslaught of the summer? Dinosaur tells the tale of an ambitious dinosaur named Aladar (voiced by D.B. Sweeney) who is plucked out of his mother's nest and carried off to some unsuspecting primates. As he grows he accepts the frisky primates as his  family. Just as the yearly mating ritual begins, Aladar's surroundings are engulfed in a cosmic event forcing Aladar to scoop up his adopted family and flee the safety of their island. Returning to the real world proves a challenge for Aladar and his adopted primate family as they try so hard to fit in with a huge migrating herd. Dinosaur's amazing visuals and breath-taking scenery shots hold you breathless as you escape into a world completely fixated on the instinct of survival. What seems to be the fault associated with Dinosaur is the story and emotion associated with its characters. Sure when Disney creates animated characters our human emotions and actions are often placed into the hearts of the depicted characters but here it seems almost strange. Here we have photo realistic surroundings and characters trying to be lifted from dinosaur history books. A couple years back a breakthrough film called `The Land Before Time' embraced the idea of telling a dinosaur story using Disney-style animation. It was a marvelous accomplishment but here it's very weird. That very thing addresses some issues concerning what exactly is cartoon-violence and what is real to you and your child. Some scenes are vicious and profound as we watch Aladar's constant struggle for survival in an untamed world. Through these scenes we do have to wonder which particular audience was the film being aimed. I know for younger viewers the realism and the intensity in the art of survival may be too much to handle. It's hard to judge which exact child may cringe while another might be excited. Dinosaur has pushed the envelope in regards to how real we really want to get with animation. The plot elements that baffled me were during Aladar's communication with the huge titanic Brachiosaurus, Baylene (voiced by Joan Plowright). In the introduction scene to Baylene, she is a giant and Aladar is worried about being stepped on. But as he gets to know her she seems to shrink and not be that large at all. And to top it all off Aladar is able to fit Baylene, himself and three other dinosaurs in a cave. That must be some cave and how come the herd never could see a cave that huge? Sure I am being analytical on a family film but the film is trying for as much realism as necessary. Dinosaur is more convincing and real than the `Land Before Time' but no where near as family or sincere as that film. I think it tries to be family at one moment and too realistic the next. (3 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Pretend Characters, Real Fabric","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Since the beginning of film, the art form has been captive of the phenomenon of celebrity. So we often have the situation of characters in the play which are dissonant from the setting, the rest of the film. In addition to being integrated into the film story as characters, they are simultaneously integrated into a `real life' drama where they serve as archetypes, as larger characters in the greater play of life.The celebrity of the archetypes is largely manufactured, and in any case driven by dark forces in the unconscious, which makes them less real. But the magic of film is that the illusion of reality in placing the viewer at the scene is independent of this and extremely powerful.Thus, the normal situation in film is that the characters are less `real' than the overall fabric of the film and most of its parts -- when Charlton Heston plays a minor role in Hamlet, we see the character's role (a poor actor), and the real person (also a poor actor), plus all sorts of extra semiotic dimensions (gun thug, cartoon Moses ...). In that particular case, the director deliberately played on the illusion that the character was less real than the play, which itself wells realism.The mix of animation and `real' photography offers exaggerations on this reality. Roger Rabbit and the Mask were interesting not because they were even good entertainment, but because they captivated by playing on this dissonance.Now we have another dinosaur movie with no intrinsic value. The animals in this film are impressive in our day as Spielberg's were in their era, and even his shark before that. Next year, new magic will eclipse these renderings as well. But what we have here is a positively mundane film that still fascinates. And the reason is this dissonance again.For those who don't know, the characters are modern 3-d cartoons, made on a computer. But they are placed (mostly) in films of real scenes, taken from around the world a first in terms of a whole film (and lack of real creatures as a reference). And in a homeopathic increase, the more real the creatures look, the greater the dissonance between foreground and background. Utterly fascinating.A sad point on viewing. Most kiddie movies should be seen in a theater of kids since they carry the visceral flow of the petty drama and surround you with juvenile commitment. Don't bother here. There is no connection with kids' fantasies.  "}]