[{"Title":"It's really not that bad...","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"82 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I've seen it twice now.  I'm sure that says something.  The one thing that I told myself as I went into the theater was This isn't the game. Too many people were expecting Mark Hammil, or Biff from Back to the Future, and were miffed that the movie didn't include them, or anyone that looked like them.  So far, I haven't heard anyone say complain that Val Kilmer or George Clooney didn't LOOK like Michael Keaton; the portrayal of their character is a different story...I'll admit, the movie had a cookie-cutter plot.  Young guy doesn't realize his potential, young guy is mocked, best friend stands up for him, young guy saves the day.  That, and the standard Have someone how loves and loses, and someone who falls in love at the end.  But, then again, how many movies have been made that have a cookie cutter plot?I was quite impressed with the acting.  I'll admit, I haven't been a big fan of the teen slasher movies, so this was my first experience at seeing a lot of these guys.  The young Blair was portrayed exactly as I would have expected, not too sure of himself, too willing to scurry into a corner rather than face confrontation.  Maniac was great; much better than the poor portrayal in the last 3 iterations of the video game.  I mean, let's face it, Maniac's character was completely re-done in WC3, to make him exactly like Biff.  And Paladin was excellent.  Not anything like the Paladin of the games (it took a while to get used to a non-scottish Paladin), but a very good, dark, but fatherly figure.The effects were incredible, especially when you consider the (relatively) meager budget the film was done on.  Yeah, the NavCom looked like a car battery, and the Kilrathi were lacking.  Actually, I wouldn't be surprised if the original intent was to NOT show the Kilrathi at all; someone decided this would be too artistic of a move, and created some cheesy looking aliens at the last minute.My favorite aspect of the movie, though, was how it abandons the standard Everything is bright and pretty and technological in Sci-Fi.  The ships were beat on.  The cruisers looked like they had to be held together with bailing wire.  The bridges of the vessels were dark, cramped, and simple. The ships shot bullets, rather giving us bright and technical laser beams. Also, humanity wasn't portrayed as being perfect; there were factions, and racism, and everything else that we experience on earth today.I'm just waiting for the DVD... "},{"Title":"Okay, I'll Come Clean...","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally gave into my curiosity and rented Wing Commander last night... and I found myself kinda... you know... liking it.It is NOT great cinema or great science fiction -- everyone likes to climb all over this movie for scientific errors and not being close enough to the Wing Commander games.  Well, scientific inaccuracies don't bug me (I'm an English major!), and I never played the Wing Commander game.  Maybe that's the secret to enjoying this movie -- if you take it completely on its (meager) merits, it's not all that bad.  It's nowhere near as good as classics like Star Wars or even somewhat similar films like The Last Starfighter or Starship Troopers, but it entertained me.  I dunno, sometimes you don't need your horizons challenged, you just want to sit back and watch aliens get blow'd up real good, you know?I consider this a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says it is... but not as good either","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"47 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was intrigued, after hearing many different points of views on this movie, to go see it. So I go to this used tape store, (why rent it for $5 when you can buy it for $2?) and buy it. I just wanted to see which side I agreed with. Most people that stated their opinions, said that this movie was a waste of time. Other people said it was the best movie they've ever seen, but I'm guessing they were fans of the video game or the 1977 version of this movie, both of which I've never seen. To go straight to the point and make it easy for those who don't know whether to see it or not, I'll let you decide for yourself based on my opinion. So to make it simple I'll just say the good and bad stuff about it.Bad Stuff~Freddie Prinze Jr. sucks at acting. There's no other way to put it. I got very bored watching his one expression and monotone voice.~Right from the beginning, I thought the music was terrible. Music is supposed to drag you in from the beginning and give you a sense of what's coming, (think Jaws.) This just made me feel like I was about to see Captain America.~The alien make-up was so extremely ridiculous that they looked like overgrown house pets. Not scary at all. ~I got tired of hearing people state the obvious. Hey! I think something's wrong! Well, aren't you the sharp one. The exploding bombs and loud red alert beeping didn't give it away, did it?~The story had it's boring moments. There were parts I didn't follow and soon didn't even care, because I had gotten so lost by then it didn't matter.~*This may or may not be a downside* I wasn't sure if the accents in this movie were taken from the video game or original, but it was way too weird. We had a Scottish guy, a ton of Englishmen, Americans, and some Asians. How did they all get on this one ship?Good Stuff~Matthew Lillard did a fabulous job. I'm so used to seeing him act like an a**hole, (no offense, think Scream.) that I wasn't expecting the serious performance he gave. It blew me away how serious he had to be in some scenes, and he pulled it off beautifully. (Although I gave the movie 5 stars, I would like to give his performance a 10.)~The plotline, although confusing, did have it's certain interesting moments. I don't know which came first, Starship Troopers or this, but I have a feeling one of them is a rip-off of the first. However, it certainly had it's moments that put you in suspense.~The special effect were great. It reminded me a lot of Star Wars. And the battle scenes were exciting.~The rest of the cast didn't do too bad a job of acting. I was able to feel sorry for most of them.I gave this movie a 5. If you have nothing better to do, I suggest you watch it. I certainly have seen worse, (read my review of Jeepers Creepers.) If you liked Starship Troopers this is a movie for you. However, if you want something more out of a Sci-Fi movie of this sort, I suggest Pitch Black. *****/10  "},{"Title":"A fun ride, not a serious one. A must for all fans of the game.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film has been critically panned and it bombed at the cinemas. But it's actually a pretty good film. Yes it isn't technically the best, nor is it scientifically plausible. And for devotees of the games it kinda screws with history, but for all that it is a good ride. You watch it and appreciate it. Saffron Burrows is great. David Warner and David Suchet excel in their (small) roles. It's a shame John Rhys-Davis and Mark Hamill don't reprise their roles, but their replacements do well enough.You get caught up in the story, and the visual effects are fantastic, aided by good acting with the actors working well together.So overall I would recommend this film. Don't expect it to be fantastic, but just enjoy it. It's a fun film and a worthy addition to Wing Commander lore. "},{"Title":"Not The Best But Its Definetly Not Boring","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People are way too hard on this movie.  The acting is better than average and action is awesome.  This alone makes up for the weak plot and so so special effects.  And it moves at  such a pace that it is impossible to be bored unlike Star Wars Episode 1 where I sat through that entire pod race scene wondering when it was going to end.  I'm not saying that this is better than Star Wars but I could watch this movie over and over which is something I couldn't say for Star Wars.  (***/****) "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I avoided this movie when it was first released because of the bad reviews.  I never played the game so I had no idea what to expect.I should know better...I saw this movie for the first time on DVD, sat down with a low expectation, and cranked up my Dolby Digital 5.1 sound system.  Was I ever BLOWN away!  It was more than I expected and the characters were not as forgettable as some critics said.  I found the performances of Tcheky Kanyo (Paladin) and David Warner (Admiral Tolwyn) were memorable.  Saffron Burrows (Angel) was great, except that she handled her crisis at the end rather badly.  But overall the movie was a treat.  I would recommend it for anyone to at least rent this and check it out!  "},{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The graphics weren't up to say Episode1 standards, but were convincing enough (and I loved the raspy engine noise for the Rapiers). The acting was what I've come to expect from these younger American actors (as in good).I'd say from an objective view point it's a good film. A bit lacking in certain areas, but certainly enjoyable.I say objective simply because I have never been exposed to the hugely popular game series, so I was seeing this as a film, not as a spin off (in which case I'm sure it would come across worse, simply because when you're used to one set of actors portraying your favourite characters a new team will never fit the bill).Overall not a bad way to spend my Wednesday evening. "},{"Title":"Great World War 2 flick in space","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie after reading the bad prior reviews. It is a good combat science fiction movie. The special effects were really good considering the budget of the film. The acting was decent, and the story was well written. The only problem I had was the poor effects of the Kilrathi, they did not look good at all. Fans of the wing commander games should go see this movie with an open mind. No Mark Hammil, but the movie is not any lesser with him missing. See this film, you will like it. 10/10  "},{"Title":"OK, I'm not a fan of sci-fi but...","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say i liked it a lot. The environment is well created, so are the dialogs and the ships. The special effects are pretty good, the dark atmosphere gives the movie a grim and dark future look.The only negative thing is the fighting scenes, they look just unreal and penalize the whole movie.The plot is simple, they travel through quasars to save the earth from a Killrathi invasion, these aliens look like big cats wielding some technologically advanced sticks. The cameras are always centered on Lt. Blair, so the shape of the Killrathi is shrouded in mystery until the third quarter of the movie.Overall it's a really good movie, with a great atmosphere that will make you say Ok, i didn't waste these two hours. "},{"Title":"Wow....this sucks","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"42 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, the games in the Wing Commander series are some of the best video games I've ever played. Technology has gotten to the point where these games look dated and the full motion video seems impractical, but the story lines and combat sequences are amazing. If anyone has the opportunity to play these games and hasn't do yourself a favor and do it. That said...This movie is ridiculous and the storyline might just as well be from a 1950's B movie. The dialogue is awful, the acting worse, and the supposedly futuristic spacecraft looked like they were bought from a studio auctioning off props from old World War II movies. The director, who happens to have designed the games, apparently thought that it would be cool to throw his story lines from the games out the window in favor of some World War II allegory. If I wanted to see World War II, I would've put in my Saving Private Ryan DVD and not watched this crap on basic cable.The characters are extremely well crafted in the game series, well, for a video game series anyway. Here, they come off as a bunch of tired clichés. Also, I take issue with the fact that Blair, the main character, is some kind of chosen one with special powers. The Wing Commander games gave us characters who were normal people forced into an extraordinary situation, something direly lacking in the genre of science fiction. In other words, there were no mythical Pilgrims or other hocus pocus like there are in the movie. I wouldn't mind if it was well done but it just feels tacked on for no good reason.Speaking of the Kilrathi, its not even discussed in the film why the Humans are at war with them or what they are. Instead of the ten foot tall, menacing, tiger creatures from the games they look like hamsters on steroids. Also, one of the best characters from the games, the evil kilrathi prince thrakath (in the games Thrakath is a cross between hanibal lectar and josef stalin), is not in the movie, leaving it without a strong villain.Now, of course, as a fan of the games I'm a little bitter that this movie is one of the worst that I've ever seen. But I know a horrible movie when I see one, and this movie is pretty much unwatchable whether you've played the games or not. Honestly, if you're in the mood for sci fi and if you see it anywhere, just ignore it and watch Star Wars again.  "}{"Title":"Very well done after all is considered","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of negative reviews have been given about Wing Commander which I find slightly upsetting. People have been saying the plot was extremely weak and that the Kilrathi monsters were very poorly done. A few comments have also been made as to the quality of acting in the movie. The movie at this point has earned a 4.7/10 IMDb user's rating which I feel is undeservingly low. I will not try to defend the movie as a great and timeless movie, for it was not. However, considering a $27 million budget, the movie was very well presented. I mean, to release a Sci-Fi movie, which relies very heavily on costly special effects, for such a small amount of money must have been a very difficult task. Look at Titanic, it was a romance and the special effects involved recreating a Ship and making it Sink, now granted they were good effects and Titanic was a good movie, but it also had a budget of $200 million. As for the actors I feel they did a superb job portraying the characters, especially Matthew Lillard who gave Maniac a lovable character and portrayed the original Maniac from the video game series very well. The plot, though not very strong, had enough flow to give the movie a sense of direction and having played the game, I understood the concepts easily. Another point not many people have touched upon is how Chris Roberts used many tactical elements from the gaming series. Involving torpedoes and the use of bombers to attack capital ships, and jump points as opposed to simple warp or hyperdrive. In this, sense he kept very true to the game series. Before watching the movie, I did not really expect much from the special effects with the knowledge of the low budget but surprisingly the effects were very, very well done (except for a few close ups of the Rapiers when you can tell they are using a model with a computer generated background). The Kilrathi were poorly done but there is not enough exposure of them to take too much away from the movie, again budget constraints have hurt them in this department. However, the dogfights, capital ships, battle scenes, and backgrounds were quite stunning and had me very surprised. I think the movie provides a good opportunity for franchise possibilities if done right. Also keep in mind that this was Chris Robert's debut on the big screens and if the Wing Commander games have taught us anything at all is that Chris adapts well and learns from his mistakes. If there is a Wing Commander 2 (The movie of course) look for it to be quite a step up from this Wing Commander, especially if they get a bigger budget. I think the Wing Commander concept has great potential and after all is considered I think an excellent job was done on this movie. In comparison to other movies in this genre I would give it a 7.3/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting but with flaws","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently early space travelers is allot like what happened on Earth. They left to escape religious persecution and these pilgrims are hated for some strange reason. Bigotry is not to be tolerated by any means, race, creed, religion or style. It's just wrong and the main problem is this subplot of everyone hating this guy just because he's a pilgram decent. It's just wrong, now I don't know anything about the game series this movie is based on. I really don't. I can only judge by the movie. The effects are good, the Kirathi are cool, the story for the most part works. I know enough of the game that they got the first person outside the ship view and that's cool. It's cool. I give it...8 STARS "},{"Title":"Strictly By-The-Numbers Space Opera/Coming of Age Potboiler","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's easy to forget the fact that Wing Commander is a decent film with professional level acting, writing and production values -even if this is strictly by-the-numbers hackwork - until you see a really dumb movie in the Sci Fi Space Opera genre such as Fatal Conflict,Star Crash or Message From Space. Compared to Grade D efforts like those turkeys, Wing Commander is at least smooth and easy to take and offers enough eye candy for the fan boy who can't get enough of his space fighters, laser beams and alien races. But in comparison to the Big Boys of the genre (Star Wars, the Star Trek franchise) or even under-sung classics (Enemy Mine,The Last Starfighter, etc), Wing Commander is a nothing more than a wanna-be.Almost every story element and character of Wing Commander seems to be lifted whole from other, more original efforts. The Kilrathi seem to be taken directly from Larry Niven's Man/Kzin War stories. The Prinze character is a Rent-A-Center version of Luke Skywalker. His hotheaded best friend is an amalgamation of every sidekick EVER in Space Opera along with quite a bit of Mongoose from Top Gun thrown in. His flight commander is the female character from Top Gun and VERY little else. One of the battle scenes (where the Tiger Claw must hide from the Kilrathi fleet) is a blatant rip-off/tribute to every WWII submarine flick ever made. And the list goes on. There is A level professional level talent involved here (and yes, I count Freddie Prinze as a A level, even if I don't care for his screen persona), but they all seem to be in in purely for in it the paycheck. Seriously, how can you have Jurgen Prochnow, David Warner and David Suchet - each of whom have carried entire movies - and not produce something memorable? The answer Paycheck. How can you have talented, interesting character actors like Lillard and Karyo in almost every scene and completely waste them? I don't know, but I suspect Paycheck.Even as hackwork, though, the movie is OK...kind of the Space Opera equivalent of the dozens of Shaw Brothers/Golden Harvest martial arts pieces which the USA Network used to air on Kung Fu Theater. Uncritical fans of the genre will still find all the standard elements they expect from these movies, and a few polished touches here and thereThe clunky, bristly designs of the space ships makes them look like heavy duty battle-wagons, not space age toys. The script does generate a little suspense here and there with its depictions fleets manoeuvrings to get the best advantage. David Warner and David Suchet are incapable of delivering a dull or inept line. Tcheky Karyo's light touch and charming accent are almost enough to save any scene he is in. Lillard is his usual fire-hose of manic energy, even if his character is a complete tool. The depiction of the Kilrathi warships popping one by one out of the 'warp hole', only to be torn to pieces by weapons of the human fleet, has a nice heft and rhythm to it that is viscerally satisfying.But whatever you do, do NOT come into Wing Commander expecting anything new or fresh, or even very impressive. "},{"Title":"Trust your part-Pilgrim instincts and steer clear!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know this guy who works at a multiplex and is a movie maniac.  He insists that Wing Commander is the worst movie ever made, so when I saw that SciFi Channel was going to air it this week, I thought, Oh, good!  I will get to see it for free and see if it's everything my friend promises it is, because I've got a perverse obsession with bad movies!I will tell you how much I... well, I suppose the word is enjoyed... Wing Commander by describing my favorite part of the movie for you.The setting is a big war in outer space between Earthlings and some aliens called the Kilrathi (more about them later), and most of the action we are chiefly concerned with takes place on a big spaceship that is something like an aircraft carrier.  The hero's annoying best friend and his sort-of-girlfriend have disobeyed the leader of their team and, thanks to Cosmic Revenge, the sort-of-girlfriend dies when she crashes her little spaceship into the landing pad thing on the big ship.  Now, this is supposed to be the big, dramatic sad part.  We cut from a scene where the hero's annoying best friend is crying and begging to save his sort-of-girlfriend, to a scene where the sort-of-girlfriend's ship is being pushed by a little snowplow off the runway thing of the big ship.In the middle of Outer Space.In Zero Gravity.I suppose there's some B.S. about there being big magnets or something lining the runway so that the ships can't just float away.  But, you know, that's something that's supposed to be the screenplay writers' responsibility to tell us.My second favorite part is when we finally see the Kilrathi for the first time.  At about the forty-five minute mark, it occurred to me that we don't even know who or what the Kilrathi are.  We only know that they're at war with Earth and that they hate humans.  But for the first full hour and a half or so, we don't even know what a Kilrathi looks like.Well, the Kilrathi end up being something like an anthropomorphic Mr. Bigglesworth.  And they really like fog machines.  When the hero and his buddies invade the Kilrathi ship, the whole place is choked with green fog. Oh, and for all this, we never find out why they hate humans.I came up with a theory.  The Kilrathi are the descendants of a bunch of hairless cats who were sent in a probe many years ago to a strange planet.  This planet was highly irradiated, and the cats were sent there to see if Earthlings could survive on it.  Well, the radiation made the cats evolve very quickly, and eventually their descendants began to look more and more humanoid.  They built some spaceships and went to war against humanity, to avenge the fact that the humans never remembered to clean out their grandparents' litter boxes.  As for the green fog, that's to remind all the Kilrathi of the awful stench their ancestors had to suffer when their litter was left unchanged.But, again, this is the screenwriter's job.And I'm not even going to start on the whole Pilgrim thing.Wing Commander gets a three, because of it's parody value and because it isn't as bad as my friend promised but it's close.  VERY close.  Essentially, this is the kind of movie that Starship Troopers, as a *very* small part of it's agenda, set out to parody.  Go watch that movie instead.  It's a great date movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated Jewel","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I was a child I remember catch every episode of Battlestar galactica watching it again every one as I never see it before. I never been so many times (5) in a cinema watching the same movie but with the same feeling when you discover a treasure, one of this films or shows (like galactica) with great characters, maybe not so good special effects. What's makes Wing commander a good underrated movie? The story about the war in the heart of the warriors, in this case Blair (before becomes the Wing Commander)and Maniac Marshall have to fight not only against the kilrathi, they have a little dark war with the own crew of the battlecruiser Tigerclaw, where the pain of the last civil war is still pounding in every heart. With this movie Chris Roberts explore a new vision of the space colonization(the pilgrim war) and at the same time try to bring feeling of the First world war as a model of this new war on the new frontier. Even when the acting is not so great Tcheky Karyo and Jurgen Prochnow, makes a good work and the soundtracks is wonderful. But this kind of movies it's only for those who wanna watch something more adult than star wars.  "},{"Title":"Why such negativity?","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm shocked at the negativity that this movie has gotten since it was released!  I've played all the games and read a couple of the books.  When I saw the movie at the theatre, it was great.  Ok, sure... The Kilrathi may have been quick throw togethers, but you have to realize that the budget on this film wasn't that big to begin with.  Chris did an excellent job with what money he did have, and I'm proud of him for it.  Chris, if you ever read this, know that there are some people rooting for you and await a sequel. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.  At least I thought it was...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watch a lot of movies and can get pretty critical when I come to a movie with a really predictable plot, but I thought this movie was pretty good. The effects were great.  I really enjoyed the movie except for the ending. I was pretty disappointed with it.  It was way too sudden.  If someone had asked me how many minutes I thought were left in the movie, I would have guessed at least 5.  It was so unexpected that I sat in the theater for a minute wondering if there was more.  It wasn't the events that were unexpected, it was the placement of the ending.  It's hard to explain... They just didn't do a good job of wrapping up the movie.  "},{"Title":"No, it isn't that bad. It is worse.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"38 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever heard the expression so stupid it is brilliant? Well, you will see plenty of stupidity on offer here. So much of it, in fact, that you will begin to understand where the expression so bad that it is awesome comes from. Forget about Mortal Kombat, or even Resident Evil Apocalypse. This is the film that video game adaptations get their reputation from. Every error of film-making you can think of, and even some you can't, is committed here. So many acting careers die here that the film should have been called Career Holocaust. You can bet that many members of the support cast neglect to mention this effort when discussing their CVs. About the only cast member who seems to have recovered from being in this abomination is Tchéky Karyo, and I am sure even he would rather forget this one. Incidentally, since when do you cast an actor with a French accent as thick as pea soup to play a character who was known in the early video games for having a Scottish accent so broad that it cemented the games reputation as a collection of stereotypes. Incidentally, Angel was supposed to be the French accent.But this is all pure digression. The cast's collective heart was in it, and the crew did the best job they could, but the direction is so weak that the film winds up looking like it was intended to form the cutscenes of a video game. No explanation for the technology on show is offered. No reference to the time in which the film takes place is offered. Many references place the film in the time just after the declaration of war against the Kilrathi. But the scenario being depicted shows the Kilrathi imminently approaching Earth, which was one of the available scenarios in the third video game, which in turn is set decades into the war. Not to mention the stealth technology, which is introduced some years into the war, and yet the most prominent fighters of the Terran confederation look like rejected designs for World War II aircraft with shower nozzles stuck to their fronts.The spacecraft design leads me to believe that members of the crew might be at least half right when they say that the problem with this film is the budget. In a time when science-fiction theatre was costing upwards of a hundred million per film, a miniscule thirty million was spent on this production. It shows. Shots of the main enemy in anything other than spacecraft form are rare, and when we do finally get to see the Kilrathi, they look more like big turds than humanoid cats. In one memorable sequence, we get to see a wrecked space fighter, with its pilot still within, pushed off the runway by a futuristic bulldozer that seems to grip the tarmac using the traditional wheel arrangement. In zero gravity, mind you. Of course, the runway could have gravity wells, or the bulldozer could have magnetically-charged wheels, but this is something the director or the screenwriter is supposed to explain to the audience. Very little explanation of anything, even why the Pilgrims are so space-savvy, is offered. There is basically a whole lot of tell and very little show.Speaking of the Pilgrims, a subplot is added to this film that states the original Human explorers of space were a group dubbed the Pilgrims, who began to renounce their Human qualities. Apparently, a war started between the Pilgrims and the rest of Humanity, with the present Terran Confederation beset by a severe prejudice against Pilgrims. This is all well and fine, but it adds nothing to the actual plot, and only muddies the waters as to what the Humans are fighting about. All it really serves to do is give our central hero a Luke Skywalker sort of quality, and not a very convincing one at that. The idiotic game the Terran pilots play that dead pilots basically never existed flies right in the face of every convention set in the original video games. And it isn't like the crew have the excuse of not having played the games, because the director is the same guy who oversaw their creation. All this turns out to be is a very stupid attempt at a creative plot arc that, like the Pilgrim element, has no bearing upon the story whatsoever.Unlike most of the rotten films I have commented about lately, I gave Wing Commander a one out of ten. Watching the cast, respectable otherwise or no, trying to chew their way through boot-like dialogue is pure comedy gold. Realising that the director expects us to feel scared of these gigantic turd monsters he calls the Kilrathi is even funnier. Therefore, Wing Commander is not just so bad it is good. It is so stupid it is utterly brilliant. "},{"Title":"Some words on Wing Commander","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw Wing Commander last Saturday and I was very impressed.  Science fiction movies (that are not Star Trek or Star Wars movies) usually do not have plots of good quality, but Wing Commander seems to be an exception to this rule. It's a great movie overall . . . it's got everything action, incredible special effects, a little romance, and yes, it's even got some important social issues thrown in.  The whole s/he never existed attitude after a pilot was killed was a fascinating dynamic -- you could see that it pained 'Angel' to say Do it for Rosie.  And the hatred directed toward Blair for being half-'Pilgrim' was a telling reminder that prejudice against people based on their heritage still exists today, but that it can be overcome.I would rate the movie 9 1/2 out of 10 stars.  Hopefully, Hollywood will produce more of such thought-provoking, enjoyable science fiction flicks. In the meantime, my final words on the movie are that Wing Commander rules!  "},{"Title":"This was a disgrace to the franchise!","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a fan of the Wing Commander franchise I watched this I thought nothing was worse then Wing Commander Prophecy, unfortunately when I watched this I'll admit one thing I was proved wrong! As I watched this I wonder 'Is this REALLY Wing Commander?' I beheld crap special effects were complete and utter crud! I understand the budget situation but shows like Blake's 7 and Doctor Who did FAR better on their own shoestring budgets then this! Also the Kilrathi were hardly shown and when they were, they were unconvincing unlike tiger-like warrior species I remembered.Also the storyline was complete and total rubbish especially compared to the games and how space travel was presented in them! The ship designs were a disgrace and the Tiger's Claw didn't look like a carrier at all and the fighter craft were not very well designed and there was no light fighter or medium fighter or heavy fighter or bomber distinction that really defined the games! Because in the future that's how things will work! Because in space combat there will be fighter craft warfare as well as ship to ship battles.Also I hated the touch of how they make it like modern jet fighters taking off while its obvious in the future and in space that's totally unbelievable.Also I did not care much for the Pilgrim back-story let alone Blair being part one maybe its just me. Plus Blair and Maniac being friends from the beginning made no sense.Kevin Droney's screenplay was complete and utter rubbish in short. Also how Chris Roberts approved it let alone be part of it I don't know but I imagine he was probably embarrassed by how the movie based on the classic franchise he created turned out and I doubt he would have been happy with Prophecy either.Maybe Chris Roberts may well revive the franchise perhaps even manage to redeem himself in the respect of the Wing Commander franchise with either a movie or TV series or even a game reboot or he might give his blessings for someone else to do it, perhaps with him acting as some consultant or whatever or partner.Only time will tell. Otherwise this movie is a total disgrace to a classic series! "}{"Title":"A terrible movie.","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander has to be one of the worst video game adapted screenplays to be released of all time, along with Street Fighter. The visual effects very abysmal, the acting and performances were atrocious, and the look of the whole movie is just atrocious. However I did like the performances by Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Saffron Burrows. This movie looks like it was made by somebody who was high off of his butt. What was the director thinking. Of all the people to direct it, it was directed by the guy who created the video game which got very good reviews. If you want to see a good video game adapted screenplay, I would recommend the first Mortal Kombat movie. Not the second one. That one is a total disaster like this movie. Do not bother with Wing Commander one. It is just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Thrill ride","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have played Wing Commander video games and the story lines were a great treat, when I found out that they were making a live action video I was ecstatic. The story is good and the visuals are nice, I only wish that who ever was in charge of the ships spent some more time on creativity, because to me they look like high powered F-1 fighters (where's the imagination). I highly recommend this film to Sci-Fi enthusiasts, and if you enjoyed Lost in Space this this will be a treat.   "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi films to come along....","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally saw Wing Commander, and I must say it's a very good film. The acting is average, the effects are very nice, the dialogue is good, the action is amazing. The battle scenes were very nicely done even in this unfinished version. The sets were also great, very realistic, except the technology was way too outdated for the 27th Century, I advise that Fox makes a sequel. You gotta see this movie! 8.2/10  "},{"Title":"Escapism","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alot of bad reviews but these folks look too much into the movie. It was great escapism and enjoyable to watch. The acting was good and the movie was original in design. I give it a thumbs up all around and would recommend it to anyone looking for simple entertainment and an escape from the pressures of the world "},{"Title":"Cool and entertaining...","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why has everyone given this movie such a bad review, and an even worse score out of ten?  I think it deserves more, because it is cool and entertaining. The plot isn't too original, but it is done in style.  The storyline isn't too difficult to follow.  The action sequences are cool, with some great special effects.  Also, the acting is quite good.  Freddie Prinze Jr - although usually a bad actor - shines in this.  Saffron Burrows has her usual annoying voice, but is quite good.  Matthew Lillard is on top form as usual, and the rest of the supporting cast - Suchet, Prochnow and Karyo - all do well.  I just wish it had been given better reviews. "},{"Title":"See it.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you enjoy SCI/FI that is brave enough to have its own view of the future, see it.  If you liked Blade Runner, see it.  If you liked Space Above and Beyond, see it.  If you only like SCI/FI that starts with Star.. in the title, see it, but don't expect to see Darth Vader or the Captain of a Starship.  I am a hard-core SCI/FI fan and I think this rates up there. Others obviously do not.  Good plot, good story, good solid characters.  One person does not carry this show.  It is based on a video game I have never seen and is similar to the Star Blazers cartoon, which I enjoyed as a kid. This is bound for cult status.  I think I'll see it again. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sci-Fi!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie certainly lives out many of its expectations. Freddie Prinze does an excellent job as Blair and the boy with the so-called 'Force'.  Saffron Burrows also does well as the commander of the fighters.  I also like the fact that the movie is interpreted more like today's naval battleships and uses torpedos and gun fire as opposed to Lasers of most sci-fi movies. The 'Tigerclaw' also appears more like reality as a naval ship with the submarine 'look' of today's standards too.Another good thing would the constant action and lack of dead time this movie provides. As a viewer one does not have time to get bored. The special effects are not lacking either as it meets today's standards.  But the score is wonderful, and as a fan of good movie scores this one is up their with the best.Don't listen to those critics who put this movie way down..this movie goes beyond all expectations. Remember its based on the book   "},{"Title":"Nice, a little chaotic, much like the game","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I saw this one before I've read any comment about it. I think its very much like the game. So I was a little surprised that the movie get such bad comments. I really liked it, and I've seen it even twice, after reading the bad comments; and I still enjoyed it.Well I've tried to find out why the movie get that bad comments, but I've still no clue. They say there is no story, but thats not true, the story is really complex (in fact, too complex). Or that sound can't be heard in space - haha, funny, why does nobody care about that in movies such as Star Wars ?My own main problem with the movie are those parts which doesn't get explained; for example, what happened with the commander after he get wounded ? Suddenly he's just gone, and never appears again. Or why didn't they tried to save the fighter pilot who had crashed on the gangway ?!?!?And the fights itself as well as some of the starships looked too much just like those in the game, that could have been far cooler. On the other hand, the Kilrati - didn't they looked like lions in the original, much bigger than human beings ? Here they are black and are just same size, and they look more like rats.I somehow missed Rachael Leigh Cook in this one. Freddie Prinze Jr. played again the Prince Charming, but he had no real counterpart like in She's all that. Saffron Burrows is really good looking, but simply too old for taking Raechael's part. Matthew Lillard was again crazy - surprise, surprise ! I hope I can summarize the rest of the acting as simply good, without mentioning each of them individually.The movie looked much like the game - or much like StarTrek. The script was a little to complex and confusing, with too many stories in the story, but it also had suspense. The introduction was really good, except that one has to hear what these people say to understand some things happening later.  "},{"Title":"mindless entertainment, lots of explosions, great overacting","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's be honest, 95% of the people who saw this in the theater only did so because it was the first movie to feature the Star Wars Episode I trailer. Otherwise it's not worth the price of a ticket. I found this movie to be utterly unremarkable/unmemorable.Let's see...some good stuff It's got some cool explosions in it, and some hilarious/awful overacting by Matthew Lillard. Freddie Prinze Jr. also does his best to be melodramatic, but I think Lillard has him beat. I kept waiting for Lillard to shout GAME OVER, MAN, GAME OVER!...that's about all his part missed. All in all, it's 2 hours of eye candy. But a good movie, it ain't. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked more than a decompressing compartment","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have played all 5 of the video games, and if you were to take all of the cut scenes from them and make a movie. It would have been much better than this garbage!! This movie could have been awesome, there was so much character and information in the game from which to draw. However, they just blew it. The movie was slow, which the game wasn't. The characters were boring except and unbelievable. With the Exception of the character Maniac, who actually more crazy in the movie that he was in the game, this picture had no life. They actually had the right guy playing Maniac for the time.However, I would advise not watching this disappointing movie. The Karathi look fake, they brought in extra characters and ships that didn't belong in the opening movie and killed them off, they just all around blew the movie with it lethargic pace. "}{"Title":"Why did you do this to the Ships Roberts? Why?","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all - the movie is not bad if you don't expect too much from it. It has an ok if not exactly inventive plot, good acting most of the time and I like the characters. And for all who want to see Hamill and associates - this is the time of Wing Commander I we're talking about. A great plus is that in this movie the ships aren't gleaming, polished crome sleekness incarnated but battle-worn, having seen lots of action.BUT there are a few points who terribly downgrade the movie.*) The ships look terrible. The carrier is not a carrier at all, but a modified submarine. Which wouldn't be so bad if the fighters didn't look like - oh, I don't know - a cross of a WWI and WWII fighter, just uglyer.There are all the cool crafts, I even have the blueprints of a Rapier at hand. There are models and everything.Why did they have to redesign them to look like something not even the most desperate pilot would fly without getting drunk first?*) There are too few spacefights and no dogfights worth mentioning at all.Roberts should have gone a bit more after Top Gun here.*) Submarine scene in space. Yeah. Sure. That was a good one. "},{"Title":"Thought it would be worse","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know anything about the Wing Commander game or previous shows. I stumbled upon this movie on a movie channel and watched it because I like sci-fi.To my surprise, it wasn't bad. In fact, if it were not for the goofy acting of Freddy Prinze Jr., I might even say this was a good movie. The plot was interesting, the production was much better than I thought (dark sci-fi, like Space Above and Beyond)it would be and some of the actors did very well (the two ship commanders, the female lead).But Prinze is over the top as the newbie who seems to be amazed by everything. His jaw literally drops and he spends half the movie (it seems like) with his mouth agape like some dumb fish. I actually cringed near the end when he battled the black hole and then watched the enemy ship try to do the same thing. Gosh, the Kilrathi ship is too big! Caribdis has her! (said with an earnest wonder and a mouth wide open to catch flies)It was the Wesley Crusher syndrome, but worse. Still, if you like sci-fi, Wing Commander ain't bad. I gave it a 4 but it could be a 5.  "},{"Title":"I know it not a good movie, but it pleased me.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For several years Wing Commander was my single most favorite game. From a WC player's point of view I was pretty satisfied by the movie. I knew it wouldn't be a good movie for people who had not played the game even before I watched it, that's why I rented it at Blockbuster (my wife would have killed me if I brought her to the theater watching this). But come on, most movies can't even satisfy the audiences who have seen the original (no matter it's a novel, comic or game). I think this movie still worth some credit.  "},{"Title":"No, it's not the best sci-fi film of all time...","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have read a lot of reviews of this film, most critical of it's poor back-story, low special effects budget, and a load of technical inconsistencies. Get a life people you either like a film or you don't. Spending a lot of time trying to justify your opinion by attempting to build your credibility as a critic is just so much rubbish.As someone who has been both a sci-fi fan for over 40 years, and an academic writer of film 'criticism', I can say it is about time that armchair critics own up to their personal bias. Yes, this isn't the best (or worst) science fiction film ever made, but it's fun. It calls upon a history of second war film traditions, particularly aircraft carrier and submarine adventures, to create a recognizable vision of a future. Does it matter what year it is set in? No. Is it credible that a spacecraft can jump across the light-years through a pulsar? I don't know (neither did Einstein). What matters is that it delivers an entertaining interlude to the watcher, which it did for me.I love a good space battle, despite the soap opera inanities, and I am pleased to have a copy of Wing Commander in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all......","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a bad movie at all. Better than one would think. Great special effects and good battle scenes. The sets were a bit tacky but it had potential. Not so far removed from reality. I never saw the video game so it was a new story to me. It looked a bit like Space Above and Beyond. I reckon there was even scope for a TV series. I presume it was made in Oz as there was a lot of Antipodeans/Brits in it (and it was 20th Century Fox which has a stuido down there). However, the titles say it was made in Luxembourg ! If it had a slightly better script, more depth to the characters, it could have been a real classic. It was 70% of the way there.  "},{"Title":"Cool movie","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I want to make it short. Wing Commander would never be nominated for the oscar, but it's a cool movie. I prefer movies that show action and not personifications and individual proceedings like they wanted to show in Star Trek. But there they only stole from Babylon 5, which is the only Sci-Fi series in my opinion. However Wing Commander is a movie that brings you back to your youth and for the first time a computer game was well put on the big screen. "},{"Title":"A fairly decent movie","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  6/10 for my rating. I found it fairly alright, based heavily on the game of course, and especially the Tiger's Claw. The movie recreates the universe of the game for the Super Nintendo, Wing Commander 2 I believe.Same principles, sometimes same animations, but in other parts, they used some more advanced weaponry from later games. I don't know, it was an action movie, based on the game series, so if you like the games, where you hide behind asteroids to shield yourself and all that, then watch it, i certainly cannot say I hate this movie. Tcheky Karyo played very well, and Saffron Burrows was very cute, shame that they made no sequel, because games about space still come out, like for example Microsoft's Freelancer, and Wing Commander prophecy, and Secret Ops were very good and difficult games. Now back to getting a life ) "},{"Title":"Not as great as it could have been","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First I have to say in it's defense, that it wasn't one of the worst movies I have ever seen, but it wasn't great. I think the Kilrathi were pretty cool, but the Confederation ships looked like flying garbage cans. Also, since when do sci-fi futuristic fighters use machine guns? It seemed like a step back from the games we've all played and loved. The acting wasn't all that bad, but like I said before it wasn't great. I have to admit that some of Maniac's scenes were funny. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies put to film","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is so bad, it could not qualify as a cult film. Physics are completely off, then again, only six year old kids were the target audience. WRONG. this movie was made for teens and adults. (based specifically from the popular video game.)Plots and sub plots were directly taken from several movies of the era, likely word for word dialog taken too. Even when taking the plot from other movies, they did not adjust the scenes to reflect these people were in SPACE!1. calling out for a MEDIC was a sure sign that character was going to die. 2. in space no one can hear you scream apparently this movie director, writer, and anyone else associated with making the film bothered to show the film makes the movie title to ALIEN3. costumes right out of the third grade play at your local kids school. not to mention, the people making the costume did not even try!please get the tralierJunkies and MovieSins, guys to do a work on this film. even thinking of this movie, i can remember why i know this is about the worst film created. There were points in this movie I actually stood up in the audience and wondered aloud what the F was going on in the movie, and i was only 18. Good lord! "},{"Title":"WW2 in space","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love SFI own just about every SF movie made and have read upwards of 5000 SF titles. Wing Commander is a brilliant work of pulp war fiction based on WW2. Star ships with carrier decks. fighters with wings. torpedoes. Depth charging. Fighter cannons shooting bullets 'in space'. Hand loaded gun mounts.And the science/.. how cheesy can you get.The acting is above par for this type of flick. Prochnow is good and David Suchet outdoes all as captain.. what a great actor.It all works.. And brilliantly. great music.. real nice graphics for the day -still stands up well today-Star wars and the An*l Anti-SF BS Galactica bend over Wing Commander is hereMY all time favorites boys own SF rompNic "}{"Title":"Fun but could have been much better as a TV mini-series","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film assembles one of the strangest casts of the late 1990s to play out a plot loosely based on the Wing Commander PC Game series. I have never played these games, but I was intrigued by the film for a variety of reasons, so I have now seen it a couple of times. I have to admit, I was more impressed and entertained the first time around. Sure, the film is reality-challenged, with several absurdities (misinterpretation of a black-hole, gravity problems etc), but I do not think that the film-makers were attempting to do anything as artistic as Star Wars nor anything as philosophical as Star Trek. This film, instead, fits solidly into the FUN, action-based sci-fi tradition, like Starship Troopers.The plot is pretty cliché. Freddy Prinze Jr and Matt Lillard play young hotshot fighter pilots assigned to their first deep space mission. They are being delivered by Tchéky Karyo. As they arrive on a ship commanded by David Suchet and Jurgen Prochnow, they learn that the Sol System is about to fall under attack by Kilrathi invaders with a powerful armada. There is little time for complexity and character development as the single Confederation (earth) cruiser tries to make its way to a nearby jumpgate (basically the film's equivalent of warp ten or a hyperspace button) before the Kilrathi do, fending off Kilrathi attacks the whole way. There are a couple of weakly explored love stories and a few surprises along the way concerning the identities of the characters, but there is little time for these to truly develop. So many of the characters do feel a bit one-dimensional, and the more intriguing plot points (such as the pilgrims) are left unsatisfactorily explored.I think this film would have made a better miniseries than a cinematic release. Given a little more breathing room, and perhaps time to consult with astronomers or even people with a couple of higher education science courses under their belt, this could have been a really good sci fi film. The cast was certainly decent (some of the European cast-members were very good); the money was obviously there, and the script would have been fine had it not been stretched by the overly ambitious scope of the film.Bottom line Entertaining with the help of a few drinks. Fun for action fans. Generally not recommended for the average moviewatcher. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad you might think","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I heard a lot of bad things about Wing Commander; a lot of people told me it was terrible.I don't know why.It's not a spectacularly good film, but it is a well executed, exciting, stylish sci-fi war film, not nearly as cliche-ridden as I expected. The plot is straightforward; we're dropped in the action quickly with no question about how much is at stake, and while there's not much mental exercise involved, the film is a fun ride. What's more, the dialogue is good - not just functional, but *good*. That's not a common occurrence in action films.The ride is made better by our protagonists, not least because the film is full of relative unknowns. Lillard is obviously having a good time, and it's hard not to like him, while Burrows and Prinze are a nicely understated couple, with none of the usual overt chemistry. Ginny Holder as Rosie steals all her scenes, and the quietly spoken Warner (Tolwyn) and Karyo (Taggart) have great presence on their respective bridges.After watching the film, I realised with some surprise that I liked it. Having occasionally played the games - though hardly having followed the storyline - I like what they've done.There was a mission, people died, ships blew up, the good guys saved the day and I cared that the characters made it through to the end. What more to you want from a modern space opera?I do have one reservation why do the Australians in these films always seem to have graduated from some speak Australian in 21 days or your money back! course in LA? We don't speak like that, honest! "},{"Title":"Actually a decent movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why so many people rated this movie so terribly.Sure, some of the emotional drama was formulaic, but theacting was at least decent.  But as space opera, the militarytactics were inventive and consistent, and the space combateffects were well done (but sound *doesn't* travel in avacuum!).At least it will do until someone in movieland realizes thepotential of David Weber's Honor Harrington series and makesmovies based on those. )  "},{"Title":"I don't understand why its so bad","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've read a few reviews and they make sense yea they look like turds not cats and the Vulcan gun on the rapiers is a little lame... but the over all design was pretty cool nice hybrid Corsair type planebut over all its not that bad of a film, I mean nothing Like the game or so I'm told. But Its not the worse I enjoyed it I wasn't really watching for plot it was straight forward save earth however the space fights were cool and CGI while not mind blowing by todays standards It looked pretty dam coolbut there was some cool scenes... I mean I don't see why everyone blasts this film it isn't that bad at all. "},{"Title":"This is not the worst movie ever made","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander is an important film because it discusses strategies for combating aliens not in our Care Rank Ki-Human alliance. Freddie Prinze Jr will probably make more movies at less than 20 million a picture. My Mother, Father and Ex Wife are all of royal genes. Sometimes it is better to have a good name than wealth. I call my Daughter Julia the Princess of Peace. It now turns out that the Planet Coaltrain that the Artificial Intelligence Computer of my Daughter rules may in fact be the homeworld of the friendly KI Aliens previously brought to the edge of the Universe to avoid the big Crunch of the last universe. In real life outside of this holodeck there are no spiral galaxies only randomly placed stars and planets. The odds of a planet rotating and being a permanent distance from a star capable of supporting life are not that good. It is certainly possible for an Earth like planet with fusion at the core to have a magnetic field and local gravity but it strains credulity that a spiral galaxy could exist outside of a holodeck. Imagine expanding stars in our universe coming in contact with an outer ring of dark matter that repels the stars back toward the center of the Universe and you will understand the cosmic arrangement. The fact that Care Rank Ki Alien sentience evolved in a span of less than 20 billion years is impressive. As the Indian chief in the commercial about the Great Peace says You're here aren't you? Do not be dismayed that you are in a Holodeck. I had a dream that the Care Rank Ki said that Humans either really exist or are being genetically engineered. I am really glad that the friendly Ki Aliens believe that it is bad luck to eat we emergency rations and never have so far. What will lead to the Friendly Ki Aliens saving the Human species are our loyalty gene, and our higher reasoning being similar to the Friendly Ki Aliens plus our entertainment factor of war games, singing, and acting. The 1978 AD movie Battlestar Galactica predicted that as Skipper of Moon 168 Artevan (Galactica) I would go on alert at the point of about 6.5 billion Human lives being in jeopardy until balance will be arrived at sometime in 2023. Here is another Care Rank Ki parable for you. It is possible that this Holodeck is prerecorded to a large extent and like a laserdisc game of Dragons Lair only some outcomes can be changed. I have actually seen this large Artificial Intelligence partly disc based technology skip fast forward. It could be a wear skip or some sentient or artificial intelligence computer fast forwarded my timeline. Imagine a digital disc in a Moonfleet Moon so large that you can't get the disc through the exit of the computer room without making a bigger door. Thats a clever Friendly Ki Alien idea. For those of you that say I am hearing voices consider that I can only hear the exact accents of the 21 immortal Human list that I was given and the voice of God Apophis. Our Human artificial Intelligence discs are so old that its possible that the Friendly Ki Aliens now rule the Universe and kept our 21 Human Artificial Intelligences as thanks for our loyalty to the Care Rank Ki. Check out the other movies of Freddie Prinze Jr as well. "},{"Title":"Not as horrific as it is made to appear","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander is ultimately let down by some bad casting and a weak third act. Prinze was a rotten choice for Blair, undoubtedly selected to give the film more attraction to a younger target audience, but his inclusion feels like the film is trying too hard to project to that particular audience. With such a fine supporting cast (Karyo, Prochnow, Warner) it's a shame the leads are a real let down.Unfortunately the plot is cliché-city with some poorly drawn characters (Maniac, Vagabond, Hobbes, Flash and Hawk were a far more interesting bunch in the games), but I feel this can be forgiven to an extent given the film's attempt to mesh more with classic war films than contemporary sci-fi. Of course, the film hardly accomplishes this, but again, with little other than Picard's continued adventures and the awful Star Wars prequels to compare with, Wing Commander at least deserves a little credit for trying. The film also feels like its struggling to find a satisfying conclusion. Obviously with the tight budget there's no room for a sequence par the climactic battles of Return of the Jedi, but even so the film needed a much tighter and more satisfying third act. As it stands, the final 40 minutes feel like sand bagging to hold the weak ending off for as long as possible.The more cost effective advent of computer generated graphics has seen a shift in space stories to the arena of television productions (Babylon 5, Stargate SG-1, Space Above & Beyond, Galactica, DS9 & Voyager), so it is at least nice to see a space story on the cinema screen outside of regurgitated Trek offerings. The effects are quite reasonable and the battles entertaining, again taking a lot of WWII influences such as the torpedo battle between the Tiger Claw carrier and its opponent at the film's climax.Yes, it's a weak, poorly acted story, but there are some interesting visual elements to the film; the costume and production design are superb and there's a reasonable amount of energy and tension in the battle sequences. I like that Wing Commander tries to create its own unique style of sci-fi universe. A few decent performances from the elder statesmen of the cast boost its credibility a little, and ultimately while the ingredients are all a little below average there's enough of interest to make the film entertaining and worth some more praise than it's earned.6 stars. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but definitely a B-movie","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't played the computer games so I guess this is a semi-unbiased review. I love sci-fi and that's how I saw this, on the Sci-Fi channel. Its plot was not very original and the acting was pretty good, however, some things were just out of place. For example, when the marines entered a Kilrathi ship, it wasn't just marines, it was the pilots, the main characters, who went into it. Now what kind of commander would choose pilots over marines for such a mission? Secondly, I kept getting this impression of WWI/WWII in space. The ships fired bullets. Bullets fired from gatling guns in space! This was very annoying to watch, simply because of its physical improbability (the bullet would slow down and come to a dead standstill unless it had a propulsion device of its own) and the fact that lasers, in my opinion, look cooler. Skipping to another scene, their ship is damaged and they hide it in a cave or a crater or something in a planet. The alien ship comes down and drops bombs on the planet. Meanwhile everyone on the ship is completely silent, and I think someone says shhh while- you guessed it, the 'ping, ping, ping' of submarine radar goes off in the background. U-Boats, depth charges, in space? The last thing I want to point out is when a ship crashes on the landing strip which is out in space, a bulldozer drives up to it and pushes it off. It falls off the platform and down into space. A little problem, considering gravity doesn't exist in space. Overall, it was fun to watch, but I wouldn't want to see it again. "},{"Title":"It's the bad special effects that make this movie fun.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, the science is terrible. And the battle scenes are drawn from Japanese Zeros over Pearl Harbor, WWII destroyers and submarines, and even English Men of War attacking the Spanish Armada. But this is adventure, not science fiction (or even sci fi). Suspend your disbelief and enjoy the show. The voice-over during the credits, patterned after a video game hold cycle, encourage you to drop your quarters, forget everything, and enjoy the show.The acting is smooth enough that it doesn't get in the way. The gender-reversed romance is fun, and the plot holds well enough to tie the adventure scenes together. The visual quality of the  special effects is very good. The ideas and sound effects work, exactly because of the bad science. Although we all know that running silent in space wouldn't mean not talking, the hush of the crew adds tension, just as it would in a submarine movie. Of course, some of the special effects go over the top, like the steady ping of sonar becoming the accelerated ping of a proximity detector. But at least no car alarms went off when they got nuked! "},{"Title":"not bad at all","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I read the papers the first time, I thought the movie was gonna be really bad. The first time I saw it my mind changed radically; I know it's not Star Wars or Star Trek, but sure it's a movie I intend to buy as soon as it comes out to the stores. I liked all those little details about the shock waves and the torpedoes instead of laser beams. I only missed half an hour or so more of script... My recomendation, go and watch it... it... "},{"Title":"Reasonably done baseline Wing Commander movie","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot was expected, the characters were not, if you played the Wing Commander Series. You could see a lot of Chris Roberts in the movie. I enjoyed the terran-looking modified and beat-up fighters and liked the tracer bullets instead of the typical lasers. The in-ship AI was great, holograms, HUD's, etc. The Cap ships were like space subs and that was cool. It brought a nice view of things. The movie intro was good, but would only have been understood by a WC player.Story line could have left out the language and sexual innuendo. It did not add to the plot it took away from it. It never added to the games.The actors chosen did a good job of telling the story. Not too bad Mr. Roberts. Awaiting your next WC game. "}{"Title":"A lot better than people give it credit","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is better than most people give it credit.  I think too many people are expecting it to be just like the game.  Secondly everybody likes to nag on its visual effects.  Personally, I think visual effects compliment a movie, they don't make the movie.  This was a low budget film and the effects are great considering. (The Kilrathi look like plastic action figures, but otherwise..) If you can sit and watch Dr. Who, Red Dwarf, or Hitchhiker's Guide and enjoy it despite the terrible effects, you are the type of person who can enjoy Wing Commander. Also, the movie is best if you aren't really all that familiar with the game.They should have taken this concept and called it something unrelated to Wing Commander and made it a different movie with the same actors.  It might have gone over better.  Nevertheless, I have the DVD and saw it in the cinema and it is no Star Wars, but certainly deserves better credit. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, better than I expected","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander was much better than most science fiction movies that are being made today.  The effects were good, though the large explosions needed some work.  The characters were actually developed and the acting was above par.  Not only was it a decent translation of the game, but it was a good movie on its own. "},{"Title":"Best videogame-to-movie conversion I've ever seen.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can honestly say that I don't understand why so many people gave this movie such horrible reviews.I thought the action was cool, the effects were great, the characters were pretty good, and the only thing that looked fake was the Kilrathi.I think everybody's over-analyzing this movie and many other movies, too, when they should just ask themselves, Was this a cool movie? Was it fun to watch? Did I enjoy myself? I'd have to answer yes to all of those questions.It wasn't perfect, but it definitely deserves more credit than it got. I look forward to any possible sequels. "},{"Title":"Predictable plot but still entertaining","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though I would not call the plot of this movie original I will say it was quite entertaining.  It was worth the admission at the theater.  The casting was very good and I felt the actors gave good performances.  The fact that it's based on a video game made me a little wary.  I thought they did a good job in making it a movie, not a game.  I recommend seeing this film if you are a fan of Sci-fi.  If not, wait for it to come out on video. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film if you have played the computer game recently.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chris Roberts, who has experience making films on a shoestring budget, made a film that fans of the game could enjoy.  The acting was superb, but most will find it lacking in development of character.  The film relies on you to have played a Wing Commander game (III or after) to understand what is going on.  Some might also criticize its down to earth technology (Capital ships still fire torpedoes at each other) but I believe this to be closer to reality than the glamourous special effects seen in Star Trek movies. All in all, I found the story kept me entertained despite having only played the most recent WC game. "},{"Title":"Come on, it was pretty good.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big Wing Commander fan, but was disappointed to hear a lot of negative reviews of the movie.  I wasn't too sure what to expect.  After seeing it, I'm happy to say that it was pretty good, especially for a low budget.  It has what I always look for the most in the movie  I had fun seeing it.  My one big criticism though is of the changes made from the games, such as the characters.  A lot of them were completely different from what we know of them, including some adopting their call signs as last names. I would have liked to learn more about the characters and their histories, as well as learn about the Pilgrim War.  Also, why is the ship called the Tiger Claw?  I could nitpick about the slight differences (and the typo in Tolwyn's communication), but just make sure to try and go into the movie fresh, not in a mind on the games, and I think the average movie goer will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A true space epic","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is curious that in one of the comments, Dan Grant compares Wing Commander to Star Wars Phantom Menace. I also had Star Wars in my mind when watching Wing Commander, especially the new Episode III, Revenge of the Sith. While Dan Grant had only his great expectations about the Star Wars trilogy to compare, I watched Wing Commander for the first time just now, and the comparison to the first Star Wars trilogy in my mind was highly in favor of Wing Commander.Stilted acting? None. Oversimplified plot? None. Dull, dragging scenes? None. In not only one quick cash-in genre but two, Wing Commander is a stunning surprise. There have been enough ho-hum scifi flicks like Supernova and even more video game licences that haven't worked at all on film. Even though I haven't played the Wing Commander PC games, I thoroughly enjoyed the film. Rarely has any sci-fi action movie been done so right, with not only apt actor choices and truly eye-pleasing visuals, even six years after release, but also a clever script, fleshed out characters and a sci-fi setting which is put to perfect use.Two of the main cast, lesser known Freddie Prinze Jr. (who eventually becomes the movie's lead) and Matthew Lillard as his friend Lt. Marshall are refreshingly fitting and credible in their roles, and the supporting cast has a few high performances as well from David Suchet, David Warner and Tchéky Karyo. If there's a weak point in the cast, its Saffron Burrows, who isn't totally at ease with her role as Lt. Cmdr. Devereaux.It is not only the actors who create a believable impression, but also the special effects designers. Wing Commander paints an intentionally unrealistic but beautiful view of space and frantic space battles, liken to that in the beginning of Star Wars Episode III, but in larger scope, with more actual strategy and played out longer. It is also enjoyable to see that Wing Commander's space battles are actually an adaptation of a World War II movie. While there are additional twists brought about by the sci-fi space setting, the battle scenes play out as naval battles in WW2, with fighters, command carriers and even submarine-like maneuvers and situations in space.It all comes together thanks to a script which does include some give-ins to standard movie formula, but goes against it on at least as many points. Instead of a simple sci-fi action flick, we are treated to a thoroughly planned out epic. It might be thanks to the storyline established in the game, which I can't say about, but it seems like the world of Wing Commander has a lot more history than the short introduction in the beginning of the movie. Adding to that the development of the characters in the movie and the movie's resistance to raise Lt. Blair to the role of a sole hero, creates an all the more credible movie experience. Only the 'guy gets the girl' twist at the end of the movie felt tacked on and unfitting, the rest of the character history is obviously thoroughly planned.In closing, Wing Commander delivers a superb space epic in the scope of one movie, which brings the new Star Wars trilogy to shame. While not a perfect sci-fi action flick, Wing Commander comes stunningly close. "},{"Title":"You might reconsider","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the acting. There were no top class actors and I really missed Mark Hamill and Malcom McDowell. But there were a lot of actors I like.As a fan of the original games, especially part 3, this movie could've been a bit more than the games, casting the original actors and such. And instead of the fighting more story development would've been quite nice. I remember the ending of WC3 as being gloomy, with the Kilrathi home world being destroyed by mankind. A story like that... ah, this movie would be great. Instead we have a cheesy standard action plot. We are at war, the enemy stole a plot device and is threatening our whole race. Yawn.Well, the potential was out there, the movie didn't catch it. Sad, sad. But they still managed to make a decent SF movie. There are definitely worse movies than WC. "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Are you sure Malcolm McDowell was in this? I know David warner David Warner is and maybe someone might mistake them for being the same person, but I didn't see Malcolm McDowell.Having never seen the film, I bought the DVD for 6 dollars. I wasn't expecting much, because the back of the DVD shows are not at all representative of the film. Anyway, I'm a fan of sci-fi, so I decided to give it a chance.I have to honestly say, I was surprised at how well done this film is. The plot is surprisingly developed, and there were some twists and turns along the way to maintain the interest of the viewer. Some of the lines could be considered cheesy, but these moments were isolated and were mild compared to the culture of one-liners and insincere babble that the mainstream audiences accept out of the Hollywood trend setters.Much of the dialogue was actually plausible, and well delivered by a competent cast. Freddie Prinze, Jr. looked like he was still shaking off the remnants of a trendy teenage mindset, but he was adequate. In fact, he's a new cadet. It's no wonder he would still be somewhat immature. Mathew Lillard's character is somewhat unlikable, but well-acted, and has some redeeming qualities at the same time. I think that was the while point. Tchéky Karyo delivers a brilliant, emotional performance. I wasn't familiar with this actor before but he is amazing.As far as the mechanics of the film, it presents space fighting and space scenarios in a deep and intriguing manner. The good special effects helped to make it believable. The solid plot was garnished by some tense moments that seemed almost influenced by Wolfgang Peterson's landmark Das Boot. Throughout the film, Roberts brought about quite a bit of philosophical and historical content. This material was quite expertly woven throughout the film, and is tied tightly with the ending of the film as well. For that, he deserves many points. Because it's something that mainstream Hollywood seems to not be able to get right after all these years of practice.Overall, I would recommend this for any sci-fi fan. Sadly, good sci-fi films are always underrated by the mainstream audiences. Even more sad is that there aren't enough quality films in this exceptional genre. We're handed these silly, insulting films something like The Day Robots Pummeled the Earth. Or else films that are completely tethered by poor special effects. Or we're handed a world that is set up in a very deliberate, expert manner, then expected to accept the fact that anything goes, no matter how ridiculous or silly the film unfolds after the halfway point, like in Event Horizon. Those types of film give the genre a terrible reputation, and Wing Commander certainly stands out as a superior film amongst all the garbage producers try to pass off as sci-fi. It's a definite recommend for sci-fi fans. 8/10 as a film. "},{"Title":"Why does everyone think it's so awful?","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand all the negative critisism about Wing Commander. Sure, the actors were a bunch of pretty boys and girls, and the Kilrathi looked like rubber mice stuffed into battle armour, but the movie managed to do several things for me.(Some minor spoilers, but no real plot givaways following...)Battle in space is more realistically portrayed than many other movies I have seen. Cruisers fighting actually take time to fire at one another and move slowly because of their immense intertia. My favorite scene in *all* space type action movies is still Wing Commander's Give them a broadside, Mr. Gerald.To the person who was wondering why, upon engaging silent mode, he shhhd a crew member... although this seems unlikely in space, the ship was LANDED on a small asteroid. The Kilrathi (in the games, and also in the books based on the games) have probes that would be more than capable of dropping down to the surface of the asteroids and detecting vibrations. It was a bit silly, but it wasn't completely retarded either.They might have changed a lot coming from the game, but the only unforgivable change was the Kilrathi (see above). The fighters, carriers, and cruisers have a very plausable military look to them while still retaining some of the Wing Commander feel- plus there are realistic additions, like the ability to close off the launch bay on the famous Tiger's Claw carrier.I'm too tired to write a full review right now, but I have to say this movie is not as awful as you may think. Maybe it's just because I've been playing Wing Commander since I was six, but this movie was a half-decent portrayal of one of the best game series of all time. "}{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be honest, as a long-time time player of the Wing Commander game, I was initially excited when I heard that a Wing Commander movie was in the works. Thanks to the game's high production values (at the time), and a very recognizable cast, it's one of those rare game series that would have always fit perfectly into movie form with little changes in design or plot line. Of course, Christ Roberts has to go and mess up a good thing, so he went out and found a younger cast (I would imagine to be more accessible to the young people who weren't really old enough to remember much about the games), completely redesigned the ships (not a good thing, for the games' designs were truly inspired for the most part, especially when compared to the WWII-inspired heaps in this film) and basically threw in a pseudo-religious subplot to muck things up a bit.In case you weren't able to gather it from above, I really wasn't expecting much of this film, and frankly, after having watched it, I'm rather pleasantly surprised. The CGI, while not up to par with what you'll see today, is quite respectable, particularly wide space combat and HUD shots (this is probably what Wing Commander would look like on the X-Box), and the acting is actually quite competent, with the possible exception of Prinze, who while not terrible, just doesn't seem cast all that well here. Tchéky Karyo is the consumate actor as always, taking a role that could easily be taken for granted and fleshing it out quite well, while Matthew Lillard manages to be a bit less nauseating that usual, even bordering on the endearing.This isn't a film without flaws. Aside from the aforementioned ship design, which could have been better handled by simply using the game design, the Kilrathis simply look terrible. While it was obvious that the Kilrathi in the games were simply big, fuzzy catsuits, the movie versions are simply ugly, appearing to be an animatronic half-breed of the game Kilrathi and Star Trek's Klingons, with little to no facial animation aside from moving mouths and glowing eyes. It's fortunate that they're only seen a couple of times, because while they're onscreen you can't help but think that it could have been done far better.All in all, while a classic by no means, Wing Commander actually surprised me, and as far as modern sci-fi movies go (though it must be said that this is actually more of an old-fashioned war movie set in a sci-fi setting), this managed to please much more than I had expected. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Its ALL good )","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, i must say that Matthew Lillard played a great role. The dirrecting was well done and for once i dont think Freddy's character was top on my list Lol. I feel that this movie should have gotten better reviews but i am still happy with it. i have seen it more then a dosen times and it was worth every minut. i would reccomend EVERYONE see it at least once.CHRISTY "},{"Title":"A Popcorn movie","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For all of you who look at each and every movie you see for realism, plot holes, character development, etc... I say GET A LIFE!Wing Commander is a popcorn movie, pure and simple. It's fun to watch, it doesn't require much in the way of abstract reasoning, and the special effects looked COOL!!!What I liked the most is that we didn't get a sanitized version of the future. The capital ships were cramped, with exposed plumbing much like you would see on a naval vessel in the current US fleet. The fighters had the markings of being combat worn (like some of the X-Wings in Star Wars). Most important, the way in which military protocol and tactical planning was portrayed was reasonably accurate.The biggest beef I've heard is that the fighters dropped off the deck as they took off. Next, people complained about Forbes' fighter being pushed off the deck into a pit. Everyone complains that this can't be possible because of the zero-g environment. The answer is that the artificial gravity used throughout the pressurized compartments of the ship doesn't have to end at the atmosphere barrier. The Flight deck would have to have gravity so fighters could land. And to push Forbes' fighter into a zero-g environment from the flight deck might block the incoming fighters' approach, hence the pit for crashed fighters.In some ways, this movie reminded me of Space Above and Beyond. There was racism, malevolent aliens, and the very REAL message that people die in war zones.As far as the drop off the flight deck, it looks unrealistic but so what? This was a fun movie and a good way to spend a couple of hours on a rainy Saturday afternoon. If you want movies with a message or realism, don't rent Science FICTION. Rent a sensitive movie like the Accidental Tourist. "},{"Title":"Top Class Entertainment","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a fan of the games WCIII and WCIV, I couldn't wait to see this film version.  I had since Freddie Prinze Jr try to act before, and wouldn't exactly call myself a big fan of his, so I was slightly weary as to whether or not this film would be any good.The plot isn't all that original, and the script doesn't break any new grounds either.  But I've given this film 10/10 because it is so damn entertaining.  The action scenes are cool, the special effects are brilliant, and the characters are worth watching.  Prinze Jr is excellent as the young Blair, Matthew Lillard is, as always, scene-stealing as Maniac, and the rest of the support cast are equally impressive.  Also, listen out for Mark Hamill, who does the voice of Merlin, Blair's ships computer.If you're a fan of the game, you'll probably love this as much as me. Anyone else will like this film if they don't mind watching quality entertainment rather than some three hour epic.  Top class entertainment. "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had an excellent story line.  The actors were great and the choice of Matthew Lillard as Manic was genius.  Lillard built upon his earlier Scream success playing a crazy.  Saffron Burrows' portrayal of Angel was genuine and she sizzled as the Wing Commander!  Special effects were very good.  In my opinion, the movie was much better than I expected it to be.  I recommend this movie to everyone, but especially Wing Commander fans. "},{"Title":"If you like the game, you will like this!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see why movie critics destroy this game, opps, i mean movie! It isn't done the way a Ridley Scott would insist! But, it is cool to see the names, and faces of our heroes and enemies! We liked the game, played it alot back in the day and were built up for years with the idea of a movie someday. The game is self has been history for years, so I think it came out late to capitalize on the game players addiction.The movie is done on budget, and with budget actors, with the excepton of Jurgen. I am not sure why the famous U-Boat commander did this movie, perhaps he was a game player to. The famous German actor hardly needed to do this movie, but did anyway. He does do a nice job of commanding the loading, and firing of TORPEDOS, as no one else could do it! In fact, his line there was identical to DAS BOAT. The guy is awesome! To bad he could not persuade more famed actors to bring notoriety to the movie. As it is, the actors chosen, play the computer game roles well, and are what I expected, especially MANIAC! Long Live the TIGER CLAW! "},{"Title":"not bad, really liked it )","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, the film had a tough start... running right after the star warsep1 trailers in the us, he had to cope with the f/x monster in modern film industry, mr. lukas... BUTthat film was nice ! especially considering a budget of ONLY 30 m$ and a director who's done nothing but video games before, we got decent special effects, good acting all over, and the first sf-movie ever that showed why a fighter exits into space, but the  boys in the bay won't get sucked out after him. Maybe a bit more fine tuning in the pilgrims plot, and 100k$ more for the kilrathi dolls (yeah, they looked like dolls, but You wouldn't see them longer then half a second), but overall i really enjoyed that thing quite a lot !There are more experienced directors with a much higher budget, scripts and protagonists that cost more then all of wing commander together, but all they produce is crap, waist of time, name it as you want. Chris Roberts, the actors and crew definitely did an excellent job. Go get the dvd, it's worth !!! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, OK, OK. So it isn't perfect. But Wing Commander was still pretty good. The acting was good, and the back story was fine. Though Matthew Lillard's acting left a little to desire for, he did very well in dramatic scenes, like when Rosie is pushed off the flight deck. The only problem I found was in the look of the Kilrathi. Their skin looked like plastic! I have to say, I think Chris Roberts could have done better. He made them look very realistic in the games, so why not in the movie? Oh well. It's really the only problem I had. I give it a 9. I know people will disagree with me, but I don't just go around handing out these high ranks. Wing Commander was good and people should go see it.  "},{"Title":"Wing commander review","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Is a very good movie i liked it it when i saw it on TV the acting is a bit weak but i lived with it through the movie but found it was better getting closer to the end of the movie it would've been better if people from the video games did a cameo the best bits are the space battles the effects are amazing when you see for the first time but lack amaze when seen for the second i suggest you play the games once or twice to get the most enjoyment out of the wing commander franchise or rent the game from a friend before seeing this movie on TV or DVD or any other format stars ********(9/10 "},{"Title":"B sci-fi movie at its best, if you give your rationality a rest","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why I think this movie deserves a slightly above average vote is largely based on subjective appreciation. However, given the shower of sarcasms it collected here and some other places on the Internet, I feel sort of compelled to say a few words in his defense.Let's get rid of the bulldozzer in zero-G thingie first. OK the physics in this movie are laughably off, but so are they in widely acclaimed movies like, say, Alien 3 or 4 (the alien, more than once depicted as neither fire nor bulletproof, withstanding a bath of molten lead only to explode due to thermal dilatation? 1 atmosphere or less pressure difference enough to suck an alien trough a 25 cents coin sized hole? I beg your pardon?).I think the whole point of this kind of movie is to carry you somewhere else. They are not supposed to be checked against reality. For a start, having actual humans pilot combat spacecrafts that look and handle (and even sound!) like WWII warbirds in deep space, having to rely on gun sights to shoot at the baddies in an universe where computers are smarter than most people, etc is a collection of utter nonsenses. Same basic nonsenses as in every single movie of the genre as far as I know, by the way, Star Wars included.As I see it, these movies are drawing from very classical schemes and disguise them just enough to combine an exotic background and the pleasure of understanding what the hell is actually going on on the screen. Here the theme is mainly military with a marked WWII air and sea combat influence. So we get basically Pearl Harbour in space, then a few WWII dogfights à la Star Wars episode 4 finale, then a couple of submarine and surface engagements in the pure post-war B movies tradition (the one with Richard Widmark as the submarine captain was a hoot, can't remember the title right now). One could spend hours elaborating on precisely how and why every single space scene in the movie makes no sense at all as far as science is concerned (or military tactics by the way).But what is wrong with that? For one thing it is very consistent with the extremely entertaining video games the movies originates from  same cheesy physics, let alone the horrible artificial intelligence, but nevertheless an awful lot of fun.The movie still has a story to tell. The ingredients are basic, not very original, but still efficient. The SFXs are pretty, and the actors are doing surprisingly well (with the notable and unfortunate exception of the extremely bland two lead roles, though). I especially liked Maniac and Paladin, both very consistent and entertaining. Actually I even rather liked all the military babble and overall slight overacting.The movie took the risk to tell a kind of heroic tale modeled after classical war movies rather than winking heavily at the audience with tongue-in-cheek humor. But all this is not taken too seriously either  more like a schoolyard daydreaming filmed with pretty decent pictures. That is what saves the movie in my opinion.The result is a rather cute story that may succeed in waking up the 10 years old boy dreaming of heroic deeds inside the viewer. It worked for me, at least. "}{"Title":"Who needs Lasers and Transporters when you can listen to Matthew Lillard for an hour and a half?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, you could complain about how much this film lacks in Plot, but if you paid any attention at all, the film had all the key elements... It probably just depends on what you're looking for. What a pair, Matt Lillard and Freddie Prinze Jr. These guys really did well. Lillard has been his best since Scream, and when my Aunt heard that Freddie was in it, she nearly died. But besides the acting, the FX were great too. Just like Star Wars did 20 something years ago, I do believe that Wing Commander has set a new standard for the special effects in movies today. (not for long with Episode 1 around the corner) Despite a few plot holes, the film really caught my attention. It did at times remind me of The Hunt for Red October Star Wars and amazingly, Top Gun. But it lacks nothing. I think this one will be a definite rental if not buyer in a few months... "},{"Title":"Have some fun","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" People who are incapable of having fun shouldn't watch movies. I realize that most of the comments for this movie are negative and I think that is unfair and mostly biased views and behavior from Star Trek TNG fans. If you are going to watch a movie and hate it fine, but stop comparing it to the most linear and stupid versions of Star Trek. TNG sucks. Throwing insults at other sci-fi movies is weak. If you were a fan of the game on the 3DO (yes, 3DO, google it if you are a TNG loser) and you were unhappy with it then you have cause to complain and your opinion. If you are a TNG fan then you need to realize that not all space movies are going to based on a bunch of fat lazy nerds running to the holodeck to substitute dealing with real life. "},{"Title":"it's ok...","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie was about what i expected... they obviously blew the entire budget on effects. amusingly, wc 3 and wc 4 (the games) had better casts than the movie (Freddie Pinze Jr vs Mark Hammil, Mathew Lillard vs Thomas Biff Tannon Wilson, Tchéky Karyo vs John Rhys-Davies, and David Warner vs Malcolm McDowell).the plot had some holes, the most dramatic moments came off as cheesy, and there were a few continuity issues with the games that will probably bother the more avid fans (skipper missles being used before the first game, even though they weren't introduced until wc2, bossman being dead before blair sets foot on the tiger's claw, etc).on the upside, the special effects were pretty good. a few years ago (before the rise of mass numbers of special effects movies) i would have considered them outstanding. the fighters (almost entirely rapiers, and a few broadswords) have a wonderfully unique world war 1 in space feel. the rapiers, however, look uncannily similar to A-10 Thunderbolt II Tankkiller Warthogs.the best review i've heard came from a kid as we were leaving the theater. he was having trouble articulating himself, but finally settled on something like that was the coolest humans vs futuristic aliens movie i've ever seen!basically, if you're looking for a fun mindless (and that is a very important word) space combat movie, this is a good choice. if you want a better cast, a better plot, and some interaction, skip the movie and get yourself a copy of one of the games.  "},{"Title":"A bold movie based on a computer game. But does it do the game justice?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This pioneer film from Chris Roberts takes the classic Computer game world of Wing Commander, and gives it a new edge that is exhilarating and inventive. Unfortunately, fans of the computer game series will find that there are changes in this movie, many of which are confusing. Like movies that are made from novels, the transition often leaves out important elements because novels extend far beyond the 90-120 minute boundary. And the PC games are no exception, spanning 5 games that each took several days if not weeks to finish.In this movie, the Kilrathi get very little screen time, and the time that they do get does nothing to represent their warrior race which is intricate and compelling as much as the Terrans (humans).  In fact, they look nothing like the Video Game's image of them. Instead, they are portrayed much like the BUGS in Starship Troopers, as emotionless and cultureless as insects, with no purpose and no agenda except to destroy.Also, the technology used in this film is far different than the game's, creating a confusing use of fighter crafts, flight gear, and much more for the video game players. There are no lasers, just mass-drivers and torpedoes. In fact, the battles felt much like they were being fought underwater instead of outer-space. In one scene, a battered ship is pushed off a platform only to have it drop like a rock, in outer space. And it was disheartening to hear the bangs and booms in outer space where there is no sound! I was hoping the filmmakers could have been more creative,&#133;the sound of panicked breathing and heartbeats over deathly silence as the battle ensues, perhaps?Another confusing transition for WC fans was the whole idea of the &#145;Pilgrim' race, which was never mentioned in the computer game series.  And the biggest, and perhaps saddest loss in transition were the beloved actors of Mark Hamill, Tom F. Wilson, and Malcolm McDowell, who breathed life into the WC world along with a superb supporting cast. Instead, their roles are filled by younger hip-hop hormonal teen idols, who not only did not know what they did last summer, but don't care.All confusions aside, this was a decent first step for the Wing Commander series onto the big screen because it sucessfully introduces the basic elements of the Wing Commander world. For anyone who liked the movie, I recommend the games, which are enthralling and deeper in character, storyline, and excitement. Well, Wing Commander IV was anyway. V was dangerously close to being as storyless as this movie. A Critique for another time&#133;  "},{"Title":"We are formally at war with the Kilrathi...","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having been a fan of the Wing Commander game franchise back in the day then it was with some anticipation that I sat down to watch Wing Commander, although I had a gut feeling that I knew that it had a high possibility of being a poor movie experience.And once this 1999 movie ended, I must admit that you are left with a hollow feeling and a somewhat sour taste in your mouth. Director Chris Roberts didn't manage to capture the essence of the games, and the movie turned out to be a shallow experience and poor movie in general.The story in Wing Commander was adequate, albeit not super thrilling. But the movie was killed by the lack of convincing effects and the choice of acting talents. It just felt like you were watching a movie made for teenagers, given the actors and actresses they had opted to cast for the movie. And not even with talents such as David Warner and Jürgen Prochnow making appearances were director Chris Roberts able to salvage this movie.The fans of the game franchise will remember the Kilrathi as being menacing feline humanoids, but they are presented as something that resembles an over-sized gerbil in the movie, and do not really look like the feline creatures that were in the games. And that feature was really a hard pill to swallow and it really sent a low blow to the movie.If you were fan of the games, then stay well clear of the movie, because it is nowhere near to having captured the spirit and heart of the game franchise. If you are unfamiliar with the games, then this 1999 movie doesn't really offer anything that you can't find in other Sci-Fi movies.Wing Commander manages to harvest a more than generous three out of ten stars from me, just because I wanted my love for the game franchise to go to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Despite others' negative reviews, I liked it!","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a Academy Award winner, nor is it an example of fine acting, nor is it a riveting plot with significant ties to philosophy, life, God, blah blah blah blah ... it's an action/sci-fi movie, so please leave your brain at door and just enjoy this for what it is.I'm a fan of the Starship Troopers type genre (book was first, movie later) - lots of action, leave brain at door, watch the effects, enjoy the 2 hours of reckless fun! This film, like Starship and others like it, is *just* a fun film to enjoy! I never played the game - and this is the crux of my review - I played something else that seems to predate Wing Commander Descent Freespace - The Great War. I couldn't help but think that there was SO much reference to everything about Freespace, it wasn't funny. The ships, the enemy, jump points, literally everything. It was like watching a movie of the game I just played. BTW, I still play Freespace from time to time - it's good fun.I did briefly enjoy the role reprisal of Jürgen Prochnow in Das Boot - reload tubes 1 and 2, fire when ready said almost the same line in both movies.Anyway, I enjoyed it; give it another go and see! "},{"Title":"Worth watching if you're flipping channels and find it on TV","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Wing Commander video games were not-so-subtle rip-offs of the Star Wars franchise -- think Star Wars without the Force or Jedi, concentrating just on space combat. (Mark Hammill was even cast as the main character when they began incorporating live-action cut-scenes into the game, forever cementing the connection.)So one can understand that when Chris Roberts decided to bring it to the big screen, he felt the need to make changes to the Wing Commander franchise to differentiate it more from the Star Wars franchise -- thus the clunky WW2 fighter designs and naval-style battles. Although this works fine on film, it really changes the look and feel of the franchise completely, giving nothing for fans of the amazing games to connect with... and lets face it, fans of the games were really the core target audience (or should have been!)The whole added subplot about the Pilgrims -- something not found in the games -- felt a little bit like a rip-off of Star Wars' The Force in a way, too (that is, as we understood the Force before The Empire Strikes Back) a plot device to give the main character a special power to set him apart from the other characters. Again, it works okay, but I wish Roberts had taken all the time spent talking about the Pilgrims and used it instead to flesh out the enemy Kilrathi, who were much more interesting and fully-realized characters in the video games. (Though admittedly, the budget probably wouldn't have allowed that much time with the creature effects.)It's bound to be a disappointment for fans of the video game franchise upon which it was based, simply because it had so little in common -- and because the video games themselves featured more well-known actors, such as Mark Hammill, Malcolm McDowell, John Rhys-Davies and Tom Wilson.But in the end, it still makes a fine sci-fi film, well worth watching if you're flipping channels and find it on television, or renting if you are a fan of the sci-fi genre or any of the film's actors. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a video game conversion","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Making a movie of the Wing Commander games is a bit strange, as the games themselves were in fact almost movies especially Wing Commander 3 was very good and featured hours and hours of cinema-quality movie.This movie does not even come close to Wing Commander 3, but it's a lot better then most other video game conversions like Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat etc. The biggest problem with this movie is that it has actually very little to do with the game, other then the SF theme.For starters, the characters have the same NAMES as in the video games, but otherwise they are completely different from the characters in the video games, especially a lot younger and with a lot less depth. This was disappointing. The movie also takes a completely different approach to space combat fighters look like WW2 - era planes and mothership combat is a lot like sub combat. I have no idea WHY they made these changes, but they're not really bad ones. All these changes lead to a movie that could have definetely used a more experienced cast, a deeper story, or an extra half hour of running time, but for fans of space combat movies (not that there's a lot of them, I can only think of Star Wars and Starship Troopers) like me, it's still an enjoyable movie** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Not quite faithful","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In addition to being a film geek, I'm a video game nut. I've played the Wing Commander games that the film is based on and I expected something a bit more faithful -- the aliens were rubber and the characterizations were shoddy. On the other hand, the special effects were cool and the outer-space battle scenes may just be the best since Star Wars! A heavier recommendation if you haven't played the game.  "},{"Title":"Please don't think the game is this bad!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a huge Wing Commander fan.  Since WC1 I have played them WC1, WC2, WC academy, WC3, WC4, Prophecy and Secret Ops.  I waited 10 years for a movie and this crap is what I got! The movie is just like the watching the game with all the good parts and combat removed.  Where were the 24 on 3 dogfights?  Where was the ship upgrades?  What, no asteroid dogfights?  And where was the Kirathi!The great race of Lions barely graced the screen!  The emperor was never mentioned, his ambitious son never shown.  The great design of their ships drowned out by almost complete darkness.  Hell, even their Egyptian like armor was gone.I almost fell asleep wading through the first hour of nothing just to get to see any action or conflict.  Long and boring is my description.Origin how could you!Martin "}{"Title":"Wait for version 1.5","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chris Roberts, who originally created the Wing Commander games and directed the interactive video sequences in, makes the jump to the big screen.  The change is remarkable.  Everything in this movie bears the mark of a bigger budget.First, the evil aliens do not look like overgrown tigers.  For those unfamiliar with the Wing Commander series of video games, the original Kilrathi aliens looked like big cats.  (A blatant rip-off of the Man-Kzin Wars pulp novels.)  Thankfully, Roberts decided to use his bigger budget and spring for more menacing aliens.  Fans of the games, no doubt purists, will disagree and find the new Kilrathi upsetting but I view the change as akin to Gene Roddenberry's makeover of the Klingons from the TV show to the cinema.Roberts also chose a better class of actors than was available in the game sequences.  The Wing Comander games always had a fine starring cast (Mark Hamil, Ginger Lynn, Malcom MacDowell, etc) but the supporting cast always left something to be desired, consisting of the game's programmers, testers, family members, and others.  The film's cast is much improved.  The supporting ensemble includes such classically trained actors as Jurgen Prochnow and David Suchet.Of course, the technical effects are better.  The games never suffered from a lack of video pinache, but they had limited time (30 seconds to a couple of minutes) in which to wow their audience in a video sequence.  Roberts always managed to squeeze the action into that time and develop an engrossing plot.There lies the problem.  It is obvious to the viewer that Roberts lacks the discipline needed to pace a scene for the big screen.  It's as if he forgot how to keep a scene tight.  Perhaps it was the daunting prospect of filling 90 minutes all at once.  Maybe it was the knowledge that the audience could not influence the outcome with a joystick.Whatever the reason, Wing Commander is a mess.  The plot moves nowhere, the dialogue is corny, the space combat is too dark and slow, and the soundtrack is trite.  Overall, the movie is just not exciting.  My friend's ten-year-old complained the movie was boring about 40 minutes into it.Wait for the patch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly different from its game story roots.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately, for those who have played this video game series, the movie bares little resemblance. I hoped when going to see the film that it would borrow freely from its heritage, especially in visual design (ships, etc), characters and even that catchy little launch sequence from the original WC. Ignoring the acting, the plot seems so interested in trying to establish character that there is little of what one would expect Space combat. Don't get me wrong I prefer character development, but the script structure was shallow and uninspired. (I'd rather be bored by action than drama). =)A big p**s off for those familiar with the games is that actors in the games have not or were not reused for the movie. All of a sudden, someone who was Scottish is French (Paladin), characters that were enjoyable in the game were left out, and new ones were introduced (but flat). Maniac, in particular, was someone you loved to hate in the games. Now he is portrayed as Christopher Blair's Academy friend (one of many small contradictions between game storyline and movie). It takes the punch out of his character and leaves it compromised.In the games, one would overlook some shortcomings of the video (for it was low budget), but now that Roberts finally gets some capital behind him, he is unable to recapture the thrill that made the games so popular.I wanted it to be more LIKE the games, for better or worse. "},{"Title":"A Flawed Gem","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, no, Wing Commander is not a great film. It has some problems, the most notable being the very underwhelming (to say the least) portrayal of the Kilrathi. However, this is not a terrible film, and if you are a certain type of sci-fi fan, it's not just passable but genuinely enjoyable. Anyone who says that this film is horrible is being a bit more pessimistic than necessary. It may not seem like a serious film, but internally within its own structure, I find it very respectable. For its target audience, it does not totally fail.The visual design, when it works, is very interesting. The opening title sequence, in particular, is simply one of the best that you will find in any such genre film, in my opinion. A truly captivating, beautiful creation. To give another visual example, the ship interiors feel like what deep space battleships would actually be like. That may be just the sort of niche quality that suggests an appeal to video gamers and/or sci-fi enthusiasts, but it ties into this film's atmosphere, which when you factor in the mostly excellent cast and solid script, is fairly realistic feeling.There is also a rather unique, compelling mythology at work in the background of this film's story. It may not be wholly original (I detect some influence from the novel Hyperion, for example) but as far as movies go, this one has a certain quality that sets it apart. On a basic level, yes it appeals to the fascination with being a starfighter pilot in the vein of the first Star Wars film and the Wing Commander video game source material. But there is something more to it, something that is mostly untapped in sci-fi cinema.There is a great group of characters. I do not know how closely all of them tie into the games, but they feel like real people and again the cast is for the most part very good. Tcheky Karyo, Saffron Burrows, David Warner, Jurgen Prochnow. That's some real talent right there. And the presence of Hugh Quarshie can't help but lead me to note that Wing Commander is parsecs better than the Star Wars prequels in every way except for visual effects budget. The trio of fighter pilots consisting of lead Freddie Prinze Jr, Matthew Lillard and Ginny Holder play more into an attractive teen movie trope that takes away from the film just a little, but Holder and Lillard especially do a great job of generating some true emotional resonance in the heavy scenes.Problems? The Kilrathi, who should have been the frightening counterpoint to the human characters, mostly provide unseen menace and when they do make the screen, it is one of the biggest letdowns in any film. Also, some of the Rapier (starfighter) graphics are less than stellar. Those and a few other glitches are what kept this film from being solidly respectable, but they don't keep it from being a lot of fun nonetheless.I will say again that this is really one of the most unique-feeling sci- fi films that I have seen, and it fills a surprising gap in the number of similarly-themed movies about starfighter pilots. With a bigger budget and maybe a different lead actor, Wing Commander could have been something serious. As is, in spite of its flaws, it's a real gem of a genre film, and well worth checking out if you focus on the positives. Great cast, good story, interesting graphics, fuel for imagination. "},{"Title":"Great movie no spoiler here.","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie 6 times and am about to watch it again tonight. This is along the quality of Serenity, another movie that seems rated less than it deserved. People, this is not Star Wars, or Star Trek! It's better in many ways. How did IMDb get this down to a 3.8? It used to be ranked over 6.5 and I see movies that are horrible ranked above 7. What are people smoking these days? I have 1400 movies, 200 of the top 250, and I am 46, been around a long while seen over 10000 movies. I know good when I see it. This movie is great! Has romance, action, suspense, plot is thick, story is plausible, and it resonates with real life. Good effects, not a B movie, has top actors. What more can you ask for out of Sci Fi? You will never see this remade and if it did get a remake, it would not be as well done, not unless they spent millions then it would top Iron Man in that case. Don't think you could make a Marvel Character out of anyone in this movie, but maybe find a bad guy for the Avengers to fight? Maybe. I rank this a solid 7! "},{"Title":"A Very Okay Movie","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander is in many ways a typical military themed Science Fiction film but it has enough strengths to make it worth watching.The first and most difficult hurdle of any sci-fi film is establishing a plausible or at the very least a believable setting or plot scenario. The second is trying to get the viewer involved. Wing Commander succeeds in both of this areas adequately but not exceedingly well. The setup is very cut and dry and the characters rather blunt but everything is explained at a reasonable pace so that the viewer has time to absorb what is happening.Production wise the movie also succeeds rather well. The space-ships feel small and with the presence of Jürgen Proschnow this definitely evokes a type of Das Boot in Space atmosphere. However the space-combat looks fantastic by 1999 standards and the special-effects have lasted the test of time which means the movie will not make a modern viewer cringe. Costume designs are a little off but not horribly.Overall only the Kilrathi's presence and depiction is the only thing that deserves any major criticism. Their presence in the film feels very distant and they stay out of the spotlight until the final act. When we finally see them they come off as a very stereotypical sort of antagonist for a sci-fi film and this was a slight disappointment.The plot itself, having a military setting follows a rather predictable series of events. Thankfully the cast of actors has enough heart and personality that these events don't feel like they're dragging on and generally the acting was very believable. Only during some of the combat dialogue characters seemed to lack intensity which sometimes gives off the feeling like combat in space isn't a big deal.A rather predictable story and disappointing representation of an alien species aside Wing Commander delivers an entertaining 96 minutes of sci-fi action. Not an outstanding film but very Okay at least. "},{"Title":"Wing Commander Manages To Wing It!","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although its aliens resemble varmints, Wing Commander emerges as a predictable but entertaining Star War clone distinguished by Digital Anvil's dazzling special effects, Oscar winner Peter Lamont's atmospheric production designs, and a first-class supporting cast. While his directorial film debut lacks originality, director Chris Roberts shows adequate ingenuity in his treatment of venerable science-fiction clichés and conventions. Wing Commander recycles enough surefire elements from Star Wars, Star Trek 2, Top Gun, Starship Troopers, and The Hunt for Red October to satisfy hardcore sci-fi fans. Starring Freddie (She's All That) Prinze Jr., and Matthew (Scream) Lillard, Wing Commander charts the course of two audacious starship fighter pilots fresh out of the Confederation academy who find themselves thrown into the middle of an intergalactic war. The year is 2654. Earth is at war with the xenophobic Kilarthi, an ancient alien race of felines with retractable Freddy Krueger claws that resolve to obliterate the planet when diplomatic solutions fail.Freshman director Chris Roberts and scenarist Kevin (Mortal Combat) Droney launch the action with a devastating Kilarthi surprise attack on Pegasus, a secret Confederation outpost in an asteroid chain. The attack resembles the Japanese 'sneak' attack on Pearl Harbor, only instead of the U.S. Pacific Fleet getting destroyed, the Confederation's Vega System Fleet gets wiped out while in dry dock. The bad guys secure a fabled navigational device which will enable them to attack Earth before the Confederation can stop them.Meanwhile, Admiral Geoffrey Tolwyn (David Warner of Titanic) relays a coded transmission to a freighter in route to the closest hope for Earth's survival the aircraft carrier style starship Tiger Claw. Tolwyn entrusts the message to the son of a war hero, Chris 'Maverick' Blair. When he arrives aboard the Tiger Claw, Blair receives a chilly response from the second-in-command, Captain Gerald (Jurgen Prochnow of Beverly Hills Cop 2), who mistrusts the rookie pilot because he is a half-breed whose mother was an infamous Pilgrim.According to Droney's expository rich screenplay, the Pilgrims explored the far corners of the universe first and cultivated unique genetic powers which allowed them to navigate through space time anomalies without the aid of computers. The Pilgrims, however, grew proud and arrogant. Eventually, they revolted against their fellow Earthlings, fought a terrible war, and became hated until their race died out. The point is that speed matters in the story, and Chris Blair knows which short cuts to take through space to beat the Kilrathi before they reach Earth. Blair's identity crisis lies at the heart of the action. Until this predicament, Blair knew nothing about either his Pilgrim heritage or his special qualities.Sadly, everything falls apart when the villain storm onto the screen. Adventure movies live and die on the strength of their villains. The Kilrathi qualify as the all-time worst science fiction villains since The Green Slime back in 1968. Resembling Karate Kid star Pat Morita from the neck up, they dress like the cast of the Broadway musical Cats in tacky Naugahyde green suits from the neck down. Prudently, Roberts and Droney have pared down the screen time devoted to the Kilrathi to the absolute minimum. One glimpse at these farcical foes is enough to undermine either any suspense or credibility that Wing Commander generates during its trim PG-13 rated running time of 100 minutes.Questions left unanswered about the Kilrathi may annoy some audiences. Who are the Kilrathi? Where did they come from? Why are they so determined to destroy Earth? Practically the only thing intimidating about the Kilrathi is the way their name sounds when anybody utters it.What differentiates Wing Commander from the standard Star Wars clone is its anachronistic but novel hardware designs. Although its hackneyed story occurs in the 27th century, the Confederation deploys comparatively low-tech arsenals of bullets and torpedoes rather than high-tech lasers to battle the Kilrathi. Peter Lamont, who won an Oscar fro his production designs on Titanic, models the space fighters on the gull-wing Chance-Vought Corsairs of World War II rather than the Tie fighter or X-Wing craft of Star Wars. The space cruisers in Wing Commander have an antiquated but grungy look that links them with other notably grungy sci-fi thrillers such as Outland, the Alien franchise, and Event Horizon. Altogether, it is nothing new, but Wing Commander generates a lot of atmosphere with its retro-space look.So obsessed is Wing Commander creator Chris Roberts with World War II technology that he shuns the usual Buck Rogers paraphernalia. An interstellar fight between the Tiger Claw and a Kilrathi vessel is staged like a confrontation between pirate ships.Like Starship Troopers, Wing Commander boasts independent, strong-willed female characters that don't flinch at the sight of blood and violence. Saffron (Circle of Friends) Burrows is cast as the tight-lipped, dry ice title character, Jeanette 'Angel' Marshall who suffers nobody's insolence. She believes that they are all living on borrowed time, and the idealistic Blair does his best to refute that thinking. Burrows' sullen good looks and sexy Emma Peel presence make you forget about the laughable Kilrathi. Ginny Holden's daredevil fighter pilot make a memorable impression, too.Tolerant sci-fi audiences will appreciate this serviceable sci-fi saga more than discriminating adults that expect more from Hollywood science fiction outings. Wing Commander has enough good things going for it so that its threadbare plot and enigmatic hairball villains don't sabotage it. Top lenser Thierry Arbogast, who filmed The Fifth Element, bolsters Wing Commander with his exhilarating widescreen cinematography. Arbogast's stirring long shots of space vehicles zipping past planets to vanish into the distant vistas of stars makes Wing Commander a treat for the eyes. Kevin Kiner's rousing orchestral score, that David Independence Day Arnold helped compose, give the action a dignity and stature that it otherwise would lack.Sure, the dog-eared scenario of Wing Commander has been replicated ad nauseam, but director Chris Roberts' generally competent helming of this $27-million production makes it worth watching once. "},{"Title":"This should have been excellent&#133; too bad it's only average","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't work out why this isn't a great film. The cast is as good as it gets, Prochnow, Karyo, Suchet and Warner are normally excellent (or better!) but somehow here they don't seem to work, Suchet and Prochnow especially seem uncomfortable trying to inject high drama contrary to their normal low key acting styles. I can only assume that it's the plot or dialogue, yet I really can't say exactly what it is that's wrong about either. It has a slightly schizophrenic feel to it, some scenes and dialogue were very convincing, others very poor. Trying to mix classic space opera with a young hero type movie and then adding in a romance really messes up any consistent plot.Certainly the look and feel of the movie are excellent, detail seems well thought out, the things that needed explaining are explained, those that don't aren't dwelt on. The sets look used and worn, the interior of the ship has the same plumbing you see on wet navy warships and while we'll probably have to wait 3-4 hundred years to find out whether this is remotely close to reality, it certainly suspended my disbelief. True the CGI wasn't the best we've come to expect but it was good enough for me.It probably helps that I'm a sucker for any film set in the future where every nation and race seems to be represented, as a Brit I even liked the tiny detail that some characters used the Brit pronunciation of Lieutenant, others didn't.I'm not much impressed by the unfavourable comparisons to the video game, I've not played it, don't want to and don't care how good it is / was. This is a movie. That said I really think that all the obvious effort was wasted on a poor plot, possibly trying to keep to some existing story line in the game? (Using pilots to make a commando raid seems a little odd!) As such it's really only an average movie and at that probably only enjoyable to SF fans looking for an all night SF DVD fest.A pity, it bodes poorly for any possible future SF films such as the much desired Honor Harrington. If they come they'll look like Star Wars which would be a shame. "},{"Title":"The problem with this movie....","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problems was not that the movie was awful (apart from the typically wooden performance by Freddy Prinze, Jr. -- and why the heck has Matthew Lillard, who can actually ACT -- see SLC Punk if you don't believe me -- spent so much of his career playing second banana to that meat-head?), but rather that the last three games are better MOVIES than the movie they had better casts, better stories, better dialogue, even better visual effects (in the cut scenes, at least) and better musical scores! (I can still hum the main theme to Heart of the Tiger, some six years after I last played it, and it still sends chills down my spine.) While Tcheky Karyo and David Warner put in fine performances as James Paladin Taggart and Admiral Sir Geoffrey Tolwyn, they could never match the terrific work of John Rhys-Davies and Malcolm MacDowell, who played Taggart and Tolwyn in the games. Nothing in the uninspired script compares with Tolwyn's sneering Well, colonel, what would you aim for if you had the biggest gun in the universe? Prince Thrakhath's Heart of the Tiger speech, or the not-so-friendly banter between Mark Hamill's Christopher Blair and Tom Wilson's Maniac Marshall. It might be worth a rental, if you love military SF, but if you're looking for something worth buying, get the games instead. "},{"Title":"A solid 5","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film doesn't deserve the booting it's getting.  It doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is, a low-budget action sci-fi film.The cast actually look like they enjoyed making it (which can make a world of difference in a film like this), the story is servicable and the standard cliches and plot twists happen.This isn't an excellent, film, it isn't a good film, it is an average film, a very good example of an average film.  So it deserves a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"quite cool if expectations are cut down","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Judging a movie surely depends much on one's actual mood. I happened to be in the right mood for shallow sci-fi action when I caught this on TV. Of course, the story is predictable, and the characters were little developed, and the story is a ripoff from Battlestar Galactica and Das Boot and even Alien. But the special effects and the sound are good. I also liked the dialogues with Rosie Forbes. They were cool and convincing. In my opinion, this movie should have become a mini series with more room for characters like Rosie and even Commander Gerald whose attitude and thoughts I never really understood, especially in the latter half of the movie. But for an audience of video gamers this is probably less important. So, I go with a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Paint-by-numbers science fiction that underwhelms die-hards.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm biased about science fiction movies set in space. If there is a film featuring a space battle, alien lifeforms, and a epic soundtrack, I am there with the popcorn.Having said that, Wing Commander, a runaway best-selling video game series, demanded a movie better than what was delivered. Here are the brutal numbers $45 million to produce; $11,578,059 total US box office gross. Ouch.Chris Roberts, the primary face behind the train wreck, essentially missed the boat by writing a tale that borrowed heavily from too many other movies, and throwing in elements that could not escape the common sense filter of demanding science fiction audiences.Wing Commander tells the story of a single starship enroute to stop an alien threat that threatens humanity. So far, so good. But the problem starts immediately with questionable casting and even mind-boggling plot holes big enough to (fill in the blank). Worse yet, military protocols and interaction are cherry-picked for cinematic effect. In other words, some of the worse traits of military bearing are shown on screen, while other elements are conveniently ignored.Anyone who has served in uniform for more than a week (a nod to the Two-Brained Cylon for that imagery) will wince at the dialogue between a rookie fighter pilot (Freddie Prinze Jr.) and his wing commander (Saffron Burrows). It is the latter actress who actually appears like someone you'd want to follow into combat, but Prinze Jr. as Blair looks too much like a Neo wannabee (re the Matrix) to be trusted with ANY mission, much less serving on board.The only other people on screen who at least tries to earn their paychecks are Tchéky Karyo and an under-used Hugh Quarshie.Aside from an AWESOME original soundtrack, mediocre special effects, and a movie trailer for Star Wars Episode One (sadly lacking in the DVD release), Wing Commander will marginally entertain the video rental crowd, but will frustrate everyone else. There are far worse movies out there, but there are far better ones too.I personally liked it enough to purchase it on DVD, but your entertainment values may vary.  "},{"Title":"Don't think too hard when watching","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander has about the same sort of depth and logic of its founding video games.  Shallow, more than a little silly and virtually ignorant of most law of physics.  Wing Comander is also good fun, combined with great effects.  So if you are bored and looking for a fun movie to killa few hours, Wing Commander is for you.  If you are expecting Citizen Cane in space...best look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Arrr Mateys! Flotsam ahead!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* * SPOILER ALERT*I saw this movie in the theaters with a friend of mine. I was hurt. Then my dad called and said he really wanted to see it. So I went again. Double ouch. It's the last time I'll pretend to have not seen a bad movie just to make someone happy. It's not worth it.I think the filmmakers thought they were making some sort of pirate and WWII movie rolled into one. In space! It wasn't a good combo. The captain of the space ship will say things like Hard to Starboard! and other nautical terms. I was waiting for something like Mr. Christian, full steam ahead! The spaceships for the Wing Commanders looked like the old WWII planes. They had dogfights in space. Umm, no no no.Lame. Stupid. No good. Delete.   "},{"Title":"a good sci-fi movie","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  well i thought this was a fun movie.  these other poor scores are really nit-picky.there are lots of space battle scenes which are nice.  the acting was pretty good.  i  thought the fighter planes had a cool retro style.the movie progressed at a good clip and  never dragged.it reminded me a bit of the battlestar galatica tv series, but had more action.of course i also like starship troopers (a  lot!) "},{"Title":"Use your sense of Direction Luke","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Utterly abismal.  I was in a theatre that was half full.  100% of the crowd was there for the Star Wars trailer and we should have left there.  The plot and acting in the games was far superior to the movie, which had fine actors in it (David Suchet, David Warner to name but a few)  The action was yawn inducing and the drama borderlined on adult film acting, it was that bad.  This is not a movie for watching.  This is a movie for torture or inducing labour... "},{"Title":"On Wings of Sour Space Grapes","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes the perspective of a movie's greatness first needs time for reflection before it can be `racked across the coals' (a cliché) - yes I know - But I tried to pick a cliché in writing this to illustrate a point. I challenge anyone to create a completely originally idea. It is almost impossible to do so. Yet many of us ask this impossibility from the filmmaker.I have read the complaint that this movie borrowed from movies in the 50's, but I say the movie was made in 1999 and if you are going to use a movie cliché why not one from a classic war movie. I enjoyed this movie! There is good storytelling in `Wing Commander'. For its time and money spent on its production the end product is far better than any movie in its genre has been in years. I have read that the production quality has been a sore spot with many reviewers. The spacecraft look like WWII propeller planes instead of the wonderful crafted fighters and there wasn't enough dog fighting either. This was NOT a SCI/FI movie of star wars proportions and corners were cut. Still I believe any of the rough edges of this film can easily be explained away. In one debated scene the commander orders the bridge of the carrier `Tiger Claw' to be quiet. Someone might think the crew is ludicrous to do so because the `Tiger Claw' is in the vacuum of space and the enemy sonar will not work - but this at best implied and who says the enemy is using sonar anyhow; or many the commander wants everyone quiet so he can think.Bottom line Wing Commander is family style space-time-fun that any true fan of the genre would be happy to have as a low budget benchmark in cinema history.  "},{"Title":"Chris Roberts should stick with Games","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like everyone I was looking forward to seeing Mark Hammil back in Sci-Fi on the big screen, Oh well never mind. This film is very much in the same vein as Final Fantasy. The general audience is expected to know something about the game that the film was derived from. Unfortunately that doesn't work. Even if you are new to the game, the game will give you a lot of background. This is what the film lacked. Saffron Burrows I feel was miscast as Angel. Saffron is a fine actress in deed, but they needed someone who would be more believable opposite Freddie Prinze, jr. Maybe I am just too used to seeing Jennifer Love Hewitt at his side. Someone more around the lines of Mia Sara or Gabrielle Anwar, or even Denise Richards. They really needed an introduction for this movie. That is what sucked the most. Then probably the cheesy Kilrathi aliens, they looked as though they had been last used on Star Trek The Original Series. Sorry Chris I loved the game, but this sucked big mate. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time seeing this movie!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a really bad movie. I suckered myself into seeing this crap because Star Wars Phantom Menace was just around the corner.The dialog in the movie is at times incomprehensible. From the get go, I had a hard time making sense of the jibberish spoken. The characters are all unconvincing. Safron Burrows character is especially unconvincing. The monsters/aliens are not seen a whole lot. The action is not very good either. The plot is so banal that it is not worth mentioning. I was sure tempted to walk out of this movie half way through but figured I'd might as well stay since I wouldn't be able to get a refund for my admission ticket.Take my advice don't see this movie. Stick to something like Star Wars. "},{"Title":"As a devout fan of the games, I feel betrayed.","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wish the producers/director of this film geared it more towards the fans of the games rather than moviegoers in general.  In failing to do so, they disappointed both.I was in high school when the Wing Commander computer games came out. They were an instant favorite of myself and my best friend.  We'd spend countless hours playing and following the storyline.  The games were like nothing we'd ever seen before - graphics, gameplay, sound effects were miles ahead of anything else at the time (on the original game, there was actually a sticker on the box that assured you that the picture on the front was an actual screenshot and not an artist's conception).  Every sequel was better and better, introducing digitized speech, better graphics and effects, and (perhaps most importantly for this article) a richer storyline.My favorite part of the game was the storyline, because it really assigned a purpose to your missions throughout the game.  Without the story, the game would be just another dumb shoot-em-up game, and I'd grow tired of all the graphics and effects.  The story gave me a real reason for completing the missions.  By the time Wing Commander II and its secret missions came out, my friend and I would tell each other that there was easily enough material for a movie, but we never expected to actually see one.Fast forward to 1999, haven't played Wing Commander for quite some time, I've been out of college for two years, I have a real job, and I see a trailer for the movie.  I immediately call my old friend, and we make plans to see it.  We're both not expecting it to be good, we read a lot of bad press about it, but we are drawn to see it anyway, hoping that we'd be able to appreciate some similarities between the film and the game that we loved so much.But there were essentially none.  No similarities at all, except for names. They used the names of some of the Wing Commander characters, the bad guys were called Kilrathi, the home ship was called the Tiger's Claw, and that's it.  That is quite literally where the similarities end.The ships didn't even bear the slightest resemblance to those in the game. I wasn't looking for an exact match, but this was a disgrace.  The fighters were so cool looking in the game, and so dumb looking in the film.  The movie's Rapier (the only one of four fighters available in the game to appear in the film) looked like they stuck a huge bundle of cigars into a tin can, and crammed it into an old MiG-15's nose, then cut off most of the wings and tail and attached tin cans for engines.  The bridge in the Tiger's Claw looked like a dim room full of old microwave ovens dressed up to look like computer terminals.  And the Kilrathi (for the two seconds that you actually see them) didn't even look cat-like.  They looked like mutated wart-hog muppets.They didn't even get the command structure of the ship right or any pilot-pilot relations.  First off, your character (he wasn't called Blair till WC3, in the first two you actually enter your own name, but we have to name him something)was NOT Maniac's best buddy, nor were they the same age. Blair was much older.  Second, where the hell was Colonel Halcyon?  He was my favorite character, and was erased for this movie.  Halcyon was the real commander of the Tiger's Claw; Angel was just another pilot, NOT a commanding officer.  She didn't assume any command at all until WC2 (set ten years after the demise of the Tiger's Claw), when she was in charge of a ship called the Concordia.  And finally, Tolwyn didn't appear till WC2 (Ten years later) either.I can go on and on even more, but my point is that I wasn't expecting an exact match, I was just expecting some match.  This movie wasn't even close. The game contained a great story that would have made a good baseline for a movie, but instead of using that material, Chris Roberts decided to throw the whole thing down the crapper and start from scratch, concocting a stupid story filled with holes, and populating it was lousy acting, amateurish dialogue, and just plain dumb-looking spaceships.This movie made me come to the realization that the original Wing Commander games ARE the movie; That's as good as it gets.  And incidentally, starting with WC3, the games actually have better and more well-known actors than the film did. "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't see how this got such a poor rating. After all, it's not advertised as Star Wars or Star Trek. The special effects, a must for scifi fans, are great. There's a lot of scenes are in space, more than most scifi flicks. This is a special effects movie. Have fun and enjoy it.  "}{"Title":"Don't go in expecting something it's not.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading through the comments for this movie, I seem to see two types of people those who played the games this movie is based from and those who haven't, but the opinions in both those groups could not vary more.  I have played several of the Wing Commander games, but never to completion so I only have a passing familiarity with the characters and locations, but enough to know their names.  I have heard how bad this movie is, but I thought I'd give it a shot for the sake of comparing it to the games.Smart move.  The movie has a cookie-cutter plot, that's for sure, but the sets and technology are marvelous.  The idea that 600 years in the future we're tooling around the galaxy in hunks of junk that seem more like submarines than spacious, well-lit starships like on Star Trek is a completely different take on things, and something that the producers of the film should be proud of.  People assume that with time comes progression in technology, and while that is true to a limited extent, in the last 100 years we have seen little change in the implements of war--tanks, planes, ships, submarines--aside from their overall firepower, safety, etc.  Nearly 100 years ago in World War I we were flying biplanes and dogfighting over Europe.  Now we're flying jet planes and dogfighting over Iraq.  During the American Civil War, we used wooden ships to fire cannons at each other, now we use huge steel ships to fire rockets at each other from longer distances. The tool is the same, the methods are the same, only the quality has changed.  People 50 years ago thought we'd be living on the moon by now and traveling in hover cars, so who are we to say what technology we'll develop in the next few hundred years?  I have no trouble in my mind picturing our space battle fleets in the future consisting of cruisers, destroyers, and carriers, and firing torpedos with nuclear warheads on them with the same tactics we use now.  Just because Star Trek has massive energy weapons doesn't mean we'll be able to develop them ourselves, maybe we'll be firing bullets like they did in Wing Commander.  Maybe energy weapons DO exist for the humans in this movie (they do in the game, by the way), but the rigors of deep space travel prevent the ships from using them effectively. Submarines have limited weaponry and capabilities because they travel in places where we can't normally go and resupply them easily, particularly in times of war.The acting itself was a little sketchy.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. was better than I expected him to be, and Matthew Lillard was perfect for the over-the-top role of Maniac (not Maverick as some others in the comments have wrongly remembered).  There was, of course, a huge plot hole concerning the cross worn around Blair's neck, but that was thanks to a scene that was cut from the final movie.  The physics were a little off, but let's face it how many sci-fi movies use real physics?  I hear people complaining about this movie that sound doesn't travel through space so they couldn't use sonar, yet no one complains that you can hear the ships and weapons firing in Star Wars, right?Don't go in expecting Star Wars, or even Top Gun in space.  Go in with your mind open, and forget what you've seen in other sci-fi movies.  Just because phasers, photon torpedos, and anti-matter driven ships exist elsewhere doesn't mean they exist here or even in real life.  If you're a fan of war movies, then you might like this one, but don't be expecting Tora! Tora! Tora! either.For those that rag on this movie constantly, just back off.  It has some redeeming qualities, and while it isn't one of the best movies ever made, it has enough to make it interesting and worth a look on a Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie sucked major ass. I totally hated it. I almost left the movie theater. But then I kept thinking Come on this flick has to get better But instead it became worse. The whole movie is actually pretty plotless. You don't know what the hell the movie is about unless you read about the summery on the back of a VHS box. "},{"Title":"The movie version of a great legacy does it no justice","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a die hard fan of the video game series, I felt more than compelled to write a review of this movie.First off, when I first heard there was to be a Wing Commander movie, I got very excited.  Chris Roberts did an excellent job with his dramatic cut scenes in the last three PC game installments, but he lacks that same flair in the movie version.Now, I saw this in the theaters, and I must say I was very disappointed. But then again, I suppose my expectations were absurdly high given to the reality with action movies nowadays.  The special effects were okay, not impressive, and the fight scenes were few and far between.  I despise Freddie Prinze Jr. but he did a better than average job as the young Lt. Blair.  Saffron Burrows and Tcheky Karyo save this film with their style and panache.  Karyo especially pulls off a very convincing Paladin who serves as a mentor and father figure to Blair.  Everyone else was, well there...Okay, now that that's said and done, I have to say one thing.  Matthew Lillard did the worst acting job I have ever seen as Maniac, a character who is monumental to the comic relief and pure adrenaline element to the movie.  I don't see why so many people keep saying how good a job he did, I'm not saying Biff from Back to the Future did an incredible job in the video game series, but at least his character was flamboyant and very likeable.Like The Phantom Menace, this is one that fans of the series have to see, though, perhaps reluctantly due to the bad reviews.  Overall, though, yes, it has a predictable plot, yes it has more than a fair share of bad acting, yes it has aliens that look like the crack of my...well, you know...but the movie, if you put all of the critque aside isn't that bad.  I still watch it when it comes on tv every now and then, and even though I cringe at some of the horribly shot scenes, I still enjoy it for what it is. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Nice job Chris Roberts","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander I was ok for a shooter game. Wing Commander II turned towards the RPG catagory, great storyline! Wing Commander III Total RPG in the form of a movie, the plot and characters where good - not to mention the funny parts too. Wing Commander IV & V - Better plots, only heard about them.Saw the movie and I thought it okay... Yeah. The storyline was just as good as following the games, but the duration could've been longer (2 hours would've been good).  Then you would've got more time for better action.... Come to think of it (message for Mr.Roberts) What's in the Director's Cut?. One thing that really got me was the slight change in the story... Difference being Tolwyn had a real problem with Blair and Angel was from Belgium (had a European / French accent). If you've play the games (esp. The Kilrathi Saga - 1,2&3), you may find there's that possibility of a sequal/s.  Besides anyone who's followed WC2 right through with the game and the Special Ops. 1&2 addons you'll find that the Tiger's Claw gets blown away and there's a traitor amongst the Terrans.You never know... "},{"Title":"Star Trek/Das Boot/ Hornblower/ Midway only really crappy.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Sci-fi at its worst.  The faux pas in this movie are staggering not to mention the amount of cliches.  The sound effect are second rate the space craft sound like ski-doos, and shoot guns that sound like out-takes from rawhide.  Three hundred years into the future and we are still using large cumbersome torpedoes. They can travel through Quasars but can't detect a ship hiding right underneath them. The little Das Boot scene with the sonar Ping sounding in the background is precious, the crew whispering so the warship overhead doesn't detect them in the vacuum that is space, where there is no sound.  To add insult to injury the warship even drops depth charges.  Another laughable scene is where the two ship meet head on and pass each other firing torpedoes or cannons, I couldn't tell, something straight out of Captain Blood.  Three hundred years into the future travelling to different gallaxies and we still don't shoot till we see the whites of there eyes, or green as the case may be. This is just a bad movie, without even any good action scenes to carry the lame plot. Try Aliens or 2001 for much better Sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad, considering.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie might fare better if you weren't expecting something else... This is not Top Gun in SpaceFor anyone who pans the acting, I have to ASK; What the heck are your standards?The acting is actually great considering the material. The set design is dead-on realistic. And even Freddie Prinz doesn't do that bad.And as an adaptation of a video game, sure beats some stupid martial-arts genre.Watchable, more so than cheezy made for TV series... even Deep Space Nine, I hate to say.Good enough. But what do I know.. I'm an adult who has actually BEEN in the military. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies i´ve seen","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  if you have nothing to do, and it´s the only movie you can watch... don´t watch it!!! it´s really bad! it´s like a bad copy of star wars, i think they´ve used 1 dollar for the special effects at much... the funniest part of the movie were the aliens... they are pitiful. i was bored all the first half of the movie, and the other half, i forward the tape to see how it ends (the end is bad to.. it´s typical). Anyway,the only good thing of the movie is Freddie Prinze Jr. but i hope that he won´t make more of this kind of movies, it´s his worst movie. I recommend you to don´t watch at this movie, it will be a waste of money and time. "},{"Title":"What a total sack of monkey poop","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the few movies that I am actually ANGRY at.  I never really played the computer game that it was based on, but I know enough about it to say that the game was basically dog-fighting with a little plot thrown in for spice.  A fun mix.The movie, on the other hand, had maybe what, 2 scenes of actual dog-fighting?  And even then they were royally depressing in their lameness and short lengths of time.  And yes, the whole idea of a persecuted-Christian in the time of Romans parallel made me want to vomit.The acting was atrocious.  I basically despise Freddie Prinze Jr. anyway, so that was no disappointment.  He always has that smile on his face that says Hi, I think I'm irresistible but really makes me want to plunge him head-first off a bridge with sharp, nasty rocks at the bottom.  Saffron Burrows gave us a very flat performance... and her change of heart over Maverick seems way too sudden to be remotely believable (how many movies involving planes or the like will have the hotshot male lead be named Maverick, by the way?)  She was a wench who turned into a mushy wuss in a split second.  And don't even get me started on Matthew Lillard.  He is always playing the same type of character with that same idiotic grin... Wing Commander, Scream, Salt Lake City Punk... the list goes on.  Can we say type-cast?I admit, the only reason I went to see this movie was because I had been led to believe that there would be a trailer for Star Wars Episode 1 in the coming attractions (which there wasn't, so of course I was disappointed).  Now I really REALLY wish that I hadn't wasted my time on this. "},{"Title":"Pilgrims get back on the Mayflower!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Do no see this movie before working with heavy machinery**  I mean what was the point of this movie.  It took a video game with a simple plot and made us go from A to c to 4 to God knows where.  I Have palyed the video game and dragged one of my friends to this move.  No she wants to kill me for inducing her to a story that had no plot or a single shower scene, remember they days of Starship Troopers!  I was trying to slit my wrist with a piece of popcorn with the whole love store of ANgel and  AMverick...He was no Tom Cruise and i wasnt to made about Saffron in this flick!  I mean what the hell...the relationship was only hinted at...and the war did not bring them together like to rabid dogs in heat!  I have a question...where was the plot...where was a naked buttocks...???? Freddie go back to teen romance flicks abd Saffron....just go ! Your acting is like marriage without sex! "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When the movie came out into theaters, it sounded like a good movie. Boy was I wrong. This movie was kind of boring. I'll admit it was better than Street Fighter. The acting was good. The plot was all right. And the F/X was good. But just wasn't as good as I thought it would be. I do recommend this movie to anyone who likes the video game, or a Sci-Fi movie. "}{"Title":"It's like a Star Wars movie.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If anybody likes Star Wars, they would like this movie.  I only saw it because I knew that Freddie Prinze Jr. was going to be in it.  I walked into the theater on Friday March 12 at 930 really wanting to see it.  I did not think that I would like it and when I left the theater, I really liked it even though I was not real crazy about Star Wars.  I never heard or played the video game before or ever plan to. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been a fan of the game since before Mark Hamill played the part of Christopher Blair. He's no Lucas, but I thought for his first time out, Chris Roberts did a pretty good job.  People who are unfamiliar with the game will have no problem following the plot, but those who are familiar with the game, its plot, characters and vehicles will find little matching the game in the movie.  Actors aside, the vehicles are a complete departure from the style of the game.  In particular, the signature style of the Kilrathi's non-symmetrical design is lost.  Also, the Kilrathi themselves look very different than how they are portrayed in the game.  I dare say the game did a better job.  To say a few words in favor of the movie, I thought the character Paladin was very well done, and Maniac was well played by Matt Lillard, although I miss Tom Biff Wilson in that role.  The parallels drawn between life on the Tiger Claw and the Red October were interesting.  Having Jürgen Prochnow from Das Boot on the bridge helped make that connection too.  Bottom line, this film wasn't made to win awards. This is just a fun film. So go see it, have fun, and while you're at it, enjoy the game. "},{"Title":"Space Opera ala Star Wars.  A fun ride with some bumps.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into Wing Commander with exceptionally low expectations, and came out somewhat _more_ than pleasantly surprised.  The plot is a bit loose, and Chris Roberts' vision of the future is a bit silly, but the acting was quite acceptable, the humor reasonably well done.The concepts, scenery, and miscellaneous visual imagery successfully combined an old-style World War II visual feel with a far future setting, though the space-fighters-that-looked-like-corsairs were more than a little silly, and the capital vessels' broadside missile cannon battle came right out of an Erol Flynn pirate movie.  Nonetheless, the visuals were internally consistent throughout -- quite an achievement in a sci-fi film set this far in the future.I found that when I suspended disbelief, I was able to immerse myself in the film and cheer for the good guys, but the movie periodically did something so silly that it yanked me out of the story to scoff briefly before diving back in.If you like sci-fi and space opera ala Star Wars, go for it -- you'll enjoy this quite a bit.  But do yourself a favor and keep a reign on your expectations. "},{"Title":"Passable Sci-Fi","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kind of like Das Boot meets Star Trek with some cheesy space planes that look like WWI fighters with gigantic gattling guns attached on front.  While the space battle scenes took me right back to the days of Wing Commander I computer game, nothing else in this movie is really any good.  The acting is average; however, the script is really terrible and fails to significantly develop any of the characters.  Some people say that's artistic and sophisticated (ala Thin Red Line) but I prefer to be entertained.The second trailer for Star Wars was also playing for this movie... AWESOME... this may be the first genuine case of a trailer helping to promote the movie it's playing before! "},{"Title":"Biggles in Space","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starship Troopers, coming out two years before Wing Commander, replayed the WW2-propaganda film for satirical purposes. For all its gore and splashy special effects, at least it could claim it had a brain behind it somewhere. Wing Commander is much more straightforward. The evil Clumsy Cat-Aliens are attacking humanity, and it's up to Freddie Prinze Jr and his buddy Matthew Lillard to kill 'em all.Nevermind that the premise and background are thinner than paper. Do we know anything about the two races? No. The humans are just as vague as the Clumsy Cat-Aliens. Do we know why they're fighting? Of course not. We're just meant to assume that one side is evil, I guess.The point is the action, right? So long as stuff blows up at a satisfying rate, everything will be okay. That's the trouble the space-battle scenes are filmed in the dark with all the excitement of a video game (one played by someone else, that is). The bad guys pose no threat whatsoever, and when our hero finally fights them face to face, they promptly fall over as if they can't be bothered to put up a fight.Everything about this movie is stupid and generic and kind of boring. Costumes appear to have been borrowed from the Warsaw Pact, and the little space-fighters look suspiciously like vintage MiGs; the larger spaceships all look more or less the same, like hybrids of aircraft carriers and submarines, barely visible in the depths of space. In the movie's favor, it's got a great cast of European character actors Tcheky Karyo, David Warner, Jurgen Prochnow, and David Suchet. Maybe if they'd dumped the American leads they could have had a B-movie that wasn't so offensively dumb. "},{"Title":"a good film if you take it as it is - a movie for gamers","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen the movie twice and i agree that it's not at great movie with brilliant script or tricks but.....I have played all the WC games and i loved them - and the movie has the same sense of surprise and plot that the games have. An outcast who ends to be the hero and a little crush on the senior in command actually the movie is much more scientific correct than ex. Star Wars. The spaceships are using bullets and there is a little Einstein with time/space theories. The movie is NOT i repeat NOT for anyone else than non space combat sci-fi nerds which means - no girl- or best friends, parents and ....- but my son (11 years) loved it - as i did "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Wing Commander as it came out in 1999, and I considered leaving the theatre because it was so bad.  The acting, script, plot, and everything else about this movie was terribly, horribly, extremely bad.  This is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"looking deeper at a pretty good new scifi","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  its not all scifi, sure you've got the aliens, space crafts, etc.  but it is more about over coming the hate in the world and universe.  blair is looked down on because his mother was from a different group of people, and everyone thinks he is no good.  he learns more about his mothers people, and does not hate the troop for hating him.  the troop and commanders have to learn that we all bleed the same, and hate leads to suffering.  it is a good scifi, but even better at looking into the lives we live together, and how we need to see everyones good.  we may appear different, or come from a different group- but we are all one. i would recommend this to everyone, it really makes you see deeper, while enjoying a good scifi flick. "},{"Title":"I had to use the bathroom 5 minutes into the movie, and I held it the whole time.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I figured that it would be like Top Gun or something, but after the first 20 minutes, I was hooked! I NEVER left the theater once during Wing Commander. I liked the fact that the Rapiers shot bullets instead of lasers or sci-fi guns. And when the Tiger's Claw shot missiles, I thought it was a submarine!I think this movie was one of the best of 1999. Besides 'Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace' and 'Austin Powers'. "},{"Title":"By geeks for geeks","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is an expression of everything geeky that the world was in 1999, what with the dot com boom and the rapid infiltration and adoption of previously geeky domains, such as PC gaming, into mainstream culture.It was natural for Chris Roberts, who had lead the Wing Commander franchise through each successful sequel, to write and direct the movie, after all the games themselves had in a way pioneered the use of filmed cut scenes, and featured many very well known actors such as John Rhys-Davies and Malcolm Mcdowell.Due to Robert's influence, this movie feels almost more like fan-fiction at times. The story is not bad, certainly a little better than standard Hollywood fare, and there is a lot of attention to detail in the sets and especially the dogfight fx, that people who have played the games will instantly recognise and appreciate.Unfortunately there are also many bad points to be made. The dialogue and acting is very bad. The story, while mildly interesting, completely ignores the storyline as told in the games. But possibly the most annoying feature, was Robert's representation of the Kilrathi. He must have been running out of money by the time he reached those scenes (and there are only a few), because instead of the Kilrathi as they should be, majestic and brutal catpeople, they are portrayed more as rubber faced ghouls hidden in green fog. Most disappointing.If you've played the games, this movie is worth a view even if just for the nostalgia trip and because many of the scenes actually feel like they are right out of the games (whether this is a good or bad thing I'm not sure ;). If you're not a fan, then pass.  "}{"Title":"It's fairly decent.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was pretty good. It was a nice adventure for a Sunday afternoon. Still, I have some complaints. The casting job wasn't good at all. Has anyone noticed that Freddie Prinze Jr. looks NOTHING like Mark Hamill? Matthew Lillard is a good choice for the younger version of Tom Wilson since they sound somewhat alike. Also, the book version was better than the movie. They described the Kilrathi in greater detail, and many scenes, lines, and the like were also cut. The book had a somewhat different plot line than the movie. I recommend the book. The movie? Freddie as Mark? Movie good. Casting less than stellar. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Underrated","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't understand why this movie is rated so low. It is not a bad movie. There was an excellent cast; but there was also a good storyline.I played the game when I was a kid, it was a very well designed game and I found that the movie did adhere to what the game quite well.Freddie Prinze Jr., Saffron Burrows, David Suchet, David Warner, Matthew Lillard, an all star cast executed very well. Overall an entertaining movie to watch, good story, good cast all the ingredients for a top notch movie.8 Out of 10 "},{"Title":"B+ Very Good Effort","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is not often that one rents any straight-to-video Sci-Fi movies for the simple reason that 99.998% of them are terrible, but WING COMMANDER just proves the rule that all rules are there to be broken occasionally.From the well done, and expensive looking, title sequence to the only slightly predictable end the film actually surprises with how good it is.While it is, at root, your basic unlikely-underdogs-tasked-with-saving-the-world-at-the-last-minute-from-dead ly-force/thing/alien flick, WING COMMADER manages to transcend the usual terrible plot, terrible direction, worse acting and even worse still action sequences dilemma that so many of its genre relations fall prey to.In fact, 15 minutes into it and you have been deftly introduced to the deadly situation facing earth, given an insight into all the main characters and told about the more interesting than usual backstory, without, amazingly for this genre, the rest of the plot being given away in clunky this is the secret thing you will use at the end to save us all scenes.Living in the remote foothills of Everest as I do, I was totally unaware WING COMMANDER was derived from a computer game - something which makes its watchability even more shocking (and I suppose explains the French bloke called Taggart.)It is helped by a good cast - with that bloke from Dead Man's Curve (Matthew Lillard) easily overshadowing Freddie Prinze Jnr, and that English girl from Deep Blue Sea (Saffron Burrows)being unshakably sexy as she strutts her I'm the boss lines.Director Chris Roberts probably didn't have as large a budget as he'd hoped, but the design of the film is nevertheless intriguing. Yes, he's stolen liberally from the sci-fi Cannon, and even Das Boot, for the design and direction but, strangely, it works.The space-ships feel cramped and submarine like (as they would in reality) and the computers and holographic displays manage to look functional and funky as opposed to cheap and tacky. Even the obviously cheap explosions are effectively done. And one of the final battle scenes, which harks back to the days of Nelson and Napoleon's sea battles, is just unspired.Another nice touch is the style of the humans space-ships, which bear more than a passing resemblance to the British Spitfires (they even fire bullets!) which fought off the Nazi's in the Second World War.Overall, Wing Commander is a very pleasant and amusing surprise, and even had me cheering on the sofa. Oh, and its  considerably better than The Phantom Menace, so there. "},{"Title":"Stupid, idiotic, weak plot, physics? What physics?","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's see. Space ships painted jungle cameo. - useless in a black environment. Radar in space that pings like sonar, even though sonar pings would not work in vacuum.A fighter gets bulldozed off a landing area and falls down past the ship - when there is no gravity! There are just so many stupid mistakes on that level - or worse - that it boggles the mind. The writers, director, an everyone thought they were directing a WWII submarine movie - that's the only explanation, as they apply the behavior and physics of water to space.The acting is pathetic. Only a 10 year old could enjoy this movie. Even the script can't get the action right - one line described ships coming through one at a time, but the movie shows three and four coming through.If you want a laugh and have time to kill, watch it. Otherwise, avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Ignore the minor quibbles over ships and facts &#150; this is just not a good film","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the 27th century Earth is at war with the Kilrathi Empire.  During an attack on an Earth space base, the Kilrathi capture a Navcom unit that will allow their ships to jump directly to Earth and attack before defences can be prepared.  Earth turns to Starship Tiger Claw and it's small crew of fighters to stop the assault and ensure that the Kilrathi cannot attack Earth unannounced.I haven't played the game, seen the game or even know anything about the game &#150; so I'm relatively open and had no images of what the film `should' look like. I've read other reviews and have noticed many focus on the factual errors (like the anti-gravity bulldozers) and the spaceship design.  Yes, these were poor things but they are not the only reason why this wasn't very good.The `plot' seemed to require a history with the game &#150; it was full of nonsense about pilgrims, wars etc, little of which was explained and made me feel like it was my fault for not knowing!  Secondly the film felt like a game at parts.  I mean that we had some action scenes then we had shots of Admirals talking that felt like it was an interlude between missions on a game.  It certainly didn't feel like a scene in a movie.The effects are a little daft but the WW2 designs are actually quite cool despite being totally impractical and unlikely.  The space battles lack tension and simply aren't exciting in the least.  The plot clichés are all over the place , ranging from loser come good to a poor love interest aspect.Prinze Jr should not be allowed to make films if this is all the screen presence he can muster up.  He is as vacuous as the space around him and it's hard to care for him.  However he shines when beside Burrows who brings a new definition to the word `wooden'.  I hate Lillard but at least he brings some energy to the film &#150; he's still irritating but at least he's trying hard!  Prochnow is actually alright and rises above the material.  The WW2 theme continues in the mainly British cast.  This is a little weird because the leads are mostly Yanks.  It's also worrying to see actors like Suchet, Warner and several others hawking their wares in this sort of film.  The support cast is deep in familiar faces from British TV and film &#150; including the lead of Young Americans and Don Gilet.  The only actress that really caught my eye was Ginny Holder who played a sexy love interest as Rosie.  But she's black, and a side kick of sorts, and a love interest &#150; so how long do we think that she'll survive?Overall who cares about the WW2 design or the fact that the ship design is silly or that factual errors are all over the place.  These are not reasons the film is bad &#150; no.  The poor acting, poor plot and dull `action' scenes that lack tension &#150; these are the things that make this film bad and well worth avoiding apart from the pretty Holder. "},{"Title":"This is a movie???!!??","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I went see this movie only because I heard it was going to be the first one to have the trailer for the new Star Wars movie.  And it did and that was by far the best part of the experience.This is the kind of movie that really bothers me.  Because when scripts or ideas are pitched to studio executives, they must sit around in a room and decide whether or not they are going to spend 40 million dollars on some film that they hope will give them a significnat return.  With Wing Commander, I would like to know how anyone could actually read the script and say to themselves  Yea!!!!  We are going to make a huge profit off this one.   How exactly do executives do it?  How do they get paid the ridiculous amounts of money that they do and then give the green light to make unbelievably bad movies like this?  I know sometimes it is a gamble because you never know what will succeed and what won't ( remember the unbelievable success of Lethal Weapon?  No one saw that coming ) but at least when you gamble, there should be some educated reasoning behind it. And any educated person would tell you that this film was destined to fail right from the beginning.  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Mathew Lilliard are not that big enough yet to carry a film by themselves, especially if they are working with the deck stacked against them.  And plus, another film sort of like this one was scheduled to get released in mere months after this came out, and that film is called The Phantom Menace.  And I think everyone could wait a few more months to get their fix than to catch some simple imitation called Wing Commander.I won't even get into the story because it is so simple that I'm sure you already know.  Some bad guys want to take over the world and some good guys have to stop them.The story is uninteresting, the acting is okay and the direction is a muddled confusing mess.  And to top it off they wasted Lilliard in this film.  He deserves better than this.  He has a presence on film and he makes almost every scene he's in better.  Even in this film he was good, but he can't help something that is this bad.Don't waste your money or your inteligence on this piece of garbage.  It is terrible.  Bad Bad Bad.  Awful.... You get the point! "},{"Title":"Campy. Very, very campy.","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's more ham in this movie than a Lutheran Easter picnic. I can't believe that anyone went to the trouble to make this movie. Yes, I toughed it out to the end - mostly because I'm a masochist. The dialogue is stilted and juvenile. The characters are so one dimensional I expected them to disappear when they turned. The special effects are only 'meh' for 1999, but are laughable compared to now. I saw another reviewer say that s/he preferred this (at times) to SW Episode 1. That's another ham-fest, but at least it has LIGHTSABERS. The ships in this looked amateur. I mean, come on, Rapiers (a light, lithe weapon IRL) were these chunky, pig-nosed things that looked like A-10 Warthogs... in space. No, it just doesn't feel consistent, or cool, or watchable ever again. "},{"Title":"This isn't TERRIBLE","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This isn't TERRIBLE.Lillard and Prinze (Jr.) aren't the dynamic heroes they need to be and the set pieces aren't incredibly good and boy oh boy those Kilrathi costumes are WORSE THAN THE VIDEO GAME'S.BUT. They surrounded the rest of the movie with some solid, fun actors and you can see where, in this modern Marvel world, someone with a little more time and budget and care for a potential franchise could've made a real solid flick.This totally isn't that but you can see it, in the cracks. This is still bad, though. "},{"Title":"Could be worse, but not by much","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a little quip in Douglas Adams' Hitchhikers Guide about a job - The hours are good but most of the actual minutes are lousy (paraphrasing).Wing Commander has a phenomenal cast, but that is about all. Even in saying that, all of the big name performers in this movie have been in at least one (other) stinker in their career I believe. The script is at about an eight grade level, the year is 26 something and yet we are still using torpedoes (of the submarine type), missiles and some kind of guns. I swear they throw in a submarine hiding on the ocean floor and getting depth charged type scene just to remind us what else Jurgen Prochnow is known for (and to give him a chance to look at the ceiling again).Look, if you let the movie wash over you it *is* mildly entertaining, even as it throws cliché after movie cliché at you. Don't think too hard about the script, don't worry if a scene is boring or painful because the movie moves briskly along. "},{"Title":"Fly This Film Down a Toilet.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander (1999) Dir Chris Roberts / Cast Freddie Prinze Jr., Saffron Burrows, Matthew Lillard, Tchehy Karyo, Ginny Holder One of the stupidest contraptions ever put to film. It is one of those fleet movies with commanders, lieutenants, Naval officers, etc. Title refers to the limited resources to being human and undertaking challenges such as flying. Freddie Prinze Jr. stars as a half breed whose father was a Naval officer and his mother was a Pilgrim. His only memory of them is through a cross necklace that he wears for good luck. It obviously doesn't work because if it did then he would be in a different movie. Director Chris Roberts is as bad as the screenwriter is with ideas. I have seen children create better art just by throwing a bowl of cheerios against the wall. I have seen paper airplanes with greater credibility than the air crafts presented here. Prinze Jr. leads the horrible casting as this half wit pilot. Matthew Lillard plays his idiotic best friend. Saffron Burrows plays the obvious romantic tease that has the personality of sheet metal. Tcheky Karyo shows up to yell commands and apparently look mean doing it. Ginny Holder plays a character who dies when the leads screw up. She can consider herself fortunate that she didn't have to subject herself to this crap longer. This film is an insult to the senses it eventually numbs. It is a flimsy Top Gun rip-off with all of the excitement of indigestion. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"I actually quite enjoyed this film","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems that there are a lot of people out there that never really liked this movie, but as far as I am concerned it wasn't all that bad. Granted it was based on a computer game in which Mark Hamil, among others, played starring roles, those obviously when the film came out minus Mark Hamil people were incredibly disappointed. Personally, which I had played the game and enjoyed it, I did not expect it to be identical to the game, and also noting that the creator of the Wing Commander franchise directed it, I at least knew that it was going to have the original creative juices flowing into it.Since Wing Commander is a space flight simulator where you fly space fighters around and shoot up Kilrathi, that is in effect was I was going to expect from this film as well, namely lots of dog fights between Kilrathi and Humans. Also the main characters from the game (and the only ones that I can remember were Paladin and Christopher Blair, though I suspect that there were a lot of others as well which I recognised from the game).The thing that I really appreciated about the film was that a lot of the craft had a very World War II feeling to them, especially the raptors, that basically looked like World War II fighter planes (without the propeller because propellers, and in fact jet engines, don't work in space). Unfortunately you don't see much of the Kilrathi, and when you do they are only briefly shown before they are gunned down, however what you do see are their ships. I guess this is because we are simply following the main characters, who are all humans, around and only being able to see what that see.As I said I liked this film, not only because it was science-fiction and had a fair share of dog fights, but also because of the way they created the setting. I also remember seeing this movie with a friend of my who was also a big fan of the games (though I only ever played one of them). "},{"Title":"Wing Commander review","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Space battles! Ah man, I can't ever get enough of them. Some of the coolest moments in film and TV have beautiful starfields and nebulae with giant starships and fast fighters blasting each other to hell with lasers, torpedoes, and other far-out weaponry. Cinema has been blessed with many great space battles in the Star Wars, Star Trek, Battlestar Galactica, and Starship Troopers franchises. Unfortunately, that's as good as it gets; there aren't that many movies that really show space warfare, and I personally wish there were more. This is probably why I turn to Wing Commander once in a while.The sole appeal to Wing Commander will be its space battles and special effects. They aren't that great per se; the graphics are fairly low-tech and haven't aged well. Regardless, the actual battles are fairly cool, with some nicely colorful backdrops, cool-looking ships, and plenty of explosions and laser beams flying around everywhere.The rest of the movie is comprised of some of the purest and densest cheese. It's a light and fluffy film, full of playful banter and juvenile characters; it makes for an entertaining flick in its own right, but it does not leave any lasting impact, and will likely repulse many viewers.I've never played the original Wing Commander video games, but I have no doubt that they probably have a better story and more immersive universe than this film. This film covers a pretty standard story, with stuff we've seen before in shows like Battlestar Galactica. There's nothing much new to seeing space-faring pilots fighting aliens, getting involved with each other, breaking the rules, and inevitably having to make sacrifices. With the film's lightweight tone, none of it bears any weight. The film also never lets the audience get to know the characters beyond the surface level. We also never get to know much about the universe, aside from the fact that there are aliens, there are humans in spaceships, and they're at war.This film uses pretty standard photography and editing. Acting is nothing worth screaming about Freddie Prinze Jr. looks and acts very juvenile, and Matthew Lillard even moreso. Saffron Burrows is easily the bright spot here, not only in terms of looks and that awesome accent of hers, but also in taking the role a little more seriously than everybody else. Writing is average at best. This production has pretty weak-looking sets, props, and costumes. The Kilrathi look especially awful toward the end, appearing like giant plastic cat-people. Special effects are used liberally - there's even one totally useless Matrix effect, where the camera spins around the characters while they're in slow-motion. As mentioned above, the space battles are cool, but still fairly cheap. Music is not bad though.Not a great film by any means, and certainly not the best space combat movie ever made. But in a genre that's rather lacking, I find Wing Commander fun. If you enjoy epic space combat like I do, then this is worth renting once.3/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really don't know why all the hate about this film. I remembered liking it quite a bit years ago and honestly after viewing it after all these years I can see where many aspects of this gave birth to the ever popular Battle Star Galactica saga.This movie is a well balanced whole package film. I love Sci-Fi movies and outer space movies as a whole and there's no reason why this movie shouldn't hit the mark and quite honestly I'm astounded as to why it has such a low rating. I normally would rank this movie as an 8 to 9 but since it's had such bad markings I've upped it to all I could. And I'm rating this as a 14 year old flick at that...In short, if you like Sci-Fi's, space travel, space battles, the whole BSG theme, then one would think you should like this. Again I'm astounded as to why this movie hit such a ditch when it came to ratings and such, a very entertaining flick at least by my standards "},{"Title":"Best movie ever made!","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ten years after the Wing Commander released, it is still the best sci-fi movie ever made!It would have been fun with a renewal of this film for the story is great and I think it would be a hit movie.I like everything in this film from the actors to the effects and story. Given when the film was made, it is clearly the best film I've seen in the last 10 years! i would like to see more films and series like Wing Commander and Space above and beyond to come in the future! I hope that the film industry is listening to us sci-fi enthusiasts! But no more Steven Spielberg series because he destroys everything he does. "},{"Title":"to the stars","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand that many dismiss the film because it didn't stay true enough to the universe established in the video game. On the other hand, there are those like me who know nothing about the game and watched the film due to interest in things sci-fi in general and the film delivered on that end. Much of the premise and cultural setting reminded me of the original Battlestar Galactica. There are some really good fighting scenes, but, most of all, it's a sci-fi movie that is actually in space - for the whole length of the film (which I do appreciate) - not hiding on some Earth-like planet.The film features some strong female characters, but, as pointed out by others, some aspects are regular Hollywood fare. I really liked the pilgrim mythology. Putting aside any relationship to the video game, the film is fun, has its emotional moments and features some great visuals. "},{"Title":"A good one","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen a few movies about some serious conflicts in space, this movie looks the same but a little bit better. I'm not talking Star Wars here, but this movie is definitely not a train wreck as people say, it has a good script, it has some good action and a good love story. Check this out, a rookie pilot fights aliens, becomes a hero and gets a nice girl at the end of the day. My only problem with this flick is editing, I think that there were a lot of pieces left behind and cut, so if the studio puts out a director's cut - I am definitely buying it.You won't waste your evening watching this one, even your girlfriend can come along, after all this movie stars Freddie Prinze Jr. "},{"Title":"Das Boot in Space.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't the best film ever, but it isn't the worst, either. It's basically a bunch of buddy and war film cliches strung together with obligatory sci-fi elements and a strangely unsatisfying finale. Basic plot (spoilers) Two buddies graduate from the Terran Confederation Academy together, heading straight into an intergalactic war. They are assiged to Confed's decorated strike carrier, the Tiger(sic) Claw. Buddy 1 has an affair with his squadron mate who later dies in a s**t happens landing accident that shifts from being tragic to bizarre to hilarious. Most of the emotion of the film is robbed when you're not thinking where have I seen this before, but where HAVEN'T I seen this before?.Meanwhile, Buddy 2 is being bitched at for being part a legendary breed of space navigators called the Pilgrims who started a great big war with the rest of humanity, and lost. Some of the survivors fight alongside humanity against an evil breed of FUGLY space aliens, while others align themselves with the aliens, the Kilrathi. (A planned subplot which would further elaborate on the Pilgrims, involving the captain of the Tiger Claw plotting against the Confederation was cut, leaving the whole Pilgrim issue unresolved. Thankfully, it is retained in the novel.). In the end, Buddy 1 gets over his grief over the death of his lover and helps Buddy 2 save the universe. Everyone finally comes to grip with Buddy 2's heritage, and everyone lives happily ever after. The end.That's the basic plot. The rest of this review will be addressing other points.The acting in this movie really isn't THAT bad. Prinze Junior and Lillard do a decent job of being buddy-buddy twentysomethings, which last time I checked, they were. The downside is that they're forced to recite a script bogged down by every war movie and love cliche that ever existed in the history of the universe. But then again, these things happen when game designers write movies. (On a side note, I find it incredibly hilarious how half the reviewers here are ranting and raving about how t33n st4rs R gh3y!!!11111 th3y sh0uld use 40 y34r o1ds to p14y t33nag3rs!!!11111 w4h!!!!!!!!!!! . . . especially how Mark Hamill, who played Blair in the game, *was* a teen star at the time of Star Wars.)The ships don't ACTUALLY shoot bullets; officially they're rotary neutron cannons, which is a cool way to say gatling lasers, basically. And while we see the torpedoes being loaded manually, that's not usually the case; if you watch it closely (like anyone HERE's gonna do that . . .), the weapons control officers reports that tubes three and four are damaged. Auto-loaders are not operational. (It might seem anachronistic for state-of-the-art warships in 2654 to fire projectiles instead of the antimatter bolts visible in a few scenes, but in the games it's explained that only torpedoes can penetrate ships' shields consistantly. Should have put it in the film, guys).And while the image of the fighter being pushed off the deck looks REALLY REALLY DUMB, there's actually a logical explanation The Claw has artificial gravity. The ship's artificial gravity extends slightly past the end of the runway. Ships dip as they come off.Then we have the Das Boot scene, where the destroyer comes and everyone's whispering. I know someone who can explain this far better than I canAGH! The scene is the ultimate proof that your average movie goer is stupid. The enemy capships start to fly off and everybody starts cheering, and Paladin goes shhh. And then you can hear that there's still a blip, which is a ship heading for the Tiger's Claw. He's *clearly* just telling them to shut up so he can hear... and everybody still had a field day with this. (It's even more ridiculous when you think about it -- if the characters honestly believed that the Kilrathi could hear them, as trained military personel they wouldn't have cheered at all.) When I tell somebody to shut up, it's generally *not* because I think alien ships can hear me. Well, sometimes it is.  It's apparently just a stylistic flourish.Of course, all these stylistic flourishes, many of them lifted from World War II, seem really stupid in the context of the movie. So why have them? Chris Roberts, the director, says I wanted to have something that felt like Das Boot in space . . . There were some scenes I wanted in the movie that were the equivalent of Das Boot's depth-charging scene. I was trying very much to make a classic World War II movie, but update it and set it in space, so things that you see will register with you on a subconscious level, but instead of destroyers at sea or a submarine stuck at the bottom of the ocean, it's all in space. Seems like Roberts tried a bit TOO hard to make things register subconsciously, simultaniously insulting his audience's intelligence.So should you see it? It depends. It's almost a given that if you have the games, you won't enjoy it, since the general feel of the movie is much different, and there a bunch of things easily mistaken for continuity errors, which I won't go into for lack of relevency. On the other hand, if you want to see a kick-ass action movie or a decent story, the movie fails on both accounts. While there are some nice CGI effects, the fighting is few and far between, and rather slow paced - you get the idea that everything's leading up to some Star Wars style big-ass battle that never shows. The plot isn't anything to scream at either - fairly typical fare, and the characters never show themselves worthy of any real empathy.So if the movie is so bad, why do I like it? One word background. It may seem odd to hear this, but this is one case where I felt the universe created for the movie was more compelling then the actual movie itself. This isn't Star Trek, with its shiny, hi-fi definition of the future, or even the more utilitarian Star Wars and Babylon 5. This is a WAR MOVIE, and the film never lets you forget it from start to finish. Sets have a very claustrophobic, Hunt-for-Red-October feel, ships are patchy and worn, torpedo crews heave the auto-loaderless weapons into their firing tubes. This ain't no Galaxy-class hotel room, baby, THIS IS A WARSHIP!The intro is first-rate, starting with a starmap and a quote from John F. Kennedy (Many years ago, the great British explorer George Mallory who was to die on Mt. Everest, was asked why did he want to climb it. He said because it is there) and leaping directly into a Pearl Harbor-esque attack sequence. I think much of the disappointment from the film is that the intro set a highwater mark that the film couldn't equel. The soundtrack is nicely done too, one of the best parts of the film. It's evocative of classic scores done for films like /633rd/. If you only buy one thing from the film, get the soundtrack. It's worth it.So this is basically a World War II sub movie in space. If you like that sort of thing, and are willing to forgive some laughable moments (I'll never let go Jack!), great. If not, you should definetely pass. Personally, I love it, I have the DVD, but I usually only watch the half-hour or so of action sequences. But that's just me.Side note If you're interested in Wing Commander, head down to the Wing Commander Combat Information Center Chat Zone, the very best Wing Commander site and webboard, whose address is above. They'll answer all your questions, and then some.Thank you, come again. "},{"Title":"6/10","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Rented Wing Commander this summer, just to see if it was as bad as people said. Obviously, they were wrong. Very wrong.  The plot itself is as basic as it can be and so is the dialogue, but the production design and the costumes are brilliant. The photography by Thierry Arbogast is superb, as always and the movie itself is entertaining. The only thing that I don't get is Why didn't the do the creature effects as good as the other visual effects? Still, the movie was better than expected. A movie suitable for Sunday afternoons; OK, no more, no less. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Is it wrong that I enjoyed this?","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into watching this movie with some skepticism.  Mostly bad reviews, yet another sub standard video game adaption.  But, I finished being pleasantly surprised as it's not as bad as it is made out to be. Sure, it's not art but it's mindless science fiction entertainment.  You don't have to think too hard to follow the movie, which is good sometimes.The special effects are impressive, and they recreate the feel of the original WC games well.  The banged up feel of the spaceships and the universe in general has not been toned down for a squeaky clean Star Trek image.Matthew Lilard as Maniac gives the only above average performance, and from this and other movies I've seen him in he looks as if he might make an exceptional actor in years to come...Good clean fun. "},{"Title":"Yes, it's not Shakespeare, but what did you expect from a movie that is based on a computer game?","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With all the negative critics I've read before seeing this movie I was expecting a really dumb movie full of dumb heroism. But it turned out to be nowhere as bad as I feared.The plot, nah, let's forget about the plot, there wasn't any unless HUMAN VS ALIEN can be called plot. But the acting was... well, it could have been worse. It was kind of Starship Troopers-acting, with the slight difference that Starship Troopers was fun to watch BECAUSE the acting was so bad. If the acting in Wing Commander would have been more exaggerated it could as well have been fun, but it didn't bother me very much the way it was because I wasn't expecting Oscar-worthy acting anyway.Ah, I finally remember something that was actually good the special effects, somewhat PC-game style, but that's not surprising since the film is based on a computer game. The action sequences were pretty intense too.So if you can overlook the estimated 117 weaknesses of this movie you might even enjoy it for its action and special effects.My rating 4/10 "}{"Title":"Take a great game, give it a bad movie script, and this is it.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thinking back to Wing Commander 3 and 4, they should have used the same team of people to write, direct, shoot, star, cut, print, and everything else related to movie making for this movie, because then it would have been worth watching.I could put the Wing Commander 4 DVD into my computer right now, play the opening sequence, and get lost into the thrill of excitement.  If I turn on the TV and watch the movie, all the way through I'm wonderin why it has any of the names of the characters from the VG when it doesn't deserve that privilege.Ok, enough bashing this horrible movie..  For a sci-fi flick it's not all that bad, even with plot holes the size of Mars (which means big).  And despite the fact that it's also hard to follow (they jump from one thing to another, so it's hard to figure out what the plot really is, other than to win a war).It would be nice to see a REAL Wing Commander movie made, with the same quality of writing/filming/directing as in the games. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst either.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Last year after hearing about a Wing Commander movie coming out, the first thing I figured was that it wasn't going to be all that great simply because you just can't make a good movie out of a good game. For those of you who have not seen the movie, you may not want to read on if you still want to see it. If you've played the games, you will probably be disappointed. Chris and Erin Roberts did a wonderful job creating all the Wing Commander games. You'd think that Chris would try to keep the story the same, but it isn't. There are lots of differences that are disappointing to see. Just a few of the many examples - Paladin's ship is not called the 'Diligent.' It's called the 'Bonnie Heather.' By the way, he has never been a Commodore. He was a Major in WC 1 through 3, and then became a senator in WC 4. - Hunter and Blair never get into an argument. They have always been friends since they met. - Angel and Blair don't fall in love until Wing Commander 2. Angel isn't even the flight commander until WC 2. Where's Colonel Halycon?? He's supposed to be the flight commander of the Tiger's Claw.- Who's captain Sansky? You never do find out who the captain of the Tiger's claw is. - What's the deal with the ring? That never happened.. Furthermore, you never even find out about Admiral Tolwyn until Wing Commander 2.- The movie has a totally different ending than the game. Where's the 'Star Post' they are supposed to destroy?The actors/actresses aren't all that bad. But they definitely weren't as great as the fab 5 (Mark, Malcolm, John, Tom, and Jason) from the Wing Commander games.Wing Commander is a great story, FAR FAR better than Star Wars. But if you want the original story, play the games.  "},{"Title":"Not Exactly Wing Commander, not exactly as bad as everyone says.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie wasn't exactly the same wing commander as the game.  The peoples names and names of the ships are the same but the likeness to anything in the game is very very slim.  None of the confederation ships looked like any ones from the game.  About the only ship that looked like the ones from the game where the Dralthi.  But anyway I found wing commander fun to watch probably cause my expectations where not very high due to it's low reviews.  I know everyone nit-picks this movie saying that sound doesn't travel in a vacuum, or complain about the smoke trails on the missiles.  I decided to look over this.  I think the smoke trails were there for eye candy.  And the fact about sound traveling doesn't bother me I mean no one complains about the sound in star wars.  I did like the look inside the ships.  It was dark and cramped most of the time rather then bright and full of room like most sci fi movies.  But you think the people in the model department could have at least looked at the ship models in the games before making the ships in the movie.  I watched to movie for fun and not to think about every little problem that it had and I at least had an alright time watching it.My review 6.  "},{"Title":"The future took a wrong turn somewhere","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this on video for the heck of it and ended up quite content that I only paid a few dollars to see it.Where do I begin?I knew we were off to a bad start when I discovered that Saffron Burrows starred in this film. She is SO boring to watch. Let me attempt to accurately describe her acting - Take Nicholas Cage in 'Fire Birds' and multiply by 3. Yep, it's THAT bad.Where did Freddie Prinze Jr pick up that stupid 'I'm seeing this for the first time and I'm a bit scared but a bit excited but a bit confused' look from? It fails miserably.I felt that Lilliard as Maniac was a bit over the top but he still appealed most to me out of all of the cast.We didn't see much of the Kilrathi (only some shadowy in-fighter shots) but I don't think it would have enhanced the film anyway and it saved money.Technology ran off the rails in Wing Commander. The carrier space craft looked like a giant techno-hotdog and the fighters appeared to be straight winged MiG-15s with hair dryers slapped on the front. When the NavCom was stolen someone should have 'hollered for a Marshall (battery)'. I could ignore the various sounds of war in space but the thing that irritated me visually was the smoke trails on the missiles.One redeeming feature The 3D spin scene during the jump (it looked good).One last annoyance If the tractor could push the crashed fighter off the side of the carrier, why couldn't it have pushed it back through the airlock?OK, I've had my whinge. In Summary - It's worth a few dollars to see on video when you are bored. Real bored. I gave it a 4 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Stick to the games","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One thing I've learned is that video games rarely, if ever, make good movies.  This one is no exception.  There's a reason for this, what it takes to make a good video game and what it takes to make a good film are entirely different things.Despite the presence of some actors I like (Tcheky Karyo La Femme Nikita, Jurgen Pronchow Das Boot, David Warner Time Bandits, Hugh Quarshie The Church), good cinematography by Luc Besson's regular DP Thierry Arbogast, and the fact that Saffron Burrows wasn't hard to look at; I had a hard time maintaining interest.  I'm not a big stickler for scientific accuracy in sci-fi movies, but this one has so many screw-ups that it's just insulting to the audience.   SOUND DOES NOT TRAVEL THROUGH A VACUUM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Maybe this film was intended as a spoof, but I kind of doubt it.  I think  just had a lazy screenwriter.  One thing this film is noteworthy for is a pre-Matrix use of that effect where the camera revolves around something frozen in mid-air that you see in commercials all the time now, which I guess is cool, but in no way saves the film.  Do yourself a big favor, and stick to the games. "},{"Title":"Succeeds in being an exercise in dullness and tedium","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be one of the dullest, most boring, un-involving, un-exciting, anti-climactic science fiction films I've ever seen.Absolutely nothing happens. There is no spectacular space combat. The fighters shoot down enemy bogies as if they were being guided by 90 year old grandpas out on a sunday drive. The capital ships lumber past one another, and shoot missiles which take enough time to plot a course to another universe to make impact. The enemy ships seem to be woefully under-armed, unable to defeat a cruiser even when its shields are off and it's at point blank range.The aliens themselves are a bunch of stupid looking moggies, whose 'fur' actually shines in that way only plastic can. when they open their mouths it's an embarrassing display of how not to make a puppet, looking as they do like ventriloquist dummies.Now there is some sort of plot. Apparently. It's made up in about the first five minutes, and never referred to again. Characters hint at every now and then, but every time they seem to get somewhere director Roberts make sure they keep quiet. Thusly, the 'tension' we are supposed to feel is just a banal experience of watching the village idiot who plays the lead role of Blair going 'Quadrant six eight two niner has impact sector dialisys E type! Am making a vector K one eight four zero manoeuvre to try and save ship' - as if it's supposed to be 'intelligent' dialogue.While not as unwatchable as other video game to film movies such as Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat, this once again reinforces the notion that this whole transfer genre is just a really bad idea that's doomed to failure.  "},{"Title":"Sloppy and anemic","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say I wasn't warned.  But the Wing Commander games have given me many hours of enjoyment, and I thought that if anyone was likely to see hidden merits in this movie, I was.  And unlike most games, the Wing Commander series actually has well-defined characters and a logical and sequential (if episodic) plot, so the idea of a film treatment of it didn't strike me as instantly absurd (as opposed to, say, Super Mario Brothers). In any case, I was sadly mistaken; my experience with the games only made me dislike the movie more than I would have otherwise.  Indeed, if I had checked out the IMDB before renting WING COMMANDER, I would have realized that many of the blistering reviews came from fans of the games.On to the plot.  Humanity is at war with a xenophobic alien species called the Kilrathi, who have taken advantage of unbelievable human negligence to seize secret navigation data that will enable their fleet to attack Earth two hours before the human fleet can arrive.  This is used as a backdrop for a pair of rookie fighter pilots, Blair and Marshall, to join the only Earth fighter carrier that can intercept the Kilrathi fleet.  What follows is a weak mixture of TOP GUN type air fighter concepts with THE ENEMY BELOW type submarine concepts, with sincere but hokey attempts to generate pathos.The actors are really pretty good, but the casting is utterly bizarre. Saffron Burrows, with her prominent British accent, is cast as Wing Commander Jeanette Devereaux, a character who is supposed to be as French as her name sounds.  She spends most of the movie wondering why nobody ever follows her orders; the reason is obvious, for she never punishes those who disobey her, despite the fact that naval officers in this universe apparently have the right to summarily execute their subordinates (?!). Tcheky Karyo, a native-born Turk whose voice sounds oddly similar to the beautiful Teutonic tones of Maximilian Schell, is cast as James Paladin Taggart of all people.  Taggart has a deep dark secret that is so obvious that it might as well be tattooed on his forehead, yet nobody ever guesses it.  The deeper secret is, why is a Turk being cast as a Scot?  David Suchet, always delightful to watch, makes a pretty good captain; why does he end up in crap like this?As for the two leads, the less said the better.  Matt Lillard appears to be trying, in his role as Marshall, but his character is immensely annoying. He isn't even physically attractive, but the script demands that he attract a girlfriend instantly.  Freddy Prinze Jr., the weakest actor in the bunch, is naturally cast in the pivotal role of Blair.  He is outrageously fake in this character, although it is questionable whether anybody could have done well with Blair's non-sequitur dialogue.Recent movies have a deadly tendency to undermine their dialogue with explanatory sentences that are obviously aimed at the audience rather than at the characters (like Anakin Skywalker yelling You did it, R2!).  WING COMMANDER must set some kind of record for fake dialogue of this type, e.g. We made it! - They're following the decoy! - The Kilrathi ships are coming through one at a time!  This lack of confidence in the audience's ability to pay attention to what they are seeing is insulting.WING COMMANDER has some of the worst editing I've ever seen in a major motion picture; since Peter Davies has plenty of experience, I'm at a loss to explain it.  It's almost like he wanted to sabotage the movie.  Long blackouts appear between many of the scenes, forcibly reminding the viewer that it's only a movie.  Admiral Tolwyn's name appears misspelled several times.  Laughable disregard for physics is everywhere.  I can forgive the old canard about the hole in the hull sucking large objects out, a mistake many movies make.  But hushing the bridge of the carrier so the enemy won't hear you belongs in a submarine movie, not in the vacuum of space.  And a dramatic moment is utterly spoiled when a wrecked fighter is pushed off the carrier flight deck by a bulldozer - and promptly falls off in a downward direction in the middle of deep space!Although these are not all the flaws, I'm making the movie sound worse than it is.  Except for Prinze, the acting is of very good quality, and the script's artificiality and illogic are no worse than average for Hollywood. The real disappointment is that most Hollywood movies are slick and well-produced no matter how lacking they may be in content, while this one is sloppy in its production values as well as in its story.Rating *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget the movie.  Play the game instead.  Tired plot, mediocre special effects, dumb-looking fighters, a mother ship that resembles a U-Boat, and dialog that fails to engage.  Most of the actors did a respectable job, considering that they had little to work with.  Ho hum. "},{"Title":"Promises more than it delivers...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone hoping for large scale space battles ala Battlestar Galactica/Star Wars/Starship Troopers is going to be seriously disappointed. Lacklustre acting, little if any plot do not a great movie make. The special effects are OK but not as gripping as one would hope. Go play the games instead. "},{"Title":"Truly an excruciatingly painful experience","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is, with the exception of most of Charlie Sheen's output quite possibly the worst film I have seen.  Everything in this film is wasted, from the special effects (I guess they were going for grungy) to the acting (Matthew Lillard, usually the highlight of any movie he's in, even if it's a turkey, seems to be waiting for payday.)  You know how your computer beeps at you when you make a mistake?  Wing Comander beeped continuously for an hour and a half.  The only redeeming value this movie has is as a learning tool at film school Filmaking 101, Chapter 7 How to strip a film of any artistic content. Am I being too hard on this film?  Let me put it this way.  If you're looking for cheesy sci-fi/acton with some young up and coming stars who do know how to act, the list is endless.  Start with Dune, try Screamers, hell, Roger Corman did better than this!  Nuff said "}{"Title":"Had to see it myself.  Yes IT IS that bad!!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The screenplay of this movie is worse than even Godzilla which is one of the worse movies in recent years.  There is absolutely nothing to draw your attention to this movie.  I am a fan of the computer game which is about 10 years old.  The game's story was great.  It was very emotional. It did not translate well at all to the big screen.  Watch this movie to learn what not to do when making a movie. "},{"Title":"WWII in Space","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an awful movie...WWII in space?  Firing solutions? Soldiers loading torpedos in bays?  Yet they had holographic projections, the ability to jump space, AND they had fighters that fired seeking-missiles?  Do you know why they had firing solutions in submarines in WWII?  It's because they didn't have heat or radio seeking missiles. So they had to shoot where the sub was going to be. Plus you have to account for the water. That's why you need a firing solution, okay? Can you say gigantic plot-hole?  The fighters had smart missiles, why couldn't the battleship. This is space, not an ocean! If humanity is this stupid in the future, I'm glad I won't be there to see it!The concept must have sounded neat and important, but it should have sent up the red-flags of silliness at the same time. The dialogue was irrelevant and corny and cliched. How can anyone say it was deep and meaningful.  It was simply silly.  Oh God, and the love stories and the magical force-like powers of the central character.  They popped up at the right time.  Why did I stay in the movie, cause I had to...I couldn't help it. I kept telling myself, surely this has to get better.It didn't.Do you want to know the plot. (the sequence of events that tells the story...FYI...all movies have plots, so no matter how poorly plotted this movie was, don't say it didn't have a plot...but I digress. Sorry, thinking about this trash makes me get angry!) Don't read any further if you don't want important plot point revealed...here it goes...don't say I didn't warn you...okay, here it is!blah, hack, ugh........credits roll.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Another lame based-on-videogame movie","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You should stick with the computer games of Wing Commander because they're live-action too, but with better acting and a much better plot. They shouldn't of make a movie based on a FMV computer game in the first place. It's just stupid. No Stars "},{"Title":"Save your money for Tetris  The Motion Picture.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You should already know, by reading all the comments, that Wing Commander is a horrible conversion of the games.Game to movies have never really worked (the best of which was Mortal Kombat - or something).  And likewise, movie-to-games haven't really done so hot either.Why?  It's easy.  Those who can actually create substantial creative plots aren't making computer games.  If they *could* then they'd be be creative making big bucks with movies.I love computer games.  But 90% of them are essentially movie-plot ripoffs and wanna-bes (ie.  Duke Nukem = stereotypical action Stallone/Arnold, Laura Croft = Brit Indy with cones for breasts, Resident Evil = zombie b-movie). This works out ok for games because it's interactive.  Who hasn't wanted to be Luke Skywalker/Starbuck, or Bruce Willis, or a Brit Indy with cones for breasts?But unfortunately, when you take it to to the silver screen you lose the interactivity of the game which leaves very little substance and a lot of rehash.Honestly, the makers of Wing Commander (movie) didn't have much to work with.  All the good plotlines had already been taken by the interactive games (which are quite decent).Not only that, but Chris Roberts was on this WWII kick or something. Doing retro-tech is cool and artsy in flicks like Gattaca but when you're doing an action film it doesn't work at all.  DOes Roberts really think they'll still be firing torpedos, using sonar, and firing machine guns in the 24th century?  Has Roberts been to a modern aircraft carrier lately?  Did he *see* anyone loading steel balls into cannons or anyone raising the main sail?I hope this teaches video game makers a lesson.  Unless you've got a REALLY good idea, stay away from movies.  Don't ruin for the next guy.  I would think the failure of WC has ruined the chance that movies like Duke Nukem, Tomb Raider, and Resident Evil will be released anytime soon.  Thank God.In short, it's a movie.  Save your hard-earned (or not so hard earned) dollars for Tetris  The Motion Picture later this year. "},{"Title":"Suspicious...","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander, let me see now made by 20th Century Fox a few months before Star Wars came out. An adaption of a computer game that Star Wars geeks play, featuring none other than Mark 'Luke Skywalker' Hamill. Very Star Wars-ish. Surely it wasn't released just to cash in on pre-Star Wars fever by enticing all those geeks who couldn't wait for The Phantom Menace? Well, actually yeah. It's garbage.  "},{"Title":"Do not hate Chris or the games for this.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  cough Wing Commander cough Man... cough This movie really sunk. Even though people that enjoyed the movie thought the audience was clapping at the end because the movie was great, they (and my father and I) were clapping because the horrid thing was over. I love the Wing Commander series.  I've played them all, over and over. What I expected from this movie was dogfights, at impossible odds.  What I got was bad guy comes out, they shoot it, end of that.  Where were the dogfights?  I LOVED the awesome cockpit views they did, and the opening special effects of the Kilrathi ships flying by were great, however... I had to laugh at the movie.  3/4 of it's dialogue, talking about nothing.  1/5 of it is space, and the other stuff is dogfight (which wasn't really worth of the name dogfight) and cheesy romance (which also can't be called romance). I'm 13, but I have more sense then to actually like this movie.  I know. It stunk.  But the games are great.  Play those.  Please, don't hate Origin or Chris Roberts or Wing Commander for this... just look at the movie, and laugh.  "},{"Title":"...stands on its own, but not true to game's storyline.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film does a good job of standing on its own - it doesn't matter whether or not you've played the games to throughly enjoy it.  I was disappointed to see that it was not true to the established story line in the game series, especially since the maniac character is someone I, and many other fans, love to hate.  However, I enjoyed the throwback/retro style of the entire film.  The rapier space fighter model was a nice touch....kind of a cross of a japanese zero and p52(?) in space. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother...","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to this movie with my brother and his friend. Uggh! No atmosphere of this movie at all. There's no action in this heap of Kilrathi dung at all, just plain talking. Very flat performances indeed. The effects were decent though. But these ships the Wing Commander was using, those are sooo primitive. Don't waste your money on this film. It's just another Based-on-video game flick you've seen before. Like these horrible Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat Annihilation. The only person I really feel sorry for is Mr. Obutu (he should have his own TV series). That's it. D. Don't bother...  "},{"Title":"Bad (1/2 stars)","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It wants to be Top Gun in space, but it fails.  It forgot what made Top Gun big.  The music.  Take away Top Gun's music and you have an ok film.  But Wing Commander with music would still be bad "},{"Title":"Danger, Will Robinson. Danger.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the past, I've discussed such brilliant cinematic masterworks such as Street Fighter The Movie and Mortal Kombat, extolling their fantastic innovation on the feature film medium. And with Wing Commander headed to the silver screen, I figured that we'd once again experience a sci-fi spectacle that would make us forget all about Episode I. After all, Wing Commander is a cool game.Freddie `Ray from I Know What You Did Last Summer' Prinze plays Christopher Blair, a cocky up-and-coming fighter pilot. Despite his skills in the cockpit, nobody seems to like our hero because of his `pilgrim' heritage &#150; I guess they're all jealous of the cool pointy hat he gets to wear on Thanksgiving.Blair's buddy, `Maniac,' is portrayed by Matthew `Emmanuel Goldstein from Hackers' Lillard. `Maniac' is a loose cannon who enjoys fancy aerospace maneuvers, hot-dogging, and having sex with his clothes on. Despite the `fine' `job' of `acting' that Lillard does, I just can't agree with this casting decision. After all, we all know that Maniac is really Biff from Back to the Future. Shame.Anyway, the two of them &#150; accompanied by some Norwegian guy whose accent keeps changing &#150; are farting about in deep space, when they get a distress signal from a group of Terrans under attack by the Kilrathi. This is our heroes' cue to go aboard the TCS Tiger's Claw, and start vaporizing space scum in stupid-looking fighters that resemble stubby A-10 Warthogs.Once on board the Tiger's Claw (which looks suspiciously like a submarine, complete with manual gauges and monochrome vector-based monitors), Blair delivers the distress signal, conveniently placed on a Sony&#153; brand Minidisc&#153;. Soon, we are introduced to Blair's new wing commander, &#145;Angel' Devereaux, who has what looks like an enormous pimple on her left cheek. We also meet up with Rosie, a female pilot who has sex with Maniac, and is promptly blown up by the Kilrathi. Oh yeah, there's also some guy called `Ubutu,' whose name served as a major source of amusement for the next half-hour of the movie. Ubutu! Ubutu!After some flying-around-and-shooting-stuff action entirely presented from a cockpit perspective, the Terran troops board a Kilrathi cruiser. Instead of resembling the sorta-cool Muppets of Wing Commander III, the Kilrathi look like WWF wrestlers wearing Halloween masks; fortunately, the Kilrathi keep pumping fog into their ship, making it hard to see how silly they look. After the Terran commandos retrieve something that looks like a car battery from the murky depths of the ship, Blair does some pseudo-mushy scene with Angel, and almost gets sucked into space in a remarkably monotonous action sequence.All of this leads up to a climax that's about as exciting as plunging a clogged toilet. After Blair beats the bad guys, he flies back to the Tiger's Claw, where everyone is cheering that the damn movie is finally over and they can finally go home.Is there any reason you should go see Wing Commander? I think so. After all, your local theatre is probably air-conditioned, and the relative emptiness of any Wing Commander screening will allow you to bring along a laptop and catch up on your work. You can also eat tasty popcorn and mack on the girls working there. And when you're done, you can retreat to the lobby and play cool pinball games &#150; hell, you can even go to a clean, fully-stocked bathroom, should you feel the need!Even though Wing Commander is an anachronism-laden celluloid turd, you'll walk away from the cinema realizing that even though a movie sucks, American theatre-going offers many unique conveniences. Now give me a sequel, dammit!  "}{"Title":"Disappointing and disturbing","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are several things that disturb me about Wing Commander. First of all, the movie has very cheap, made-for- TV style filming, which makes you think you are watching this at  home. Second, while the special effects are fairly decent, they look like they belong in a video game instead, thus removing a real cinematic experience. Third, all of the spaceships shoot torpedoes and MACHINE GUNS. It's the 24th century in this film, and they're shooting machine guns. C'mon, now. Fourth, the bad guys, the Kilrathi, are barely ever shown and when they are they look ridiculously silly. Fifth and last, none of the original cast from the WC video games are in the movie. I played the first game and personally, I like it much better than this low-budget, sorry excuse for a sci-fi flick. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was as confusing as The Avengers was. It has TV-movie of the week written on it, 'cause that's what it feels like. What a waste. The effects were pretty good, especially the missiles. But, like Lost in Space and the Avengers, it suffered from poor script, poor directing and poorer acting. Don't waste your time. On the up side, it has the new Star Wars trailer, but you can get that off the web. Oh, well "},{"Title":"A movie you forget before the credits are over","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Combining elements from sources as different as Tom Corbett, Space Cadet' and Top Gun, Wing Commander is an elaborately-produced but instantly-forgettable trifle.The acting is better than you'd expect, and so is the supporting cast -- David Warner, David Suchet, Tcheky Kayro, Jurgen Prochnow (in a thankless, stereotyped role) -- but the story is both incoherent and obvious.  There isn't a single new idea in the whole film, and the designs of the spacecraft are clumsy and unimaginative -- which pretty much describes the film itself. "},{"Title":"In space no one can hear you snore...","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every so often, some would say not often enough, a film comes along that is so fresh and entertaining that it raises the bar for mainstream entertainment. Sadly, this is not that film.In fact, it is so far from that film that I could cry. It lowers the bar so far it's gone through the basement floor, deep into the magma core of our planet.After you sit through this film you will feel disappointed, cheated, and (above all) bored. Nothing of any importance happens in this film Every plot twist is incredibly predictable, the characters are card board (especially the promising Freddie Prinz, Jr. He showed potential... until this scrapheap of a movie), the effects are below your average car commercial's. The aliens look like a combination of Sigmund the Sea Monster, Col. Sanders, and a muffin.In short I hated this movie. I can't imagine ANYONE exiting the theatre catching their breath, exclaiming what a thrilling ride that flick was. It was just plain boring.PLEASE DON'T SEE THIS MOVIE! EVER! "},{"Title":"Not bad, then the credits end","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander is a wonderful video game.  I was late getting into the home PC experience, so my first encounter with it was on the Super Nintendo (in fact, I bought my SNES specifically for WC).  I knew going into the movie that it was not going to be stellar, but it surpassed even my low expectations.  The Kilrathi, so menacing in the game, are clearly guys in bad rubber cat suits...The acting is paper thin, especially that of the woman who plays Angel (who's name won't be mentioned to protect her identity).  While Lt. Blair is flying through the portal and grabs the Pilgrims Cross...I wasn't able to keep from saying Use the cross Luke....Too bad MST3K is being cancelled after this season, as Wing Commander is perfect fodder for them...  "},{"Title":"Liked it better than I wanted to","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The biggest fault with WC is the studio's lack of faith.  Fox wanted the film to be a hit, but rather than investing in a sweeping story, they saddle it with cliches to carry it.  It comes across as a submarine movie with a dash of Top Gun thrown in.But for what's there, it's actually all right.  The writing is good, giving some weight to the characters' mortality unlike other video game movies that treat violence and death as a tolerable side effect.  Prinze's character is meant to be an Everyman and turns out an Anyman, but is still watchable. The characters have some actual depth, and Taggart and Devereaux are commanders I would trust any day.  The creature effects are cheap, eliciting chuckles when they first appear on screen.  The sets are impressive.  The Rapiers and the Tiger Claw look exactly like you expect a group stationed in the middle of nowhere that can't get decommished and replaced equipment to look like, patchwork and all.  The sets reflect the cramped, We're not here for your comfort design of military vessels.  Although the ending is never in doubt, it is involving in spots, the science makes sense after some thought, and it grows on you.  Blair says of Marshall in one scene, He's a great guy.  There's no reason to hate him.  Same with this movie.  It doesn't hit all the right notes, but it gets closer than most other sci-fi movies even attempt to these days.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stop me if you've heard this one take a good scif-fi story and turn it into a horribly made, overdone B-movie adaptation with a Clearasil cast and one or two good actors who should have known better. Yep, it's Starship Troopers all over again. The only two good things about this flick were over in the first fifteen minutes the opening credits and the new Star Wars trailer. The credits gave me hope a creatively done montage with art skills rarely seen in sci-fi. The rest of the movie is like a train wreck. Horrible to watch, but you can't look away. SFX were mediocre at best, acting was terrible at best, dialogue apparently written by a couple of horny seventh-grade boys, plot wandering autistically all over the place. Your money is better spent on one of Will Forschten's paperback treatments of the WC universe. Chris Roberts, you have shamed all of us who ever thought you had talent. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WOW! I couldn't believe how awesomely awesome this movie is! I mean it's cooly unbelievably wicked! You see there are these guys and they're killing monsters in outer space! That is sooo radical! And all the actors are goodly kicking in their roles! The best movie of the year! "},{"Title":"Barely sufficient","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frankly speaking, Wing Commander is cool.  The battle scenes are cool, the ships are cool, the lasers are cool, the characters are cool, whatever. But...that's pretty much all there is to it.  It was neat watching all those big digital explosions and all, but what ever happened to the the actual plot?  When we're not trying to keep up with the events, we're trying to figure out how it relates to the movie.  Plus, the scenes in-between fights were just way too long.  It's just one of those films that could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could've been better","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of the video game series.  When I first played Wing Commander, I was hooked to its unique story and great characters.  The action was good and it always kept me coming back for more just to get better endings.  When I first heard about the movie, I was still looking up information on Prophecy.The movie is out.  I got a chance to see it and it surprised me.  It never did a thing to make the story that was Wing Commander come to life.  It had its moments, but there were a lot of things wrong.  The only characters in the movie were from the game were Maverick (Blair), Maniac, Angel, and Paladin.  Bossman was already dead, which sucked.  I'm not sure if Hunter is the same Hunter in the game.  Tolwyn should've still been played by Malcolm McDowell.The Kilrathi insulted the legacy of the game in my opinion.  There are strange looking.  More like fish rather than tigers.  The story was okay, but not true to the game.  What happened all of a sudden.  If you are a fan of the game series, see this movie for interest.  If you don't know a damn thing about the game, I'm not sure.  It depends of what kind of audience you are. "}{"Title":"Remember Starship Troopers? It's not that good...","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The battle scenes in Wing Commander are quite good.  The problem is all the time in between. Not strong on plot, characters, or logic. My 12 year old son liked it, so there you go. "},{"Title":"Decent story, horrible aliens...","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The storyline was decent, with a small amount of character development.  It was not as good as I expected it to be, though.  I've played the games a couple of times, and I found something missing  interaction with the aliens (Kilrathi).  In the game, you could insult the aliens to change their behavior, and they could insult you; in the movie, the heroes had almost no contact with the aliens--they either shot at them in their fighters, or shot at them inside their battlecruiser.  No face-to-face contact at all.  The cgi special effects were pretty good, except they were a little too dark to make out at times.  But the alien creature fx were horrible.  The Kilrathi looked almost nothing like the cool tiger-humanoids from the game--they looked like extremely cheap rubber slug-faced humanoids.  When a Kilrathi was shot, the camera would cut to him falling over ;flop;.  I think the company Animated Extras (if I remember the name right) should have been fired. "},{"Title":"Out on a Wing","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading the numerous zero star reviews for this sci-fi clunker, I was hesitant to see it.  I finally summed up the courage and attended.  Needless to say, all those critics were on to something.  Expecting the worse, I feel no harm was done to me by this film's simple badness.  Unlike The Corruptor, Commander is a sharply made piece of junk.  It makes no sense, but then again it doesn't try to provide a backstory.  Corruptor was just all over the place and didn't care who was watching.  Inconsistencies are abounds, and the performances are very suspect.  The largely Euro-trash cast is a curiosity to say the least.  I would suspect this has to do with the film's foreign financing, but bad actors like Jurgen Prochnow, David Warner, Tcheky Karyo, and the ridiculously monotone Saffron Burrows neatly ruin things for the rest of the decent actors.  And the less said about Matthew Lillard, the better.  Like I said before, Commander goes for a long stretches without trying to be comprehensible. The film is based on a video game, but that is no excuse.  They should have made the film for the 99% of us who have never played it.  Only David Arnold's rousing main theme is the one thing I can recommend about this mess, and he had the sense to jump ship and let some one else do the rest of the score.  Well, I guess Episode 1 will school 'em in May about the right way to do a space saga.-------------- 1  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As an avid fan of the Wing Commander computer games, I was expecting something more from the movie. Unfortunately, the movie suffers from bad acting and poor scientific thought. For example, when you push a fighter off the deck of a space-borne carrier, the fighter should, in fact float away, however, the fighter FALLS OFF the edge of the deck! What happened to Zero-G? Also, when the Tiger Claw goes to ground to avoid Kilrathi patrols, why are they whispering? After all, sound CAN'T carry through space.There are several other elements of the story that could have been thought through a little more thoroughly. The year is 2654, which is fine and dandy, but they STILL use gasoline for power! And what about the fact that Tiger Claw itself uses the same type of fuel as the Kilrathi?Other than these major technical or scientific problems, there is only one major flaw. The acting was extremely poor. After having played Wing Commander 4, which had excellent acting, I was expecting more from Chris Roberts.While the movie is disappointing overall, it was fun to watch. The plot is original (it's based on the first game) and executed almost perfectly (with the small exception of the crappy acting).Don't spend the 5 bucks to see this movie, go rent the video instead.  "},{"Title":"A misfire...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this movie a 3 out of 10, which was probably generous.  Easily the worst money I've spent in months, not including China Garden's Mu-Shu pork. Characters are hastily drawn and although full of bravado, undeveloped. Plot seems thrown in as an afterthought.  You could convince me the whole thing was based on a children's cartoon series.  I was rooting for the good guy, but barely.  Special effects were not that special (save for the part when they jump into hyperspace and the coffee is frozen in midair. That was cool, I admit.)  No redeeming qualities there. A cheezy Star Wars clone meets Starship Troopers. "},{"Title":"Almost but Not Quite","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the movie I was most excited about the weekend it came out, I can't believe it opened behind such inferior movies.This movie did not suck.  It was written by Kevin Droney (Mortal Kombat, the first one, thank you), who turned in a fairly good and excited screenplay. The problem is, though, it seems director Chris Roberts (who directed Mark Hamill in the video games) thought he was directing a straight drama, a Star Wars epic that people would flock to so they could live in his video-game-created world.No.  Though the director was not in on the joke, and seemingly neither were the actors (except Matthew Lillard this time), everyone else who made the movie knew what was up, down to the Video Game graphics from the cockpit, and even the Klingon-lighting in the scenes with the Kilrathi (who looked like footballs on sticks dressed in leftover halloween costumes).The movie was a lot of fun, but just takes itself way too seriously.  If you promise not to, go see it in hopes that we can see a more enjoyable sequel, and they can get Mark Hamill for it. "},{"Title":"My overall impression of the movie's weaknesses and strengths and how it portrayed the game.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The ideas behind Wing Commander itself are broad in such scope and detail that only a true fan of the game can fully appreciate the movie. As a gamer, the game world of Wing Commander has never been a disappointment, but the movie did not meet up to expectations. They spent more money on the special effects of the ships and guns than they did on making the Kilrathi believable. The movie seems to have been thrown together too quickly, and if as much time went into making the movie as was spent in making the game, perhaps the movie would have been a true reflection of the game and all of its intrigues. Yet this was not the case. For all you fans of the game, go see the movie as a respectful hail to a good attempt. For those who have never played, the effects will be much cooler in theatre than at home, otherwise for the average sci-fi fan, wait for it to come out on tape.  "},{"Title":"Not horrible but not good, either","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was just kinda 'there,' if you know what I mean.  It was something to do on a Sunday night.  In that respect, I would not recommend it to anyone.  On the other hand, I am not telling you to avoid it, either.  It had some entertaining moments but for the most part it lacked the meat of what it proposed to be action.  The story was decent but formulaic.  The acting was better than average for this film genre but Matthew Lillard wasn't really allowed to cut loose and show the stuff Hollywood screamed about (get it? 'screamed about?')  The best part of the movie for me was that I got to see the new Star Wars Episode 1 trailer beforehand.  I guess that was just seting Wing Commander up to disappoint. "},{"Title":"Actually has some interesting elements","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, let it be said that I had already seen the new Star Wars trailer on the web, so that was not a factor in my seeing this movie.I went in just wanting to see spaceships and special effects, and was surprised that this was an actual film with a few (very few, but a few) ideas. The idea is to reimagine WWII submarine combat (they even have the captain from Das Boot, an obvious influence, in the cast) and WWII fighter dogfights. It was kind of cute... especially the torpedoes.My favorite part, and the most clever part, was the opening credits, in which we start with a map of our solar system, as radio broadcasts talk about our exploration of space. As we continue to explore, the map begins to fill in with new stars and systems, until we end up where the action is supposed to take place.If you want to see special effects, this film is pretty good. It's like Lost in Space as you get a whole lot of bargain-basement effects. It's also like Lost in Space because this film directly rips off two distinctive effects from that film.The worst part of this film is the young members of the cast. It's like watching kids trying to take on adult roles. Freddie Prinze jr is okay-- just too young. His blond friend is THE MOST IRRITATING PERSON IN THE UNIVERSE. Their Wing Commander is like Helena Bonham Carter's pouty younger sister. There's lots of claptrap about honor and loyalty and the gift (that's the gift not the force). But it's all more entertaining than spending the whole night watching TV.If you need some special effects and spaceships and all, go.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Wait 'til it goes to the $1.00 show","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wing Commander reminded me of the SF-B movies I used to watch with my dad on Saturday afternoons, with the exception of much better acting.  And it's the acting which makes this movie watchable, despite the weak plot and poor dialogue the actors are forced to recite.  I was impressed by the strong female characters that could hold their own with 'the boys' while still remaining feminine.  The relationships that occurred between several of the characters seemed forced to me,  and I never felt like I was drawn into their world.  I can't recommend this movie to everyone, but if you like silly SF movies, then it's worth seeing.   "}{"Title":"Derivative but well done","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sci-fi enthusiast could write an entire term paper on the literary and cinematic influences that went into WING COMMANDER. Best considered as what the TV series SPACE ABOVE AND BEYOND could have been with a bigger budget and more polish, this movie also draws heavily from classic war movies involving not only air and surface naval warfare, but also submarines. In comparison with other B-grade space operas, WING COMMANDER shines with a quite a bit more intelligence. Drawing from docudrama-type war films, like SINK THE BISMARCK, much time is devoted to command personnel poring over navigational charts and plotting strategies within the specific constraints of hyperspace-jump travel. The script is more faithful to real astronomy than most, although boners do persist, most notably in the depiction of quasars as relatively small, local phenomena, when in fact they are extremely distant, extremely old, galaxy-sized objects.The casting and characters borrow not only from SPACE A & B, but also TOP GUN; Freddy Prinze, Jr's, protagonist is even nicknamed Maverick. There is no girl back home, though, so the romantic interests remain confined to shipboard military personnel. The most challenging task falls to Saffron Burrows, who is called on to develop from an icy, no-nonsense wing commander to feminine love interest, and she pulls it off nicely.The special effects are generally good. Excellent space warfare scenes must be set off a little by sub-par alien creatures, and sometimes it is difficult to follow the combat action. The F/X work would probably be best appreciated on repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What I liked about Wing Commander is the use of color.  This film was surprisingly colorful, but then the special-effects sequences ruined the film with annoying murkiness that made it impossible to tell what was going on.  The screenplay doesn't allow much explanation about the Kilrathi and what they want to do, or even why they want to do it.  The film wastes too much time talking about the evil aliens instead of showing them and that became pointless.  I left the film still trying to decide what it was about. I guess Screen writers figured their audience would already know what certain terms and actions meant. I thought of so many movies seeing this (Lost in Space, Starship Troopers, etc)which enlightens me of its unoriginality.  Little explanation and sense makes this a pointless film with interesting use of colors.  The score also became annoying because it was always playing.  We weren't allowed to understand a scene on our own. "},{"Title":"So-so acting + average action sequences = an okay movie","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I expected worse.  A friend of mine had given me all of these bad reviews from all over the net and frankly, I think they were unfounded.  Sure, the plot was hard to follow at times (it seemed like just a bunch of stuff happening at times) and I found it odd that 'medics' were rarely on the flight deck.  These negative critics were also right on about the technology; I hope we still won't be using machine guns in the 27th century.  As far as acting is concerned, I thought the Captain of the TigerClaw (David Suchet), Maniac (Matthew Lillard), and Rosie (Ginny Holder) were particularly good.  Freddie Prinze Jr.'s performance in the lead role was somewhat disappointing although I have seen worse performances.  To his credit though, he and the others did have to work with some base dialogue.  Tchéky Karyo's role as Paladin was poor.  He sounded like an Obewan Kenobi/Jean Chretien (Canada's PM) wannabe.Action sequences were good in places and horrible in others.  First of all, there are two types space battles and armed combat.  The space battles were well done, similar to Space Above & Beyond for those who have seen the show. Unfortunately, the armed combat sequences sucked wind.  Why would the pilots double as marines?  It's an insane practice and in the video games, I don't think you get to play as marines (although I haven't played a recent Wing Commander). I should also mention that the ending was pretty cheesy and very cliched.As far as movies based on video games goes, this one is A1 (Wing Commander is head and shoulders above Mortal Kombat II).  As far as movies go, however, this one is about average. "},{"Title":"Naval warfare in space!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a bad flick, but it really seemed like a naval warfare in space flick. Granted, this may be a better guesstimate of what future space warfare will be like, but I was struck by the close similarities between this and many submarine/destroyer contests of WWII vintage movies.  When you go see this, (and I do recommend it if you don't have to pay full price) go ahead and make the comparison yourself. "},{"Title":"Chris, what are you thinking?","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What exactly ran across Chris Roberts' mind when making this movie is absolutely beyond me.  As a huge fan of the games, I was thrilled when I found out Fox was making a movie based on the games.  Unfortunately, all I enjoyed of the film was the amazing 230 Star Wars trailer which played before and after the movie.  Bad SFX, acting, plot, dialogue, and music doom this movie from the start.  Rather than using everything that made the games great, Chris Roberts changes everything except the names of the characters and ships and patches together one of the most forgettable space-battle-hero movies I've ever watched.  Go to it to see the Star Wars trailer, otherwise, don't waste your money.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Star Trek meets Das Boot?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an interesting movie.  It seems to faithfully represent the characters and situations in the original Wing Commander games, so fans of the original games should find this familiar territory. From an outside perspective this movie seems to have borrowed elements from many popular films such as Star Trek, Star Wars, and even Das Boot. Jurgen Prochnow plays a racist commander of a starship that operates suspiciously like a submarine; in fact a good deal like a certain German U-boat which Prochnow once commanded.At points this movie was cheesy and too reminiscent of other movies in its genre, but overall not too bad.  "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was perhaps the most predictable movie I have seen in a long time.  One of the areas in which it could have been improved was its treatment of the aliens.  The aliens didn't inspire any emotion (fear/loathing) because of the film's inability to attribute characteristics to them. Other than that, a better than average movie.  "},{"Title":"Unrealized Potential","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say this movie was bad, but it was disappointing. The visual sequences are excellent, and the overall imagery of the movie was quite low tech and evoked both World War I fighter aces and the seafaring discovery of the Renaissance. The primary problem with this movie is that it tries to weave so many plot elements and types of statements into ninety minutes that nothing, even the military action, gets a proper showing. Without spoiling the plot, it contains two separate love stories, a statement about racial prejudice, and Hunt For Red October-esque submarine warfare sequences, in addition to the  the usual dogfights and military psychodrama. The cast was rather devoid of any big names, which didn't help or hinder the movie, everyone put in a reasonable performance considering the (sometimes rather silly) script. In summary, if you like good visuals and are willing to sit through some confused plot elements and dead scenes, by all means go see Wing Commander.  "},{"Title":"If it hadn't been a free screening, I'd have asked for my money back.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got to see this one as a free preview screening, which is good because I wouldn't have paid to see it.  The dialog was trite, bordering on ludicrous.  Let's not discuss the plot, it's too painful.  Since I've seen Freddie Prinze Jr. do some nice work in other movies, I'll blame the director for how stiff his performance was here.  Mattew Lillard is just damned annoying no matter what he's doing.  He was only good in Scream because he was supposed to be annoying.The special effects might have saved the movie if they were any good.  Most of the dogfighting scenes were seen though the cockpit view, which was supposed to appeal the fans of the video game I'm assuming.  I though it made things muddled and boring.  The rest of the effect shots they decided to camouflage by making everything way too dark.I give the movie a 4, and it only gets that because the female lead, Saffron Barrows, is cute and British.  For some reason I find that appealing. "},{"Title":"Not very good, but...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yea I went out and saw this movie (pre-screening).  Not because I think Freddy is hot, or Wing Commander was a good game (in fact I've never played it).  I saw it because the new Star Wars trailer was featured in this movie. And let me tell you, that's what this movie is all about.  The new trailer. It was awesome!  A little bit more history this time then the first, I thought it was even better (and that's saying a lot considering the first one was almost nominated for an Academy Award!) So go see Wing Commander, not because cheap Sci-Fi B movies are your style, but only because you can't wait until May 21st for  *the movie*!!!!  "}{"Title":"Horrible acting,","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I won't comment on the optical disk where the encrypted message is saved, nor the '60 styled desk lamps throughout all the movie (I thought in more than 600 years from now we would know better than that).Anyway, even if the overall acting performance is generally ugly, I really cannot stand, and I mean it, how Freddie Prinze keeps yapping his mouth open and shut and licking his lips from the inside during each and every scene, and how unnatural every expression on his face is. How stupid does he look? I am watching the movie because I've always wanted to, I enjoyed very much playing (more than once) Wing Commander 3 on my Pentium 90 overclocked to 106 (couldn't stand the 110MHz speed) more than 10 years ago, yet the protagonist is a disappointment to say the least. "},{"Title":"Interesting games made simple movie","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wing Commander is based on a popular computer game series from Origin Systems. Unfortunately, this film does not match the quality of the games. The problem is simple the film did not include the elements that made the games successful. Rather than hiring the cast featured in the games led by Mark Hamill and featuring names such as John Rhys-Davies and Malcolm McDowell, the makers of the film opted to hire a completely separate cast. Freddie Prinze Jr. was sub-par in contrast to Mark Hamill's performance as Christopher Blair in the games. The character of Todd Marshall was brash in the game series, but Matthew Lillard's performance makes the character unbearably annoying and obtuse. However, Saffron Burrows actually gives a decent performance and is the best of the three leads. The best talent was in the supporting cast, with Jürgen Prochnow as Commander Gerard, David Suchet as Captain Sansky and David Warner as Admiral Tolwyn. Tchéky Karyo also does a decent job as James Taggart. Seeing the performances of the supporting cast was often more enjoyable than seeing the leads.The plot of the film was extremely simplistic compared to the plots in the game series. The Kilrathi (who look no where near as majestic in the game series) are underdeveloped compared to the game series and no Kilrathi characters are featured in the film. The Kilrathi don't even engage in any sort of intrigue, the extent of their activity is to move toward Earth and attack human ships.The main characters are developed, but most of their interactions seem juvenile. Another poor plot decision was the introduction of the Pilgrim subplot, where the lead character is a Pilgrim, meaning he has special abilities in space navigation. It seems that the makers of the film thought that they needed to add this dimension because it would lead to drama in the film not in the game. Unfortunately, the Pilgrim subplot always seems contrived and the film would have been better simply focusing on what made the game series interesting tactics and intrigues in the war between humans and Kilrathi.Where this film is better is in its action scenes. These are actually well-shot and some nice space combat battles were developed as would be expected from a Wing Commander film. The battles around the Tiger Claw and the Kilrathi pursuit of Blair in his fighter were actually the best parts of the film. Overall, though, this film does not match the game series it purports to emulate. "},{"Title":"Not Horrible, Actually Entertaining","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My vote for 10 was purely to make sure this movies horrible rating was not as low. It is certainly not a 10 in any regard, but the rating of 3.6 was very low. It is a decent space film and actually quite enjoyable. There were character issues with Maniac and Rose and I'm not fully capable of understanding how he was able to pilot a ship while almost chopped in half by the wire. The pilgrims ability to navigate star systems and quasars and black holes makes no sense, but it can be explained in the faith and chosen one qualification. The Aliens looked dumb and I'm still not sure what a pilgrim is. Is it a human or what? But otherwise, a decent movie and not meant to go down as such a horrible film.  "},{"Title":"true to the games from start to finish, could have been worse","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  anyone who played the wing commander series from start to finish will recognise the characters in the film, especially wing commanderprophecy. The plot itself is simple yet easy to follow. Matthew Lillard is up to his usual standard, and is perfectly cast as maniac. Anyone who watches bbc's Holby city may recognise a few members of the crew also. all in all it could have been better, but then it could have been a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Solid Sci-fi drama","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having just watched this movie for a second time, some years after my initial viewing, my feelings remain unchanged. This is a solid sci-fi drama that I enjoy very much. What sci-fi elements there are, are primarily of added interest rather than the main substance of the film. What this movie is really about is wartime conflict, but in a sci-fi setting. It has a solid cast, from the ever reliable David Warner to the up and coming Freddie Prinze Jr, also including many British TV regulars (that obviously add a touch of class ), not forgetting the superb Tcheky Karyo. I feel this is more of an ensemble piece than a starring vehicle. Reminiscent of WWII films based around submarine combat and air-combat (the fighters seem like adaptations of WWII Corsairs in their design, evoking a retro feel) this is one of few American films that I felt was not overwhelmed by sentiment or saccharine. The sets and special effects are all well done, never detracting form the believability of the story, although the Kilrathi themselves are rather under developed and one dimensional. This is a film more about humanity in conflict rather than a film about exploring a new and original alien race or high-brow sci-fi concepts. Forget that it's sci-fi, just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Man Obsessions","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" That Movie is not a great production but gives interesting lighting to some mankind old Obsessions.1st  The Plot is a view of man's race against time.(42 hours to save Mankind)2nd  The Relationship between the crew, underlines man's rejection of the difference. (Blair is a Half-Pilgrim, and so is Paladin) One claims it, and is rejected, the other one Behaves all the contrary but is just similar in the end (Keeping distance).3rd  The Place chosen for the plot shows man fascination for new Frontiers. With new Frontiers, Man find new enemies, and this disguises that the Enemy is inside. Untolerance of the difference. Mankind wants a Universe for her, on her model.Everything seems nice, but I have a regret, the Production thought it would be better to target a public of teenagers, and this cost that movie Perfect rating.Yours sincerely.Jan.  "},{"Title":"Chris, you let Hollywood suck you in. Tisk tisk.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, I would be just as content if they took the film used for the games, reditted it and added modern special effects and released it into theaters. Hell I liked Mark Hamil as Blair better than Skywalker. He was cool and support from Maniac played by Tom Wilson (Biff Back to the Future) you can't beat that. I was so thrilled to see the movie coming out, accepting that it is the original story from the first game so Blair would be young enough to be played by someone like Freddie Prinz Jr. I was horrified to the inaccuracies of the movie. First off, Admiral Tolwyn?! NO! He was only Captain at the time and only made Admiral prior to Wing Commander III. And he was played by Malcom McDowell orginally. He was perfect for the role. Not to say David Warner is a bad actor, cause he is great, but no, you can't replace McDowell in that role. Keeping on Wing Commander III, the skipper missile was an experimental weapon used by the Kilrathi at the end of the war. It wasn't even a concept yet at the time Blair was a rookie. The cloaked phantom fighters that made their debut in Wing Commander II would still have been in development at the time of the movie, let alone well known skipper missiles for the first movie. Additionally, the Concordia was a new Confed Dreadnaught, brand new by Wing Commander II. Perhaps in service only a short while. She was old and dirty in the movie, and so was the Tiger Claw. Another thing, Paladin was played by John-Rys Davies in the game, and they picked some guy who just didn't measure up. And what is with the whole pilgrim thing? That wasn't in the game at all!? I heard someone else speak about the relationship between Blair and the senior officers on the Tiger Claw as being inaccurate. I am more in tune with the later Wing Commander Games, so I can't testiy to that. I gave one point because the kid that played Maniac in the movie I could see turning into Tom Wilson. But Freddie Jr. No, sorry. He is no Blair. I pretend this movie never happened. I will forgive Chris Roberts if he wants to make a new game or try again with the movie this time using original cast from the game. And I mean no substitutes. Call Hamil and Wilson, McDowell, Davies and everyone else.That's my two cents. I did like the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Disappointing eye candy","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, considering I was a big fan of the Wing Commander game series in my elementary and middle school days (so I was a nerd, OK?) I felt compelled to review this movie due to the fact that it could have been really good.To Chris Roberts' credit, the movie is slick and entertaining, accurately depicting the lumbering naval battles of capital ships and pilot-to-pilot dogfights of the game.  I even recognized some of the sets in the movie from their bitmapped game counterparts (like I said, I was a nerd) and the characters, plotline and locations are consistant with the games.  I enjoyed this aspect of the movie purely for nostalgia's sake.  The ships have an oldschool, nuts-and-bolts feel...the set and art design on this movie really is good.  Too bad it was sort of wasted.  Matthew Lillard was a good Maniac.Unfortunately, while the movie was entertaining to watch, it has as much meat as a bowl of jello.  The writing is deplorable, the plot holes are enormous, the dialogue is spine-tinglingly stupid and the Kilrathi looked like dolled-up wheeled mannequins from an FBI firing range.  This disappointed me most of all...instead of towering feline predators, the antagonists of the movie were oversized muppets.Sci-fi fans may have some fun with this, but I don't understand the huge difference between this cornball script and the gripping cinematics of the games.  They were made by the same guy, I mean, come on, what happened? Disappointing, but not a total waste. "},{"Title":"Not at all as the games","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I watched this I was really disappointed. I have played most of the videogames (wing commander I-V) and though that the movie would have something to do with them. But the only thing that the movie and the games have in common is the names of characters and places.I realize that movies and  videogames are made in two different ways and that what compels a audience at a cinema doesn't compel to a person at a computer. But there was a certain feeling in the games that the movie didn't have. It could be that I wasn't the hero for once, but I don't think so because of the cheap predictable story of the movie. So if you want to see the movie because of the games...don't, you'd only be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"The Second Worst Movie I Have Ever Experienced","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far the worst main-stream film I ever saw. I watched it in theaters and it was the first time I saw people get up and leave a quarter through a film, and too be honest if I hadn't paid money to see it, I would have left. It was awful. Stay away and keep that one hour and a half of your life. "}]