[{"Title":"No Wonder Why This Movie Bombed","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For much of my life, I knew nothing about Rocky and Bullwinkle. In fact I never knew until I read about cartoons with similar styles, and some of the actors of the Rocky and Bullwinkle show.Many years after the characters made a name of themselves in a 1960s TV series, some people who probably liked the show a lot decided to give Rocky and Bullwinkle an encore through this film. Had the film been commercially successful, the franchise would have been revived to a great degree. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case as the movie bombed at the box office.Because I'm hardly a fan of the 1960s show, what become of the feature film almost doesn't mean anything to me. But if I were fan, I'd probably beg the filmmakers to make another film. And to make the film more appealing to moviegoers, my advise to the filmmakers would be that they should use a young boy to perform the role of Rocky. "},{"Title":"It's the same old bull.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take Yet another lame attempt to put animation into flesh-and-blood reality.This is not a cartoon, this is the real world!, claims rookie FBI agent Karen Sympathy, played by Piper Perabo, and I wish I can say the same thing about THE ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULWINKLE. It has a big budget, which it spends on fancy cartoonish sets and other bizarre gimmicks, for what? To make it look like a cartoon! This results into a lot of things that we could prefer seeing in a Saturday morning cartoon. But as a movie, it's pretty hard to see why this was such a favorite cartoon during the early '60's. This is one of the most ineffective and unfunny movies I've seen in a while. And if your not convinced, lets move to to the casting. Lets see, Robert De Niro as Fearless Leader and Jason Alexander and Rene Russo as his bumbling minions. Okay, now your convinced.The film uses the technique of putting animated characters in real-live settings and real actors. This was done many times since films in the 80's like WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT and, recently SPACE JAM. And like SPACE JAM, although not quite as bad, ROCKY AND BULWINKLE enjoys too much with the playfulness of its cartoon characters that they forget that they're making a feature film here. So, it has not much to tell and can't even afford to make jokes that really work.The film is basically a cartoon on a live action movie (which is made just as cartoonish as the animated world). Animated evil mastermind Fearless Leader (De Niro) and his henchmen have crossed the boundaries of an animated world and arrive in our 4-dimensional world and start a TV company called RBTV, meaning Really Bad Television (how prophetic), and turn people to mindless drones with their horrible cable shows. The FBI sends a rookie agent (Perabo) to protect still-animated Rocky and Bulwinkle from being zapped, allowing the megalomaniac from ruling the world.And as the story goes, the laughs and silliness get even worse. The film hardly made me laugh, and no head-hitting, car-crashing and any other mishap to change my mind about that. They should know they're making a motion picture here, not a an episode of Bugs and Daffy (which, at least, is better than this). Despite its budget, director Des McAnuff instead spends it on silly cartoonish gimmicks that, joined in with the corny laughs (if you'd call it laughs) and embarrassed leads, it can all be summed up in a 30 minute animated feature for TV, not an 88 minute film.Still, I did find one thing that was quite bearable in this walking disaster waiting to happen, and that is the entertaining cameos. How many movies can you see well-known (and then well-known) talents like Whoppi Goldberg, John Goodman, Kenan (Thompson) and Kel (Mitchell) and Billy Crystal just to name a few. Their cameos thankfully lightens up my high criticism for the film, but that doesn't stop me from giving it a big thumbs down.Still, I won't discourage you from letting the kids see it, for it's mainly made for them and they might be the only ones who'll enjoy it.Rating * out of 5. "},{"Title":"Unserious movie, perhaps too unserious to be entertaining.","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Movies that aren't serious can be really fun, this one however is an exception from that statement. I know it's supposed to be silly, to be wacky and hilarious but it just doesn't do it for me. The green/blue screen effects are extremely bad and throughout the movie I never felt that the animated characters were real. The puns in this movie was over-used as well along with the bad script and I think that's what destroyed it the most for me. Now don't get me wrong an unserious storyline can still make the watcher believe it by using the right tools. But a script that bad made the storyline completely unbelievable and breaking the fourth wall is something you should not over-use even if you want the comedic effect to become stronger. Why is that? Because breaking the fourth wall is a great way to make the audience get shocked since the actors are breaking a rule there, which catches their attention immediately. If you over-use this, however, the effect gets worn off to the point where it just gets annoying.In some shots there's some filming-errors as well such as too much headroom, unnecessary space where it's not needed since it doesn't provide any information, lack of contrast balance between the green/blue screen shots and the objects/people and etc. Perhaps something you don't think about too much, but can be extremely annoying if it constantly occurs. This is also the reason why it looks like a really really bad B- movie from the 80's personally. The acting overall was pretty okay, even though there were in some places in the movie where it was noticeable that the actors didn't really did their roles seriously which made it harder to believe the story.All in all, a bad movie. "},{"Title":"??????????","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why is this movie so bad? Why am I reading that people enjoyed this? It's embarrassing, the acting is awful, the script is even worse. This is a slap in the face to all of those who love Rocky and Bullwinkle. People are defending it, saying that it carries the same type of humor over from the TV show, and I'll have to agree, but it's not funny. It just doesn't work. So sad.  "},{"Title":"A failed attempt to revive a classic TV character","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocky the Flying Squirrel is a character who appeared in a TV series named for him dating from the late 1950s to the early 1960s. Decades later, filmmakers who are probably fans of the show's characters try to make a film, and try to revive them. At first, I had no idea that the film flopped at the box office because I was not following it. This was until I read about it on Wikipedia. It was there I found out. I find it hard to believe how a film featuring a famous TV character could bomb. Films bomb at the box office either because of negative reviews from critics or insufficient marketing. But in the case of The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle, the reason is unknown. Perhaps it has something to do with which the filmmakers choose who gets to play who in the film. If a lad were selected to be Rocky, I guess the film might have been much more financially successful. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review sub-intellectual, just for kids, and bad","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having enjoyed the original cartoon series, I went into this film with a good attitude. I enjoyed Airplane! and am hardly one of those film school arty types who can't take a joke. If Rocky & Bullwinkle had been campy, dumb, but fun, I think I would have enjoyed it.Unfortunately, the only good thing I can say is that I was hoping to hear a lot of bad puns, and I did. But there the similarity ended.Taking Rocky & Bullwinkle out of its cartoon format into a 3D realm didn't work for me. The plot stuttered and didn't make any sense. Even starting from the attitude that this is a cartoon, so things will be wacky and nonsensical, it still didn't make any sense.Worst of all were the syrupy and melodramatic interactions with Karen Sympathy, the FBI agent. The emotions and decisions of the characters didn't make sense.Finally, there's something about comedy that involves timing. I don't know what it is. But the build-ups and physical pranks didn't work for me. Something was really askew in the presentation.Who should see this film-- nobody, even kids, and especially if you've seen the original series, it will just make you sadI'm forced to give The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"WORST FILM EVER!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the worst film I've ever seen! You'd never catch me watching it again! If they bring out a sequel I might watch it to see if there's any improvement, but its so boring my friend fell asleep and he didn't care that he was sitting on chewing gum! I recommend you to see it if you are 4-9 years old but older than that I recommend Rat Race (THE FUNNIEST FILM I'VE EVER SEEN)! "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is cinematic rubbish this film was a waste of my time it had some well known stars big deal robert de niro oh the sham u came from a line of great films why blow it all well i cant compare the movie to the tv show becase ive never seen it and after the movie i think i never will "},{"Title":"At Least Bullwinkle And Rocky Remain Animated","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Another relic from the let's make a live-action movie from an old cartoon fad from decades ago. Better than most of the others, but it still doesn't work, even with the decision to keep Rocky and Bullwinkle as toons rather than use, say, people in animal costumes.A full-fledged cartoon version would have been far better. The human actors don't fit in with their cartoon counterparts. Robert DeNiro certainly didn't fit the part of Fearless Leader (they should have given that role to Nicholas Cage, who had a more suitable physique). We could have done without Nothing But A Dreamer by Supertramp either (the cartoon didn't have music, other than the theme and some dramatic effect chords at times) This effectively spoiled the old cartoon atmosphere, and the story itself was meandering and ultimately boring and pointless. For the running time, they could have done so much more.Intended for fans of the old cartoon, but probably won't satisfy most of them. "},{"Title":"One for the kids","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First and foremost I see that a number of comments on this film have suggested that it was too 'grown-up' for the younger viewers - on this point I couldn't disagree more.  I felt the main reason for my lack of enjoyment of this film was that the many gags in it were unintelligent and obviously aimed at children, unlike films such as Toy Story and A Bug's Life which - while being aimed primarily at children - include moments of irony and satire that make the adults laugh too.  I believe my nephews and niece would have enjoyed this film much more than I did.The basic plot was thin and basic (as expected in a film like this) but the jokes did nothing to let you forget this.  At the very least the storyline should have been created around well thought-out moments of humour.  It wasn't.  Robert De Niro was the best part of it but not even he - or the many cameos - could save what was primarily a bad film.  The moose was almost as annoying as that God-awful Jar-Jar Binks from Star Wars The Phantom Menace and irritated me throughout.  The whole production smelt of a poor man's Who Framed Roger Rabbit.I've never seen the original cartoon of Rocky & Bullwinkle and after watching the film have no intention too.  Expect to see this screened at around lunchtime on Bank Holidays for years to come.  "}{"Title":"A pathetic shell","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this one with a couple of my friends. They walked out of the theater totally hating the movie and me for suggesting it. I couldn't have hated it as much as they did, but it was really disappointing. The characters were left as shells of their former selves. The movie seemed to suck out the heart and soul that was put into the TV show to make the movie nothing but a series of pathetically bad jokes. Granted, it was really funny to see a live action Boris, Natasha, and Fearless Leader. Jason Alexander, Rene Russo, and Robert DeNiro were the only reason I didn't pull my hair out in sadness and disappointment at seeing some of my favorite TV characters in a piece-of-junk movie.  "},{"Title":"Moose and Squirrel Still Have the Magic","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"30 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was really surprised at how much I liked this movie. R&B are brought magically to life in the real world, and still have the same magic in their camraderie. People complained that the puns were stupid and that the humor was aimed at adults. Hello? That's exactly what made the original cartoon so great.R&B's observations on contemporary society are hilarious. The film also pokes fun at politicians, the legal system, and our addiction to TV, with a riotous sendup of Cops.The film is quite satisfying whenever R&B are onscreen. When it's just the human actors, things get a little dull. DeNiro, Alexander and Russo all are decent, but these performances would be criticized no matter who was playing them, with the possible exception of Jim Carrey. The best human performer is Piper Pirabo, a total hottie. She has been criticized for a bad performance, but I thought she did a great job.It's not Oscar material, it won't gross $100 million, and it's not deep social commentary, but it sure is fun. Anybody with a sense of humor would be hard-pressed not to smile and feel good on the inside after seeing this. I just hope they make a sequel. Rocky & Bullwinkle forever!!!! "},{"Title":"Is It Me, Or Is It Mighty Chilly On This Board?","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"37 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie to pieces each of the 4 times I saw it in the theater! Apparently not everybody was privileged to be born in 1955 and spend a childhood marinating in the Cold War puns and snarky anti-corporate digs of the original TV show. This movie brought it all back; if you had nothing to be brought back to . . . well, it's your loss. Renee Russo is fabulously snakey as Natasha, and tho' Rocket J. Squirrel couldn't improve on the original, that's because he was voiced by the original, the unsinkable June Foray. The only people who need to apologize for this movie are its promoters, who never figured out how to hook its natural audience of 40-somethings.I can't wait for the remake of Fractured Fairy Tales. "},{"Title":"A mildly interesting failure","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  TV show remakes are always hard to do well. This one does better than some, but falls down in the execution. It's as though someone took the Rocky and Bullwinkle lines from a reasonably good R&B serial, and then wrapped an amateurish script around it. The Rocky and Bullwinkle parts really are pretty good (June Foray still has it, for sure), but the live action / cartoon integration is very poor, and only Randy Quaid and John Goodman (in a bit part as a Highway Patrolman -- You're an FBI agent? Right -- and I'm John Goodman....) seem up to the challenge of playing to badly-blocked spaces where actors ought to be. Russo and Alexander are wasted on this script. And Piper Perabo comes off as miserably inept. I found myself feeling sorry for the Moose and Squirrel for having to put up with all this nonsense.In many ways it seems as though the cartoon and the live-action movie are -- well, different movies, written by different people. Almost all the cartoon stuff is funny (if you do see it, look for cameos by a character from Roger Rabbit); almost all the live-action stuff falls miserably flat. If you do see this, I suggest getting friends together and making a party of it. Just don't expect too much, and you'll probably be OK.  "},{"Title":"Cute but a sequel will have to be clever","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed the film, but it lacked the sharp wit and satire of the original TV show which mixed slapstick with cleverness.If there is a sequel, the edgy humor needs to be reinstated. As it is, this film will entertain the tots but may be only mildly amusing to adults who remember the original. What made the original shows so entertaining is that, like Warner Brothers cartoons, Rocky and Bullwinkle could be enjoyed at an adult level as well as at the kiddy level. Come on, Fearless Leader, are you talkin' to us? Are YOU talkin' to US? You were hilarious in ANALYZE THIS. You can bring the same zing to ROCKY & BULLWINKLE II. "},{"Title":"Enjoy this adventure","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it was the many puns or hilarious play-ons, but The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle is one of the most enjoyable comedies I have seen.Robert DeNiro leads an all-star cast that includes Rene Russo, Jason Alexander and newcomer Piper Perabo in a comedy that will knock everyone's socks off. I was very impressed by everyone in this film especially De Niro because this is quite a departure from his dramatic and action roles.Newcomer Piper Perabo looks a lot like Renee Zelwegger and that is what I first noticed about her. I subsequently realized that she was more than just a pretty face, she is a real talent that will go far in Hollywood if she puts forth the effort.Another aspect of the film that impressed me were the puns and play-ons the writer came up with since it were that made the film that much more enjoyable to watch as they were able to poke fun at others and yet still be funny enough where it didn't become silly.The Adventures Of Rocky & Bullwinkle far succeeded my expectations of being one of the best made from a television show. I hope everyone can enjoy this film as much as I did because it is sure to make you laugh throughout the movie. This is a must-see movie for all ages to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly really good!","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As somebody who hasn't any recollection of watching any Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons, I stumbled across this film on TV, I had no expectations of what it was. If anything I thought it would be rubbish. As most kids films take themselves really serious, and they are just plain lame - The Mummy springs to mind, good guys get chased by bad guys but the good guys just escape in time... yeah yeah yeah... boring. back to the film, it really doesn't take itself serious, and if you watch it in the frame of mind of watching a normal cartoon, it sticks to that formula really well, even using real characters - using the best actors in the industry certainly helped, to make it not be cheesy. The film is also littered with references to other films. The moose is nearly the same as Homer Simpson, so if you like him, you'll love the stupidity of the moose. I never watch stuff like this but was mightily impressed that it was spot on in what it was trying to be. Voice-over man was entertaining too, like in Wacky Races or Terry Wogan with the Eurovision TV show! Recommended! "},{"Title":"Decent, But Don't Be Fooled","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One thing that was misleading the cover of the VHS (or DVD) shows Robert De Niro, Rene Russo and Jason Alexander but those three do NOT have major roles or a lot of lines in this picture. Most of the lines are by an unknown name actress Piper Perabo (FBI Agent Karen Sympathy) and the two cartoon characters.This is another one of these live-action cartoons in which some characters are real-life and others are cartoons and the all interact on screen at once. This comedy has a lot more subtle than laugh-out-loud lines. It's decent, and does have a certain appeal but is not as good as I expected after reading a couple of reviews prior to its release. I think it has an equal appeal for kids or adults. "},{"Title":"I enjoy it despite it flaws","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know I might get in trouble for liking this movie while it is not one of the best movies I have seen I just watch it to just enjoy.The plot centers around Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro), Boris (Jason Alexander), and Natasha (Rene Russo) escape into the real world it is up to FBI Agent Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo) along with Rocky and Bullwinkle to stop them.The movie has it moments of being funny other times it makes you want to face palm yourself.I did a few times after watching the film again for the first time in a couple of years. I know it is a movie intent for kids but come on the adults need to have some degree of intelligent. But again I found some enjoyment out of the film it is not a great movie at any means but it is enjoyable There is a lot of fourth wall breaks in the film. There is some animation in the film since the original show was hand drawn animation which makes for something different in a film based off a cartoon from the 1960sOverall it's not a perfect movie but it's still a movie for the kidsI give The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle an 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rock Head and Bullsh*t.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle (2000) Dir Des McAnuff / Cast Piper Perabo, Robert De Niro, Jason Alexander, Rene Russo, Randy Quaid Rocky the flying squirrel and his moose pal Bullwinkle were cancelled in 1964 and have existed only through re-runs. And what a kick in the crotch it must have been to them both when this screenplay was dreamed up in their Honor. Rocky has forgotten how to fly, just as the screenwriter forgot how to write a decent screenplay. Bullwinkle is busy writing letters to the President, but those letter most likely do not involve resigning. The evil Fearless Leader plans to take over the earth using Real Bad T.V. Perhaps he should give everyone free tickets to this travesty then since it is clear that no one will pay to see it. Director Des McAnuff remains faithful to the cartoon despite evidence to a limited budget. Fearless Leader is a lifeless villain despite Robert De Niro's amusing performance. Jason Alexander and Rene Russo as henchmen Boris and Natasha are likely hoping that this film doesn't resurface during any career tribute since it isn't their best moment. Piper Perabo plays the young heroine who has the mentality of someone of age five. Randy Quaid plays an idiot named Cappy von Trapment. Why not rename him Crappy von Trapment? It couldn't be any worse than any other stupid idea in this junk. This film should learn to fly...off a building. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"Innocent, half-way decent fun.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Have you got 90 minutes to kill, and did you like the Rocky and Bullwinkle show when you were a kid? Then this is an OK movie. It has some clever wordplay, some cool special effects and cinematography, and you can safely watch it with children, who won't get all of the jokes or cameos anyhow. It's definitely better than most of what you will find on TV, but, on the other hand, it's no film masterpiece that's going to wind up on some best or most influential list. Going into this, don't expect too much, and you might like it, like I did. Simply take it for what it is, just some clean, harmless fun to wile away a little time. "},{"Title":"It is what it is.....","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So, I wouldn't say this is the best movie I have ever seen and there was certainly some room for improvement, but for an animated family comedy based on a very well-known cartoon series with a specific type of humor and jokes I would have to say that they did about as good a job that could be done. I watch a ton of movies with my children and there are very few that can hold ALL of our interest and entertain us the whole time and this one made the cut. I would recommend it to any fan of the old cartoon series or to any parent that is looking for something different their kids will surely enjoy and if they half any sense of humor at all they should as well. "},{"Title":"De Niro's finest role","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Surely the finest work of R. De Niro's life (he apparently shaved his head, but did he then wear a wig made of liquorice painted with glycerine?!) Is it also the definitive judgment on most late 20th/early 21st century American commercial television (I'll excuse PBS and most of the work of Gene Roddenberry)  mind numbing drivel? You judge.This movie is designed to amuse young children, and has just a few surreal or post-modern self-references and other allusions to amuse the attentive accompanying parent enough so thy do not resent sitting through it with their beloved tinies.Where Inspector Gadget had of course you have to fasten your seat belt; this is a Disney movie this just has I didn't write the script; I'm just a character in this movie. There is a moment where one villain says to another there's no way to kill a cartoon and the other asks What about Roger Rabbit? in which of course the plot hinges on the arch villain having discovered a way to permanently eliminate otherwise indestructible cartoon characters. This movie has an alternative which is soon revealed, which itself has some technology reversal jokes, as well as a technology exploitation joke identical to that in Inspector Gadget the absolutely vast manual that you have to read before you can use it properly, but which no protagonist ever reads.The other technology exploitation joke is that the expert who explains it all is a girl (Sydney, excellently played by young Lily Nicksay), implying that all adults are too old to understand this new stuff. We saw a suggestion of this in the much darker War Games, and there are child boffins in movie gangs or communities entirely of kids (e.g. The Goonies), but I can't recall another where the rest of the organization where the young boffin rules are adults. They may be college kids (a cliché), but not this young, and perhaps never before a pre-teen girl (a good anti-stereotype).IPH "},{"Title":"Only a Hard Core Rocky and Bullwinkle Show would like it","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you are a hard core Rocky and Bullwinkle fan, and I hardly think most of you are anyway. Since these are people who are already in the late 40s and early 50s. Well I am in this age bracket, the movie is in fact true to the original. You can blame why the movie flopped on that reason. It is simply that the core audiences simply changed. A lot of well known actors and actress are in here, DeNiro, Rene Russo, Johnathan Winters, John Goodman, Whoopie Goldberg. The best of all is Piper Parabo.Now let us discuss what is technically wrong with the movie that has gotten so much bad reviews. The movie had a weak central story which keeps audiences attention. There is also the lack of spacing where audiences needs some mental rest. Remember, today's audiences with all the mercury and aluminum in the brain simply just don't have the attention span as the movies of the 40s and 50s where the audiences at the time were quite verbal. Even the verbal reflex people of today just don't have the nimbleness to enjoy some of the early Bob Hope's movie one liners joke to get it as quickly as it once were.What the movie is excellent for as I realized is a test for mental attention span and interpretation and interplay of social satire that they watched. How many have noticed that Whoopie Goldberg was doing a satire of the famous O.J. Simpson's court case? That celebrities are above the law? It just makes you think. Or that Johnathan Winters is up to his old tricks in earlier movies of playing so many roles behind his costumes? If you don't have the long attention spans for this movie, then this is simply not your cup of tea. Today's audiences grasps more action, camera movement, much like The Island, or Doom, or somewhat shaky camera of you were there thing such as Bourne Identity or Bourne Supremacy. The techniques of this movie is somewhat outdated to go along with the 60s era movie style which not surprisingly failed to pique the audiences. If being true to the original get this bad reviews, how about Godzilla in NOT being true to the original that got bad ratings. The secret of this paradox lies in core audiences who will be watching the movie. A large majority of Godzilla have a large core audiences, while a children's show the Rocky and Bullwinkle show the core audiences only the late 40 or 50 year old people like me. Therefore the R&B should be geared more to new audiences while Godzilla is geared to the core Godzilla audiences! My movie business IS complicated! The movie was more of a light social satire true to its original However, audiences taste at the time of release and to today didn't have the pulse on today's audiences, which leans more heavily on visual, sounds, action rather than verbal. Take for example the movie Doom which is quite well rated by the audiences of Doom, but had hardly any script. The entire movie looked a lot more like an arcade game show.However, for some reason it is my bad habit to give scores quite high before any actors or actress goes mainstream for some reason or another despite the poor ratings of the movie they were presently watching. Angelie Jolie was a total hottie in Cyborg 2 or Hackers. Piper Parabo was a total hottie in the Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle, and Tom Hanks was totally hot in the movie Big. And for some reason or another once they go mainstream, there's no steam left, at least for me anyway. For example Parabo went big time with Coyote Ugly, but I don't like her that much anymore, nor did Angelina Jolie inspired me anymore when she received her best actress Oscar or supporting actress in Girl Interrupted. "},{"Title":"Manages To Retain The Spirit Of The Original Cartoon.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this late one night on cable thinking I was going to hate it remembering how godawful BORIS AND NATASHA was (I can't believe some of the other reviewers actually liked  that movie). But I found myself laughing from beginning to end. The puns and the one-liners still have the same sting as the original 60's cartoon series. Alexander, Russo and De Niro all capture Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader, respectively, just right and the animation never overpowered the live action. I kept forgetting I was watching an animation/live action combo. I'm actually looking forward to a sequel. Series creator Jay Ward would have been proud of this movie. Highly recommended to fans of the TV series. "},{"Title":"Have a Comic de Niro on animation","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In a not deep but certainly emotional story one can enjoy this movie very much. Technically takes an A plus. Most people should enjoy this fresh mix of live actors and animators. "},{"Title":"Credible resurrection of  the old TV show","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the TV series as a kid, and was not disappointed by the re-make. I am surprised at its poor box office showing, and low ratings here, even amongst those old enough to remember the original show, which was a classic of Cold War satire.  DeNiro turns in a surprisingly good turn as Fearless Leader, Renee Russo is on-target as Natasha, Jason Alexander is a credible Boris Badenov, and the newly invented Karen Sympathy and Minnie Mogul are not troublesome.  The heavy use of sardonic asides is particularly faithful to the TV show, but perhaps are not a universally-enjoyed device. I recommend taking a chance on this, even though others have expressed low opinions of it.  You might get more good laughs than you've been led to expect. "},{"Title":"Humor saves the picture","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The wit of this movie, along with the cameos, really boost its rating. Entertaining for R&B fans, because R&B still have their sense of humor- the sarcasm, the irony, the bad but funny puns, etc. Worth the watch if in the right mood. C+, 6/10, 2.5/5 stars, ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Doesn't Live Up To 'Boris and Natasha' (1992)","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I picked this movie up hoping it would continue in the spirit of the underrated 'Boris and Natasha' (1992).Unfortunately, they made a kids movie instead, mixing (with moderate success) animation and live acting. A lot of the humor came straight from Rocky and Bullwinkle reruns, and was laced with tedium.There were a lot of name-brand actors in this film, but it didn't keep the plot from flat-lining (it was supposed to be witty and sarcastic).If you show this to your kids, make sure you're not in the same room. Or, just watch some of the original cartoons instead. I watched this on DVD, and will not be watching it again. "},{"Title":"quick hidden cartoon sequence!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The best part of this movie (the only reason why I'm going to buy it) is when Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader dig a tunnel from Pottsylvania to America. If you watch this sequence frame by frame, you get a real laugh. They pass through hell with jolly musical devils, an octopus attacking a yellow submarine, a sea monkey family, Jimmy Hoffa's corpse tied to a concrete block, and the Titanic, complete with a skeleton in the  I'm the King of the World! pose. "}{"Title":"Cameos keep it going..","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is just a fun film with tons of pun to keep you laughing, whether at the stupidity of it all or not, you are still chuckling to yourself. The cameos are fun, you are interested in who you will see next, and Piper Perabo is a lovely actress that will keep some of you guys watching.  "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think now its nice to see Robert De Niro is playing with fun, especially after Serpico, Scarface and Stanley and Iris. Here is looks the best he has because he is cool with an eye patch, and plays a great bad man. Bullwinkle, the dog, is great for CGI, he is funny and he makes me laugh, I like this. The other guys, too, are too good and it would be nice to see a sequel, if Al Pacino was de Niros side kick, IMAGINE!!! GOOD, GOOD FUN!!!! I RECCOMMEND IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Watchable, but it wouldn't be without De Niro and Perabo","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have this rather odd habit of collecting Robert De Niro movies, I have a pretty respectable amount of 'em already. After all he is one of the most ingenious, gifted and charismatic actors of our time. I saw The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle in the store and I was quite suspicious about it at first but since De Niro's name was printed all over it I finally said to myself what the heck, let's buy the damn thing.Well, generally speaking this movie wasn't very good and it definitely wasn't my kind of a flick at all (just as I thought) but it had its moments here and there. This is at least one of De Niro's weirdest performances, our man of Scorsese films actually plays a cartoon character. The fact that he also produced this film is too crazy. His famous you're talking to me line from classic Taxi driver was, however, a nice touch and one of the most amusing individual details. The most outstanding surprise of The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle was the enchanting Piper Perabo who is, in my opinion, the cutest, the loveliest and the most charming and beautiful actress around. I mean, she's a girl I could eat alive. I was in love the minute I saw her in Coyote ugly and I've decided that if I'm ever gonna have a child I want her to be the mother of my baby. So all and all, the film wasn't anything special but I loved all the scenes with De Niro and Perabo. "},{"Title":"GOOD SEQUEL","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A nice sequel to the original cult television series that is made worthwhile by Rocky and Bullwinkle returning to the screen to reprise their roles.The story deals with the inter-species couple coming out of retirement to once again thwart the evil Boris and Natasha. Russo is wonderful as Natasha but DeNiro seems a little over his head by trying to bring a human side to the infamous Fearless Leader.  The original series had a difficult time finding an audience since it was a little too adult to be classified as a children's show yet far too mature for the average TV viewer who preferred The Flintstones or The Jetson.However the satire and wit are timeless and it is surprising that PBS hasn't chosen to immortalize it and the original cast. "},{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had none of the magic, wit, satire or just plain fun of the original series. A bland attempt to revive long dead characters falls flat and misses its mark completely. The film tries hard to make you laugh, but it just comes across as silly and pathetic. Not even good for kids. Stick to the original tv show. "},{"Title":"Witty, clever, characteristically silly treat for fans of the duo.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are a Rocky & Bullwinkle fan from the sixties you will love this treat from the past.  The writing and characterizations remain very true to the original cartoon characters...puns and all. Your children may enjoy sharing this with you. Otherwise, I fear new viewers might find this marvelous technological romp somewhat silly.  The guest stars and cameo actors make this movie ever more enjoyable.  I loved the movie. Whether or not you do, you will love the  cameos by Billy Crystal, Carl Reiner and John Goodman. Robert DeNiro is absolutely brilliant as Fearless Leader. Go ahdead rent the DVD and give it a try.  Don't miss the Bonus material with interviews of the actors and Jay Ward's daughter "},{"Title":"SILLY!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There isn't a serious point to this entire film.  Well, maybe there is, but it's completely forgettable.  It's a string of jokes, plain and simple. Okay, it's stupid, but it's funny.  It's a great cure for depression. "},{"Title":"Wonderful! Moose and squirrel win again!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the cartoon series, and was ecstatic when it came to reruns on Nickelodeon and later on Cartoon Network. They work so well, and the movie plot is so cool because it's just the type of situation you'd expect to see. This movie works because the actors are all familiar, and the character translations are wonderful. It had a little violence, but hey, it's a cartoon-based movie, so it can be expected.  "},{"Title":"That good old R & B lunacy.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So why are ther so many negative reviews of this movie? It wasn't bad. No one was looking for an Oscar-quality movie, just like the TV show wasn't about to win any awards either. R & B was silliness. That's what it was. And that's what this is. Contrary to what some people wrote, I felt a lot like I was watching R & B, the TV show. Any time the characters conversed with the narrator, any time Bullwinkle was dumb, any time they poked fun at themselves (Narrator RBTV renamed itself from Really Bad Television to Rocky & Bullwinkle Television. Bullwinkle What's the difference?), I thought, Yup, that's R&B alright. It was silly. To the point of films being green-lighted by a big green lighthouse on a film set. The whole kid thing with Karen Sympathy was a bit dull, as was her sub-plot once the characters split up.But most of R & B's scenes are funny enough.  The casting is great too (except I would've put DeVito as Boris myself)But Whoopi Goldberg as Judge Cameo, and the scene where Robert DeNiro as Fearless Leader parodies his own Are you talking to me? monologue... brilliant. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Folks, don't expect an Oscar-winning mentally challenging masterpiece. If you liked the cartoon (which I did), you will like the movie. If you think you like the cartoon and don't like the movie, maybe you should watch a few episodes of the cartoon and see if you really still like it..To me it seems like a bunch of people got together and said Hey, we loved Rocky and Bullwinkle, let's make a movie. And let's have fun and who cares what anyone else has to say about it.I loved it. My kids loved it. It looks to me like every actor involved loved it. Where's the problem here? "}{"Title":"What a wonderful surprise","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...this movie was!  I waited for the video because I had heard so many poor reviews.  Now I almost wish I hadn't!  What fun!!Not only did I enjoy this movie, but my 12 yr old did, too.  He was able to pick up on some of the more adult-centered humor and felt great when he did.  (I remember that feeling as a kid!) He also enjoyed rolling his eyes at the sheer lunacy of most of the movie.  Don't we all?I only wish they had kept all the characters in animation mode.  While the actors did a good job, (I especially liked Jason Alexander), it would've felt better to see them all the way I remember them. Watching it on DVD gave us a chance to pick up on things we might otherwise have missed.  While Natashe is digging underground for the 3 villains to make their escape, notice that they pass by Hades, a mobster tied-up and with cement shoes, and part of the Titanic.  It goes by very quickly, so we had to rewind a time or two.  Overall, I laughed out loud more during this movie than any in recent memory.  It was wonderful to see a funny show with my son where I didn't have to bear bathroom humor, sexual innuendos, nudity, and foul language. Thank you R&B for bringing back the best of the 60s.    "},{"Title":"I was surprised at how much I did not like this movie.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a big fan of the original Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoon. I like Robert DeNiro, whose Fearless Leader was one of the two best things about the picture. (Renee Russo's Natasha being the other one.) I like Jason Alexander, who seems miscast as Boris. He didn't do a dreadful job, just never seemed to get to evoking the Potsylvaninian villain.The biggest problem with the film is with the writing. Adding the palling Karen Sympathy as the focal character was a big step right into the center of the cow pasture, from which this movie fails to escape. I understand that this was probably a ploy to bring in viewers who weren't fans of the original series. As a fan, I have no use for these people. What I want is something close to the original feel, almost anything that the non-fans want will most likely detract from that goal. However they might want to dress up the movie, the sympathetic FBI character who loves Rocky & Bullwinkle is a limp character and subtracts from the movie from the start.It is ironic that the writer chose a theme about keeping the kid inside alive in a film that is about a cartoon that was never intended for kids. Yes, adults might have needed to be somewhat childlike to enjoy the original series, but the series aimed its jokes at adults, and included a modicum of material for kids. The reason that I love Rocky and Bullwinkle is that I noticed that the cartoon grew with me. I heard Jay Ward explain it like this. When you are young, you have physical action and slapstick. For an older kid, there are puns and bizarre situations. For an adult, satire and subtler adult humor.The writing also had very few jokes or gags that made me feel like I was watching Rocky & Bullwinkle. There is a sequence where Boris steals the narrator's map and another where Natasha explains Boris's reference to Potsylvainian Hospitalability. That's it. For one thing, the script needed more inversions in order to invoke the proper spirit of the cartoon villains. Boris and Natasha are satirical takes on one-dimensional melodramatic villains. Everything that is good is bad (The cartoon refers to the Potsylvanian magazine Bad Housekeeping, for example). That is why it is so wrong for Natasha to tell Fearless Leader that he is so GOOD to them.It seems that the writer only had consultants who had actually seen the show. He was only told the type of gags that R&B had. Oh, they typically did fourth-wall jokes, so they need to talk to the camera and narrator. Throw in some word plays. It does not seem that the writers never did a side-by-side comparison to the original. Had they done this, perhaps at least the movie would be more satisfactory to Rocky and Bullwinkle fans. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Critics, IMDB voters, and realists threw this film away for it's bad jokes, awkward script workings, and unbelievable plot set-ups. Odds are, the same people who did this are the same ones who watched the show on television for the exact same reasons when they were younger. The show, often compared to The Simpsons, was based on horrible puns, unbelievable plots, and awkward scripts. This film does a masterful job of recreating the television series. So, if the movie doesn't strike you as quality, you probably also will dislike the cartoon series. And if you weren't too crazy about the cartoon, the movie is not going to be any better. However, the film is basically one long version of the cartoon. The only thing that disappointed me was that there was no interrupting Fractured Fairy Tale, Sherman and Peabody didn't make an appearance, and the film ended without awful puns referencing future 'episodes.' Otherwise, this is a delightful film that will bring back fond memories of the classic television show.  "},{"Title":"A Treat For Jay Ward Fans","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked this movie. It was nice to see Rocky & Bullwinkle, along with their life-long enemies Boris, Natasha, and Fearless Leader go on a cross-country adventure. This is the third Jay Ward-based cartoon to be translated to live-action. However, there were a few things that could've been done to appease the cold-hearted critics who gave this film the boot.I think it would've been for the best if the characters stayed in their trademark UPA designs, even while venturing into the 'real world'. It didn't make sense that three of the characters became real people impersonated by celebrities, while two stayed as cartoons, only in computer animation.While we're still on the subject, did anybody else besides me know that Jason Alexander, who played Boris Badenov, was the same one who played Duckman from the TV Series of the same name? I was rather surprised to find that out.This seemed to be a film in which everybody got into the act. Besides Jason Alexander, we got Rene Russo, Robert DeNiro, Whoopi Goldberg, Kenan Thompson, Kel Mitchell, David Alan Grier, John Goodman, and Jonathan Winters.Once again, somebody decided to wait until the true master died before making a movie out of one of his works. Jay Ward, the creator of Rocky & Bullwinkle, died 10 years before the film was produced.Also, you can tell that the film was being produced during 1999, despite its 2000 release. Throughout the film, everyone kept bringing up changes since 1964 based from a 35-year period instead of 36.For those whom are mistaken, this movie does NOT parody the success of Roger Rabbit, even thought there were several references to it.Anyway, it was good to see Rocky & Bullwinkle in their own special movie. It looked like somebody felt they were generally forgotten by the public. This should help everyone remember them again. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL ENTERTAINMENT","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle doesn't look like the kind of film that would set the world on fire. Admittedly, I didn't think much of it when it was first released. When I finally saw it, I found myself surprised at how much I enjoyed it. This is a goofy and likable comedy. It is wonderful entertainment.I think the decision to keep Rocky and Bullwinkle as cartoons was perfect, because it would be hard to make a convincing live action talking moose and squirrel. Also, the casting helped. Robert DeNiro is the perfect Fearless Leader and part of the fun is seeing this brilliant actor lampoon himself. Jason Alexander is serviceable as Boris, although Danny DeVito would have been a better choice and Rene Russo is well cast as Natasha. But the standout is Piper Perabo, making her debut in this film. Unfortunately for her, Coyote Ugly was her followup, but seeing her in that film was like finding a diamond in a box of Cracker Jacks, to paraphrase my favorite critic Roger Ebert. She is a real talent to watch for.The script by Kenneth Lonegran, is full of injokes and pot shots at modern society and is in the style of the cartoon show. That is a beneift because taking this stuff seriously would badly damage this lightweight comedy.See Rocky and Bullwinkle with a light heart and the brain in neutral and you will enjoy this film.***1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"If you liked the TV show you'll love the movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I got a kick out of the analysis by some of the other reviewers. I wouldn't be so serious. This movie is a great rendition of the series silly, campy and totally impossible. All the kids I know loved it.Great caricatures and great animation. This is another old guy saying it's like the TV show I grew up with. "},{"Title":"Witty Script for Grown-ups and Teens/Talking animals for the kids--fun for all!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Even though when I saw R&B last summer I actually saw some people walk out of it, I thought that it was a masterful transition from cartoon to computer graphics.  Although the jokes were criminally bad, they always were, as anyone who watched the show would know.  Anyone who DID watch either the original program or even the re-runs would be glad to see that their childhood heroes have returned.  I LIKED the different celebrity cameos, and though the script was a little too subtle for the younger audience (I went to see it with a 7, 4, and 1 year old), the mere concept that here are cartoon characters turning into people, and here are life-sized talking animals did it for them too.  I think it's good clean fun for all ages, and should be viewed as a bigger, better version of the original cartoon. "},{"Title":"IMDb users declare Moose and Squirrel Season; Counter-Vote!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As I write this, the weighted rating is 4.4.  Ouch.  That said, my reasons for the counter-voteAlthough the original show was past my time, the CBS affiliate used to carry it at 630 AM, and I would get up specifically to watch it.  So I have seen the show.  I think that the movie does a good job in being faithful to itself and its brand of humor.  Unfortunately, not everyone sees it that way.The movie is supposed to be irreverent!  It's supposed to make fun of everything!  Generals Store, Foods, and Admission are exactly the gags the original had in mind.  If it (as some say) lost the road trip part of the movie, there wouldn't be much to have fun with now, would there?  It's not exactly biting social commentary, but the idea of television turning people to zombies, well, it's not a new concept, but R&B takes it to a different level.  The only part that I thought was a bit of a stretch was how Bullwinkle got to New York, but it was still funny.I especially enjoyed the self-referential bit in the courtroom, which I think does its part in quelling (some of) the critics.  It's the rules of pulling cartoon characters into real life, only in this case, the movie makes its own rules.It may not be the best movie ever, and it may make De Niro a mockery of himself, but 4.4?  Come on, people.  It's not THAT low.  Maybe those who liked it in their comments didn't vote, I don't know.  Ordinarily, I'd give it my standard 7, but it's just screaming for me to help in any way that I can. "},{"Title":"Rocky and Bull","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw Rocky and Bullwinkle I thought it was awful but Roger Ebert's review was glowing and Kenneth Longeran won a Writer's Guild award for another movie of his. So I saw it again with an open mind. It was still awful.I liked the in-jokes like the process used by studios to choose scripts (throw away the intelligent ones).  But other in-jokes seemed more designed to cover up bad plotting than give a laugh.  For instance there is one exchange querying why they have to go by road to  Washington - as time was of the essence - when going by plane would be a bit quicker.  The answer is it's a road movie.  No, the answer is take a bit more time coming up with a more convincing answer.  The other example is why Rocky and Bullwinkle are still cartoon but the cartoon baddies take human form. A joke is made of this late on but by then it was far too late.  I'm not a grouch, really. I'm prepared to believe any world as long as it is set-up right. Even if the world involves a cartoon moose and flying squirrel wandering around it.  Who Framed Roger Rabbit had a similar premise but it was consistent and so became an instant classic.I admit that the characters in Rocky and Bullwinkle were consistent and good value but that wasn't nearly enough to compensate for such lame story-telling and plotting.And for God's sake don't tell anyone I saw it twice. "},{"Title":"Lighten up!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle ***Come on, people! Did you really expect it to be Oscar worthy? Here, we have a fun, good-natured comedy for kids and people are throwing up at it. The movie is full of puns (some are cheap misfires, but most are good) that are funny. The movie mocks itself. That is something we see in The Simpsons and everyone loves that. I wrote this review to defend the movie, because I think that this was a good movie.Rocky and Bullwinkle is about the animated duo who go against Borris and Natasha after they have escaped from the TV. It's not exactly a good plot, but the movie needed a premise. Moose and Squirrel look great as CGI characters. Rocky is so lovable and Bullwinkle is so... uh...Anyway, I will admit that DeNiro's performance was a *bit* over the top and Borris and Natasha's accents were a *bit* fake, but you could tell that the actors were having fun. And seeing all the other big name stars (Jeanene Garafalo, Randy Quiad, and David Alan Grier to name a few) was so much fun!So, what I am saying is lighten up a little on this movie. Would you rather your children watch David Arquette roll around in dog crap and a dog bite off a man's testicle (See Spot Run, rated PG) or have them watch a funny, good-natured, *clean* family comedy (Rocky and Bullwinkle, *also* rated PG)? You decide, but if I was a parent I'd go with Rocky & Bullwinkle.  "}{"Title":"Shame on you","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Shame on you for not liking this wonderful movie.  This was pure entertainment at its best.  I am 51 and have tapes of most of R&B's TV shows and I think this is just as good.  The three voices were splendid and the animation/live action mix was terrific.  If you didn't like this film you should get your head examined, by Dr. Bullwinkle J. Moose, himself! "},{"Title":"Had to pause the VCR due to laughing so hard!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie requires a certain appreciation for SMART comedy. Even when this movie's humor was inanely silly, it came at such a great rhythm and breakneck pace that only certain minds could keep up/appreciate it. Take a cue from Janeane Garofolo's cameo -- hollywood scripts are being scrapped because they are too intelligent.A great case in point -- this movie recieved a lousy imdb rating while everyone just loved that recent tripe known as Heartbreakers.As for De Niro. I personally have never found him to be quite deserving of his many accolades. The reason -- while he plays it very well, he has been playing the EXACT same character since Taxi Driver. This was the FIRST time I've ever seen De Niro actually ACT (i.e. take on a new persona and ACT like someone else). He was brilliant. Unfortunately, like many other versatile actors (such as Jim Carey and Robin Williams) the public is only happy when he hashes out the same, tired routine.I wish so much that more people had found the same joy in this picture as I did. It was brilliantly self-referential, aware, bright, quick and funny as heck. If you can relate to anything I've touched on in this review, and there probably aren't a lot of you, see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Fun but uneven, welcome back Moose and Squirrel.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not every old TV show or funny bit needs to be a movie (hear that Lorne Michaels?).  The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle is an entertaining romp through the Jay Ward universe, complete with odd puns, goofy satire, and slap-stick laughs.  Unfortunately, there are also too many spots in the movie where you're just staring blankly at the screen (ironic, considering the comic scheme of Fearless Leader).  I laughed a lot through the first half of the movie, but some of it seemed rather boring.  When Moose and Squirrel were on TV, they existed in short bursts of incoherent mayhem before shuffling off to make room for Mr.Peabody, Dudly Do-Right, and the other Jay Ward creations.  Carrying a 90 minute movie was probably a little too ambitious.  Having said that, I'd like to add that I wouldn't trade seeing the good parts of this movie for anything!  There was some fun stuff in this movie, well worth sitting through some not some good parts.  I'm saying this as an adult of course...I'm sure kids would love this movie just for the two heroes.  I just wish Mr.Peabody and Sherman had been along for the ride. "},{"Title":"A good attempt, but missing something...","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a very noble attempt to bring Moose and Squirrel into the new Millennium.  The animation was very good, and the classic full-cartoon sequences were (if anything) TOO well-animated (Remember how clunky the animation and backgrounds were in the classic series?)  Even the color was exceptionally vibrant.  The many sight gags and puns were a treat, as were the numerous cameos (including Judge Cameo played by Whoopie Goldberg). Who would have thought of bringing a cartoon character to life by getting Hollywood to Greenlight the movie?But this film still left me wanting.  Rocky and Bullwinkle always put the plot and cliffhanger ahead of puns, animation and cheeky gimmicks.  Here, the story is kind of second nature.  I find it hard to believe that even the most die-hard couch potatoes would want to watch a network dubbed Really Bad Television - RBTV.  They have too much to choose from on satellite, cable, home video, and the big five networks.  And if not, they can always log on to the Internet or play Nintendo!While the writing was funny and clever at times, they missed several opportunities to be even funnier.  There were three VERY funny lines shown in the trailer that somehow never made it into the final cut1. When Rocky & Bullwinkle launch themselves through the air in the live-action convertible, Bullwinkle can be heard yelling I'm the King of the World! ala Jim Cameron's Titanic.2. When Bullwinkle crashes his plane on the White House lawn, he staggers out and mumbles something about wanting to use a lifeline, please... in homage to Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.3. When Rocky and Bullwinkle are leaving Washington at the end of the movie, Bullwinkle lowers his shades, looks into the camera and shouts WHASSSUUUUP! in homage to the Beer Commercial popular at the time.(These lines were used to help promote the movie, but they never made it into the final cut. DVD owners can catch these lines in the film's trailer, but personally, I consider this to be false advertising!  If you're gonna have stuff that funny, leave it in the final cut of the film - don't tease us and then withhold the payoff!)Deniro, Alexander and Russo are very good, but do not get the screen time they rightfully merit.  (Remember, in the TV show, we usually saw more of Boris and Natasha than we did Moose and Squirrel!) But even here, Natasha gets to do some serious soul-searching (about making leetle boris's that we can teach to be rotten).  Sorry, I don't need angst from a gorgeous lady spy from the sixties, I need her to do what she does best... be sneaky!And how did the producers possibly miss the opportunity to cast John Ratzenberger (Cliff) and George Wendt (Norm) as Chauncey and Edgar; those two old simps who sit on a park bench every episode and invariably point out Well there's something you don't see every day...?  I hear both actors are available and without a sitcom right now!  Wake up people!And Piper Perabo?  Adorable.  Funny.  Cute.  But a waste of screen time! Her character was overwritten.  This is not The Adventures of Karen Sympathy and Her Friends.  Don't get me wrong, I think she will make a fine actress in the right part.  But here, she is just plain unnecessary.Jay Ward's legacy is capable of so much more than this (see the 1990s version of George of the Jungle to see what I am talking about!).  I highly advise the production team to get back to their drawing boards for a sequel - one that really works...  "},{"Title":"***  Funny but not too memorable","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not great but very funny update of the classic television cartoon. The inane plot involves the evil trio of Fearless Leader (Robert DeNiro), Boris (Jason Alexander) and Natasha (Rene Russo), who have turned themselves from cartoon into live-action so that they can buy a television station and take over the world. Piper Perabo is somewhat feeble as the FBI agent sent to stop them with the help of that unstoppable duo Rocky and Bullwinkle (here rendered with impressive computer animation. Russo is a gas as the gorgeous femme fatale (so gorgeous in fact that while near her Alexander completely vanishes off the screen), while DeNiro is embarrassingly over the top as in his role. The film has some very hilarious jokes in it, mostly involving the titular heroes, plus a boatload of famous names doing cameos (Whoopi Goldberg, Billy Crystal, John Goodman), but the film doesn't maintain its hectic hilarity throughout.   "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I heard nothing but bad reviews on this film but the trailers I saw in the theater intrigued me nevertheless.   My wife was not interested maybe because I'm 50 and she's 40 and she missed it the first time around so it had no nostalgia value for her.  When it came out on video, I wanted to rent it and I'm glad I did.  What a treat - really!This Y2K edition brought back a lot of great childhood memories of two of my favorite cartoon characters - Rocky and Bullwinkle, the bumbling good guys.The voices of R & B are exactly as I remember them and the attitude of the whole project is as silly and off the wall as the original series on TV. The special effects and chacterizations were a joy and between cringing and laughing, this was a very pleasant experience - not to mention a great piece of escapism.  Get a bag of popcorn and forget the last 35 years and enjoy.Don't miss the song played over the closing credits.  It's a delightful piece of nostalgia called Through the Eyes of a Child. If that doesn't take you back after seeing this romp, you just may not have a heart - or a memory. "},{"Title":"Liked the original?  You'll like this.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved the original cartoons, and this movie preserves the parts I liked about it.  The self-mocking, theatrical, relentless innocence is overshadowed only by the frequency of the puns.  Though Piper Perabo is dreadful in it, that's only appropriate for the role of cartoon ingenue.  Rene Russo is splendid in skin-tight spy-glam, Jason Alexander does a good job of impersonating a cartoon character, and Robert DeNiro, as usual of late, enjoys parodizing himself.  There are a slew of unnecessary, loud cameos, some by people I didn't recognize but whom I was obviously supposed to.  But what the heck  Rocky and Bullwinkle themselves turned in a superb performance.   "},{"Title":"A rare movie that just can't find it's place","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm afraid this movie just wasn't able to find it's place in the world of movies.  I couldn't tell whether this was supposed to be a slapstick movie, a kid's movie or an adult satire.  It really didn't fit any of them.  It was just plain silly.This movie would have made more sense if was made as a cartoon, like the original Rocky and Bullwinkle.  Then the silliness would have fit better.  When they made this into a live-action, they made this a worse bomb than any that Boris or Natasha has ever made.Sorry guys, but this needs to stay as a kids cartoon and not a big screen movie.  I hope there is no attempt at a sequel. "},{"Title":"very silly","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another title for this film might have been Silly Movie.Good cast and some good lines, but you just can't shake how silly and inane it all is. Kids might like it better than adults. I kind of liked it (even though I'm almost 30) because I was in a good mood when I watched it. (hint, hint.) I also like Rocky and bullwinkle when I was a kid, and that helped. A little.Trivia John Goodman arrests Piper Perabo. He played her father in Coyote Ugly.See it if you've got 90 minutes to spare.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I should have hit stop","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie because Robert De Niro is my favorite actor (he and Al Pacino) I swear, i almost threw up this movie was so horrible. First of all people bug me because I am biased since it is a kid's movie. I disagree, i have taken my nephews to kids movies ten times better than this mind-numbing escapade. I used to love the Rocky and Bullwinkle show (especially Fractured Fairy Tales) but this was insult to the show I remember. I also hated the cornball acting from Piper Perabo (could we expect anything less). I hope large numbers of people at Universal were fired after this movie got released. For other bad movies, I also recommend Dude, Where's My Car, and The 10th Kingdom.  "}{"Title":"So much better than the reviews.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So many people have identified this as being a mediocre film. I can only wonder if the version I have is different. Perhaps it suffers in that new films can almost never live up to your memories. So be it.My 10 year old daughter and I enjoyed this film immensely. The puns are on target and, like the original show, sometimes only caught in multiple viewings. If you've avoided it out of fear of disappointment, stop fearing. This movie was one of the most fun of the year. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable rental","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you enjoy Rocky and Bullwinkle then you should get a kick out of this movie.  It's silly and begins sort of shakey but there is plenty of fun stuff and cameos to keep you entertained for an hour and a half.  It's worth the price of a rental and probably plays better on a small screen.  I give it a 6 out of 10 because it held my attention. "},{"Title":"Very funny but poor performance at box office is a shame","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Alot of people have commented for one reason or another that this movie 'sucked'. Well in my opinion is was fun and querky and very easy to watch.It seems that those who hated this film either a) never watched the original rocky and bullwinkle and can't really understand its humor.orb) Were great fans of the original as kids and now as adults suffer from 'only the original will do syndrome'.Of course everyone likes to reflect on the good things when you were a kid as being the best. However time moves on and I beleive the new producers of this film tried to do the best they could  with this film given the change in time and the advent of new technologies.I think the real critics of this film worth noting should be todays grandpas and grandmas who 35 years ago sat down next to their kids for the odd original rocky and bullwinkle show. They probably can make the best judgement as they are not compromised by a natural bias of of living in the 1960s and watching Rocky and Bullwinkle as a kid and hence getting so sentimental.Its a shame that this new version did not do better at the box office. It will no doubt now put off any future plans for similar projects by the big movie studios.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully daft subversive big-money satire","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people hate this movie because it is so completely ridiculous. But I think it's superb. It must have taken some kind of genius to get the Hollywood system to churn out such a bizarre movie. It goes beyond self-referential... in the movie FBI agent Karen Sympathy breaks into a Hollywood studio to get the Rocky & Bullwinkle movie given the greenlight and it really feels like someone must have hacked Hollywood to get untold millions of dollars directed into this bizarre satire.A few cautionary notes real hardcore R&B fans will hate this, as it doesn't take it at all seriously. If you need to suspend disbelief to enjoy a movie this is not the one for you. And make sure your face is moisturised, because you'll probably be cringing most of the way through. Much of the greatness of this movie is derived from how very obviously bad it is. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have read previous comments people have written. It always disturbs me that people look for that hidden message and take things way to serious when it comes to movies eg. Godzilla people comment as if that would happen. Come on folks it's a 20 foot lizard rampaging through Manhattan its not supposed to be real. Same with this movie. This is a spin off of a cartoon done long ago. You thought it was great then because you were a kid. Now you are all grown up so of course your not going to look at it from the same perspective. This movie was a lot of fun, don't take it so seriously. (Its a cartoon) The actors were good. They looked like they totally enjoyed them selves making it, which help make this movie fun to watch. Please remember you go to the movies to escape real life and lose yourself in the movie magic. Just go and enjoy. Also it is really aimed at kids.  But all in all I thought this was a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Will not disappoint","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For fans of the Rocky & Bullwinkle show, this movie will not disappoint. Probably one of the more faithful adaptations I've seen of any cartoon in recent years.  For those who are initiated, the movie may seem esoteric and even pointless.  "},{"Title":"This Arrow Definitely Missed the Bull's Eye","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this movie totally missed the mark for me.  I really wish that I could be writing a glowing review....... especially after all the fanfare and positive publicity, which preceded the debut of this movie.As a big fan, of this animated series, I do feel that this film really betrayed the spirit of the original producers, Jay Ward and Bill Scott.  To do this type of film should have only been done if the finished product was to be a true and genuine TRIBUTE to this great show.The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle was brutally self-deprecating to the point of being DESTRUCTIVE.  The lines of this film continuously reminded the audience of what a bad series this was......how terrible the dialogue used to be, and that nothing had changed since 1964.....(Hello?!?......was this really true.....how could the series have ever lasted five years if it was THAT BAD?!?).Being totally objective, I can recall, as an adult, watching some episodes, in which I groaned out loud, but in all fairness, the majority of the time I found it delightful and ingeniously done!!  I can forgive a few bad shows, here and there, for a TRUE CLASSIC like this.Phyllis Diller's self-deprecating humor was endearing and incredibly funny.  This movie's style of such humor was a terrible injustice and an abominable tribute!  What this destructive bent did was to make many of us, in the audience, feel like we were CHUMPS for being there!!  I think that a lot of us could have forgiven the script, or been a little more conservative in our criticism, had the film not constantly reminded us how bad the movie was.I did not feel so badly, for myself, sitting through this movie, but I was accompanied by two young ladies, around my age (all of us being single, for the record) who had agreed to see this film because I wanted to see it.  When I saw how much they were not enjoying it, I just could not wait for the movie to end!  I think I suffered through the film, more than they, since it had been my idea, and I felt guilty about it.Finally I will say that I really had had high hopes for this movie since I had chosen to forgo seeing several other recent adaptations of Jay Ward's shows (Boris and Natasha, Dudley Do- Right and George of the Jungle).  I had skipped all of those films because there was no animation, included, at all. I had even gone to this movie, after having read some lukewarm to bad reviews.....I guess you could say that I was hoping against hopelessness......  "},{"Title":"Has Potential","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fairly good movie. I enjoyed it, even though I really don't like Rocky and Bullwinkle.So much more could have been done with it, but I must remember that this movie is intended for kids and people who like Rocky and Bullwinkle. The plot was pointless, but one of the best I've ever seen for a children's movie. Some of the humor was, again i must remind my self this is a kid's movie, dumb, but some was funny. (i.e. all celebrities are above the law!) I'd see it again. if you paid me. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish ,despite unfunny adaption of the crudely animated TV cartoon","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Basic plot Fearless leader, Boris and Natasha  go into the real world and try to take over it by zombifying people with really bad TV. When soft FBI agent Karen Sympathy is assigned to stop them, she takes Rocky& Bullwinkle into the real world to apprehend the villains.The Praise Moderately amusing, and occasionally funny, it is fast-paced and has a cartoonish look.The flawsIt needs to be funnier, a lot more humor. Also, the script doesn't give our heroes a lot of interesting things to do.Neither are Kenan and Kel given a lot to do in a needless cameo.The orchestration Supertramp, Larger than life.  "},{"Title":"Despite the flaws, it is one of the best comedies in years.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is almost a great movie.  If you like the humor of the original Bullwinkle and Rocky Show, you will like this film.  The main problem is there are too many scenes that do not have Rocky and Bullwinkle in them and those scenes make the movie drag.  The Karen Sympathy character was also given too much screen time.  This movie could have probably been saved in the editing room.  It is too bad it was such a box office failure, because in many ways it is very enjoyable.  Despite the flaws, it is one of the best comedies in years. "}{"Title":"A Pleasant Summer Surprise","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie with my three younger brothers, thinking they'd have fun with it. I was surprised how much I liked it as well. I remembered how much I liked the original cartoon and how the humor was aimed more at the adults. I had figured that the humor would be a little watered down for the kids in this big summer theatrical release, but was pleasantly surprised to find the opposite was true, and I was actually laughing more than my brothers.De Niro's sendup of his own Are you talking to me? scene was great, and I liked Jason Alexander & Rene Russo as Boris & Natasha. The combination of computer graphics & live action was seamless and convincing, and the goofy puns and traditional Rocky & Bullwinkle banter was top-notch. The only real complaint I would have would be Piper Perabo as Karen Sympathy. Other than that, its a great summer treat for all ages.......especially adults. "},{"Title":"This is definitely one of the better 'retro' productions I have seen yet.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you have been turned off by other productions bringing childhood cartoon characters of the '60's to the big screen, don't give up hope.This film is highly entertaining and should not be judged by others of its ilk.See this movie.  The villains are truly villainous and create a balance with the 'good guys' which doesn't leave you wondering who they are.  The script is 'right on' and delivered so.This is a show everyone should see.  Don't see it for the production, don't see it for the animation, don't see it for the cast...SEE IT FOR THE FUN! "},{"Title":"You don't often have so much pun.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was so much fun, especially if you like good groaners. In fact, it can take multiple viewings just to catch up with all the great puns.I only wish I could go into more detail, but spoiling the fun is not what I had in mind. It helps to have been a fan of the original cartoon but is not necessary since most of the jokes work without any prior knowledge of the characters.Go and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hokey smokes, hokey movie","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Somewhere in the heart of Frostbite Falls, our heroes save the world on a daily basis, thwarting both by design and sheer luck the nefarious plots of Fearless Leader and his cohorts, Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale. The plots of those old Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons were tantalizingly simple. Helium-voiced Rocket J. Squirrel and terminally stupid Bullwinkle J. Moose had all the sense of an Eskimo in a desert sandstorm, but the cartoons were loaded with adult-oriented jokes (Veronica Lake??) that would please Mom and Dad, while the kids were easily hooked on the appropriately cartoonish violence.There have been movies that have taken old-time cartoons and made them - or tried to - into live-action films. This doesn't always work. Sure, The Flintstones was a good-enough movie, but what about the more recent Flintstones movie in Las Vegas? The creators of this movie tried the same thing, and they even made Rocky and Bullwinkle trying to adapt to the 'real world' - that is, they knew the difference between their cartoon home in Frostbite Falls, Minnesota and three-dimensional life.Basic plot Fearless Leader and company have left the cartoon world and are going to take over the real world. Whoa, THAT sounds familiar. So an intrepid, young, cute FBI agent (Piper Perabo, miscast and unnecessary) is assigned to the case by her boss (Randy Quaid, misused), and it's up to her and the cartoon moose and squirrel to right the wrongs of the day.I will say this much for the movie - aside from the now ho-hum special effects of making the cartoon animals seem real - it seems to stay pretty close to the spirit of the original. There are in-jokes (Nickelodean's Kenan Thompson and Kel Mitchel play Martin and Lewis - Dean and Jerry, anyone?) and some fun cameos that don't detract from the movie itself. But it's nothing more than a road movie with a little panache. The saddest thing is that the movie becomes less about Rocky and Bullwinkle as icons and more about the superfluous FBI agent. It seems like there were several writers in on this escapade, but only one (Ken Lonergan) is listed - either he's REALLY schizophrenic, or the other writers wisely decided to be anonymous.There's also leaden pacing in some parts, not to mention a real herky-jerky filming style. Oh, but all is not lost. I DID laugh a lot. Ok, maybe not a lot, but some. It's just an uneven movie - sometimes you laugh, and sometimes you sit there in silence. All in all, it's not as good as the original, but since that almost never happens, you might walk away from it almost satisfied. "},{"Title":"What you believe in as a child may come true when you grow up...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Just like the original cartoons Rocky and His Friends' and The Bullwinkle Show this combination of live action/animation is really for adults.On the beautiful summer afternoon we saw `The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle' ARB the audience was entirely of the age group commonly referenced as `Baby Boomers.'So it was entirely appropriate that Mark Mothersbaugh who was originally lead singer for the rock band `Devo' which (for whatever reason) was very popular with that particular age group, composed all of the original music for ARB; but it should be known he also composes the music for `Rugrats' and composed the music for `Pee-Wee's Playhouse.'While Jason Alexander, Rene Russo and Robert De Niro (not to forget Rocky and Bullwinkle!) are faithful to the original cartoon; Piper Perabo gives just the right note of sincerity to her role as the FBI agent.The wonderful puns on names (Kurwood Derby, The Ruby Yacht of &#133;. ) in the original are executed with as much flair, wit and originality as the television cartoon.Karen Sympathy, General Store, General Admission and General Food are just four of the examples.The blend of animated characters and live actors was reminiscent of `Who Framed Roger Rabbit' &#150; which was referenced in ARB.The violence (which resulted in a PG-13 rating) is all cartoon violence you will see worse in Bugs Bunny or the Road Runner on Saturday morning.A gun was brandished a few times; but was really unnecessary.But don't worry  No mooses or squirrels were harmed in the filming of this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Best Picture of the year!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Its too bad that the Oscars don't recognize comedies/animation/ etc for best picture very often, because this picture deserves at least a nomination.Just like the original Brady Bunch movie, it thoroughly manages to lampoon, satirize, parody, just about every thing from the Cold war to ecology to itself with delicious aplomb.In the movie, fearless leader says this movie is Something completely different, and it is!--It goes way beyond the Roger Rabbit movie.I just hope this movie makes enough money to generate a sequel. "},{"Title":"Rocky is the key word here...","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And I'm not talking about the squirrel.  Don't get me wrong, as a human being I loved the movie and all of its slapstick and wicked puns.  But, unfortunately, I have to play the evil part of the critic and make the movie sound horrible when in actuality, it is pretty good.  But while I am on the subject of pretty good whose idea was it to put Jason Alexander in the suit of Boris.  Where the heck is Danny Devito?  I mean he's not that busy in the film industry is he? (sorry Danny...)  Okay, the movie, right...Well, let's just say I was hoping for a little bit more than what I got.  The cameo appearances look great in the credits but in the movie itself one has to wonder why?.  Keenan and Kel try so hard to pass as geeky nerds but their chemistry and humor works almost too well for them in this picture.  Whoopi Goldberg's motivation for her hip-harsh judge is somewhat lost.  (Sorry Whoopi, we'll talk later)  Robert DeNiro is interesting as Fearless Leader and I wish that he had a smaller part in the film until the end and a do a grand finish.  But either way it works.  And it does, because after all, while it looked cute, we are really here to see the famed duo from long forgotten right?  Rocky and Bullwinkle make it fun.  Not funny.  But fun.  After all, were Rocky and Bullwinkle ever funny?  Yes! They had those awesome puns and slapstick humor! And the tradition continues through the whole movie!!! All the talk about digital this and that weighs it down some but overall, I felt somewhat satisfied when I left and am sure that if I were to see it a second time (and I will because I know I will buy it on video, I am always a sucker for those tapes, and soon the dvd...when i get around to it)I will love it. Okay, outside the dimension of critic  This is hilarious! Ultimate stupid humor!! and I love stupid humor! Not like Ace Ventura stupid humor but like sweet innocent just plain stupid humor that you laugh at and then with!  Because deep down, you know that's really the way things are. So dumb, you have no choice but to laugh.  And you do!!! On a rate of 1 to 10 I'll give it a 6.5-7 which would make it like 6.5745978 or something like that....Anyway, go see it sometime (preferably in the theatre..they're losing money on this one...help em out a little, let em know innocence still has a place in the world!)  and GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"The biggest surprise of the summer so far","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised how much I laughed during this one. Lots of funny bits here. This is easily the most self-aware comedy I have ever seen. I'm not normally a fan of in-jokes or movies that wink at the audience, but this one really had me in hysterics in its first 20 minutes.I was never much of a fan of the cartoon (not when I could get Transformers or G.I. Joe on the other channel), overall I'm not a big fan of animated movies and I wasn't overly thrilled with Roger Rabbit, so I wasn't excited about this one, but I decided to give it a whirl based on some good reviews I heard. Glad I wasn't disappointed.Good performance by all. Perabo as Agent Karen Sympathy is cute as a button. She looks scenes between her and her inner child are a riot. Alexander is funny, Russo looks incredible (as always) and De Niro does comedy with ease. Is there anything he can't do? I couldn't believe that they convinced him to do an impersonation of what is probably his most famous passage of dialogue ever, the You talkin' to me? scene in Taxi Driver. This is one of the most imitated scenes in film, but then I found out the movie is from De Niro's own producton company, Tribeca, so I guess he decided to give it that extra something.This movie does not disappoint. The laughs in the second half aren't quite as fast and furious as in the first, but it is still far smarter a film than anyone would expect. Way to go, guys! 9/10 stars! G'night!  "},{"Title":"A truly hilarious film","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it was the many puns or the hilarious play-ons that I enjoyed about The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle. After I left the movie theater, I was glad that I saw it because I thought it was the best comedy of the year.Robert DeNiro leads an all-star cast that includes Rene Russo, Jason Alexander and newcomer Piper Perabo in a comedy that will knock everyone's socks off. I was impressed by everyone in this film especially DeNiro because this is quite a departure from his dramatic and action roles.Newcomer Piper Perabo looks a lot like Renee Zelwegger and that is what I first noticed about her. I subsequently realized that she was more than just a pretty face, she is a real talent that will go far in Hollywood if she puts forth the effort.Another aspect of the film I was impressed with were the puns and play-ons the writer came up with. These above anything else made the film that much more enjoyable to watch because it was able to poke fun at others and yet still be funny enough where it didn't become silly.Few films that are made from television shows are successful. There are those who look for certain things to occur in a movie that they saw as a child on a television show and they base their opinion of the movie based upon that fact alone. The Adventures Of Rocky & Bullwinkle far succeeded my expectations of being one of the best made from a television show. I hope everyone can enjoy this film as much as I did because it is sure to make you laugh throughout the movie. This is a must-see movie for all ages to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A Stupid-Funny Movie for Everyone!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was so excited to see 'Rocky and Bullwinkle' (Being at the age I am, I was rarely lucky enough to wake up at five in the morning to watch reruns. Still, the cartoon rocks.). Anyway, when I watched, I had to really focus on it hard and long to get the point. And you know what? I saw it last week and I still don't get it! Don't bother searching for the main idea, because there isn't one. Don't leave to go to the bathroom, because you'll miss a rock in the road to an Almost Point. Still, with Bullwinkle's stupid puns, the cameos and the references-to-other-movies comments, it turns out to be pretty darn funny when you put your mind to it. For adults who used to watch it, this movie will also strike your fancy. It's for everyone, ages 2 - 200 and it's very clean.   Seinfeld-ers, like myself if you're going in there for the sole purpose of fine actor Jason Alexander, don't bother. Even though he played the part to perfection, if you time how long he's on-screen, he's in the movie at a maximum of 20 minutes. And that scary mustache of his will give you nightmares.   "}{"Title":"R&B are back","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is nothing like Roger Rabbit. Remember Last Action Hero with Arnold Swat-a-ooops. When the boy goes, Hey this can't be the real world, there's a cop woking with a cartoon character. Nobody in the real world is amazed that two cartoon characters are walking the streets, No even Karen Sympathy AKA Piper Pikachu. For being Coyote Ugly she's quite cute. Even regular people are not shocked to see a 400 pound cartoon moose and a flying nerf ball walking around. The jokes are not silly, they are retarded. Where is Jim Carrey when you need him. He would have been a great addition to this motley crew. Whoppi Goldbrick as Judge Cameo, PULLeeeze! Also, Robert Deniro was not funny in his reprise of Taxi Driver's You talkin' to me? He needs a little work.Kenan & Kel were in it. Remember Goodburger, the movie about two losers with McJobs. Hello Sir, can I take you order please? Answer YES, I want my money back! This movie SUCKS!This movie belongs in the 99 cent bin, right next to all time great hits like Heaven's Gate and WaterWorld.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have taken my visiting 6 year old grandson to several movies this summer. I had the most fun at Rocky and Bullwinkle.  He enjoyed it for the kid stuff and I thought the adult humor i.e. puns and take-offs funny.  I judge a movie by how many times I look at my watch during the movie.  I only looked once during R&B.  I also agree that the girl lead was really cute and did a good job.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing. Watch the TV version instead.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The TV show was fast, sharp, and funny, but the movie is slow, dull, and pointless. Not much resemblance between TV's cartoon characters and the big screen's pale approximations Rocky, formerly the brains of the outfit, is now a forlorn wimp. Bullwinkle, who used to fearlessly fire off hilarious puns, now offers a few tired one-liners as tedious live-action characters monopolize the footage. The picture might have worked better as an animated feature. If you've never seen moose and squirrel on television you might get a few laughs out of this, but you'll wonder how the show ever got such a following. Diehard fans will definitely be disappointed, although Robert DeNiro is amusing as Fearless Leader, and June Foray and Keith Scott are excellent as our heroes' voices. Curiously, Bill Scott (the original voice of Bullwinkle and co-creator of the TV show) does not get any screen credit at all.  "},{"Title":"Easy Rider With Moose and Squirrel","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rocky and Bullwinkle is the kind of movie where if you get half the jokes your lucky. Written by people that obviously know their movies, it takes stabs at television, the government, Hollywood, and classic cinema and the more you know your pop culture the more you'll laugh.Piper Pirabo lights up the screen as the agent Karen Sympathy.  She has a rare natural beauty that exists in so few actresses in hollywood. Boris and Natasha needed to be utilized more, but Jason Alexader was quite funny.  Deniro as fearless leader was also a crowd pleaser.Smart Writing really adds to the film.I laughed hard....  "},{"Title":"This was surprisingly fun from start to finish.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I agree with the comment that the puns are stupid and the humor is aimed at adults--and it IS what made the original show so great.  Some of the humor may be lost on people under 30, but I thought it was sharp and funny all the way through.  The cameos were fun, and the puns were great in their stupidity!  I liked the Crymia River... "},{"Title":"A Terrible Waste of Time and Talent","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was just plain awful!  An embarrassment for all involved.  I can't imagine Robert DeNiro or Jason Alexander looking back on this fondly.  Alexander was especially miscast--he looks nothing like the Boris Badenov character and does a particularly amateurish job of hamming it up.  At least Rene Russo looks something like Natasha.The story, what there was, just didn't make much sense.  And I really don't know who they were trying to target this movie to--at the screening I went to, the audience was filled with parents and children, but most of the humor consisted of wordplay and puns which would sail over their heads.  The movie doesn't aspire to an adult level of comedy and I can't imagine it would appeal very much to fans of the original series, unless they're in a serious nostalgia phase.The film was only 90 minutes long, but that was about 70 minutes too long.  Any time I start looking at my watch, I know it's a bad sign and I checked the time more than once.  I have to say that, after growing up with Roger Ebert's reviews and finding I often was in agreement with him, more and more recently, I'm discovering that our tastes in movies have started to converge.  I went to the film based on his recommendation and his 3 and 1/2 star rating, but this is more of a 1 star film, if that.  I have to say I was very disappointed! "},{"Title":"Good, Should Have Been Better","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're a fan of puns (be sure to read all the signs!) and lame (in a good sense) jokes, you're all set.  Looking for a plot that makes sense?  Why? The original cartoons didn't have them.  Looking for something that brings back the free-wheeling spirit of the originals?  Keep looking.Basically, R&B is a good idea that wasn't quite developed properly.  The idea of bringing Rocky and company into the real world was inspired, but the movie's idea of a real world is one in which yes, R&B are cartoon characters, but the movie's real people could easily inhabit the cartoons without missing a beat.  I think the real fun would've been to make the real world slightly more real (a suspension of disbelief among the people who encounter R&B was necessary, but you'd think appearances by cartoon characters was a normal occurrence in this world) and have people deal with the idea of an animated moose and squirrel coming to life with less acceptance and more apprehension.  And if the characters were going to inhabit our world, it should've been our world.  No no falling until you look down kind of things.Additionally, Boris and Natasha should've been given more to do.  Where was the cheap disguise that Boris would always don to trick R&B into a trap, neither of them recognizing their enemy? Alexander and Russo were wasted as not much more than window dressing.  DeNiro was a hoot, though, although his You talking to me? joke was forced.Ultimately, it's hard to maintain the manic pace of the cartoons over the course of a full length movie, and this film doesn't do it.  The need to tell a story over two hours instead of in seven minute bits was its weakness.But the strength of the movie is that, for all the problems, there are a number of strong laughs in it.  Puns and groaners fly all over the place, and that's always been what I watched R&B for.  Go, don't expect much of a story and just watch for the jokes.  It's worth it.PS to Hollywood stop with all the cameos already!  They're forced, they're distracting, and they fall flat.  (Usually.  John Goodman's wasn't bad, for reasons that are clear when you see the film). "},{"Title":"Is very faithful to the spirit of the TV show.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting to be disappointed. I thought that they would try and update the show, giving Rocky and Bullwinkle modern attitudes. Instead I got the same old R & B complete with horrible puns and Bullwinkle's extremely convoluted logic.  I loved it. (But then, I loved the show.)  I also got live action to boot. "},{"Title":"Who the hell is Piper Picabo?","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, a lot of the jokes were lame, but this movie came really close to capturing the animated absurdity of the cartoon, with alexander, Russo and de Niro all fitting extremely well with their characters. But that Karen Sympathy character, while being child-friendly and also very attractive, comes out of nowhere and is on the screen all the time. I really didn't see the need for the character, except the be yourself moral at the end, and she didn't impress me with her acting. (Although i guess it's hard to imagine cartoons around you all the time). I feel that the producers were trying to make the movie appealing to small children  with this character, but I believe it made the movie way too childish for the adult audience, and I would have enjoyed the movie a lot more if it weren't for the pretty little girl trapped in a woman's body. "},{"Title":"Just plain dumb.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was very disappointed. The movie was just plain dumb. There are some fast puns, like the glimpse of the sign for the Crimea River and having Boris and Natasha standing in front of the J Ward, but most of the jokes fall flat. The scene where Robert Di Nero does a take-off on his Are you talking to me? scene from Taxi Driver just doesn't make sense. The entire section of getting Rocky and Bullwinkle to Wattsamatta U is so labored that it becomes painful to watch. The original show was funny and hip, but this movie is just dumb  "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but in the right vein","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although AR&B isn't consistently side-splittingly funny, it definitely has its high points, and manages more often than not to capture the spirit and the rhythm of the original cartoon -- really, almost as often as a live action film could.  The only downside is the heartstring-tugger story about the FBI agent.  That's no fault of Piper Perabo (the actress who played Agent Karen Sympathy), but rather one of the script; the sentimentality watered down the film's sly tone.  But there are lots of great moments here, enough to make AR&B a worthwhile matinee or rental.  "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but in the right vein","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although AR&B isn't consistently side-splittingly funny, it definitely has its high points, and manages more often than not to capture the spirit and the rhythm of the original cartoon -- really, almost as often as a live action film could.  The only downside is the heartstring-tugger story about the FBI agent.  That's no fault of Piper Perabo (the actress who played Agent Karen Sympathy), but rather one of the script; the sentimentality watered down the film's sly tone.  But there are lots of great moments here, enough to make AR&B a worthwhile matinee or rental.  "},{"Title":"What they spent in animation and effects they saved on the script.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle starts out promising with all of the satire that made the old cartoon show famous. Making fun of itself and Hollywood. However, the script goes downhill everytime the camera leaves our two heros. Don't get me wrong, the animation and special effects are great. It's just that what they spent on those things they saved on the script. The writers seem to pull the story in all directions just to get in another cameo appearance from one more fading star.While the performances of Alexander, Russo and Deniro are good, the main human actress who plays Karen Sympathy must have been someone's daughter or grand-daughter to get this part. It was not for acting ability.To sum up, my 9year old put it best. It was funny in parts, but not that good of a story.  "},{"Title":"Easily the best from TV to movie movie ever","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not a disappointment at all.  I give it a 9/10. This got some mixed reviews but I think the critics thatdidn't like this didn't like the original cartoon show either. This was the best of those TV shows get made into  movies movie ever made by far. If you like Rocky and Bullwinkle, you'll like this alot. DeNiro is great as Fearless Leader and really everyoneelse is good too.  Piper Perabo? is hot and she has thebiggest part in the movie.  My question is, where did SHEcome from?  I haven't found anything really wrong with thismovie.  All the slow parts and jokes that miss kind of seemto be meant to be that way and is in keeping with the oldcartoon so that can't be used against it either. Kids and some adults won't really get some of the subtlehumor of this movie though so it kinda doesn't really have asafe home at the box office.  Young Dating people wouldprobably go to a different movie too thinking that it isn't hipor something.  This movie makes fun of America, TV, politics, the waymovies are made and even DeNiro's role in Taxi Driver. This movie has some classic moments, see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Really surprised me.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My father raised me watching reruns of the original, so I've been a big fan ever since I was a little kid. When I heard they were making it into a movie, I was really happy about it. But bad reviews came along, and I didn't hear anything from those I knew, so I started to get worried.I honestly went into this expecting them to somehow screw it up, but I have to say, they did an excellent job for what they were doing. I knew that Alexander and Russo could do Borris and Natasha, but I was blown away by how well Deniro did Fearless Leader. And whoever did Bullwinkles voice really captured the spirit. I give this movie a 7.5, only for the fact that while capturing the spirit of the original, it did break into dramatic pauses that contrasted the complete idea of the original. Other than that, it was great. "},{"Title":"EENIE MEENIE CHILI BEANIE! THE SPIRITS ARE ABOUT TO SPEAK!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked this. Sue me! It was entertaining on a childish level, and I wasn't expecting much else. I recommend it to get away for all the violence, sex, drugs, and other degeneracy in our films for a change. Fun for the whole family. Believe in magic...10/10 ) "},{"Title":"If you loved the cartoon, you'll enjoy the movie.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie doesn't quite have the 'bite' of the original, but it is pretty close.  I'm glad they used the voice of June Foray as Rocky.  It tied in well with the cartoon.  Very corny, very adult (not in a nasty way).  You have to pay attention while watching it or you'll miss something.  I laughed out loud quite a few times.  Just like the cartoon!  Well worth watching! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People who like stupid, easy-to-understand comedies will hate this one. But those who are willing to watch something intelligent will love it. It's catchy, witty, and ironic (Yeah, and I'm the real John Goodman) and stays true to the original TV show. People who didn't like this movie definitely weren't fans of the cartoon. The scene in the end with the FBI director (I'm going to have to be frank. And I'm going to have to be Bullwinkle!) ranks right up there with the Hello, Dimitri scene from Dr. Strangelove. "},{"Title":"Hey, Rocky, watch me pull a crappy movie out of my hat!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ouch. I was really looking forward to this movie, but I must say, it disappointed me on every level.First of all, they didn't put any thought into anything. A big deal is made over cartoon characters becoming real people, but then they can still do cartoony things like running off a steep cliff and hovering for a few moments before falling. The rules in this universe are never established, as far as what the characters can or can't do.That would have been okay if they were too busy throwing jokes at the screen like the original TV show did, but this movie has none of the wit or pacing of the show. Once Rocky and Bullwinkle get into the real world, they don't do anything. The first half of the movie all they do is ride in cars. It's like the film makers were thinking, Look, we've got cartoon characters in a live action setting! That's amazing! People will be so captivated by that we won't have to have them do anything or say anything interesting! Yeah, well, we already saw cartoons in the real world in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, and they did and said funny things (to further the Roger Rabbit rip off-ness, this movie has a cartoon weasel character that looks just like the ones in that movie). Bullwinkle can't even manage to have good puns- I wish they just had him repeat dialog from the original cartoon.But I can't put all the blame on the cartoon characters. The live actors aren't that great. It's great to see Robert DeNiro in a children's movie, and he didn't disappoint. He's pretty funny, but Jason Alexander and Rene Russo are kind of inadequate, but that's really because of the material. They could've been funny, if they had a lucid plot to fall back on and if they had more screen time. Too much time is spent with Piper Perabo, as a good-hearted FBI agent who teams up with moose and squirrel.This movie was very embarrassing, and I really wish they had put some thought into it, had really funny jokes and sight gags, and had stayed true to the characters on the show, making them as funny and clever as they were in the 1960s.  I cannot recommend this movie, as it was just painful for the most part.  "},{"Title":"Loads of Fun","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is unexpectedly wonderful.  It's really funny and entertaining. I wasn't really a fan of the Rocky and Bullwinkle show, so I didn't expect to like this film a lot, but I was very pleasantly surprised.  It was really funny (although I'm not sure that children would understand half the jokes.) Go see it.  Now. "}{"Title":"Well cast, good kids' movie.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was well cast.  I was surprised at the big names featured in this movie, Whoopi Goldberg, Rene Russo, Robert DeNiro.  Most kids will enjoy this movie, but parents will probably be bored unless you were a huge Rocky and Bullwinkle fan as a kid. "},{"Title":"Good natured, but tired. Dang! A bit of a disappointment","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really, really REALLY wanted this movie to be great. I loved the show as a kid, and still can recite many lines from various characters and skits. I also am fond of the human cast here, and I admire them.Alas, I was a bit disappointed with Rocky & Bullwinkle. It wasn't bad-- in fact at almost any given moment in the movie I would be hard pressed to actually identify a flaw. Looked at in tiny little portions, it was virtually right on and almost perfect as a rendition. But pasted together-- it was slow. It never quite took flight. True, the original series was a brain thing, and not a visual fest, nor a high energy, MTV-like barrage (which didn't exist back in 1960-64 anyway). The original show celebrated its bad animation as an art form, made self-observational criticism, and much of the humor was cerebral, including puns so bad they were extra funny-- So the new movie's many attempts to droll up were noticed and appreciated. Much of that spirit was at least sought, if not actually conveyed. Thus the movie comes across as earnest and good natured. But overall, I must say the total vibe of the original show-- the engrossing entertainment of it-- was missed. Just barely, but to be truthful, missed.Rocky & Bullwinkle as a movie is still watchable-- just be prepared to not really laugh. Maybe a snort now and again-- but neither myself nor any of the few audience members I sat with laughed much. And that's not enough to make it a good comedy. It seemed kind of tired, or too slow, maybe even depressed at times.Also, note that this movie is WAY better than the Inspector Gadget movie last year, and Dudley Do-Right, even though both of those recent renditions of old cartoon shows into movies also had great cast members (and Dudley Do-Right, of course was actually a part of the original Bullwinkle TV series way back when).  I gave this movie a reluctant and disappointed 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Movie one step away from great, but that first step is a doozy","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The good news is that, like the tv show, the movie isn't really for kids and what goes on in the background is far more important (and more fun) than the plot or the characters.  De Niro is wonderful in the small part of Fearless Leader and the narrator is good.The bad news is that the characters don't work.  Rocky is no longer the Plucky Squirrel who glides to the rescue.  Now he's a disspirited has been who launches from the ground with contrails.  Alexander and Russo don't work as Boris and Natasha, though Alexander at least tries gamely.  Bullwinkle is okay, but not better than that.The trick to enjoying the movie is to watch the stuff that goes on in the background, like the hospital sign for J Ward; or the bits that zip by quickly, like Whoopie Goldberg's character being introduced offhandedly as Judge Cameo.  The plot of the tv series never made much sense anyway, and this is about average.  Some sharp commentary on today's culture is outweighed by how little the characters react to present times; Austin Powers did this much better.I recommend this movie to anyone who liked the tv show, but go in with low expectations and you'll have a better time. "},{"Title":"Great for Bullwinkle fans","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie, though I have to admit being a fan of the old TV series.  The movie does a great job of sticking to the feel of the old cartoons.  It's got a lot of puns, stupidity, and social commentary.  It also has a theme of truth and doing what is right.  For those that liked the old Bullwinkle series, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Moose and Squirrel strike back","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the part where I would normally go into a serious film mode to describe a movie.  Not here.Thoroughly enjoyed every minute and wished it didn't have to end.An absolute must for anyone who ever watched the original.  "},{"Title":"Yes, I liked it, You wanna make something of it?","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie, because the writing was superb, daring, original. Superb, because this is a knowing self-referenial film where all the knowing self-referenial comments further a gag, or the story, or character.  They don't just stick out and say, look, I'm self-referenial!  Daring, because everything in the movie says that these are the values of Moose and Squirrel and we are going to explore them, discuss them, and even critique them, all in a story that is funny and big and filmic.  Original, because it's not just gags and animation, it's a story of a young person who has to face her own shortcomings and look for strength in an immoral world.  And she finds it...you guessed it, in the values of Rocky and Bullwinkle.  Bullwinkle J. Moose is childishly logical and quite brave in his fashion, and Rocky is full of the rules of the adult world, and maybe a bit too careful, yet somehow still wanting to do good. Russo, Alexander, and DeNiro play the villainous trio not too well, but well, because the focus is on Rocky and Bullwinkle, and the young person who's character name I dare not give away,  because it's funny.  And the measure of the film is that it's done well, not steriods well, just a light touch, enough to make the comic duo funny and engaging on the big screen. And that is a trick that you may not want to believe can be done.  But the chemistry works, between Rocky and Bullwinkle and the heroine of the picture.  So that's why I liked it. "},{"Title":"This Movie Reeks Like The Girls In Beijing","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yikes.  Yikes. Yikes.  I know something was amazingly wrong when I saw Robert DeNiro mocking himself in the trailer (you talkin' to me? please...) It only gets worse folks.  This seems like one of those Favor movies, you know, the ones where one big stars owes another Producer/Writer whatever, and everyone has all these good intentions... Blah, Blah.  I'm learning something everyday about the business, and the one thing that really disappointed me, was that although actors can become the most amazing, daring people when handled correctly (DeNiro) by a good production, they can also be mis-guided and short-sighted when led around by a bunch of spine-less yes men who promise you the world in exchange for your soul.  It's horrible, the story falls on it's face, it's a very, very small child's movie, barely, but go see it anyway.  Please.  Keep this crap coming so we can lower our standards until oscar time comes, at which point we can finally exhale.    "},{"Title":"THE BEST SINCE WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle is the best life action/animated film since Who Framed Roger Rabbit. The  plot is not so original (Rocky and Bullwinke trying to stop De Niro and Russo) but all the jokes, the visual effects and the cameos are just great. De Niro´s character is extremely funny. Of course that it doesn´t compare to other of his movies, but this is a character that DeNiro´s fans would not like to miss.Rocky is just great, but Bullwinkle is excellent. The visual effects are just great. This could be a big winner at this year´s golden globes awards. After all, what could you expect, one of The iron giant producers is the director. Wow, pure quality. A must-see for all comedy-action fans.  "},{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just hearing De Nero reprise one of his most famous lines is worth the viewing - great cast, same bad puns, outrageous story lines, the stern voiced narrator, mix of wit, low humor, physical humor, and satire that made the TV show a classic. I think Jay Ward would approve... The only things missing are the Fractured Fairy Tales, Aesop, Mr. Peabody and Sherman, and of course Dudley Dooright (who got his own movie). Those who panned this movie should be banished to Pottsylvania and forced to watch the Smurf Movie for 93 hours straight. Finally see how Piper Perabo cut her teeth with the FBI before jumping to the CIA on the USA Network "},{"Title":"A Very Strong Attempt","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What is it about cartoons failing financially at the movies? What is missing in the transition from the TV to the big screen? Is it the lack of substance? Or could it be that a cartoon's charm is only limited to a twenty-minute time slot? I'm not quite sure myself but it is disappointing that most adaptations to the big screen end being a flop. Thankfully there are some that try really hard to stick to the old and not involve the characters in a non-cartoony plot.A movie that can mirror this kind of description would be The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle. Sure this movie has not gained a whole lot of appreciation but for the fans who truly respect the original series, you can see why this movie is one of those live action cartoon movies that stands out from the others. How come? Because the film uses its goofiness from its original episodes and uses it throughout the film. This movie is similar to The Muppets (2011) movie plot. Over a certain length of time, Rocky and Bullwinkle have been forgotten in the past until they are needed again 35 years later. So has anything really changed character-wise in this movie, absolutely not. Rocky, Bullwinkle, Fearless Leader, Boris, Natasha and even the narrator are all in this movie. Even the screenplay between all live action characters are like the original. After a misunderstood conversation between Rocky and Bullwinkle, the narrator states, Yes even their word play had become hackneyed and cheap and then Bullwinkle replies to the narrator, No, it was always like this. Oh how right you are Bullwinkle!Aside from the main cartoon characters, Piper Perabo who plays Agent Karen Sympathy is given the assignment to get the daring duo out of the cartoon world and into the real world. The mission to stop the nefarious Fearless Leader played by Robert De Niro. De Niro is actually a wise choice for the role of Fearless Leader. I truly can't imagine another actor playing that part. Fearless Leader is a difficult cartoon character to mimic verbally and physically so I give De Niro credit for that. Jason Alexander and Rene Russo team up as the Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale. They too both mimic their cartoon characters fairly well.So what is there about this movie that makes it a good cartoon adaptation? Well besides the main cast, there are many famous actors that make cameo appearances. A couple that come to mind are John Goodman, Billy Crystal and Don Novello. Some play multiple characters while others play only one. Either way, this movie has a lot of star power.The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle may look like another worthless cartoon adaptation but it sticks to its roots and gives all that it has. Thanks to a good cast of actors, not only are the cartoon characters supported but it also makes its cheery screenplay work well too. "}{"Title":"What a kick!","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had to up the ratings and say a word about this movie. It was a real surprise and a treat for me- I just got satellite and it was one of the selections, so I tuned in out of curiosity. Never did I think that Rocky and Bullwinkle could be recreated so well, bad puns and all. It took me back to my childhood when Rocky and Bullwinkle were my favs, along with Crusader Rabbit, Mr. Peabody and Sherman, Fractured Fairy tales, Dudley Do Right and Gerald McBoingBoing (I don't remember much about him except the funny name!). Anyway, it was great fun to watch this movie, especially with all the cameos as an extra bonus Robert DeNiro as Fearless Leader (he seemed to be enjoying himself) and Carl Reiner, Johnathan Winters and John Goodman to name a few. If you are an aging baby boomer, this movie will be a trip down memory lane. "},{"Title":"Captures the Fun","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you remember Rocky and Bullwinkle? If you watched, and loved them as a kid don't listen, ah, read, the 4 point whatever out of ten review of this movie. It is perfect! It does what few movies trying to capture a cult series in a single movies does - - - it does it! It is a movie written by smart people for smart people. The verbal puns are as witty, and as groan producing as ever. The visual gags are better. (Hey, Rocky, haven't we passed through this town before?) (OK, that isn't a direct quote.) There are perfect touches throughout, like Russo's walk, DeNiro riffing on Taxi Driver, Alexander nailing Boris, and Super tramp's song Dreamer when Rocky flies. Have a bad day? Have a rough week? Pop in the movie, relax, and enjoy! This movie captures the fun. "},{"Title":"The humour of Rocky has sailed right over the heads of many IMDb members","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the gags in this film involves a Hollywood script screener rejecting movie scripts because they are too intelligent -) Well, apparently this movie is too intelligent for most voters are IMDb, as they have (incorrectly) given this movie a 4.1 rating out of ten! Obviously, they are not getting the Hollywood inside jokes' and humour, (Zoom! Right over their heads!) and I suspect that this is also is a generation thing; most of you didn't grow-up with Rocky and Bullwinkle. The cartoon, like many from that era, took swipes at Government, Politics, Hollywood, etc. They were made for adults too, not just kids. I suggest you read Roger Ebert's review of this movie and gain a basic understanding and an education from someone who has been the best movie critic for a long time. There is a reason why so many recognized and talented actors signed-on for this movie. It was smart and funny at the same time, and these experienced actors recognized that. You should educate yourself and you will get it too! "},{"Title":"If it's all about the moose and squirrel...","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thirty-five years after being canceled as popular cartoon characters, Bullwinkle J Moose and Rocky Squirrel leave Frostbite Falls, MN to talk to the President of the United States about all the trees having been cut down. Along the way, they run into FBI agent Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo), who enlists them in attempting to stop an evil plot masterminded by Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro) and in the process of being enacted by those Cold War fiends, Boris (Jason Alexander) and Natasha (Rene Russo).All right, where do we start? I know! How about the cover of the film that features the bad guys and not our heroes? Although the dry humor involved in the 1960's was achieved here, sometimes I feel like the real people who like the moose (the kids) won't get the jokes. Yeah, Rocky doesn't want to fly anymore, Bullwinkle's just as stupid as he was thirty-five years ago, but I was barely out of diapers when this show used to come on every Sunday morning, and, although I never got the jokes, I understood Boris and Natasha and that they always lost, but here they win the cover of the DVD.The big change between this film and the cartoon series is just that this film gets all of the prime characters out of cartoon land and into the real world, where politics still reigns supreme, and the bad guys in politics only care about supremacy. They were my heroes back in grade school, but they're only an hour and a half getaway from MY real world. It's light, it has funny moments, and it can be a good escape for anyone who wants to get away from it all for a bit, but that's as far as I'd let it go.3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie. And I watched this with my friends, they loved it too. My mom watched it too, and she loved it. It was sooooooooooo funny. It's just not right. It's not right, what are you talking about? They wrecked our car, they were trying to kill us. Rocky's right, Karen, and two rights don't make a wrong. That's not what you mean. You mean two rights do make a wrong? They kept the characters to the way they were on television, but put them in a whole new environment, and you know how Bullwinkle is, he tries to help but.... it doesn't always work. He thinks the whole movie is about the trees in Frostbite Falls (the trees are now all stumps.). But the plot is not like that at all. "},{"Title":"Sincere effort sincerely fails","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all, it should be noted that the film makers here had respect and affection for the source material, and it shows. Rather than just enticing audiences with known characters and titles, then assaulting you with a worthless script (as happens all too often in TV show adaptations), this movie pays due homage to the irreverent satire that was the original Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoon, by staying close to its theme.Much of the original schtick is here the frantic narrator, the inside jokes, the brutal political satire, the cluelessness of our heroes, and of course, the wonderfully awful puns. The oaf super spies from Potsalvania, Boris and Natasha are here, as is their Fearless Leader.On top of that, several celebs drop by for some clever cameos, in a Muppet Movie style way. There are some good one-liners, and everybody seems to be having fun doing the movie.But it just doesn't click. Jokes seem to be presented in an in your face manner, slapstick routines are overdone, and end up just looking like pale impressions of the original. The story and script seem contrived just to set up situations for the comedy. The animation of Rocky, and even more so of Bullwinkle, look awkward, almost eerie. I almost felt like asking Moose and Squirrel Wassamatta U?Sincere but misguided. Gets lost somewhere between Pottsalvania and Frostbite Falls, and just isn't worth the time to find it again. Rent compilations of the original cartoon series instead. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro in a rare hammy performance.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having seen most of Robert De Niro's films and believed he could do no wrong, I finally stumbled upon his one hammy performance. The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle sounded so good on paper that I thought there is no way this could be a total dud. There are some funny moments but it's usually a bad pun from the cartoon character Bullwinkle, who is unknown to me. The best one was when the FBI-agent KS asks Can you rapell? and the answer Sure, I been repelling people for years. Well, back to De Niro. I think he made a mistake playing Fearless Leader. He seems ill at ease most of the time and when he finally parodies his most famous line You talking' to me it almost makes you wanna duck for cover. Sure, he is entitled to do so but with a German accent? He sounds like Dr. Nick Riviera (not German but still annoying). The constant smirk he has on his face is also disturbing.As for Rene Russo and Jason Alexander, they actually do a pretty good job. They are silly in just the right way and also a little touching in the scene where they consider giving up evil. Randy Quaid gets worse and worse in every film he's in (who would have thought that he once played Lyndon B. Johnson in the 80's). When he hikes up his pants at the end of the movie and says Good job. ... well, the less said about that the better. Finally, we get to Piper Perabo, who is completely unknown to me. She was in Coyote Ugly but I haven't seen that one. She could be Julia Roberts long lost sister. Same look, same smile, just with blonde hair. Like Roberts you can't really judge her before you have seen her in something more challenging than this.The cameos through the whole movie is mostly decorative, although i liked John Goodman's as a highway patrolman in a parody of Cops. Whoopi Goldberg as a judge named Cameo going nuts over Rocky and Bullwinkle is just plain stupid and finally Jonathan Winters in three different cameos is rather dull. So to sum up, the movie could have been great but silly puns and famous people does not a good movie make. "},{"Title":"Where were the Oscar Nominations???? That's what I'd like to know","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocky and Bullwinkle. That a film could be that good...its the stuff myths are formed from. It's as though God were executive producer. When I was forced, back in my innocence, to watch this with my brother, I shook my fist in an angry fist and said WhyIOughta... but my complaints were silenced when the majesty of this beautiful motion picture washed over me, and rendered me speechless. The fact that I feel asleep is not a condemnation- oh no! I was simply captivated and put under its simple, facrical, ridiculous, but oh so charming spell. humour! So wonderfully silly! It's acting? Clearly deliberately poor, to reflect the nature of the acting of comic films of that generation! Costumes, scenery, breathtaking! The Academy failed the film going world by not presenting Rocky And Bullwinkle (or, as I have dubbed it, The Most Wonderful and Beautiful and Spiritually Magnificent film, Ever, in the history of the world, Ever the MWABASMFEITHOTWE for short) the accolades it deserved. This will always be a best picture winner, in my heart. "},{"Title":"Once more into the breech dear friends","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not quite as funny as the film adaptation of George of the Jungle but watchable none the less.Rocky & Bullwinkle are in a jam with their cartoon forest on the edge of destruction. Then their arch enemies, Boris Badenov (Alexander), Natasha Fatale (Rene Russo) and Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro) get green lighted and they cross over into the real world. In order to combat them, a super scrubbed FBI girl, Karen Sympathy (the adorable Piper Perabo) green lights Rocky & Bullwinkle. Problem is that R&B aren't quite up to speed with the modern world, particularly Bullwinkle. Things don't get much easier for Karen as time goes by, as she is very out of touch with her inner child.Plenty of gags and star cameos to go around (don't miss Whoopi Goldberg's Judge Cameo bit) as moose and squirrel tackle the 21st century and prove that they're still the best of the bunch. Piper Perabo is great fan service.  "},{"Title":"Bullwinkle finally pulls the rabbit out of the hat","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this, considering what usually happens when a movie is made from a great old TV series. This, however, is fantastic. I think the secret to its success is that Rocky and Bullwinkle remain the stars, and the human actors play second fiddle. And our heroes remain as daggy as ever, using awful puns and making stupid mistakes. I smiled all the way through, and laughed intermittently. What more could you want? "}{"Title":"Better than I thought!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I guess you either get it or you don't.  Chandra and I both really enjoyed this - it was funny, but didn't take itself too seriously.  As a result, we smiled and laughed all the way through it.  It's a fitting tribute to the camp cartoons of the early 60's, and the actors did a great job in their respective roles.  "},{"Title":"Moose and Squirrel still got it","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Obviously if you aren't a fan of the T.V show, you won't like this movie. But if you do like the show, then there is no reason why you shouldn't find this movie just a bit funny.  The same corny gags and puns are back.  Rene Russo and Jason Alexander are fantastic as Boris and Natasha.  Don't watch this movie from a critics point of view, but instead, look at it like a giant cartoon. "},{"Title":"Incredible Movie","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one incredible movie. I remember the bad press it got from the critics and I see some rather disturbing reviews of the film here and all I have to ask is, Did you people see this film? The one-liners are great.  Celebrities are above the law. Look at how well they drew that girl, let's go to a  commercial.  The live action mixed with the cartooning is near flawless and not overdone and the film pokes fun at itself endlessly.  Robert DeNiro gets to act instead of playing a pun of himself.   This captured what the spirit of the show had and all the comics since and then some.  I was such a skeptic and now I am a proud owner of this film and hoping they will make another and sorry I did not pay to see it in first release.  DO NOT MISS OUT ON THIS NO MATTER HOW SILLY YOU MIGHT THINK YOU ARE WHEN YOU LOOK FOR IT AT THE VIDEO STORE YOU WILL BE PROUD YOU DID. "},{"Title":"I loved every single minute","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've been wanting to see this since I first heard it was being made.  I was not a huge fan of the cartoon but had seen it from time to time, but the casting seemed so terrific that I knew the movie must be good.Well, it is.  I loved it all.  All the actors, all the cameos, all the bad jokes, all the good ones.  The whole thing put a smile on my face for ninety minutes. Sometimes during bad movies I look at the clock a lot to see how much longer I will have to suffer to see the whole thing.  This time I was looking to see how much longer I would be able to enjoy this.  I can't ask a lot more from Hollywood entertainment than that. I haven't enjoyed DeNiro so much in years!  He seemed to be having a lot of fun.  I thought Alexander and Russo were the perfect humanization of Boris and Natasha.  Liked seeing Jeffrey Ross, one of my favorite comedians, in a cameo.  Ditto John Goodman, Whoopi Goldberg, James Rebhorn, Randy Quaid and David Alan Grier. For me, this is a great movie.  I gave it a 10/10.  No, really! "},{"Title":"Bravo! Classical Camp!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I was abashed that the voting was so bad for this movie. It was the classic camp and bad puns that I loved as a small child. Rocky was Rocky and Bullwinkle was the same old lovable moose that was my childhood idol. I did question the casting for Agent Sympathy as she was not from the mold of the FBI, but the actress was fresh and added a touch that assisted in the transition. De Nero was fabulous, and plenty of cameos made it entertaining. Well done, so much better than the previous attempt at a movie version of a Jay Ward character Dudley Do-Right. If you couldn't find it in your heart to give this movie a resounding 10, you are secretly as spy from Pottsylvania. Shame on you!Tiger "},{"Title":"An utter masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best slacker movies ever made! Leave your brain at the door but leave in some sentimentality for the old cartoon and bring along some extra stupidity as R & B takes you further into the world of the ridiculous. There wasn't one minute in the entire film which disappointed me, you have to build yourself up for the most tasteless, corny punchlines but that's the fun; this movie is all about how unfunny can the cast get, therefore causing lighthearted groans from the audience, which on reflection is a good thing.The acting is obsolete as the very fast pacing of the film leaves the actors with no time to stand and act whatsoever, every line is a joke and the anonymous narrator steals the show at every turn. The sly satorical elements are cleverly tucked away so that when kids watch it they won't notice, whereas anyone older will be able to pick up on the media and social comments. The cameos are well introduced, it seems everyone working on the production must have had a great time, especially when they were talking to thin air as the CGI'd moose and squirrel retort with quips and gags (The moose seems to have a better script than the squirrel who we're meant to relate to more, this alas is one of the only quibbles I have for this movie).Please, everyone watch The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle, it really is a good laugh.    "},{"Title":"They finally got one right!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of us are sick to death of Hollywood's making movies out of previously done films, TV shows and comic books, and quite often  producing a piece of garbage.  This time, though, they went back to something that was successful and didn't try to improve it.  As a result, they created something really great.  I loved this movie.  It brought back so many memories of lazy Saturday mornings lying in bed and waiting (as an adult, mind you) for the greatest cartoon show in the world to come on.  The script was great.  Piper as the intrepid, yet inept FBI agent was great, but Jason and Rene as Boris and Natasha, the arch-enemies of Moose and Squirrel were outstanding!  And Rene got Natasha's walk down perfectly.I only wish we could have worked a Fractured Fairy Tale in, as well. "},{"Title":"A great movie!  Don't listen to the critics...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was honestly suprised by how much the critics seem to be ripping on this movie.  Actually, I'm not suprised that their comments usually include, ...and though I'm not a fan of the original show....  Well, there you go. I've noticed that the humor of Rocky and Bullwinkle is an acquired taste. Either you like it, or you don't.  If you like it, then you'll like this movie.Instead of talking about the details of the movie, let's go over the arguments that the critics make, shall we?Nobody was laughing.  Ok, there are few big belly laughs in this movie, but that's because the humor is subtle; I heard a lot of people chuckling, and that's what people do during regular Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons, not loud obnoxious laughter.  Why?  Because if you laugh too loud, you risk missing another joke.  Another point I've been to other movies and have noticed that the belly laughs seem to always stem from jokes dealing with sex, drugs, or grossness.  I guess R&B doesn't live up to these standards, but that's a GOOD thing.The live actors didn't play their parts well.  Do you have ANY idea how difficult it is to play a cartoon character well?  There's a balance between trying to be believable, and being too copy-cat.  I don't like it when people make drastic changes to a character, but I also don't like it when the character is a dull carbon copy of the original, with no new material. The balance is in the middle, and DeNiro, Russo, and Alexander walk that line well.The movie slows down near the end.  Ok, maybe a little, but I didn't mind. I guess I'm just one of the people who was actually interested to see how the story turned out.  A few dramatic pauses don't hurt; every movie has them, and that's what sets them apart from television.  In television, you have a half-hour to do as much as you can, so they have to cram everything in there.  They can't AFFORD dramatic pauses.  So just because the original show didn't have them, it doesn't mean they shouldn't be there.The animation was lacking.  Say what?  I was worried before I saw the movie that the animation wouldn't be that great, that Rocky and Bullwinkle would look grossly out-of-place.  But they don't, not at all.  I think they did a wonderful job on the animation.I definitely recommend this movie if you were a fan of the original show. When I saw it, the people in the audience applauded at the end, and I think that's a good sentiment. "},{"Title":"More movies should be like this","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can only vaguely remember watching the cartoons as a child, but I will watch this movie many more times! There should be more movies like this - pure fun and hilarity, genuine comedy without focusing and sex and cruel insults, cameos galore. Even someone as picky as me could find pretty much nothing wrong with this movie. Every nit-picking observation I made was addressed in the film, leaving me with nothing bad to say about it. "},{"Title":"Computer Generated and Proud of it!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle the movie yesterday, and I thought it was great. Rocky and Bullwinkle are looking better than ever, completely computer generated. The movie is hilarious, and with more action than any the cartoons ever had. This movie definitely is one of the best done films I have ever seen, although it can be quite goofy at times (hey, it's Bullwinkle, what did you expect?). For people who haven't seen this, you should. "}{"Title":"Family fun for 5 to 35 year olds","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Have you noticed with most kids movies you can check your brain at the door if you're older than 13? (The same observation can be made of a lot of adult movies too.) Thankfully that's not the case with Rocky and Bullwinkle.Yes, it's silly enough to entertain the youngsters, but it also has a witty, sardonic edge that can enthrall the most jaded adult, an A-list cast with cameos by old guard faves like Carl Reiner and Jonathan Winters, and copious use of the 1970s Supertramp single Dreamer. What more do you need?DeNiro, always a delight to watch, looks like he's having fun, particularly with his send-up of the classic Taxi Driver Are you talking to me? scene. Rather than playing the role of Fearless Leader as broad camp, DeNiro keeps the character within the boundaries of straight comedy and thus remains a reasonable threat. After all, we've suspended disbelief regarding flying squirrels and walking mooses -- the master villain can't be unduly silly, or the piece falls apart.Where we need unduly silly are in our foils Boris and Natasha, and Jason Alexander and Renee Russo do not disappoint. It's tough to play a cartoon character believably yet remain true to the original interpretation. Alexander and Russo maintain perfect balance walking that tightrope and deliver entertaining performances.My 5 year old insisted that we give this movie a 10. I would have been more comfortable with an 8, but either way we're toward the top end of the scale. No, it's not going to sweep the Oscars or replace any of the Top 100 AFI films, but you can slip away from the world for an enjoyable 100 minutes. Isn't that why we go to movies in the first place? "},{"Title":"Really silly and very funny!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised at how much I liked this movie!  The basic plot has Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader becomig humans and trying to take over the world through really bad TV.  Rocky and Bullwinkle and an FBI agent try to stop them.  Basically it's a bunch of bad jokes and adult references flying fast and furious (just like the TV show).  The thing is the movie KNOWS the jokes are bad and acknowledges it constantly--and it's always funny!  The jokes are nonstop and were so knowingly dumb that I couldn't stop laughing...you're laughing WITH the movie not AT it!  The only real drawback was making Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader humans.  Jason Alexander, Rene Russo and Robert DeNiro are good actors...but not here.  They LOOK the parts but they're portraying two-demensional characters (in every respect) and have NOTHING to work with.  Other than that this is a very funny, very silly movie...SEE IT!  "},{"Title":"Very misunderstood","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 4.1?!?!?!?! Doesn't anyone understand that this movie was meant to be full of bad puns?! This movie was made to be similar to the TV show. Although I never saw the show, I heard that it had loads of please-lord-please-don't-let-him-say-it type puns. The movie was meant to be kind of, well, stupid. And it did a good job at what it was meant to do.Although it was hella far from perfect, I'll give this a positive review.3/4P.S. Will they make a movie out of 'Fractured Fairy Tales'? I heard that was hysterical. "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Fantastic, hilarious comedy with a heart bigger than Bullwinkle's nose, this has to rank as one of the warmest, sweetest films of recent years.A critical and commercial flop, and definitely not for those who disliked the original TV show, but I'm willing to bet that twenty years from now The Adventures Of Rocky And Bullwinkle will be re-evaluated and recognised as a children's classic.The cast assembled for this picture is a testament to the quality of the material. Something attracted established film and television stars like Robert DeNiro, Randy Quaid, Whoopi Goldberg, John Goodman, Billy Crystal, Rene Russo, Jason Alexander and many others to the project, and it wasn't just money.It's bristling with hundreds of in-jokes, and self-referential comedy. In fact the first twenty minutes concerns itself with getting a studio green light for the film you're watching. The bad punning is acknowledged constantly by the characters. Moose and Squirrel have entire conversations about the terrible quality of the jokes. Having said that, most of the jokes Rocky derides are indeed funny, and the ones that aren't make you smile because they're so (intentionally) bad.The CGI is flawless, (save for one brief moment when the flying Rocky carries Agent Sympathy, and even then it's not bad). The interaction between the actors and the animated characters is similarly impressive.The voice actor playing Rocky does an especially fine job, infusing this CG squirrel with far more depth and emotion than reasonable audiences have a right to expect.DeNiro clearly enjoys himself, hamming it up magnificently as the tyrannical villain. He's both a fool and frightening - a difficult thing for a writer and actor to accomplish.Piper Perabo delivers a lovely, charming performance that while not technically great is perfectly fitting for the tone of the movie.It also has a final message that the film's many detractors should have paid more attention to - don't be so eager to grow up. Take a moment to see things from a child's perspective. Enjoy yourself. Have fun. The message is delivered in a heavy-handed way, but that fact is acknowledged in the film. Everything about the film is over the top, so it makes sense that the sentimental aspects should be likewise. Like Perabo's performance, a flaw becomes an asset.Even the two songs that play over the end credits are good. First, a funky child-friendly rap about being yourself, then a nicely-delivered ballad about seeing the world from a child's perspective that reiterates the film's central theme.Evidently this film is not for everyone - too many people hate it for me to feel comfortable recommending it unreservedly, but whether or not you saw the TV show, if you're capable of enjoying silly comedy you can do much worse. "},{"Title":"Enjoy this adventure","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it was the many puns, hilarious play-ons, performances or just great writing but The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle is one of the most enjoyable comedies I have seen.Robert DeNiro leads an all-star cast that includes Rene Russo, Jason Alexander and newcomer Piper Perabo in a comedy that will knock everyone's socks off. I was very impressed by everyone in this film especially De Niro because this is quite a departure from his dramatic and action roles.If her performance in this film is any indication; Piper Perabo, a surprisingly talented newcomer, who also has a resemblance with Renee Zelwegger, will have a long and prosperous career. I subsequently realized that she was more than just a pretty face, she was a real talented actress if she puts forth the effort.Another aspect of the film that impressed me were the puns and play-ons the writer came up with since it were that made the film that much more enjoyable to watch as they were able to poke fun at others and yet still be funny enough where it didn't become silly.The Adventures Of Rocky & Bullwinkle far exceeded my expectations. I hope everyone can enjoy this film as much as I did because it is sure to make you laugh throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Warning If You Take This Movie Seriously, The Jokes Will Go Right Over Your Head!!!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It looked like everyone (Rene Russo, Jason Alexander, Robert De Niro, Piper Perabo, and numerous cameo appearances) had a great time making the movie. They also knew that this movie should not be takes seriously. The movie captured the essence of the Rocky and Bullwinkle TV series the pratfalls, the bad puns, etc. and, somehow, was able to maintain the funny pace for 88 minutes. I could waste my time watching movies with more ambition or seriousness but be very disappointed in what it tried to do. I think The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle is a fun, unpretentious comedy that made me smile at the end and that's a good thing.   "},{"Title":"Has its moments","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps I'm being mean, but my favourite bit was when Bullwinkle made some weak pun, and the narrator chimed in with Yes, our heroes' once-proud banter had been reduced to a series of laboured puns-  But Bullwinkle interrupts No, it was always like that.He's right.  If you found some charm in the original cartoons, good for you; apart from the fact that some people found them charming there's not a lot to be said for them.  It was too self-conscious and self-absorbed to have any real bite.  If it HAD been sending up the cold war, as some critics claimed at the time, its brisk slickness and the cleverness of its scripts (seemingly concentrated into a few minutes, in reality spread thinly over an entire season) might have made it funny; but in fact it was parodying works of fiction of ephemeral appeal that were themselves only loosely related to the cold war, and there is no lesser form of wit than that (certainly not puns; the puns raised the tone considerably).This is the PERFECT Rocky and Bullwinkle movie.  We see an actor delivering Robert DeNiro's Are you talking to me? monologue word for word, but in a different context and an absurd Slavic accent - and the actor in question is Robert DeNiro himself.  That's the kind of contorted in-joke which was always nestled between the puns in Rocky and Bullwinkle, and it's absurd to complain that the series has somehow been betrayed.  As always, it's sometimes clever and fitfully funny - and, since I happened to see the movie immediately after Shrek, this came as a breath of fresh air.I'm also bound to admit that the mix of hand-drawn animation, computer rendering and live action is pretty amazing - just as well done, in its way, as in Who Framed Roger Rabbit.  Squirrel and moose have all the expressive fluidity of good hand-drawn animation but they're rounded and rubbery and they look as though they're really interacting with our world. "},{"Title":"Humorous and promising beginning kind of falls flat ...","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1st watched 3/10/2001 - (Dir-Des McAnuff) Humorous and promising beginning kind of falls flat when the cartoon characters Rocky & Bulwinkle become yet another thrust into Hollywood moviedom by being a part of mindless action. It seems like this movie would have worked much better as a 90-minute animated movie rather than a hyped-up star-filled attempt to modernize something that should stay where it's at. In reruns.  "},{"Title":"Moose and Squirrel Do Their Best In Monotonous Road Movie","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although I've watched this movie several times when it was in theaters and now own a copy I really think it can be enjoyed only by those of us who were fans of the late 50's and early 60's television show. It's great to have our favorite cartoon duo back and they play well in spite of a rather boring script about villains trying to take over America by turning it's population into mindless zombies thru really bad television shows. June Forey is great as ever providing cartoon voices for Rocky and Natasha and Keith Scott does a great job voicing Bullwinkle. Jason Alexander, Rene Russo and Robert DeNiro do an ample job as Boris, Natasha and Fearless Leader. Also there is an all star supporting cast and several cameos. Even with it's flaws it should be enjoyed by most baby boomer's. "},{"Title":"Finally a good animation movie for adults","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was a Rocky and Bulwinkle fan for many decades. I was very happy to know that this film was being produced. The film has all the best of the R&B show along with a beautifully casted main stars. The top notch cast couldn't be any better. All were so good to the characters and took on the roles with real bravado. The costumes were a match. In this film was the only time DeNiro has ever re-do his classic 'Taxi Driver' Travis Bickle 'are you talking to me' as R&B Fearless Leader. It is a scream. And I happen know that most of them were BIG fans of R&B show. Nice to know that several producers on this project were the living original cast and crew from the Jay Ward TV days. Many desert scenes were shot in Palmdale and other on the old MGM lot in Culver City. This show is fun and enjoyable for all ages. "}{"Title":"This movie was the BEST!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For a true fan of Rocky and Bullwinkle who actually grew up then I have to say this movie is right on target and very funny. You are asking why an older guy loves it so much? Because my child (age 4 when we first saw it on video) went bonkers over it. The writers knew their audience. The kids relate to the diminutive and sweet Perabo. And the silly political antics. They love the evil villaaaiins and understand the simple plot. The jokes are just their style. And isn't that what innocence is all about? Bullwinkle is totally naive and the kids understand that too. He bumbles around (much as they feel they do) in an adult world and just gets by somehow... The people who tend to write comments on these boards only see movies from their own perspective. That's fine. But try once in a while to sit with a young child and watch their eyes light up and listen to their laughter. They'll tell you what they love... I hope they make more for DVD release. I know it didn't kill at the box office but there is a fan base out there guys... More NEW villains please! And PLEASE let him finally pull a rabbit out of his hat once and for all! "},{"Title":"Horrid Movie, but Interesting 3D","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is as bad as Inspector Gadget, perhaps worse because name actors are involved.There is one redeeming curiosity the solution to the 3D characters. Here, they had to keep the look of the originals, which were very cheap, even in the 60s. But they also wanted them to be 3D instead of using the Roger Rabbit model.The result is an odd set of tradeoffs These are balloon-figures, with smooth surfaces. This means Rocky's wing-membranes are discarded. Shading is one-tone. Each character has an outline, which I understand was quite a challenge. But they have motion-blurring. Mouths never really open.The whole thing is curiously off-kilter, but it is no weirder than Disney's talking dinosaurs I suppose. "},{"Title":"Unabashedly Hollow - and proud of it.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Final Score 7.7 (out of 10)The Adventures of Rockey and Bullwinkle is not my type of movie. However, it is so giddy over itself and so shamelessly self referential it's hard not to go along with it. If only just to see what it has up it's sleeve. While many movies throw in winks and nods at itself to cover up for it's lack of originality, 'R&B' is through-and-through, without a doubt a parody of itself. Just as the original TV show was. It's best and funniest moments come in the opening animated sequence and often from the narrator - I don't really care for that dumb Moose and flying squirrel to much.The cast...well, I don't know. Robert DeNiro, Jason Alexander and Rene Russo certainly cover their cartoonish characters perfectly, but at the same time it's also a little embarrassing seeing such fine thespians rolling around in this. Piper Perabo shines with the least to loose and delivers one of the cutest performances ever put on film (it's a small category). The direction is creative. We are given some stunning scenes of animation - like Bullwinkle literally surfing the internet. The live-action/animation mix is not quite as seamless as Who Framed Roger Rabbit? (also referenced in this movie) but it's the best since then. The whole movie is ahead of the rest of it's pack by the writing. The script is sharp. It throws lines at us with a rapid fire pace - sarcastic, ironic and occasionally laugh-out-loud-despite-yourself funny. Much of it will go over the heads of the target kid audience. I love Janeane Garofalo as a movie studio executive tossing out scripts she deems to intelligent. Yes, it's hollow, lacks any character development, is an endless parade of cameos (we could have done without those Kenan and Kel kids), is ridiculously anti-climactic, filled with plot holes, doesn't give us much of an original idea and will probably be forgotten 5 minutes later... but it's supposed to be like that. It makes for a great diverting romp. What can I say - the damn thing's critic proof.  "},{"Title":"Never watched the cartoon, loved the movie","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Note I have never seen the cartoon series, although I know my step dad is fond of it. So I'm not sure how far this movie strayed away from the magic of the original cartoon. Makes me wonder if the new Star Trek film will make me love it or hate it since I'm a fan of the original.This film was very entertaining and fun. I have never seen the 60's cartoon, but found this movie at a good deal ($5) and picked it up. I popped it in the old DVD player one Sunday afternoon and felt a little guilty and embarrassed. Why? Because this movie was so beyond kiddie. I'm watching a movie with a squirrel and a bull! And loving it.Very over the top performances..but works very well in this format. I happened to watch Robocop 3 last night, and yes that was very over the top and became cheese! This film does it and succeeds. Robert Deniro does a wonderful job as he did in Dick Tracy. Sure, its no Casino or Heat! but he apparently understands the material and plays the role to fit the film. That's a good actor. No B-movie here. Shame this film is so trashed! Pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic for the next generation.","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show was set up as a low-budget parody of television and film animation. It was rife with in-jokes, sardonic comments on the media, bad puns, occasional feints at adult humor. It was not your average kids show. It wore its poverty-row production on its sleeve. It mocked all our expectations, and a good many of our cultural shibboleths - contemporary academia and small-town middle-America both felt its sting. Having avoided this film for a decade (presuming that Hollywood would bollix it up the way they had with the Warner Bros. cartoon characters and Casper the ghost), I at last found a cheap copy and said what the heck. Well, I was very much - and very pleasantly - surprised. The film is quite true to the original program. I love it when Whoopi Goldberg is referred to as the honorable Judge Cameo. I love the sun bouncing up and down at sunrise and sunset. I am glad they dealt with Rocky's 'fear of flying' again (and getting over it) without any sentimentality. The in-jokes and sarcastic cultural references and media lampoons are all intact - those who complain about the animation and special effects miss the several remarks on the poor animation from the characters themselves - the animation and SFx are supposed to be borderline, that's part of the joke! So too the over-the-top characterizations and acting. (The real illusion of cinema's 'art of illusion' is that generated by an audience expecting the illusions to 'look real' - it is this illusion - the audience's - that the Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, and now the movie, mock.) The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show was kinda like Jazz - you either got it or you didn't. The low rating on this film only indicates that this is true for the movie as well. The original show largely survived because of its low cost, and through syndication allowing it to be re-edited for marginal time slots, e.g., 5 am. It was only years after it ceased production that it's real strengths began endearing it to millions. In like manner, I suspect this film is on its own quiet, gradual way to becoming a cult classic. Parents will play it for their kids who will wonder WTF?! - then, ten years later the light-bulb will click on for those same kids, and they will 'get it' - and another generation of Rocky and Bullwinkle fans will come of age. "},{"Title":"This movie was the BEST!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For a true fan of Rocky and Bullwinkle who actually grew up then I have to say this movie is right on target and very funny. You are asking why an older guy loves it so much? Because my child (age 4 when we first saw it on video) went bonkers over it. The writers knew their audience. The kids relate to the diminutive and sweet Perabo. And the silly political antics. They love the evil villaaaiins and understand the simple plot. The jokes are just their style. And isn't that what innocence is all about? Bullwinkle is totally naive and the kids understand that too. He bumbles around (much as they feel they do) in an adult world and just gets by somehow... The people who tend to write comments on these boards only see movies from their own perspective. That's fine. But try once in a while to sit with a young child and watch their eyes light up and listen to their laughter. They'll tell you what they love... I hope they make more for DVD release. I know it didn't kill at the box office but there is a fan base out there guys... More NEW villains please! And PLEASE let him finally pull a rabbit out of his hat once and for all! "},{"Title":"Something to Remember","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember watching the television show (on tape) of Rocky and Bullwinkle.  It was one of the best TV shows ever in my childhood.  This film brings back the memories of not only that TV show, but the film Who Framed Roger Rabbit (combining animation and live action).  This time, Rocky and Bullkwinkle leave their comic world existence and come into the real world to find the real live actors who played the bad guys- Natasha Fatale (Renee Russo), Boris Badenov (Jason Alexander), and in one of his best performances ever, Robert De Niro whp plays Fearless Leader (who knew De Niro could do a impression of himself from taxi driver).  Great and funny entertainment, with many vintage things and cameos make this a must see for kids (who will like the characters, parents and adults (who will enjoy the 3 main bad guys) and film buffs.  A+ "},{"Title":"Should have kept the villains cartoon too","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 1964, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show is canceled. Thirty five years later, Rocky and Bullwinkle's world is crumbling. Rocky doesn't even fly anymore. With the fall of the Iron Curtan, Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro), Boris Badenov (Jason Alexander), and Natasha Fatale (Rene Russo) go underground and dig their way to Hollywood. Studio executive Minnie Mogul signs a contract with the trio attached to the project which gets them pulled into the real world. They are buying up all the cable channels to broadcast RBTV (Really Bad TeleVision) and hypnotize the country. FBI agent Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo) is sent to get Rocky and Bullwinkle to take down the villains.This movie keeps to the spirit of goofy humor of the original TV show. It is full of the sly comedy and sarcastic references. I would have liked all the characters from the cartoon to remain in their 2 dimensional animated look. It's probably a mistake to have real actors play the cartoon villains. No matter how hard the three actors try, they can never get the cartoon feeling into their characters. They feel flat and rather tiresome. Piper Perabo is adorable and works well with Rocky and Bullwinkle. However she gets separated from them and the chemistry dissipates. It's a simple road trip movie and should be a lot easier than this. "},{"Title":"The technology just wasn't there.","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robert Deniro gives a great performance. The only parts that fall flat are with Rocky and Bullwinkle in them. The technology just wasn't there. It is a shame because this could have been a great movie. This movie knows its limits, so it doesn't hesitate to let everyone know what they're going to get. It could be an excuse, perhaps overly-done. The Characters were just great excluding the squirrel and moose. Of course there are going to be some cheesy moments, but I think the writers had something here. There are plenty of Inside-jokes and references for adults. Overall, this movie was very entertaining. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A deeply flawed film, but not as bad as the rating suggests.","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really liked it as a kid, but I saw it again after 5 years or so, and it doesn't wow me as much. It isn't a terrible film, but it isn't a great one either. I will confess I haven't seen the show, so I can't judge whether Rocky and Bullwinkle were out of character, though I did read somewhere, that the voice of Bullwinkle was not the same as the one in the show. Well, the show is 35 years old or so. The biggest flaw, and I really hate to say this, is Robert DeNiro, yet another talented actor wasted in a thankless role. Here, he acquires a German accent and all, and it really doesn't suit him at all. There was a attempt to liven it up, but here DeNiro seemed ashamed of himself, and it showed in his delivery, though I did like the Are You Talking To Me? bit. Also the plot, it was a nice idea, but the pace was uneven, sometimes it dragged, and other times when it felt rushed. It is pretty much the same with the script, which could have been so much better, had it been more focused, as far too many times it went off target, particularly with the syrupy romance between Karen and the prison security guy. I felt also there could have been a little more of Rocky and Bullwinkle, and less of Boris and Natasha, though I liked the enthusiasm that Jason Alexander and Rene Russo put into the roles. There are comments saying that these two were chosen because they looked the part and that's it. I personally don't think that's true, because some of the funniest bits were with these two, especially the part when the computer falls on Boris's head. Piper Perabo was good also as Karen Sympathy(most of the jokes are in the characters' names), though she has been better. I really liked the girl in the eye, that is contradictory of her adult counterpart, which causes Rocky to say There's something in your eye. There are some very good visual jokes, though lots of them are retreads of other films, and have been done better. I really liked Rocky and Bullwinkle- Bullinkle was funnier, when he says ...forgot the line, and I liked the aeroplane scene. The joy were the cameos by the likes of John Goodman and Whoopi Goldberg. In conclusion, a good film, but could have been much better, with better casting and more inspiration. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"they should have killed Bullwinkle before making this movie","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" R&B is not the sort of film I usually enjoy to watch...however, I have to admit that I kinda liked this movie. It has its ups and its downs but in the end, it was simply done for a few laughs.First the positives. Jason Alexander plays the role of Boris in such an exaggerated manner that its hilarious watching him act. He reminds me of that Russian voice you hear in Vodka commercials, only he's more retarded.De Niro does a surprisingly small role as the fearless leader. I guess we've seen him in so many serious films that we are not used to this level of mediocre acting from him. Nevertheless, he ends up being OK in the movie, not really getting in the way.Of course, there is the ever so awesome flying squirrel Rocky. He was always the best part of the show and even in this film coming off as a 3d character, he's still as furry and as lovable as in the original cartoon.Finally, a story line ripped of Roger Rabbit and a narrator which interacts with the characters bring a small smile from the audience. That smile however, is a result from the over retardness of this movie. I guess that was the biggest flaw in the film, it made so many bad jokes and had so many predictable gags that the retardness just got blown out of proportion.WAIT! NO! I take it back! the retardness was not the biggest flaw, i'll tell you what the biggest flaw in the movie (and the cartoon for that matter) is BULLWINKLE.He is the most annoying, not funny, not cute, ugly, dumb, clueless character in the HISTORY of cartoons. His voice makes you want to hang a puppy and he is useless when it comes to solving problems.If they would have killed him at the start of the movie, it would have been a good movie, instead, its a mediocre movie.Drop dead you LSD addict moose.5/10P.S. I know retardness is not an actual word but there is simply no other adjective to describe this movie. "},{"Title":"A movie that's everything it should be! ***1/2 out of 5","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Personally I feel this is a really solid and quite funny comedy that can be enjoyed by the whole family. That is if the family can enjoy the type of humor that is Rocky and Bullwinkle.It's really colorful and the animation is very well done. The characters are integrated seamlessly into the film and it's a joy that the people who did the voices in the original cartoons returned to provide the voices for Moose and Squirrel.Listen closely to the narration throughout the film. That's where some of the biggest laughs come from.Too bad so many people don't know how to sit back and enjoy a good family comedy like this one. I don't think we get enough films like this. "},{"Title":"Liked it, very funny","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched the Bullwinkle cartoons as a child but I probably didn't get a lot of the humor back then. Several years ago the cartoons aired on my local UPN station and I was able to appreciate the intelligence of the humor better.In this movie, a lot of the silliness was really over the top and off the wall, but it was the way I like it. I thought the voices of Rocky and Bullwinkle were done perfectly, and Bullwinkle is really funny when he's dumb. While no one really gave Oscar-worthy performances, for what this was, many of the live-action actors did a good job. I wasn't that happy with Piper Perabo as Karen Sympathy except in one scene which I won't mention where she was upset with Bullwinkle's innocence and stupidity). Jason Alexander and Rene Russo made a good team as Boris and Natasha. I enjoyed Robert De Niro as Fearless Leader but this was just a fun role for him, not proof he can really act. I did like John Goodman in his brief appearance as a cop, Whoopi Goldberg as a judge, and Kenan and Kel as students at Bullwinkle's alma mater.Of course this movie made plenty of use of 'breaking the fourth wall'--admitting to being only a movie. Many of the jokes using this technique were hilarious. And even though it wasn't a cartoon, such gimmicks as having characters suspended in the air just before falling--these were great simply because it's not supposed to happen in the 'real' world.This was great, even if some might say it's not in the same league with the animated TV version. "},{"Title":"Take this adventure","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it was the many puns or hilarious play-ons, but The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle is one of the most enjoyable comedies I have seen.Robert DeNiro leads an all-star cast that includes Rene Russo, Jason Alexander and newcomer Piper Perabo in a comedy that will knock everyone's socks off. I was very impressed by everyone in this film especially De Niro because this is quite a departure from his dramatic and action roles.If her performance in this film is any indication; Piper Perabo, a surprisingly talented newcomer, who also has a resemblance with Renee Zelwegger, will have a long and prosperous career. I subsequently realized that she was more than just a pretty face, she was a real talented actress if she puts forth the effort.Another aspect of the film that impressed me were the puns and play-ons the writer came up with since it were that made the film that much more enjoyable to watch as they were able to poke fun at others and yet still be funny enough where it didn't become silly.The Adventures Of Rocky & Bullwinkle far exceded my expectations of being one of the best made from a television show. I hope everyone can enjoy this film as much as I did because it is sure to make you laugh throughout the movie. This is a must-see movie for all ages to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Good, family-friendly fun.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When Rocky and Bullwinkle are smashed into full filtered reality, they must work together with an FBI agent (Piper Perabo) to stop their arch enemy Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro) along with Natasha and Boris (Rene Russo and Jason Alexander). Along the way, they meet many different characters each who have their own way of making funny stuff happen.The cast is great. There are numerous cameos by many great stars, Kenan Thompson, Kel Mitchell, Randy Quaid, James Rebhorn, John Goodman, Whoopi Goldberg and David Alan Grier all have their part to play in this witty satire.If you were a fan of the original TV show, then this movie is for you. It is also a good rent if you are looking for something refreshing and different or you are in a tight spot and need a kids movie.The acting is pretty hokey, but it is allowed because it only got itself up to a PG rating (because of one use of the word damn from the film's narrarator). This is a good movie, not anything like Oscar material, that's for sure. But it makes for a good change of pace. THE ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"Mostly throwaway...","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rated it a 4. There's one line sadly, it's included in the Trivia section that made me crack up, and, yes, bumped my rating up three points. Otherwise, it's rather painful to watch, particularly so when compared to the cartoon it was based on which, granted, also used cheesy humor, but somehow it worked in that context. "},{"Title":"Universal Pictures In Actually Decent Movie Version Of TV Show Shock!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There has never been an effective method of destroying a cartoon character until now.What about that movie 'Roger Rabbit'?SHUT UP! This is totally different!Someone else noted the similarity between The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle and Last Action Hero in that both involve people escaping from a form of film (cinema, TV) into the real world; I'd extend that to take in the short-lived TV show Once A Hero, about a comic book character who finds out that people are losing faith in him and goes to the real world to set it right. There's one crucial difference, however - the latter two didn't really work, and ultimately neither does this movie... but it comes a lot closer than the other two, and certainly closer than any other of Universal's lamentable attempts to bring TV shows to the big screen.Kenneth Lonergan's script has promise, but he and director Des McAnuff never really realise it; it's frequently quite funny, and more than a little strange (the sight of Robert DeNiro as Fearless Leader dancing after the successful RBTV (Really Bad Television) experiment has to be seen to be believed) - it's best not to think over it, but to just go with the flow, watch for the in-jokes and place names (Crymia River? J Ward?), and enjoy the legendary June Foray and Keith son of the late Bill Scott's vocals (Scott is also the narrator, in for the late William Conrad).Though not really as memorable as the show itself and suffering from some attempts at sentimentality that don't work (and are at odds with the whole ethos anyway; compare the vomitous sub-Disney end credit ballad to Mark Mothersbaugh's energetic variations on the Steiner theme and tell me which one works better) the endless puns abound, and DeNiro and Russo are great fun as Natasha and Fearless Leader. (Because the cartoon is mostly unknown in Britain - unlike Scooby-Doo, alas - a lot more notice was given over here to the great man dumbing down somewhat.) Jason Alexander isn't quite so effective as Boris, though; and Pink Power Ranger-lookalike* Piper Perabo must be the least likely FBI agent in screen history. Then again, perhaps that was the intention. And Coyote Ugly she is NOT.The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle could have done with less cameos (But I'm the real Karen Sympathy! pleads our heroine. Yeah, and I'm John Goodman, says a traffic cop played by John Goodman), the effects aren't all they could be, and it's hard not to think that Pinky and the Brain could have done a better job in a third of the time; but while it's never as enjoyable as George of the Jungle it's infinitely better than Dudley Do-Right. And The Flintstones. And The Flintstones In Viva Rock Vegas. And so on. I'd still rather see the original show, however.*The Amy Jo Johnson version, obviously. "},{"Title":"Every Robert De Niro fans worst nightmare","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Normally i would not go anywhere near a film like this but as i am One of Robert De Niro's biggest fans a had to check this out. The first thing that springs to mind after watching this crap is What was De Niro thinking when he accepted a part in this kids film? This is without a doubt the worst film he has ever been in and it would be extremely difficult to make another film as bad as this. Ok this is a childrens film but is there a child out there who actually likes this? i dont know  but i expect the answer is no. This also stars Pipa Pirabo who for me is a highly over rated actress that is more famous for her stupid grin than her acting. So if you are Man,woman , girl or boy i urge you to something more interesting than watch this , maybe sit in your garden and watch your grass grow or stick pins under your finger nails. I promise it wont be as painfull as watching The Adventures or Rocky and Bullwinkle. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Long Way From Frostbite Falls","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have loved the original cartoon version of Rocky and Bullwinkle since I was young.  So when the movie came out, I had high hopes.  Unfortunately, I didn't enjoy it as much as I wanted to.  This movie has received a lot of critical panning, and I can see where it comes from.  The original cartoon was filled with silly jokes and inane writing.  And the movie seems to make its own writing in a similar quality.  But I can't help but wonder if the jokes were bad on purpose. "},{"Title":"Rocky and Bullwinkle forever!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie, studded with cameo appearances, capturing the spirit of the original Rocky & Bullwinkle TV series, this was a great time for me as a huge Rocky & Bullwinkle fan growing up. Granted my sense of humour was largely forged by the TV series as a child. I am lost as to why this movie wasn't a bigger hit, unless it's just that the younger generations it was marketed towards didn't get Rocky & Bullwinkle to begin with. "}{"Title":" Rocky at times, but not bull","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me start off by saying I'm a fan of the old Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoon so I was very excited when I heard that Universal was making a movie of it. I was even more excited to find out it would be both Live action and animated although my expectation were not very high. The movie lived up to them. Sure, it had a few rocky moments, but it wasn't bull. There were to many pointless celebrity cameos and bad jokes, but it still has the heart and flat humor as the classic TV show did!  "},{"Title":"3 words Deniro was Drunk!!!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, this movie was a complete waste of time.  The cast acting was horrible, i only saw this movie because of Deniro and he let me down bad.  After analyze this what was he thinking oh well.  Meet the Parents covered it up for me. I give this movie about 5 stars just because of Deniro. Without him, 1 star and a complete waste of 75 million for a movie which is not even aimed for kids. "},{"Title":"The worst picture i have ever seen","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the only picture in which i fell asleep.  I don't know why Robert de Niro Accepted this.  The story is pathetic, the characters are more stupid than any other character i have ever seen. The only thing that survives the movie is the animation of the moose and the squirrel. This is the worst picture I Have ever seen, and I have no more to say about it. "},{"Title":"Roger Rabbit, it's not!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's amazing how special effects have improved over the years.  My parents told me that when they first saw MARY POPPINS back in '64, the audience was amazed when Dick Van Dyke was dancing with some penguins. When I saw WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT on opening day, I was blown away by the effects of the humans and Toontown residents put together.  Now with the ADVENTURES OF ROCKY & BULLWINKLE, Universal tries it's part to put both animation and live action together.  And it is impressive and cool to look at, but the movie itself sinks. This is a modern story of the famous t.v. series from the 1960's.  I always watched Moose and Squirrel as Moose is always trying to pull a rabbit out of his hat... and fails.  While Squirrel helps and aids the dim-witted Moose.  With this version, the animated Boris (Jason Alexander), Natasha (Rene Russo) and Fearless Leader (Robert DeNiro) escape the cartoon world and are in the real world.  Fearless Leader wants to device bad television shows that would hypnotize it's viewers (like most of the UPN prime time lineup) so Leader can control the world.  FBI boss Cappy Von Trapment (Randy Quaid) assigns a top secret mission to the young and pretty Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo) to get Rocky and Bullwinkle out of the cartoon world and to help save the world. Leader finds out about the release of Rocky and Bullwinkle, so he assigns Boris and Natasha to stop Moose and Squirrel before they arrive in New York City.  But Rocky, Bullwinkle, and Karen are in a hurry, because they only have three days before Leader brodcasts his bad shows. At times I enjoyed this movie, and at other times I just covered my face and shook my head in shame.  I thought the animation and characters of both Rocky and Bullwinkle were cool. They were funny and fun to watch and it did add excitement into the movie.  And I did enjoy the characters that were played by Piper Perabo and the huge cast of cameos, from Janeane Garofalo to John Goodman.  But what really made this movie bad is the villians!  I never thought that I would say this, but I didn't enjoy DeNiro in this film.  Robert DeNiro is my favorite actor of all time.  I pretty much own most of his movies on DVD.  But he was BAD in this movie. I know that it's suppose to be fun and a satire, but I think it was DeNiro that was having fun, and the audience was being made fun of.  And Alexander and Russo were also annoying.  Where the characters are suppose to be like cartoons, but just come off as a embarrassment. Here's a example, seeing DeNiro, Alexander, and Russo dance to the annoying 1960's hit Secret Agent Man.  I was shaking in fear when I saw this scene. But what also had me confused is who did director Des McAnuff make this movie for?  It's too witty for children and too juvenile for adults.  So maybe it's for the TITAN A.E. and INSPECTOR GADGET crowd, young boys between the ages of 11-13. So that is probably why it failed at the box office, since most boys wanted to watch ME, MYSELF, & IRENE.  So the people who did see it, had the kids question the jokes, and the adults roll their eyes. That pretty much sum up this film.  It doesn't have a wide target audience.  If these Hollywood directors want to make a successful film, have it appeal to a wide audience, not a small selective age group.  Look at THE CREW, it's made for old folks, and it did poor box office business.  But PERFECT STORM, SPACE COWBOYS, GLADIATOR and X-MEN had appeal to kids, teens, adults, and senior citizens, since it had something for everybody.  With ROCKY & BULLWINKLE, when teens, adults, and seniors saw the trailer, they said, it looks stupid/silly only the kiddies were excited.  And while watching the film, the kiddies in the theater wouldn't stop squirming.  It's a shame, had director McAnuff made the villians more mature and not sophmoric, it would have been a good film.  But it instead turned out to be a so-so film that could have worked, but it didn't.  **1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"A valiant, but ultimately disappointing, effort","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of the original Rocky and Bullwinkle show, I was somewhat looking forward to this movie. However, I waited until it came to the local second-run theatre so I could see it for fifty cents, in case it was disappointing.  Boy, was I right! Someone tried way too hard to make this film clever and witty, with too many puns and self-references -- the writer should have been introduced to the concept of less is more.  There's even a direct reference to Who Framed Roger Rabbit (as in, what about that Roger Rabbit movie? -- not even the least bit subtle), the ultimate example of this type of movie done right.If you're looking for a movie that both adults and kids can enjoy, go see Chicken Run, or rent Muppets from Space.  If you are desperate for something to do with your child on a rainy day, it might be worth seeing at a second-run theatre... but just barely, and then only for the (brief) appearances by Jonathan Winters (although your child will probably be more thrilled by the Keenan and Kel appearance in the middle of the movie.)Rating 3 out of 10  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first 10 minutes or so were a lot of fun -  seeing the old Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoon that I grew up with really brought back the memories.  I sat there thinking, if this movie is as good as this first part, I'm gonna love it!  TIMEOUT!  It seems as though the minute the 'real' characters took over the screen, the movie spiraled downward and never came back.  I was hoping Rene Russo would have more to say in the film as I loved her 'cartoon' character, imagine my surprise when she said anything. The movie was very short but seemed like hours.  I was not impressed and I still want to know - just what was it all about? "},{"Title":"An utter disaster","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is easily the worst film Robert De Niro has ever been involved in. What is he doing here? Rocky, Bullwinkle and the narrator are kind of fun, but unfortunately there is always a flesh and blood human being around and each one of them is absolutely horrible. The absurd dialogue spoken by Jay Ward's characters just does not work when spoken by an actual human being, in which case it just comes off as stupid. Maybe instead of matching up Rocky and Bullwinkle with human beings, they should be pulled out of reruns and be given new animated shorts to appear in. In fact I would welcome a general return of animated shorts to run before feature presentations. I don't know why it doesn't happen anymore. "},{"Title":"Wonderful cast, fine performances can not quite overcome a dismal script","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Boris (Jason Alexander) and Natasha (Rene Russo) are back in operation. Having escaped the Soviet Union, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, they arrive with their fearless leader (Robert De Niro) in Hollywood. There, they are transformed from mere animation into living, breathing human beings. Next, the trio launch their plot to hypnotise the television audience across America and take control of the country. The President's advisers enlist Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo), a young FBI agent, to find Rocky and Bullwinkle pronto. They surmise that the only way to stop B & N is to sign up the duo that defeated the Russian spies time and time again in the cartoon world. But, will they be able to do it one more time? This movie has a dream cast. Besides the ones mentioned above, the film also sports Randy Quaid, Janeane Garofalo, Whoopi Goldberg, Jonathan Winters, and others. Every one of them does the best job they can with the material they have been given. The trouble is, the script is just mundane, at best, and any viewer will have trouble stifling yawns during the course of the film. Nevertheless, if you want to see an okay family film with the cartoon heroes you loved as a child or have seen on reruns, go ahead and find the movie. Although the Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons will charm many folks for years to come, one viewing of this film will be more than enough. "},{"Title":"Another cartoon remake travesty","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First and foremost Why is Robert Deniro in this movie? We're talking about the guy who was in Godfather II and Goodfellas why is he in this movie? I don't remember much of this movie but I can remember enough to know that it was terrible. The acting is bad and the narrating,like many cartoon live action movies, killed it. The 3d was unnecessary. What is with this trend of making characters,originally intended as 2d, 3d? Its an insult to the art! I hate these live action blends! They went out AFTER Roger Rabbit(which, IMO is the only good live action cartoon mix). I also remember being annoyed by the main character; I could not stand her. I thought she and the narrator stabbed the concept in the back. I'm never going to watch a cartoon/live action movie again thanks to this steaming pile of nutty turd. "},{"Title":"Congratulations for being idiots","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is maybe one of the worst movies I had ever seen. First than all, why would a good actor such as Robert Deniro acto on it? That's scary stuff you know. Then, in one scene where Kenan and Kel give to those freaks they car without knowing if a stupid animal know's how to drive, and to worse the things is that it was a cool car, and the first thing those freaks do is crash with it. That's a bad part of the movie, but a worse part is when Rocky and Bullwinkle are in that school, while Bullwinkle is giving a stupid speech, Rocky is flying looking for a computer or a kinda of weird thing. I mean, why does people act so normal, it's a stupid squirrel and a stupid deer coming from another dimension. The army should be there opening their hearth or their ass (if they have one) checking what the heck they got, and instead of it there are some stupid guys hearing a stupid deer talking. Hopefully movies like this one disappear in the future, and when I mean movies like this one I think of movies like THE CAT IN THE HAT, MANOS HANDS OF FATE, BARNEY (that had to be a joke), WHATEVER. "}{"Title":"the pain, the screaming pain","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  my little sister dragged me off to see this film i can quiet honestly say it is the biggest load of rubbish i have ever seen and it pains me to admit i actually paid money to see this trash.save yourself the money and the pain and don't see this film. i fell asleep in the cinema for the first time during this film, the storyline was rubbish, it wasn't remotely funny or interesting.please please please do yourself a favour and keep as far away from this trash as possible, i doubt even your children will like it.  "},{"Title":"Oh my god!! My eyes!! They're burning!! I can't see!! AAAHHH!!!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is easily one of the worst movies of the last 10 or so years.I was initially looking forward to this movie (when I first heard about it) since I'm a huge fan of the cartoon. But this live-action-animation hybrid does practically everything wrong....and then some! The acting is horrible, the animation on Rocky and Bullwinkle sub-standard and Robert DeNiro is over-acting and clearly went temporarily insane while making this movie (he was also a co-producer.)I thought that Hollywood would have learned it's lesson a long time ago, but I've just read about the upcoming Josie and the Pussycats film (starring 3 decidedly unattractive female leads) so I guess they will never learn.STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE!!!!!rating1 "},{"Title":"Great TV show adulterated into a joyless political diatribe","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Showbiz, continuing a long tradition, has once again taken the sublime and made it ridiculous. The movie Rocky and Bullwinkle evinces none, I repeat none, of the charm and brilliance of yesteryears TV show. Rocky and Bullwinkle no longer bumble through ingenious comic situations; in the movie they plod through an insipid, sanctimonious plot encumbered with ludicrously politically correct (and unfunny) villains. The acting falls miserably far from the mark. Jason Alexander is dreadful as Boris (Why didn't Danny Devito get this part?) and the many gratuitous cameos aren't funny either, particularly whoopi goldberg's lame impersonation of a hip judge. Get some tapes of the tv show, and avoid this movie like it's the plague. "},{"Title":"Why do they make live action cartoons?","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cartoons are iconic incomplete images that require the viewer to use their imagination. Why does Hollywood insist on turning cartoons into live action which is much more specific in detail. These types of films like Scooby-Doo not only aren't funny because of this but also completely miss the point of the original. Scooby Doo wasn't Scooby because the ghosts were real and Rocky and Bullwinkle are not R & B because the celebrities gushing all over theses cg shadows are real. A real remake of the show's scatological humor would have been at least interesting. This movie was missing many of my favorite characters like time traveling dogs and dashing mounties as well as the Fractured Fairy Tale schmuck. This version was a bad TV movie with none of the show's wit or style. If given a choice between this movie & root canal, choose the dentist. The dialog will even be better. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly stupid movie.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never thought a movie with Robert De Niro can suck that much. I didn't see it because of him, I saw it because the trailer was funny and I hoped the movie would be too. If you read this before you see the movie - Don't do it, man! It's a waste of money. Wait for the reruns on the cable. "},{"Title":"No, no, no, no, no!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is my short review of Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle. This movie blows big time! I'm a big fan of the R&B cartoon, but sitting through this live action update was like the most painful torture imaginable. Watching this took away precious time from my life that I'll never regain. The only part I enjoyed was the last minute, where Rocky and Bullwinkle are finally back in their cartoon form. Let's pray they never leave that form again. "},{"Title":"Promising self-satire falls short","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The beginning of this movie is promising. It sets itself up for self-parody -- satirizing the old cartoon show and its absurdities while also managing to make fun of some clichés of cartoons and feature-film spin-offs.Then it becomes its own material -- it turns into a disastrously unfunny, stupid kiddie movie with lame fart jokes and surprisingly none-too-subtle, eyebrow-raising sexual innuendo.Robert De Niro is really wasted here. All he can resort to is mugging up for the camera and making fun of his old movies again -- here we get You talking' to me? which was funny the first time he did it. It's become his calling card now -- it's like the first thing he says when he walks on camera is You talking' to me? and the director expects everyone to laugh because, hey, it's Robert De Niro, and that's FUNNY.Rene Russo is wasted too although then again I don't think she was put in the film for her acting skills - they just got her because she looked like the character. Ditto for Jason Whatshisname (from Seinfeld), who tries too hard -- I guess he was pretty desperate after the show ended.Overall this is a disappointment because it begins so promising and turns into a dud. "},{"Title":"Sad attempt at reviving Rocky and Bullwinkle","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was completely entranced by the anticipation of a revival of a childhood classic that appealed to adults and children alike. Here was a remake that had obviously spared no expense in assembling an incredible cast of characters known for their skill in both drama and comedy. Who would have thought that those responsible would have created a vehicle so completely alien to their talents. While I wanted to turn off the movie, it was like watching a horrible accident that one could not tear one's eyes away from. A lasting testimony that simply hiring an all-star cast cannot make up for a non- existent screenplay. It is painful to watch as these talented actors struggle to bring life to this dead script only to prove that it is far easier to kill one's career than a cartoon. "},{"Title":"The one movie where Rocky and Bullwinkle bombed the box office(And not with a box of dynamite, mind you","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Honestly, the person who made this movie was probably high on crystal meth while making this pile of pig crap. This movie stars Rocky and Bullwinkle in this first(And thankfully last) live-action animated movie. Is it me or is this movie trying to rip off Steven Spielburg's Who Framed Roger Rabbit? Here are a few issues with this movie.1) The names of the characters. Karen Sympathy? Oh, I get it! It's a play of care and sympathy! WHAT THE FLYING FLIP WERE THEY THINKING?! Can you at least come up with a name for the Fearless Leader other than Fearless Leader? 2) The actors. I love Jason Alexander for starring in Seinfeld, but he SUCKS for the role of Boris. What is Robert DeNiro doing in this movie?! For goodness sakes, he was in Godfather II and he sounds nothing like Fearless Leader. And that goes for Jonathon Winters(Who voiced Bigelow in the Pound Puppies TV Special) too! Also, why are Kenan Thompson, Kel Mitchel, John Goodman,and Whoppi Goldberg(Yeah, Whoopi Goldberg! I'm not kidding!) in this movie too?! They're great actors, they should have known better! 3) The special effects. Personally, I think this movie is trying to rip off Who Framed Roger Rabbit with the same animated cartoons in real live gimmick.If you're really desperate, you should have let the whole movie be in cartoons. On the bright side, at least Jason Alexander apologized for starring in this heinous nightmare. "},{"Title":"Terrible and bad!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a BIG disappointment to everyone! I don't think many people who wrote the script or worked on the movie had even seen many Rocky and Bullwinkle shows. Most reviewers panned it when it came out, as a big rip-off. --Rotten Tomatoes says that only 23% of viewers even liked it. Jason Alexander, Robert de Niro, Reneee Russo et. al. are given NOTHING to do in the film and are completely wasted, and Rocky and the Moose get little enough screen time themselves. Lame, lame plot that seems to be something about how Hollywood studios greenlight a film. Very few funny or original jokes, not much relation to the original show. Pepper Perambulo--a forgotten ingenue of 12 years ago (remember Tawney Kittaen?) seems to get most screen time. I pretty much thought she must have been sleeping with one of the producers or financiers of the film.All the REAL Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle shows are available for FREE on Hulu.com. Watch it there and forget this mess!--Yuck!! "}{"Title":"Don't watch it","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why does IMDb has a low rating too it, but everybody lies about they liked it? Seriously, thus this movie was horrible, the plot was weak and lame, and the movie is pointless. The actors also did a worthless job on their roles from start to finish thus the scripts too. The storyline is bad, the actors did dreadful, the animation was bad, but most of all, the script was a bad run-down groundhog. This is all like a bad rip-off or sequel to WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT that was definitely one of my most greatest movies as a child, it's like a WHO SOUGHT ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE. Watching this slut early in the morning was stupid, they're trying to make a rip-off of a good show and make it into a animation-life movie and it's just all stupid. Don't watch this Rocky & Bullwinkle, this one is bad. If you're bored and want to watch a true life and animated film, plan on and prepare to watch WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT, skip THE ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE and move on.P^_^ "},{"Title":"Rocky and Bull--- Movie","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocky and Bullwinkle The Movie should never have been made. A complete waste of acting, time, money and paper. With who the producers had on board for this production, it should have carried over to the movie, but it never did. This film sure doesn't do the cartoon series justice. Just stupid, silly dialog, annoying characters, and the insertion of the cartoon characters into the movie doesn't help. It just looked like a desperate attempt to salvage a already sinking ship. The actors seemed to think they needed to over act like cartoon characters in a cartoon movie. Whatever- it didn't work for me. I expect some quality, and I never saw it. The movie was rocky, and the bull part...- I agree with that part of the title. "},{"Title":"No Way...","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was a dedicated fan of the cartoon; waking up every weekday morning when I was very young to watch the misadventures Rocky and Bullwinkle use to share. This full-length live-action movie shares none of the charm or comedy the cartoon so beautifully executed.The acting is nothing impressive nor comedic. The story is very, very formulaic, so much that to call this a Rocky and Bullwinkle feature is to be an insult. The pacing is off, so much so that I doubt any child, big or small, will find enjoyment.All in all, I highly recommend the cartoon original, as it contains all the necessities of a great time. Skip out on this live-action feature that contains none of the spirit. "},{"Title":"I waited a long time for THIS????","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love the animated Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons. I live in Michigan, so of course, I got every joke, even as a small child. When I found out that this movie was being made, I could not wait. After all, didn't it HAVE to be good if Robert DeNiro was backing it, and it WAS Rocky and Bullwinkle. It was probably the biggest cinematic letdown I have ever experienced in my movie-going lifetime! (I still want my money back.) I felt sorry for the animated characters having to be in such a horrible film beside such terrible real-life actors. Imagine that, feeling sorry for the ANIMATED characters! I also saw on some late-night talk show Steve Martin explaining away about how he came up with his 'original' character in the movie. He even made physical gestures to justify his claim. Well...it just so happens that earlier, the very same day, I happened to be flipping through the cable channels and landed for a few minutes on Turner Classic Movies. I Was a Fugitive from a Chain Gang from about 1931 was showing. Guess what? It was right on a scene where Paul Muni's character's wife, a blonde, floozy, cheating, bimbo, received a phone call that he answered. It was one of her college-boy 'boyfriends' asking her to come out for a good time with them. He was the very same character that Steve Martin claimed he had totally and originally created himself!! He PLAGARIZED that character, right down to the thick glasses, haircut, speech pattern(lisp), and suit with a bow-tie!!!! Shame on you, Steve! I have exposed you....... "},{"Title":"I want to cry","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Peeee Uewwww, what smells so bad? It's this modern version of Jay Ward's classic TV comedy. Jay must be turning over in his grave, I hope his widow got a lot of money. Single worst piece of casting Jason Alexander as Boris Baddinoff. This guy is acting poison in any character other than playing himself on Seinfeld. The moose and squirrel are now only props supporting a brain-dead FBI girl. If you are lucky enough to be familiar with the original TV show avoid this disgusting movie. I think I'm going to burn my copy before it stinks up the house. Even the animation is worse. If you like this crap watch 'Listen Up', if you want good new animation watch the Simpsons. "},{"Title":"Flat-footed adaptation of a classic cartoon duo","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE (2000) **  Rene Russo, Jason Alexander, Piper Perabo, Randy Quaid, Robert De Niro, (Voices of June Foray and Keith Scott), (Cameos Carl Reiner, Jonathan Winters, Billy Crystal, Whoopi Goldberg, John Goodman, Janeane Garofalo). Jay Ward's classic cult cartoon comedy team of Moose & Squirrel are back and this time they're larger than life on the big screen in  this rather flat-footed attempt at a resurrection for two of the most beloved animated characters of all time. This time screenwriter Kenneth Lonegran employs the standard trademarks of the series (breaking down the fourth wall directly talking asides to the audience, ironic dispositions, silly puns and on-the-sly knowing winks at their familiarity) but does so in a largely mirthless endeavor.   The plot, such as it is, has our heroes Rocket J. Squirrel and Bullwinkle J. Moose (voiced by Foray who has been Rocky since the get go and Scott doing the honors for the moose and replacing the late, great William Conrad as the smart-aleck narrator) enter the virtual reality from 'toon land when a development girl in Hollywood inadvertently enlivens their notorious arch nemesi Boris Badenov and Natasha and their evil despot Fearless Leader (played with gusto by long-time fans Alexander, Russo and De Niro, who also co-produced) who find themselves longing to rule the world by incorporating the masses to be hypnotized by Really Bad TV.   This leads to involvement by the FBI to seek help from our heroes with their emissary being the young, impressionable and darn right plucky Agent Karen Sympathy (sexy newcomer Perabo) to get the denizens of Frostbite Falls to New York as they race the clock and overcome the pitfalls set up by the dastardly Mutt & Jeff team of Boris & Natasha.The premise is weak with the fact that the Cold War is over and is about as timely as the villain trio's out-of-it attempts to plot in overruling the free-world but then again so are the James Bond flicks.  What really doesn't translate well is the fact that the animated heroes interacting with the real world a la `Roger Rabbit'.  They work better on the small screen in retrospect and a lot of the interaction seems forced (except with the gung ho energy to spare by the lissome Perabo, who actually breathes a fresh presence into every scene she's in).Alexander and Russo make for an amusing pair as the rotund Boris and statuesque Natasha and De Niro even is passable with his thick accented Leader (even aping his `Are you talkin' to me?' icon moment from `Taxi Driver').  But the pointless cameos by comedy stars like Crystal and Goldberg seem perfunctory (although it's always a guilty pleasure to see Winters at his battiest, although he's surprisingly sedate in this setting). Maybe the next film they'll let the duo work in their natural state of just animation.  "},{"Title":"Don't watch this, unless your a fan of the old series...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember watching this horrid piece of a movie one night on HBO and as soon as the movie was over I felt my brain go numb. My God, this was an awful, awful, horrible excuse for a movie... Bad puns were like cockroaches crawling all over it, enabling it to bring anyone who had no clue of what Rocky and Bullwinkle is to their knees in pain.All in all, this Rocky and Bullwinkle movie sucks very bad, unless you are a fan of the old series... "},{"Title":"The Horror...","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying OUCH! Watching this movie was physically painful and nearly made me vomit. It is a crime against humanity. I never believed in the devil, but some master of evil had to corrupt Booby D into doing this crap. And Jason Alexander is damaged goods as well. This movie makes Battlefield Earth look Oscar worthy. CRAP!! "},{"Title":"So utterly silly and senseless, those qualities distract us from absorbing the plot and characters. *1/2 (out of four)","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Is it possible for a movie to be so intentionally silly and contain so much dried humor that the utter insanity of it distracts us from actually looking at the story and characters seriously enough to except it as a comedy? As the live action version of the classic cartoon proves, it is possible. The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle, based on those jolly characters created by Jay Ward, is so incompetent that the audience really is distraught by its craziness. The entire story is built over a series of unbelievable coincidences coming in a variety of forms. This production is sprinkled with special cameos by Janeane Garofalo, John Goodman, Whoopi Goldberg, Kenan Thompson, Kel Mitchel, David Alan Grier, and Billy Crystal, as well as the infatuating performances by Robert De Niro, Rene Russo, and Jason Alexander, who are curiously inspiring. However, I was more concerned about the production's extremely annoying and overused voice-over narration than the popular names present in the credits.What story there is features a trio of diabolical villains, Natasha (Rene Russo), Boris (Jason Alexander), and their fearless leader, Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro-what is he doing producing a movie like this?). They manage to burst out of their enclosed TV world in to reality, where Rocky the flying squirrel and Bullwinkle the moose must also enter the real world to stop them before with the assistance of special agent Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo), before the scoundrels take over the world using bad television programming.The film, directed by Des McAnuff, does not take advantage of its title characters. Even in a movie about the adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle, those characters are not the focal point of the movie, but the zany and loony humor takes center stage here, which is more groan inspiring than laugh inducing.Like The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas and Inspector Gadget, this movie is so completely senseless impossible to critically analyze it, even on a professional level.Considering the fact that the film targets an age of audience much younger than myself, and the fact that it is not meant to be an Academy Award nominee, the humor is still unfunny and the plot ridiculous. I spent most of the time laughing at the pure insanity of the movie's ridiculous qualities. The producers are aware of its silliness, however, which makes the film shallow and meaningless, rather than agonizing and painful. ures. "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie made me realize why I didn't watch the cartoon as a child It's not funny.  I had hoped that any project with Robert DeNiro and Jason Alexander would be worth the price of admission and had thought that my kids (aged 10 & 5) would enjoy this film.  Unfortunately, even my five year old thought it just wasn't funny.  I hope DeNiro made a lot of money because he lost a lot of my respect by involving himself in something so crappy. The only person involved in this film that merited any consideration was Jonathon Winters, who could have been funny at the Neuremburg Trials.  A viable alternative to the death penalty would be repeated viewing of this movie.  I rated it a 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Rocky and Bull-crap....","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has to be the most pathetic film I've watched lately. I don't say this as a fan of the original cartoon, either. I grew up without the delights of Rocky & Bullwinkle as a kid and, thanks to this film, I will NEVER seek out any episodes of that cartoon, EVER! But I was able to view the film without any preconceptions.To say this movie is a waste of time is beyond understatement. It has no saving values whatsoever. When will the film companies get it....you can't make a successful live action/cartoon mix movie.R&B is just crap, plain and simple. There is only one interesting point, which I'm sure is pure coincidence. The plot of the film (and I use the word plot only because I can't think of one that adequately describes how badly written the story is) centres around Fearless Leader's attempts to brainwash American society. Given the fact that a lot of well-known actors and celebrities gave up precious moments of their lives to take part in this turkey lead me to believe that some real brainwashing has gone on here.Anyhow, its a crock. Bad acting, bad dialogue (even when its intentionally bad, its just plain bad!), the most awful puns assaulting you every second of the film (again, they're supposed to be bad, but in actuality they are just plain teeth-gratingly awful). And stupidity and dumbness at every turn.It's difficult to see who this movie was aimed at. Even little kids will find the humour puerile and for adults, its just an awful assault on the senses. The humour, if I had to give it a rating, is about on the same level as Christmas Cracker jokes. In other words, vaguely amusing for a few moments, but you wouldn't want to be subjected to an hour and a half of it. That amounts to torture. The Convention on Human Rights ought to cover things like this and make them illegal.To sum it up then, this movie is $hite and not worth watching under any circumstances. I'd rather watch Jungle Book 2 again than this monstrosity. Avoid! "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow. The only thing remotely funny was when Natasha said Moose and Squirrel, and after that, I should have walked out.*The movie effects were adequate. However, the real pleasure of the original Rocky and Bullwinkle show was the fine story presentation and comic timing. This movie failed at both.If you are going to see this, get the video or the DVD so that you can fast forward. Better yet, pass.*Why did I stay? My wife and I had dinner reservations and it was either kill time in the theater or in the lobby. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Me and my 12 year old friends went to see this expecting it would be funny and have a good story. My parents said that The Rocky and Bullwinkle show was amazing, so I had high hopes for the movie. However, once again, Hollywood did a horrible job of turning a succesful TV show into a movie.First of all, the plot was extremely stupid. A lot of the things in the movie didn't make sense at all. The acting was terrible. The only person I liked was the character Ollie (don't know who plays him). But besides that, everyone else did horrible acting jobs.The movie itself is boring and dumb. The beginning was pretty good, when everything was cartoon. But as soon as they enter the real world, everything goes  downhill.Me and my friends left the theatre around 3 quarters into the movie. We couldn't believe we had just wasted 5 bucks and our time on such a horrible movie.You want an animated movie that has a good story and is full of action, go see Chicken Run, Dinasour, or Titan A.E. You want an animated movie thats boring and has a dumb plot? Then go see this or a pokemon movie.Don't waste your time or money on this movie. Go see something good instead, as me and my friends should have done.  "},{"Title":"OMG, was this movie bad","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched R&B because Robert De Niro was in it. But his Are you talking to me?-scene couldn't rescue this incredibly stupid movie. I really can't imagine how anyone could enjoy watching this horrible crap. I felt robbed after watching. This movie stole some time of my life. I watched the second half in fast forward, so i didn't had to stand this annoying moose. "},{"Title":"Mind Numbingly Awful","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My pick for the worst movie ever made...complete garbage.  I cannot even make one positive comment.  This movie should be shown to prison inmates as punishment.  A week in solitary confinement would be preferable to the torture one endures during the 88 minutes of this stinker.  What the heck were Jason Alexander, Robert De Niro, Rene Russo, and Randy Quaid thinking? Are they so hard up for a movie role?   "},{"Title":"A Waste of an Excellent Cast and Budget in a Very Silly Movie","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, let me explain that these characters (Rocky &#150; Dentinho & Bullwinkle &#150; Alceu) are completely unknown in Brazil. My son, my daughter, my wife and I, i.e. very different generations, have never heard anything about this animated cartoon. Therefore, part of the jokes are lost for us. Maybe in North America or in other countries where this cartoon is popular, the viewers may have a different approach. But this is not the unique problem, otherwise we would not like the yearly released new character, for example, by Disney studios or Dreamworks. The cast of `The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle' is excellent, having names like Robert de Niro, Whoopy Goldberg, John Goodman, Rene Russo, Randy Quaid, Jason Alexander and Janeane Garofalo and the effects are great meaning very high budget. However, the story is so horribly silly, that maybe even children may find it imbecile. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) `As Aventuras de Alceu e Dentinho' (`The Adventure of Alceu and Little Tooth')    "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cartoons played quite a big part in my childhood, I mean, who didn't watch things like Disney movies, Bugs Bunny and The Simpsons, but this mix of both animation and animation just doesn't work. Basically Rocky (June Foray) and Bullwinkle (Keith Scott, also playing the Narrator) had their shows cancelled 35 years ago, and live off finances from their TV reruns. But now they are needed in the real world when their enemies, Fearless Leader (Robert De Niro), Natasha (Rene Russo) and Boris (Jason Alexander) have transported themselves, and plan to take over the world with the help of RBTV (Really Bad TV) and its hypnotising powers. FBI agent Karen Sympathy (Piper Perabo) is the one that gets Rocky and Bullwinkle, and for a long while, they just muck about before actually getting to the bad guys and defeating them. Also starring Randy Quaid as Cappy Von Trapment, Janeane Garofalo as Minnie Mogul, Carl Reiner as P.G., John Goodman as Oklahoma Cop, Kenan Thompson as Lewis, Kel Mitchell as Martin, James Rebhorn as President Signoff, Billy Crystal as Mattress Salesman and Whoopi Goldberg as Judge Cameo. I'll admit De Niro making a joke of himself, e.g. saying Are you talking' to me? in the accent, is amusing, but that's about it, it is just a dumb film that only very young kids will like, and the adults will have no fun. Pretty poor! "}]