[{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Satire","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"111 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Given Tom Cruise's recent unstable behavior, it might be the right time to revisit 'Bowfinger,' Steve Martin and Frank Oz's highly under-appreciated satire of the side of Hollywood we mere mortals aren't supposed to see.In Hollywood, there are no secrets--everyone knows who's secretly gay or insane, and who's slept with who, when, where, and what they got out of it. But no one wants powerful enemies, and in the quickly shifting landscape of stardom, where one can transform almost overnight and with no apparent or predictable logic from b-list character actor or teen idol into a-list mega-star and Oscar-caliber actor who can open hundred-million dollar movies and make or break the careers of his/her friends and acquaintances, no one wants to be the one who spills the scandalous beans.For this reason, 'Bowfinger'--the 'Spinal Tap' of contemporary Hollywood--was barely made, and upon its release was greeted with a politely, barely restrained gasp of horror from everyone on the inside who recognized Martin's unusually liberal borrowings from the gossip files to construct this smart, dry, tastefully executed comedy about a has-been-before-he-ever-was actor/director who concocts a scheme to sell his hopelessly bad sci-fi action film project to a major studio by surreptitiously following and filming a major action film star, manipulating his behavior when able, and then later patching a film together with the clandestine footage and a few shots with a body-double. Little does Bowfinger (the loser, played with typical charm and intelligence by the great Steve Martin) know that the film star he means to exploit--Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy)--is a paranoid, delusional basket case of psychological problems barely being held together (though, one suspects, also being held at the edge of sanity) by his mentors at MindHead, a bizarre, cultish, mind-controlling religion obviously meant to stand in for the Church of Scientology, the increasingly infamous faith/life method of numerous Hollywood stars, most notoriously Tom Cruise and John Travolta (musician Beck has allegedly also recently joined the ranks of Scientology, at the behest of his father and his girlfriend, the sister of actor Giovanni Ribisi, also a Scientologist).Bowfinger assembles a motley crew of Hollywood wannabes, which include the fabulous Christine Baranski as Carol, an aging stage actress who drives around town listening to old recordings of herself singing show tunes; Heather Graham as Daisy, a presumably naive young beauty who steps off the bus in L.A. and immediately sets about trying to sleep her way to the top (Daisy is based on nutso actress Anne Heche, who exploited Martin before moving up the food chain to a public lesbian affair with Ellen Degeneres, whose sit-com was then at peak popularity); Adam Alexi-Malle as Afrim, Bowfinger's corpulent Pakistani accountant and the author of 'Chubby Rain,' the ludicrous alien invasion script which Bowfinger believes will catapult him to fame and respectability; Jamie Kennedy as Bowfinger's camera operator, who smuggles equipment out of the studio lot where he works as a low-level crew man; and Kohl Sudduth as Bowfinger's sweet but vapid excuse for a heart-throb. This gang of misfits works well together in various gags lampooning the film industry.But the film is stolen entirely by Eddie Murphy, first as Kit Ramsey, whose paranoid rants include the observation that a script his agent has offered him must be racist because the letter 'k' appears in it a number of times divisible by three ('KKK' appears in this script 111 times!) and the twisting of a remark made by the agent about a script--'it's not Shakespeare'--into a racist slur ('Shakespeare?!? Shake-a-Spear! You callin' me a spear-chucker!?!), and later as Jiff, Kit's nerdy and socially inept twin brother, who unwittingly stumbles into Bowfinger's scheme and agrees both to serve as a stunt/body double and errand boy for the film ('Running errands would be a real boost for me!' he gleefully remarks).One of the great things about 'Bowfinger' is the opportunity to see Eddie Murphy create two ridiculous characters the way he once did so frequently on Saturday Night Live, before 'Bevery Hills Cop' send his ego to Mars. He looks like he's having the time of his life, and the fabulous talent he has wasted so frequently on mediocre to painfully bad star vehicles like 'Coming to America,' 'Harlem Nights,' or 'Vampire in Brooklyn' is once again apparent, and triumphant. Together, Martin and Murphy remind us how comedy should be made with intelligence, humility, generosity--and, most importantly, scathing wit.Scientology gets fairly merciless treatment in the form of MindHead, a cult-like corporate religion led by Terry Stricter (Terence Stamp), who soothes the paranoiac Kit with new-agey acronym lessons (K.I.T=Keep It Together) and chastens him not to 'show it to the Laker Girls' when he hears the voice of Teddy Kennedy instructing him to 'bring the Laker Girls down a peg or two.' Given Tom Cruise's recent weirdness and the fact that he openly travels with a cadre of Scientologists who function like a Secret Service detail, it's not hard to suspect that Kit Ramsey was written with Tom Cruise in mind (the role was originally written for Keanu Reeves but was ultimately changed and offered to Murphy).Murphy's presence, ironically, may have undermined this film in its initial release, as audiences many audiences left theaters disappointed, having expected more of a traditional slapstick comedy with Murphy in a larger role (his scenes are easily the funniest, but Kit and Jiff or secondary characters). But it's well worth revisiting for its quality and its scathing critique of the business of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Martin and Murphy should team again!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"52 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The remarkable thing about this film is that hardly ever has Steve Martin ever been so genuinely sympathetic without seeming clumsy about it. Believe me, this movie could have been over in the first few minutes if the writing hadn't started out so deliciously cynical. Immediately, I was hooked by the story of this downtrodden dreamer who endeavors to commit his life's savings to a hopeless cause. Forget about the weak (tacked-on) ending and the craziness for comedy's sake. This is a light character study worthy of a filmlover's earnest attention. Kudos to Murphy for the dual role-one a loving tribute to his inner child and the other a biting satire of his public image.  "},{"Title":"Steve Martin was funny, then he wasn't. Now he is again","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin, the funniest man alive in the 80s, lost his way in the 90s with the likes of Leap Of Faith and A Simple Twist Of Fate.  Now, after sterling work in David Mamet's The Spanish Prisoner, Martin's return to writing and acting in straight-up comedy is surprisingly, reassuringly good. Bowfinger is a movie about movies, with all the potential for in-jokery and self-indulgence that brings, but for the most part dispenses with the clever-clever, isn't-Hollywood-shallow stuff to deliver laughs.Martin's Bobby Bowfinger, a struggling producer desperate for a hit before he reaches the 'unemployable' age of 50, hits on the idea of putting action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) in his new sci-fi film Chubby Rain without the star knowing anything about it. Consequently, Bowfinger's inept crew follows Ramsey around in increasingly crazy and surreal fashion, utilising everything from 'Will Work For Food' signs made of foil to cranes mounted on trucks to get the shot they need. When Bowfinger stumbles across a Kit double (Murphy again) who will do anything the director asks including fetch the coffee, he starts to think all his birthdays have come at once. Meanwhile, the neurotic Ramsey, never that stable to begin with, begins to lose it altogether as he becomes convinced that sex-crazed pod people are stalking him.It's a simple plot and, while the script throws a few barbs at Hollywood, it's played mainly for big laughs - and gets them. Heather Graham is spot-on as the ingenue literally just off the bus from Ohio who is prepared to sleep with anyone to get longer scenes, and Jamie Kennedy is all laconic wit as Bowfinger's long-suffering assistant. Really, though, it's Martin and Murphy's show. The original wild and crazy guy shows he hasn't lost all his manic energy in the title role, nor his wit with the sharp script. Surprisingly enough, though, the standout performance is Murphy's; he is brilliant as both the paranoid, highly-strung Kit and his dumb-but-sweet double Jiff. This might even be a career-best.It's simple, lightweight and throwaway of course, but comedies that try to SAY something, even if they're good, often just don't make you laugh that much. Bowfinger will.  "},{"Title":"A Winning Combination","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After seeing how good the combination of director Frank Oz and actor Steve Martin was in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, I wasn't surprised that the two would make Bowfinger interesting, too. It's not the caliber of Scoundrels, but it's still fun to watch.Eddie Murphy, as usual, is responsible for a lot of laughs as he plays two characters this paranoid New Age-type follower and a very nerdy stand-in actor. In both roles, he's effective. Terrence Stamp, meanwhile, does his normal intense job of acting as the leader of a far-out mind group that one of Murphy's characters belongs. Heather Graham provides the sex appeal. Few women have made the transition from wholesome country girl to sleazeball in one movie as Graham does here. It's shocking but laughable at the same time, which pretty much describes this odd film. Nice to see Steve Martin back in form, too. "},{"Title":"One of the most funniest and most original comedies of the late 1990's.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stage actor turned Grade Z amateur filmmakerBobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is Hollywood's least successful director. When Bowfinger decides to make an ultra low-budget film with the hottest action starKit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy). But Bowfinger will filmed his latest protect without Ramsey never knowing that he's in the movie! Bowfinger uses his crew and his actors to act with Rasmey in several scenes to pull the scam off. But Rasmey is actually a paranoid action star, who believes in aliens and other outrageous things. For Bowfinger's ingenious scheme, he decides to use a double for Rasmey, a nerdy look-alike (Also played by Murphy).Directed by Frank Oz (HouseSitter, Little Shop of Horrors-1986, The Stepford Wives-2004) made an wildly funny comedy that is actually based on a real incident in the late 1920's with actress Mary Pickford, which it's hard to be believe. Still, this comedy manages to be quite original and also this is an underrated film. Good supporting cast includesHeather Graham, Christine Baranski, Jamie Kennedy, Terence Stamp, Adam Alexi-Malle, Kohl Sudduth and Robert Downey, Jr. Murphy is fun in is dual role (especially in the role of the nerdy look-alike). Sharp, funny script by actorMartin (The Jerk, Roxanne, Shopgirl). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A great comedy for people who love the movies","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is one of the funniest movies I have seen in years.  It works because it allows the laughs to build from the way the characters play off each other's personalities, without becoming puppets of the script.  It is for people who love the movies as well, because that's what it's really about; how the movie industry works on such unlikely coincidences, and how the truly desperate are sometimes successful against their own natures.The movie is basically about a group of folks who want desperately to make a movie, to break into the big time.  They are led by Bobby Bowfinger, of Bowfinger International Productions, a hack film studio in a ramshackle office in an L.A. suburb.  Bowfinger is the right man to head this team; he's unscrupulous, infinitely resourceful, and isn't daunted by the fact that his budget will come from the dollars he saved up each week since he was a kid, stashed in a box in his attic.  He collects his film crew from illegal immigrants trying to cross the border.His accountant has just written a script about aliens hiding in raindrops.  Don't ask, just watch the movie.  The movie is called Chubby Rain.  Bowfinger wants Hollywood's leading action star, Kit Ramsey, to play the lead.  As Ramsey, Eddie Murphy turns out one of his best performances. Ramsey is wildly egotistical and emotionally unstable to a fault. He is a member of Mind Head, one of those many Scientologist-like groups, where he goes often to discuss his many insecurities and paranoid fears, like that of, of course, aliens.Naturally, Ramsey refuses to be in the picture.  That doesn't stop Bowfinger.  He comes up with a clever, if risky, idea follow Ramsey around, shoot him surreptitiously from a distance, using his own actors to play their parts with him, without Ramsey's knowledge.  This leads to many very funny scenes in which Ramsey comes to believe his paranoid fantasies about aliens are in fact real, while the actors in the movie praise Ramsey's style.Eventually, a stunt double is needed for certain scenes, and a Ramsey look alike, named Jiff, is brought on board.  Jiff is an entirely unique character, played also by Murphy as a slow-witted innocent with a sheepish grin and a nasal voice.  He is lovable and yet annoying at the same time, to Murphy's credit, and a great movie character.I liked a lot of things about the movie, especially the eye it has for the way Hollywood works.  I really enjoyed a scene early on where Bowfinger stages a phony call with a car phone in a restaurant to create an opportunity to pitch his script to a high-powered executive played by Robert Downey, Jr.  Downey is surprised to see the cord dangling from Martin's phone; he may not take him seriously, but he's not likely to forget meeting him.I also liked the way Ramsey complains to his agent about not having a catch phrase the way white action stars have.  His agent points out a scene where he pushes a guy named Cliff off a cliff.  That's too cerebral for an audience, shouts Ramsey.  We're making a movie, not a film!  He points out that in the script he is reading, the letter k appears a number of times that is exactly divisible by three, so KKK appears 486 times!What is best about the movie is the way Bowfinger goes for broke, improvising all the way.  He proceeds with a determination fueled by the insane notion that this scheme could actually work.  You have to respect the chutzpah of someone who wants to succeed that badly, even if he bends a few rules along the way. "},{"Title":"Another Smart Comedy from the Steve Martin Files...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin scored a bullseye with BOWFINGER, a smart and cleverly mounted comedy, which Martin also wrote, which stars Steve Martin as Bobby Bowfinger, a down and out Hollywood producer on the verge of going out of business who gets hold of a script to produce and wants big time action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to star in it. When Ramsey won't give Bobby the time of day. Bobby decides to shoot the film without Kit's knowledge or consent. This premise is a wonderful set-up for some very funny sight gags. Eddie Murphy is on target as Kit Ramsey and as a milquetoast lookalike hired to do Ramsey's stunt work and close-ups. Murphy delivers one of his funniest performances as the lookalike and there are other effective contributions from Heather Graham, Jamie Kennedy, Christine Baranski,Terrence Stamp, and Robert Downey, Jr. A smart and winning comedy about the inner workings of modern Hollywood with a great screenplay and starring performance by Martin and Eddie Murphy in the dual role of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny! A Comedic Masterpiece!","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow! It finally happened! Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy Together! This movie is genius! There is so much going on here and Steve and Eddie are at their best. From the opening scene, you can just tell you are in for a real treat. This is one of my all time favorite movies. And people who voted less than excellent for this movie; either hate comedy or don't know how to enjoy real comedy. Eddie Murphy again does double duty playing two completely different characters, one more funnier than the next. Steve Martin plays the not so straight man director. This is a madcap screwball comedy. And the highway scene is tears crying down your face funny! I highly recommend this movie to any one who loves to really laugh! Unless your dead, you can't help but laugh. I don't mean chuckle, grin, smile etc. I mean laugh!!!! "},{"Title":"The con worked for me","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger How does Bobby Bowfinger, Hollywood's least successful director, get Kit Ramsey, Hollywood's biggest star, in his ultra low-budget film? Anyway he can. With an ingenious scheme and the help of Kit's eager and nerdy brother, Jiff, an ambitious and sexy wanna be actress and over-the-hill diva. Bowfinger sets out to trick Kit Ramsey into the performance of a lifetime.To describe Bowfinger, it is a stupid idiotic film, which works. I thought it was terrific. Steve Martin (who wrote the film) plays the part of a hopeless director perfectly. While the other main star Eddie Murphy, again pulls off another great double as both Kit and Jiff Ramsey. Is there an end to this guys talent? i look forward to seeing Nutty Professor 2 soon. Heather Graham was again at her sexy best as Daisy. The other stand out actor for me in this film was Terrence Stamp. Can you remember him from Superman 2? That's right he was General Zod and in Bowfinger he is Terry Stricter, Kit's Councillor. His role was also well done.  A final mention to one star, but with four legs, Mindy (aka Betsy) who was used perfectly. Animals who star on any movie or TV show have a special talent, this dog is no exception. Bowfinger is also a movie within a movie, which at any time must be hard to shoot, but thanks to Aussie director Frank Oz, Bowfinger comes out beautifully. Bowfinger Scores 3.5/5 Stars or 7/10. If you want a laugh see this wild, funny comedy! "},{"Title":"Mindhead will sue!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OH, my goodness, I can't believe that scientologists didn't sue over this one! Welcome, to Mind Head..... Whenever Tom Cruise, John Travolta or whoever the latest contributor to the institution of deception for monetary purposes under the guise of erudite philosophy comes on TV or some commercial, my kids invariably start chanting welcome.....to Mind head.... (Yes, my children are hilarious), but I loved the chanting of keep it together, keep it together!, so funny! Eddie Murphy as his dorky brother is also hilarious. How he just casually mentions that Kip is his brother. Oh, this one is a classic. Even the plot is funny, and ridiculous. Perhaps it's a little long, but fun nonetheless.Crossing the freeway was a great scene. Fun movie! "}{"Title":"A Tiny Peek at how good Steve Martin Movies can be","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin has made some fine comedy movies - 'The Man with two Brains' 'All of Me' 'Dirty Rotten Scoudrels' and 'Planes, Trains and Automobiles' to name just few. He has also made some wonderfully touching movies like 'A Simple Twist of Fate' where his acting ability really shows through. Unfortunately he does have a knack of making too many films that are merely mediocre or worse; films like 'Mixed Nuts' 'Sgt. Bilko' 'Bringing down the House' and 'Cheaper by the Dozen'I am pleased to say that Bowfinger shows us Steve Martin close to his best; he plays the lead role and he also wrote this totally crazy, unbelievable and madcap comedy; and it is genuinely funny for all the right reasons. It is cleverly written and has a really interesting storyline. I thought it was brilliant fun, and well worth watching.Steve Martin Fans will love this one 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than most people think","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin leads a pack of film-making hacks and amateurs in a project that involves filming a major star without his knowledge or consent.Now that the plot is out of the way, the review. It's hard to give this title a 9 or a 10. It's not perfect. There are a few slow passages, but those are few and a placed in such a way that they do not lead to a major train wreck. While the humor is not terribly cerebral, there is so much heart in the story, and the enthusiasm and love for film shines through. By the end, we understand the joy that comes with the film-making process. It's one thing to make a brilliant film, and to be recognized as a wonderful director, but lacking that talent, the joy is not decreased by making an average or poor film by overcoming obstacles and producing a piece of work. The biggest weakness in this film is not in the premise or the acting at all - it's in a few touches of the script that make it a little closer to being predictable. Regardless, if you can get in touch with the love of film presented, a good time is there to be had. If you want your comedies without heart (a la American Pie) then you'll be bored. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger kills me","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Go back and watch this movie again. It's one great line after another. I think this film is one of those films that you watch and wonder why it just wasn't huge. one line funnier than the next, and the supporting cast is just killer. Steve Martin has never been more wacky. The concept, make a movie without the star knowing they are filming you, was shere genius. Eddie Murphy in double roles is brilliant. He couldn't be any funnier as the geeky brother, or any more ignorant as the black film superstar. Go back, turn it up, and watch it one more time! Trust me, if nothing else, just fast forward to the dog wearing high heals in the parking garage. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Comedy","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" was actually surprised that BOWFINGER got a mere average rating of 6.4 on this site because the IMDb is full of wannabe film makers who are gonna love a movie satirizing the Hollywood studios , a film both cruel and amusing in turn and it would be very interesting to see how the votes panned out . I'm sort of guessing here that the wannabees awarded it very high marks while the typical Eddie Murphy fans , casual film goers and those people who claim THE MUMMY RETURNS is the greatest film ever ( And no I'm not criticising anyones opinions and tastes ) would have given it relatively low marks . I'm guessing that it's a possibly a film that unfortunately went above a lot of headsFirst off is the title BOWFINGER . What sort of image does that conjure up ? Possibly a James Bond spoof ala AUSTIN POWERS with lots of slapstick ? If you enjoy that sort of schoolboy humour you'll be very disappointed . Likewise if you're an Eddie Murphy fan because Murphy's dual performance is very restrained here and all the better for it . It also has an opposite effect for people who don't like Eddie Murphy ( Or for that matter Steve Martin ) very much but are people not keen on either Murphy or Martin going to watch this in the cinema ? I was very happy that the movie did relatively well on its initial release in 1999 because it certainly had the potential to be a flop at the cinema The premise is very simple Film producer Bobby Bowfinger ( Martin ) has a knock back from Hollywood star Kit Ramsey ( Murphy ) so Bowfinger decides to secretly film him anyway and edit it into his movie . Thankfully the screenplay of BOWFINGER is developed well enough for maximum comic effect , Bowfinger is making a sci-fi movie so Kit finds himself facing aliens at one point and yes he genuinely believes they are real aliens . Bobby Bowfinger himself seems to have been based on the infamous Ed Wood while watching Kit attend the MindHead classes one is perhaps reminded of John Travolta or Tom Cruise and I don't care what the critics say - Some of the gags like the scene with the dog in the underground car park are laugh out loud funny without ever going OTT All in all a fairly amusing satirical comedy that enjoys taking pokes at the American film industry and certainly one of the better films that have either starred Martin or Murphy "},{"Title":"Silly but funny peek into the film industry.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was one of Martin's lesser films. While Martin invariably invested a lot of himself into this production, as always, I found it less interesting than most of his other endeavors. Co-starring Eddie Murphy, Jamie Kennedy, Heather Graham, and Christine Baranski, I felt most of their wonderful talents went unused, untapped, and uncalled-for. This script simply did nothing to challenge these marvelous actors. And yet, Martin still manages to shine from within the boundaries of this dreary, seemingly low budget production. With a budget of $55 M, direction by Frank Oz, and a screen play by Martin himself, I really expected a lot more from this film.Honestly, they spent $55 M to make a movie about the making of a B movie for $2,184.00?! I would have to guess, since IMDb does not show his salary for this film, that at least 10-15 M of the total budget went towards the salary of Mr. Murphy, considering he was paid $20 M for The Klumps 2 PLUS 20% of the movie's gross, according to IMDb. That is sad in itself, but the finished product is so much less than the sum of its parts that it leaves you wondering where IS the movie? While it was fun to watch, this project just did not work. Good actors, great direction, a good budget, all basically gone up in smoke.While this is still an enjoyable film, I must admit I was far more than a tad disappointed in the finished product. The premise was good, but I honestly believe this movie was such a let down due to the actors' inability to switch out of B mode when not in the Chubby Rain phase of this movie. It is like once they got started playing B quality characters, they forgot to go back to A movie characters when not behind the camera...behind the camera. Confused yet? That is kind of the point. It is so muddled that I believe the actors got confused and Frank Oz forgot to help them keep it together.As a desperate movie producer, Bobby Bowfinger (Martin) must get a movie going, or go under. He takes a really bad script, and attempts to attract talent to the work. When that proves unsuccessful, he dupes his entire staff into believing Kitt Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) has agreed to do the movie, but has a radical acting style, where he films his scenes on the fly. So Bowfinger begins filming his movie, starring Kitt Ramsey, unbeknownst to Mr. Ramsey. It's a clever and funny idea, but somewhere in the mix, it just gets lost. And yet, I still like and OWN this movie. There is an appeal, but I could not tell you what that appeal is, anymore than I can tell you why it does not work. I have watched this movie again to write this review, and I still have the same mixed feelings about it. See it for yourself, and you be the judge.It rates a 4.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Quiver","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I like films that are explicitly about filmmaking, and so much the better if they are about the making of themselves. We've had films before (`13th Floor' comes to mind) where the participants in the film-within were unwitting. This treatment is very clever. Naturally it involves the self-referential devices, but it also wraps them in self-referential incidentals the bit about alien invaders, the whole thing about the cult, even the wistful desire to get a (Fedex) message.Along the way we get some more common conventions the twin (here the brother) and the actors-as-whores routine.Of Eddie Murphy's roles, this is probably the one that best shows his remarkable talent.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Martin / Murphy Genius!","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger (1999) Dir Frank Oz / Cast Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Christine Baranski, Heather Graham, Terrence Stamp Hilarious romp becomes one of Steve Martin's best and most creative comedies. Steve Martin stars as Bobby Bowfinger, a struggling filmmaker who lies to get ahead. Eddie Murphy plays action star Kit Ramsay. In order to sell his script Bowfinger must sign Ramsay but after being tossed from his limo he hides the camera and his actors approach Ramsay and say their lines. Paranoid, Ramsay disappears leaving his geeky twin brother to replace him. Hilarious concept marred only by its corrupt conclusion. Director Frank Oz is inventive with a theme that bares similarities to his Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. Martin and Murphy at their comic best. Martin is truly inventive in his techniques to film his target without detection. Murphy in duo roles has rarely been better. Christine Baranski plays an actress bent on impressing Ramsay but cannot understand why she cannot meet him. Heather Graham plays a seductive new actress who wishes to make it in Hollywood and stoops to having sex with her director to do it. Terrence Stamp is also good in a limited role as Kit's guru who attempts to make sense of his situation. The film pokes fun of independent filmmaking and overplaying its counter to digital technology. Very funny comedy that gives new meaning to low budget. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Did Murphy know he was in Pluto Nash?","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found a VHS copy of this film at the bottom of a box of old movies I didn't even know I owned. After taking a look at it, I was more than a little glad I found it.Bowfinger is funny little satire about the film-making industry. Its originality may be its best feature. We see the story of a bankrupt would-be director (played wonderfully by Steve Martin) trying to make a scifi/action picture with a big star (Murphy) who doesn't even know he's in the film. Martin's character would make Ed Wood look like Orson Welles, or at the very least Ridley Scott. His crew is made up of a studio lot flunky (Kennedy), four illegal Mexican immigrants, a not-so-innocent young starlet, and several other hangers on. Kennedy is the only one of the crew initially in on the fact that Murphy's character will not know he's the star of the film they are shooting. In a stroke of luck, they find Murphy's nerdy brother (also played perfectly by Murphy) to use in scenes where a close up of his face will not be needed.Obviously, this idea is ridiculous, but the film is so well directed, that you almost for a second believe it might be able to work for a while. Martin, who wrote the script, knows all too well that Hollywood is an institution always ripe for satire. His instincts about what types of bottom feeders will do anything to break into the business are usually dead on. The film also takes a welcomed shot at Scientology, exposing it for the mind f*ck that it is. I also loved the way that by the end of the film, Martin's illegal aliens were the most professional and competent members of his staff.Bowfinger did manage to make a small profit at the box office, by many people have obviously forgotten about it. That is a shame since Murphy has made so few good films in the last decade, and Martin is showcased for being the talent that he is. And any film with the lovely Heather Graham is worth seeing at least once.If you get a chance, take a look at this one! 8 of 10.The Hound. "},{"Title":"!!!!!!","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow! I don't know how I missed this one back then in 1999! It's now 2008, I was on vacation, and caught it on cable. It is one of the silliest, funniest movies I've seen in years. What is odd is that Eddie Murphy's character kind of pre-dates Tom Cruise of late (lol).Either way, if you're out for just dumb, simple fun--THIS IS IT! From illegal Mexican aliens doing an actress's hair, makeup and lighting to the complete paranoia of celebs to the desperation of wanting a creative need fulfilled, this IS the movie for you. It's as dumb as a bag of dirt but VERY sharp in terms of how it's executed. Steve Martin (who stars) wrote the script and has a ton of little extras built in (no--not actors but nuances).Beyond those little tosses of gravy, just when you think you're getting a little bored and know where it's all going, this film tosses in turns that would make Bruce Willis jealous off the Die Hard series. Martin is smart--he knows you just don't do jokes but rather build to an end. And he has succeeded here--immensely.I saw part of this before going to lunch with a friend. I was lucky enough to catch it in full upon returning. It's definitely on my DVD purchase list! "},{"Title":"F****** Hilarious !","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just loooooved this movie because it is so funny from beginning to end. My favorite part was where Bowfinger tells his main crew he persuaded Jerry Renfro (Downing Jr) to start shooting the film Chubby Rain, which he actually didn't. They all start shouting and jumping up with excitement. Steve Martin joins them in their happiness - starts jumping up too - and then all the sudden realizes he's f*cked and he has to put it all together himself, without Kit Ramsey knowing about his part of the acting. THE LOOK ON HIS FACE WAS PRICELESS!!!!!! I rewinded this part about 56 times and I had to laugh so hard every time, I needed to reattach my balls afterwards. Just the whole performance of Steve Martin is great and hysterical. His enthusiasm for making the work of his life and the way he encourages his crew in the most ridiculous ways ... so funny. I gave it a 10 just for that one scene... "}{"Title":"Funny, Oh I my God, it's so funny!","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film should be considered a comedy classic. It's star, Steve Martin, is an aspiring film producer and director. He just has one problem. Nobody notices him. He decides on an absurd script about aliens written by an Indian accountant. He casts aspiring actress played by Christine Baranski in a supporting role and a young aspiring ingenue just off the bus from the Midwest played none other than by Heather Graham. The problem is that in order to get this movie noticed by Robert Downey Jr's character, he has to get Eddie Murphy's character to play the lead role. After all, he is the hottest star in Hollywood at the moment. He belongs to strange religious organization led by Terence Stamp. Anyway, the film is funny from beginning to end. All Bowfinger wants is the same chance that every other idiot in Hollywood gets to do and that is wheel and deal. He is smarter than most because Eddie's character won't even think of doing this role so he doesn't know that he is being followed and filmed. He thinks he is going crazy. They hire a look alike person who is also played by Eddie Murphy as the slower brother. Anyway, the film is just worth watching despite the silly plot. The cast makes you believe it. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I was around 7 or 8, we would always rent this movie when I was with my dad and my older sister. It was probably really inappropriate for me at the time, but the more I saw it, the more I liked it, because I could finally get the jokes. This movie is hilarious, and I would recommend it to anyone who just wants to sit back, relax, and laugh until their snot blows out.Bowfinger is awesome!!Lalala, why do they want ten lines???This movie rocks!!!Yayaya, watch it!! "},{"Title":"One of my new favorite comedies!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Seriously, when it comes to today's comedies, they are a rare find of a really decent laugh. Now also, when I rent, it's rare that I laugh really hard out loud by myself, I couldn't help but do that when I watched this one! Bowfinger is brilliant with SNL's famous Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy. These two just work on so many levels with another comedic genius, Frank Oz, the director.The plot is that Steve is a struggling director who finally gets a break for a motion picture, but when the star he promised everyone turns down the leading role, he starts to film Eddie, the star Kit, without him knowing it. When he finds a look a like who just happens to be related, they go on a wacky and just drop dead laughing adventure of trying to get this film made. Great script, great cast, and just a hilarious movie in general! Please, please watch and enjoy.10/10 "},{"Title":"Hysterical!  Also the last funny thing Steve Martin did","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is such an overlooked classic. I laughed all the way through.I also think there's a LOT more truth about Hollywood in it than the typical viewer comprehends. Lots of in-jokes about The Church of Scientology, Steve Martin's ex girlfriend Anne Heche, and so forth.I may also assume there's a wee bit of a tip of the hat to the late, not very great Ed Wood.I think this is the last work of quality either Eddie Murphy or Steve Martin has done. They really need to get back to being funny. I have no idea why Steve Martin especially has turned to putrid family movies lately. Raping classics like Cheaper by the Dozen really has soured me on him. At least Eddie Murphy is mildly funny in the recent family movies he's done. "},{"Title":"Very funny and original satire on Hollywood with great leading performances.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Bowfinger' is a very original and instantly likeable comedy spoof that shines among other recent dross to come out of Hollywood. The plot is quite simple. A low budget director must try and cast a popular movie star in his film without him being aware of it. The concept does seem flawed and a little dumb when looking at it, but when its on screen it's very entertaining. The film has an excellent comic timing and remains on a consistent pace throughout the film. Luckily it aims for laughs instead of sappy sentimentality. But the film really capitalises on its two lead performers who are accomplished comedians.Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy work as an excellent comic duo and sometimes overshadow the witty material of the movie. The rest of the cast are fun in their roles, but this really is Martin and Murphy's movie.I don't think Bowfinger received its full credit and some people misunderstood it. It's a farcical comedy, not one to be taken seriously. Yes it is unrealistic, but it wasn't attempting to be a classic. What were we expecting? Gone With the Wind!!!!!!Although it's underrated, Bowfinger is clever, witty and enjoyable. A film that should please all moviegoers. I give it 7.9/10.  "},{"Title":"Funny &#150; but a younger Steve Martin would have opened up the story much more than this","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When a down and out producer, Bowfinger, decides to have one last throw of the dice with a script written by his accountant called Chubby Rain, he manages to con his way into a half-deal with studio exec Jerry Renfo.  This deal involves Bowfinger getting the biggest action star in Hollywood, Kit Ramsey, to star in his picture.  Knowing he hasn't a hope in hell, Bowfinger decides to shoot Ramsey without his knowledge and piece together his scenes by using a lookalike for the rest of the film.  However Ramsey's paranoia over being followed is fed by the feeling of being watched and events spiral out of control.When I watched this I expected it to be hilarious and I must admit I did find it amusing and often pretty funny &#150; although I felt it could have done more and had more imagination from Martin.  The plot is so clearly daft that it opened the way up for Martin to be as surreal and as imaginative as he wanted to be.  Sadly he goes for easy gags too often and there are really only a few really inspired turns.  The plot really has no where to go apart from continuing this one-joke idea until the ending (which is actually OK) but the idea is quite funny and has lots of side jokes to fill it out.What really saves the film is the cast.  Martin is OK but he does a better job as writer than actor here.  Graham is also good but really is an one-joke character with nothing else to do.  Baranski is good but annoying while Kennedy, Newman, Stamp and Downey Jnr are good but are merely window dressing.  No &#150; the weight of the film is one Murphy and he almost totally pulls it off.  In both roles he is completely different and hilarious in both for different reasons.  As Jiff he is perfect and works the geeky role really well.  As Kit he starts well but, as Kit becomes more OTT and crazy, so too does Murphy's performance get stretched and feels like he's forcing `zaniness' where really there is none to be had.  That said he is great in both roles and when he's onscreen I had no problem's with the film.Overall this tries hard but doesn't quite succeed.  It is a good idea but doesn't open out as well as you'd hope it too.  It does have plenty to provide laughs and Murphy is great in both roles but I felt a younger Martin would have brought more out of the idea than he managed to do here. "},{"Title":"great Hollywood satire","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is a Z-list producer who lies, steals and schemes to make a movie out of a script written by his accountant. He gets A-list Hollywood producer Jerry Renfro to greenlight the script if he could get superstar Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to do the movie. Kit kicks Bobby out of his car but Bobby promises his crew that Kit agrees to do the movie. His idea is to shoot the movie without telling Kit. Soon his actors are approaching Kit on the street with strange dialog. He hires hungry newcomer Daisy (Heather Graham), actress Carol (Christine Baranski), Kit lookalike Jiff (Eddie Murphy) who turns out to be Kit's brother and the cheapest crew possible. Kit is a crazed narcissist who finds counsel from Mindhead leader Terry Stricter (Terence Stamp). When actors keep approaching him with weird dialog, he starts to suspect that aliens are really after him.This is simply a brilliant satire. Bowfinger is sleazy but with a heart. He just wants so badly to make a movie. Steve Martin is such a charming lead. I love Daisy sleeping her way up the Hollywood ladder. This is two of Eddie Murphy's best performances. The movie is hilarious. Every other scene hits it with big laughs. "},{"Title":"Lough Out Loud Funny","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of Steve Martin's best movies, and one of Eddie Murphy's best too. This has several laugh out loud moments.Plot In A Paragraph Hollywood, today Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) a down on his luck actor-producer-director, has a script which a friend has written. Completely convinced of its quality, he decides to take a last shot at fame and fortune. A famous producer(Robert Downey Jr) promises him to do it, but there is one condition Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) Hollywood's number one star, has to be in it. So, Bobby tries his luck with Kit, who rejects him, so he then decides to shoot the film himself. Featuring an aspiring beauty from Ohio (Heather Graham) and Kit Ramsey - who does not even know he's being filmed. "},{"Title":"Never give up on your dream","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This very funny film, does owe a lot to Eddie's place in the movie, doubling as a geek brother of a block buster movie star, Kit Ramsay (the other Murphy role) who refuses to be in Mr Bowfinger's (Martin's) film. He's a struggling director trying to get a film made, with a script called Chubby Rain, that has just wowed him over. Desperate for actors, including the sexy Graham, as a bimbo and budding starlet, he plans to shoot around Kit, who begins to go paranoid, unawares he's the star of Bowfinger's new flick, which this scenario goes down well, and at points, is rib tickling. Through the comedy, we see a lot of truth in this cut through business, like the audition phase, and as trying to get a film made, not to give up and hold onto your dream, which like other movies, we have an inspirational theme. Yeah, it shows you the pitfalls, arse kissing, whatever, as trying to get producers like and investors interested. Among the small cozy crew of Bowfinger's we have a method actress (the wonderful Christine Baranski). Again, this is so true. I've seen it first hand, as even though is a harmless lighthearted comedy, there's a lot of reality about the business underneath. The auditioning and perpetual kissing scene with Graham, and the lucky son of a b..ch is hot. But bimbo, like Graham plays well and all so innocent and sexy is an easy lay here. It's Murphy's geek character scenes I loved the best, a great contrast to his serious, movie star brother who's not having the best of days. The part where Kit went off spouting names of action stars/bad actors that rhymed I loved and was clever. There are some great lines too, ala Steve Martin, who even wrote that Guy Pearce thriller, Traitor years later, although I've really never thought much of him as an actor, where he did show some great character work in some films, but like Sandler, they were slapstick, comedy based, which demanded that style. It's what you call for an actor, taking the easy way out. One line, comparing a shallow personality, failed auditionee, to a zip code was brilliant, and one I've always remembered. On the whole, Bowfinger is funny, and richly rewarding, and a holy relief, after Murphy's prior dismal comedy pic, Life. Martin is on a winner here, with a nice inspirational ending. Up there with The Nutty Professor, Ed. "},{"Title":"A Laugh Riot!","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Frank Oz Directed 'Bowfinger' is A Laugh Riot! A non-stop comic ride that comes packaged with a witty & enjoyable script & proficient performances! 'Bowfinger' Synopsis When a desperate movie producer fails to get a major star for his bargain basement film, he decides to shoot the film secretly around him.'Bowfinger' is a non stop comic ride, with several laugh-out-loud moments placed superbly in the narrative. Oz Directs the film with energy & confidence, while The Screenplay Written by its Lead-Star, The Legendary Steve Martin is witty & enjoyable. Cinematography is picture-perfect. Editing is crisp. Performance-Wise Martin shines, as always. Eddie Murphy is outstanding in here. He enacts both the characters with great diversity. This is among Murphy's best works to date. Heather Graham is good. Robert Downey, Jr. delivers as well. Terence Stamp is effective.On the whole, 'Bowfinger' succeeds big time. "}{"Title":"Gotcha' Suckers!!.....","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When grasping director Bobby Bowfinger finally finds the 'perfect' script, a cheesy sci-fi story called Chubby Rain, he decides to put everything on the line and give it a shot.Gathering together an ambitious young Ohio actress, a melodramatic stage actress and a laid back male hopeful.Armed with a handful of illegal immigrants for a crew, a tiny budget, and equipment stolen from a nearby studio, Bowfinger lacks just one thing, Hollywood's hottest action star, Kit Ramsey.Refusing to give up when Kit doesn't take the part, Bowfinger and his crew do whatever it takes to complete the flick - secretly filming Kit without his permission and using his nerdy look-alike brother to fill in for remaining scenes....Just as it was looking like there was no coming back for the two comedians, Murphy and Martin hit us with this.It's one of the best satires of the Hollywood machine in years, and precedes the awful Tropic Thunder by nine long years.There is a lot of fun to be had here. Murphy hasn't been this good since Coming to America, and it's clear that he is having the time of his life. Sadly as of the 29/3/2012, he hasn't done anything noteworthy since.Martin is back on form as writer and star, but keeps his role very low key compared to the other actors.Hollywood and Scientology are ripped to shreds, and this could have been a perfect movie, id they had just left out a lot of the visual gags.It reminds one of Landis comedies from the eighties, and there are some jokes you may miss on the first viewing.Cruelly overlooked on initial release, this is a movie for film lovers and fans of old school comedy. "},{"Title":"Murphy's last real hit without donkey dialogue.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger is brilliant and under-appreciated. While Groundhog Day has justifiably gone down in history as one of the best comedies of all time Bowfinger is just another flick, one all too frequently ignored. (Though when I think about it I left it off my Top 10 Comedies of All Time list also.) Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is a struggling filmmaker who tires of missing the big projects, of being ignored and unknown by the big names, and of being doubted by those loyal to him&#x85; and perhaps a little tired of doubting himself.So as another project threatens to slip through his fingers Bowfinger decides that he will make his magnum opus entitled 'Chubby Rain' &#x96; a film about an alien invasion with the invaders smuggling themselves to our planet in raindrops &#x96; around Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), the biggest movie star in the world, by filming non-Kit scenes as normal and having his own actors approach an unaware Ramsey and deliver lines while the camera crew hide remain secluded.Bowfinger convinces his rag tag crew of aspiring wannabes and impressionable yet deluded staff that Kit Ramsey is merely '100% method', and is so consumed with his performance that he will not acknowledge or interact with them outside of his scenes.It helps both Chubby Rain and the film that Kit Ramsey is especially paranoid and delusional in all respects, on the verge of cracking altogether and constantly in touch with a Scientology-styled wellness centre called MindHead, run by Terry Stricter (Terence Stamp).At first things go reasonably well, experienced ex-stage actor Carol (Christine Baranski) is impressed with Ramsey's realism as he appears genuinely believable in scenes that require him to be caught offguard and confused, and aspiring straight of the bus actress Daisy (Heather Graham) takes any action necessary to further her role in the film and her fledgling Hollywood career.Things look pretty rosy, but when Ramsey checks himself out of society for a while to deal with his paranoid thoughts that aliens are trying to make contact with him of all things that the production grinds to a halt and a plan B must be hastily devised.Plan B is named Jiff (also Eddie Murphy), a nerdish but keen as mustard man who looks remarkably like Kit, enough at least to pass for him in glimpses and action scenes. Bowfinger works because Steve Martin takes nothing too seriously, he expertly lampoons Hollywood's ridiculous self infatuation and vacuousness (Robert Downey Jr has a brief role as a pompous producer).But this is another example of just how funny Eddie Murphy really was in his prime, his dual roles as Jiff and Kit Ramsey are expertly played and quite frequently hilarious, a scene in which Jiff is asked to run across a busy freeway for an action sequence never fails to floor me, and the scenes that show Kit's emotional and mental fragility are also excellent. This film should stand proudly alongside Coming To America as high water marks in comedic acting, a reminder of a time when playing multiple roles wasn't merely a lazy excuse to ham it up and trade fart jokes.Bowfinger isn't as deep as Groundhog Day or perhaps quite as funny as Coming to America, but it is masterful comedy and remains highly rewatchable. In fact with Eddie Murphy's career long since deceased aside from donkey dialogue it's good to acknowledge the once-genius of Ed, and the excellence of Steve Martin.Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. Bowfinger might not be the best comedy of all time, but it stands head and shoulders above anything passing for comedy over the last few years. "},{"Title":"A comedy about trying to make it in Hollywood","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw a movie staring both Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin, I expected it is be a cool movie with the classic Hollywood Con-men. Well, Murphy isn't really a con-man in this movie, but Steve Martin is and he does a very good job at it. In one review they compared it to Get Shorty, which in a way it is similar, but Bowfinger is a much more straight forward that Get Shorty.Bowfinger is a director that wants to make his big break. He works out of a decrepit house inspiring the title Bowfinger International Films. One night he finishes reading a script by his screenwriter, entitle Chubby Rain, and decides to make it, but all he needs is interest from elsewhere. So, after staging a meeting with some executive, he is told that is he gets this major star (played by Eddie Murphy) he will have himself a picture. So he attempts to get his interest, but unfortunately he is not interested. But instead of admitting defeat, he instead decides to make the film using him, but without him knowing.What makes the film truly hilarious is that Murphy not only doesn't realise that he has been cast in a film, but he is incredibly paranoid, so when strange people rock up, throw water in his face and accuse him of being an alien, he freaks out. Bowfinger does a really good job of inciting his paranoia and Murphy does a very good job at the role.A few other things that I might mention about this film, as it really is a farce directed at Hollywood. First we have Daisy (Heather Graham), who plays a naive country girl who comes to Hollywood to be an actor, and finds herself involved in Bowfinger's film. Daisy literally takes the typical Hollywood actress overboard with her sleeping with everybody in the film, yet retaining a professional edge, and using her charm to get what she wants. She thinks that she is using everybody, yet what she doesn't realise is that Bowfinger ends up using her as well. But then she is not stupid as she learns that Murphy really isn't in the film, but plays along with it anyway.Then there is Mindhead, which is a payout of scientology. It is a cult of the stars, a religion that literally controls the stars. Murphy is a member and they are constantly trying to work out his paranoia. Yet even with all their influence, they cannot stop Bowfinger from blackmailing Murphy into allowing them to use him in the film.What is interesting is the opening to the film. It goes over a trophy case, which is mostly empty. This is another mockery of some films which like to show off a full trophy case with a out of it owner. This is a empty case with a couple of things from his childhood, but in the end he is a nothing director want-to-be. And the Mexicans that he takes from the borders are also cool, especially since in the end they all have mobile phones. "},{"Title":"A huge surprise.... wonderful film and very underrated","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will say right now, I do like Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, both have done some stinkers(ie. Bringing Down the House for Martin and Norbit for Murphy) but they have also done some treasures(ie. Planes Trains and Automobiles and Beverly Hills Cop respectively). Bowfinger is one of the treasures, it is a truly wonderful and spot-on satire. And it does sadden me how underrated Bowfinger is. I personally felt it could have done with being longer, if that is a minor offering of a complaint, but everything else works. The dialogue constantly sparkles, it is funny and witty, and the story never fails to engage. The film looks great too, and the chemistry between the actors sizzles as does Frank Oz's direction. Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy both give wonderful performances(both men actually give a performance that is among their better ones) and are immensely engaging together while Heather Graham is also surprisingly good. In conclusion, wonderful and I think underrated. It is for me very funny and is effortlessly performed. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The way Hollywood REALLY works","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an excellent movie.Basically, this is the way Hollywood works.It has all the real people of Hollywood.It also shows all the hoops and all the BS that people in the business have to jump through and deal with.There are thousands of movies about making movies in Hollywood - but this tops them all.Yes, there are some over the top scenes, but somehow this movie brings it all to a close.Solid entertainment - with an opening theme song which just kicks ass. One of the best songs I've ever heard in a movie soundtrack - one which surely fits the scene and story as a whole.Awesome job from everybody. "},{"Title":"just a great comedy","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great comedy, I really loved it! I can't believe its got such a low rating!?!?! the story is excellent and the actors do a really great job. Steve Martin is great again as a smooth talking guy who twists and turns everything to pursue a dream. I really think this is also one of Eddy Murphy's best movies, he is amazing as both characters (I love the scene when Martin asks Eddy's character if he's o.k. with some nudity, the highway scene is excellent as well). Maby the story isn't slapstick enough or something, I really don't understand the rating, this movie reminded me of some of 80's Steve Martin comedies! Overall a great movie, the actors all perform very well and I love the story! Go see it, rent it, buy it, etc! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin's most under rated movie.","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be their most under rated movie. It was hilarious. I read somewhere it was under rated because The Sixth Sense came out around the same time so everyone focused more on The Sixth Sense (Which was a very good movie). If you haven't seen Bowfinger see it, buy it, rent it. you will not be disappointed. Down to the girl (Heather Graham) who also plays in the series Scrubs which she plays a psychiatrist and is funny (your killing me jimmy)ha ha you had to see that episode on scrubs... anyway back to Bowfinger which she also was great. Bowfinger is funny and sad in a way but very uplifting at the end. Wow how many lines do they want me to put on this post so it can be submitted....I think the minimum is way to much bring it down to 5 please unless you want me to go on and start boring you with a little about me. "},{"Title":"Give Murphy & Martin another movie","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How can you go wrong with Martin and Murphy?? Survey says Ding! You can't. I liked Bowfinger. Was it a knee-slapping gut-buster? No, but it kept a balanced humor attack. And as far as I'm concerned Eddie Murphy has yet to bust (although I haven't seen Pluto Nash or Haunted Mansion). Steve Martin is another comedian I put on the level of genius. I think the two of them made this movie as good as it could possibly be. You take them away from this movie and it is a colossal failure. They gave it its only real chance at success. Give them another chance together in a different movie, with a different script and they knock it out of the park. I think they have the potential to be another Prior and Wilder. "},{"Title":"The Underrated Bowfinger Is A Great Comedy Flick","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A comedy film with the likes of ex- Saturday Night Live members Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy in the ensemble cast doesn't go amiss, and thus Bowfinger is a terrific example that demonstrates their abilities. It's just as well really because this is a very original effort with an interesting support cast and although the film takes a while for the laughs to generate, Bowfinger is solid and yet it is a somewhat of a clever dig at the Hollywood movie industry. Martin and Murphy both put on excellent performances and after the insipid efforts of Martin's Sgt Bilko, Mixed Nuts and Cheaper by the Dozen (though I liked Bringing Down the House) and Murphy's Coming to America, Holy Man, Vampire in Brooklyn and Life, it's good to see a film such as Bowfinger that demonstrates their comedic talents and performances on screen. Despite the fact it was virtually ignored by the mainstream cinema/theatre goers, as well as the film press, it is well written and the comedic moments are amusing to watch. The final scene where Bowfinger (Steve Martin)and Jiff (Kitt Ramsey's twin brother played by Murphy) are donned in kung fu outfits and performing a farcical routine (with pop number kung fu fighting playing in the background) and where they fight the bad guys is the main highlight of the film. Another example is when Kit has to run through a busy highway and cars are speeding past, as he attempts to get to the other side of the road.Jamie Kennedy, Christine Baranski and Adam Alex Malle in particular shine in their own performances, although with Heather Graham, she didn't have much to do, in contrast to the other actors, in her role in this film. In all, Bowfinger is a highly amusing and yet entertaining movie that is well worth seeing. Particularly for the performances from the two male leads, Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin. So underrated and yet is just brilliant and so funny to watch. Give it a go! "},{"Title":"Bowls me over, does the very funny Bowfinger","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) has always been on the fringes of Hollywood film making. He has a steady troupe of performers and crew but has never hit it big. Yet, he is going to change all of that. Discovering a terrific science fiction script written by his accountant, called Chubby Rain, he is going to make the ultimate alien invasion movie. Not only that, he is nabbing movie star Kit (Eddie Murphy) to take the leading role. How can he accomplish this, especially since Kit will never appear in a low budget film? Bobby will shoot footage of Kit by following him around the city of LA and make the rest of the movie with his steadfastly loyal group of actors. Sound like a plan? Oh, and since Kit is a member of a religious sect called Mind Head and is deathly afraid of aliens, will the bizarre encounters drive him over the edge? This film just bowls over viewers at every showing. It is funny and it is ingeniously clever. Martin and Murphy are excellent while the supporting cast of Christine Baranski, Heather Graham, Robert Downey, Jr., Terence Stamp and more are terrific, too. The costumes, sets and production values are fine while the direction is zippy and fresh. True, Scientology devotees will not be amused by the royal send-up by Martin and company but it makes for never ending hilarity. Do get Bowfinger this weekend if you have not seen it before. Bowfinger deserves much praise, absolutely. "}{"Title":"Funny and inventive satire of the movie industry &#150; the best work by either of the stars for quite some time.","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Two comedy stars whose careers were dead in the water in 1999 were Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin. Murphy had made one undistinguished time-filler after another (Holy Man, Metro and Vampire In Brooklyn among them), while Martin had fared even worse (with the likes of Mixed Nuts and Sgt Bilko particular weak links on his CV). Ironically both had enjoyed wonderful early careers, full of energetic and hilarious films and performances (The Jerk, The Man With Two Brains, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid for Martin; Trading Places, 48 Hours, Beverly Hills Cop for Murphy). I remember seeing Bowfinger sitting on a video store shelf about a year after its release at the cinemas. I'd never had any interest in seeing in on the big screen, and the only reason I contemplated renting it that evening was that I'd seen just about every other movie in the store. Rent it I did&#133;. and much to my surprise it turned out to be a rather good satire on low budget film-making. In fact, I'd venture to say that it is the best film that either of the stars made during the 90s.Low budget movie director Bobby Bowfinger (Marin) reads a script by his Arabian accountant Afrim (Adam Alexi-Malle). The script, entitled Chubby Rain, deals with an alien invasion of the world, and Bowfinger is certain that it has the makings of a great movie. Bowfinger tells a dubious studio executive that he is about to make one of the greatest films of all-time, and lies that he has acquired the talents of the world's no.1 box office star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to play the leading role. The studio executive doesn't really believe Bowfinger, but says that if he can prove Kit Ramsey is aboard for the project he will release the film. Of course, Bowfinger doesn't really have Ramsey, nor is there any realistic chance of him getting him on his meagre budget, so he ingeniously decides to shoot the film without telling Ramsey that he is in it. A highly non-professional team of actors and crew follow Ramsey around, secretly filming his movements, while sending actors up to him in the street to do their scenes. The ruse seems to be working up to a point, but the problem comes when Ramsey actually starts believing that he is caught up in some kind of weird alien invasion conspiracy, and seeks help from his psychiatrist (Terence Stamp) to fight off the demons.Martin wrote the film as well as starring in it, and his evident enthusiasm sees him give his best comic turn for many years. Murphy also has a superb dual role, oozing arrogance and bewilderment as Ramsey while providing great laughs as Kit's nerdy younger brother Jiff. In one of the great comedy scenes of all-time, Bowfinger orders Jiff to run across a busy freeway, telling him that the drivers are all professional stunt drivers when in actual fact that are nothing of the sort! By pure good luck, Jiff makes it across unscathed, tears of fear rolling down his face. There's also a brilliant ending to the film, where Bowfinger's film Chubby Rain is such a surprise hit that he is asked to go to Taiwan to make a martial arts movie, and we are treated to some hilarious spoof scenes from his kung-fu masterpiece! Another great scene features Bowfinger picking up a bunch of illegal Mexican immigrants as they are shot at attempting to cross the border so that he can employ them as camera crew on his production! Bowfinger goes through a couple of slow patches it's true, and the plethora of in-jokes may not be to everyone's taste, but on the whole it is a tremendously enjoyable film&#133;. and proof that dormant careers can be rescued when the material is right. "},{"Title":"one of Eddie Murphy's two good movies that year","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a totally mind-blowing, Hollywood-jabbing story, Steve Martin plays director Bobby Bowfinger, who wants to hire top star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) for a role in the sci-fi movie Chubby Rain, about aliens arriving on earth by hiding in raindrops. When Ramsey refuses, Bowfinger decides to secretly film Ramsey, leading to some rather whacked-out situations. It only complicates matters when Ramsey goes to a Scientology-spoofing organization for a rest, and they have to hire a replacement.I don't know whether or not this is the sort of role that only Steve Martin could do, but he does a great job with it, as we would expect. Some of the scenes where they film Eddie Murphy are a hoot, especially in the parking structure. It was sort of jarring to see Robert Downey Jr, as this was released around the time when he kept getting in trouble with the law. Also starring Heather Graham, Christine Baranski, Jamie Kennedy, and Terence Stamp. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger Funny Look at Films","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is a hilarious satire on the film industry, with Steve Martin AND Eddie Murphy in top form. Eddie appears twice and gives a wonderful performance in each role. Heather Graham is very funny as the Casting Couch girl working her way up. And Martin steals the movie in the title role as an artistically- (and financially-) bankrupt movie producer trying to make his film using Hollywood's greatest star -- without the star knowing it!Christine Barankski, Robert Downey (as a stuffy studio head), and the guys playing the film crew all lend moments of hilarity to the movie. The ending is worth waiting for another priceless piece of Hollywood satire.Not to say too much more, but this proves again that Miss Piggy (AKA Frank Oz) has a terrific sense of humor. Also check out In and Out, Housesitter (with Martin again), and What About Bob? for further proof.And for a special treat see Oz's thriller, The Score. "},{"Title":"We're trying to make a movie here, not a film!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What if you were in a movie and didn't know it? For some of this, it would be exciting, others puzzling. For Eddie Murphy's character, action star Kit Ramsey, it builds his paranoia, yet has no suspicion that he is the star of a movie written by the assistant to washed-up movie producer Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin), Chubby Rain. In an effort to restart his movie producing career, Bowfinger comes up with a plan, a plan to make a movie with a huge star, one so big that the movie must be a success. Only problem they don't have the movie to pay Kit Ramsey, so they try to make a movie using footage of Ramsey on the street, talking to the characters of the movie while eating his lunch, and so on. The big ideas of aliens taking over the Earth in huge rain-drops that Bowfinger has in his mind leads him to want to make this movie great, he's just in no position to do it. The film crew? They're union, I suppose, but in an illegal-alien-from-Mexico kind of way. The actors? Has beens and naive never-will-bes from Ohio who buy into everything Bowfinger feeds them. The best performance in the film is by Christine Baranski as the prima-donna actress who really has no reason to think so highly of herself. Heather Graham is the girl from Ohio with huge Hollywood dreams who sleeps with everyone in the film crew in an effort to gain bigger roles. And then there's Jiff Ramsey, Kit's brother (also played by Eddie Murphy), the slower, dorkier ying to the action star yang that is Kit. When Jiff's not sharpening pencils for Bowfinger, he's running across a highway full of live traffic, though he's told they're all stunt drivers. Bowfinger is not a great film, but it is entertaining in the way it portrays the little man in Hollywood. There are film makers out there without access to the studio system, but still want to make a movie that appears to be a big budget science fiction film. The movie also takes a jab at Hollywood mind-cults at Kit Ramsey is a member of Mind Head, an outfit that makes him paranoid that aliens are after him, so his encounters with the actors in the movie he's in seem totally natural to him. Frank Oz hits most of the marks, and Steve Martin is perfect as the swarmy, calculating movie producer who hoodwinks the crew, and the star of the film, even when he has no clue what's going on around him. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!! Eddie Murphy was great!!","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"                 Bowfinger was a great comedy that made me laugh almost the entire way through. I'm kind of confused which was better in Eddie Murphy's films; either Bowfinger or Coming to America. They were both great but Bowfinger is outstanding in making people laugh. Eddie Murphy as that nerd-geeky looking actor was extremely funny with those braces and that snorting laugh. Steve Martin did good too in the film as the director and actor who made bad films. Hmmmmm, kind of sounds like Ed Wood. Even though, Steve's films were actually good,lol. Heather Graham was hott once again and I guess she was good too. A good film that has generated laughs everytime9/10    "},{"Title":"The absolutely funniest film I've seen since, well a very long time...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's hilarious! One of those gotta see movies! I was rolling around on the floor laughing like all the time! Not as single downside! These kinds of movies are rare, but, wow! I'm speechless!P.S. A couple of tips for those who also liked thisLicense To Drive (Click on Heather Grahams' name and it'll be in the bio.Beverly Hills Cop (Well... Click on Eddie Murphys name, if you haven't already heard about it...)D.S. "},{"Title":"Too pleased with itself to be actually funny.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After ANALYZE THIS, another comedy highly praised in the States revealed to be flat and not very funny at all.  I've never been a huge fan of either messrs. Martin or Murphy, so I was surprised to find myself at the film at all; but the reviews wree good, and Heather Graham.  The film aims to please on three levels - as comedy; as character study; and as a film about film-making - but fails on all counts.  Actually fail is too strong a word - the film's irritating self-satisfaction never allows for anything as grand as ambition.As a comedy there are simply not enough laughs.  With the possible exception of ROXANNE, I have never gotten the point of Steve Martin, and, as both comedian and scriptwriter, he rarely rises above the obvious here.  The jokes lack teeth - and while the film's lack of the Gothic melodrama which weakens many of the great films about Hollywood (e.g. SUNSET BOULEVARD), by taking it as seriously as it would like - the lack of any real trauma (surely the essence of all great comedy) makes what is essentially a series of loosely cohered sketches rather lame and lifeless.The film severely sags when Eddie Murphy isn't on the screen (I never thought I'd write that), and it's hardly a (double) role that taxes him. His nerd is particularly funny, even if he is the film's pivot into dreaded sentimentality.  The antics of low-budget film crews have been done so much funnier elsewhere (e.g. LIVING IN OBLIVION, a film intimate with nightmare), but Graham shows what a great comedienne she is becoming, and what a knockout she'll be when somebody gives her a character and a decent script.If the film is indifferent as comedy, it is a complete flop as character study.  Martin is a blank - we get no idea as to what drives him to make films.  Like the hero of ED WOOD, his woeful incompetence is compared to the towering, equally struggling, genius of Orson Welles (there is a poster of TOUCH OF EVIL in his house), but whereas Wood's genuine enthusiasm and love poignantly matched the great man's, Bowfinger seems little more that a cynical opportunist.Even this might have been interesting, but Martin doesn't pursue it. Bowfinger's past and private life is equally a void.  He has seemingly been making Z-grade films for a long time, but do people like that exist anymore? Don't they make adult films?  He lives alone with his dog.  He doesn't do the dishes.  He may have had a relationship in the past with the leading lady, it's not clear.  We don't know how he met up with his buddy the car guy.  His supposedly persuasive charm is anything but.The other characters do not rise above caricatures.  Murphy gives more of an impersonation than a performance.  The brother is probably the more believable of the two, but is really only used for cheap laughs.  Kit Ramsey, the action star paranoid at an anti-black conspiracy confiding in a very white Mindhead guru is only amusing as a plot excuse rather than a person.  Martin's misogyny is clearly revealed in Graham's part, which she gives more complexity than it deserves.As a film about filmmaking, BOWFINGER has pretensions to two films - IRMA VEP and the aforementioned ED WOOD, but lacks the former's belief in the transcendent power of cinema, or the melancholy cheerfulness of the latter. It's hard to believe in a film avowing an imdependent spirit that stars Eddie Murphy.  The film is pure Hollywood, the little man who against the odds becomes a (relative)success.  There is never any real danger of this not happening, or if there were we wouldn't care because the characters aren't interesting enough.  The supposed confusions of Bowfinger's kind of guerilla filmmaking are cosily tidied up in slick direction and a pat script.By its very subject matter, the film raises issues such as authenticity, reproduction, authoriality, as well as the integrity of Hollywood (!), or any collaborative product, but doesn't do anything very meaningful with them.  Like VEP, though, I have to admit that there is a certain magic in seeing such a low-budget travesty as the filming of Ramsey in the car lot, transformed into something approaching magic.  But Bowfinger doesn't want to make films anymore than Ramsey does - he wants to make movies, have lunches with powerful producers, attend all-star premieres.  The dash of sentimentality towards the end is so unpalatable because it is so sickly and unearned.  Martin might be a very clever man, but he is not a cinematic thinker like Assayas or Burton - he has no idea why people love movies, and need to make them.  BOWFINGER is quite funny, but do yourself a favour and watch a real, troubled, film like ED WOOD or IRMA VEP instead. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny movie","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm no huge fan of Steve Martin, maybe even the complete opposite but I've liked some of Eddie Murphy's earlier movies for example Nutty Professor. In this movie Eddie Murphy plays two parts, unusually little for a guy like Eddie.  He does so well and he is very funny in the part where he plays Jiff the dork.  The movie is very entertaining and it makes you laugh out loud several times, it shows off two of the most famous comedians Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy from a very good side. They are both placed in parts where they really get a chance to shine. Check this movie out. "},{"Title":"A nice funny movie !","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Bowfinger on an unoriginal video casette but anyway I enjoy it. It is so funny . It's not such a great movie but it's nice and I recomand you to see it because you won't regret it. Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy are a nice couple and they play pretty good. SEE IT !!! "},{"Title":"Legendary comedy duo, and I laughed at everything else.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To fans of both Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, this movie promised to be the pinnacle of comedy entertainment, and fell short.  Although both actors are very funny in the film, they're rarely funny together.Despite what the previews allow you to believe, Murphy spends much more time in the movie playing Kit Ramsey (the actor) than Jiff Ramsey (the oafish brother).  This is good in many respects.  I found Kit, who is on the verge of breakdown, much funnier than his simpleton substitute.  However, since the whole movie is about Bobby Bowfinger's inability to get Kit in his film without covert filming, this denies any opportunity for those two characters to meet.  As for scenes with Bowfinger and Jiff, you'll probably find the scenes with Daisy (Heater Graham) funnier, even without the added sex appeal.The movie is still extremely funny, especially if you enjoy the occasional silly humor.  The entire cast, not just the two poster-boys, set up hilarious situation after hilarious situation.Low point the second-to-last scene with the Fed-Ex delivery.  It seemed to set up for a joke that never came; the humor was apparently supposed to be in the over-dramatization.  I'll never know how much Fed-Ex paid the filmmakers, but I had never been so put-off by movie commercialism since Bond turned down Aston-Martin for BMW.High point the final scene.  If you enjoy a little silliness to go with your movie, then this should redeem most of the low-points.Overall, this movie is more like watching two screens, one with a Steve Martin movie and one with Eddie Murphy.  But both movies will be hilarious.  (7/10) "}{"Title":"nice try","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Bowfinger' has an inspired premise a shoestring movie producer plans to make a movie starring Hollywood's biggest star, without the star knowing it. Steve Martin is the producer and Eddie Murphy is the star (as well as the star's goofy double) and when 'Bowfinger' came out, it seemed like a dream come true, two great comedic talents joining forces to make what would surely be a comedy classic. Alas, such is not the case. If only 'Bowfinger' was as wonderful as Roger Ebert's review makes it sound. For every gag that works, there are five that fizzle. There is a forced quality to the film; it's as if Steve Martin decided briefly to return to the no-holds-barred lunacy of his first few films ('The Jerk', 'Man With Two Brains,' 'Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid') and then found he just didn't have it in him any more. What should have been a howler turns out to be a pleasant way to kill an hour and a half and nothing more. Comedy, as someone once said, is a funny thing and it's not enough to have a funny idea or funny actors or funny situations or even all three. Everything, right down to the camera angle and the way the film is edited, has to be just right for the gags to work. And what is lacking in 'Bowfinger' is persistent determination to see the material through. The epilogue, where Martin and Murphy do a brief send-up of kung fu movies, is emblematic of the whole film; it feels half-baked and thrown together without much thought. 'Bowfinger' is good for some laughs but with all it had going for it, the film should be approximately ten times better than it is. "},{"Title":"A sort of sillier modern day version of Ed Wood.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy team up to bring us this quirky comedy that's short on story but big on laughs.  I attended a press screening of Bowfinger, not quite sure what to expect, and although I was amused by the silly antics, I felt as if the film's main goal was to make a statement or two about Hollywood and what it takes to get a movie made.  First of all, while Eddie Murphy is in the film quite a bit, this is definitely Steve Martin's movie.  I left the film feeling that Eddie was not much more than funny set dressing rather than being a star.  Martin plays Bobby Bowfinger, a washed up film director who gets a script from one of his employees that he feels is great movie material.  He soon realizes that the only way anyone will pick this film up is if he gets a big name star for the lead.  His focus turns to Kit Ramsey, played by Murphy, who happens to be the hottest star in Hollywood.  But Martin fails to get Ramsey behind the film, even though in some ways this is just the kind of script Ramsey wants.  So Bowfinger decides he'll shoot the film's scenes with Ramsey, even though Ramsey doesn't realize he's in the shot, by having his actors walk up to him in public and say their lines as if they're playing out the scene.  This works for a while, but soon Ramsey gets freaked out by all the strange behavior, and hides with his friends at the manipulative Scientology-like center, which is headed by Terance Stamp.  In the meantime, Heather Graham's character, a struggling actress, begins to sleep with every member of Bowfinger's crew, including Bowfinger, in an attempt to increase the length of her scenes.  With Ramsey in hiding, Bobby casts a look-alike to fill in for his scenes, only this guy, portrayed as the ultimate nerd by Murphy, can barely stand still much less play his scenes.  The movie goes from one silly scenario to another without having much direction with the story, all the while keeping the audience amused.  But I got the feeling I had seen all this before, with Tim Burton's Ed Wood, and once I reached the end of the film, I knew I had.  So in closing, there's nothing really new here, and not a lot of story to analyze, but plenty of laughs.  Bowfinger is an amusing and entertaining comedy, but I can't help but feel that it falls short of it's true potential.  Not a bad film, but not a great one either.  "},{"Title":"Why don't they make them like this anymore","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best mainstream comedies I've ever seen, this also seemed one of the smartest, and that generally is an oxymoron.Essentially a movie-within-a-movie being made by an unflappable character, the earnestness of everyone involved (pitch-perfect acting to assure the audience that they're not 'IN' on the joke) allows us to buy into the premise, always a hard thing, and then reels us in; hook line and sinker.Curious as to why it did not translate to better/heavier movies for it's pedigreed cast (Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Eddie Murphy, Heather Graham and Terence Stamp), who went back to slumming in insipid commercial fare after this (other than Stamp, of course, who's been alternating good fare with bad regularly).Could watch this over and over, and introduce this to folks who've unfortunately been forced to put up with the dredge that both Martin and Murphy are otherwise now known for, and it's not like Heather Graham has set either her fan world, or the critics or the box office on fire since, and it's definitely not for a lack of talent, since that's one commodity the ensemble has in abundance.Here's to hoping someone watching this decides to do it better, perhaps with the same ensemble, or with newer faces/characters...however it works. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When a desperate movie producer fails to get a major star for his bargain basement film, he decides to shoot the film secretly around him. That's Bowfinger. This film was nearly perfect, but still not made for everyone. It's an important film, as well as very funny. It is very light-hearted and it isn't complex at all. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast, but it's still okay. Murphy carries this movie and saves it from being a disaster with his physical slapstick. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully clever and interesting film plot.","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Bowfinger, 1999. A group of struggling Hollywood outsiders come together to produce a BIG science fiction film involving a HUGE action star. The comedy of this film is that the production methods and actions are accomplished confidentially and secretively. *Special Stars- Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Heather Graham, Jamie Kennedy, Christine Braranski, Adam Alexi-Malle, Terance Stamp, Robert Downey Jr. DIR- Frank Oz.*Theme- Team work can overcome all odds. *Trivia/location/goofs- Comedy. Shot in Universal sound stage. Locations like Griffith Observatory, Glendale freeway, Hollywood, Los Angeles and Acton California. Written by Steve Martin. Eddie Murphy wanted to work with Mr. Martin for several years and had a very tight schedule to work on this film. 'Mindhead' was a subtle 'jab' at Hollywood's Scientology and rumors of that fact well before the film was released. The young non-actor character 'Daisy' was a subtle 'jab' at Mr. Martin's X-girlfriend Ann Hetch. The original film name was Bowfinger BIG Thing.*Emotion- A wonderfully clever and interesting film plot that develops some very funny drama involving some misfits becoming Hollywood moguls. I'm a little biased on this point of this review. I worked on the film for many weeks and enjoyed the cast & crew. article LINK http//groups.yahoo.com/group/CheckingtheGate/message/2 *Based on- Steve Martin's story script written over ten years before. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger is wacky out there and very funny, Martin & Murphy combine well to make the comedy work well, Murphy does very well to say he plays 2 different roles Kitt and Jiff Ramsey two brother's who are 2 extremes apart, the way Martin and his team blunder there way through the science fiction production at any cost to make there film with Kit playing the lead role without him knowing is a very clever plot, however the film often is OTT and Matin and Murphy often try to steal the screen too much, The scene with the dog in heels is hilarious and the way Kit looses his mind through paranoia because of Martins antics. my rating is 7 out of 10 for this film. "},{"Title":"Cash, every movie costs $2,184.","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The offer of Hollywood movies about Hollywood has always been bigger than the demand, but Bowfinger is lucky to be one of the best in its genre. The whole self-satire schtick actually works in this one, which is a very rare thing. The jokes just really get in your face, everything is so direct and shameless. Especially Steve Martin is really good as the desperate producer, this may have been the last time he was actually funny in something. The movie does tend to lose steam in the second half, as the joke is getting a bit old by then, but the first half is just grade A comedy. I love Eddie Murphy's introduction, where we get to meet his completely paranoid character as he's seeing conspiracies. Again, a character like this has been done, but in this movie old ideas tend to work very well. This is quite an intriguing parody. "},{"Title":"Sometimes maybe a bit bland, but usually a funny comedy in which Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy shine","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this 1999 comedy was in late 2001, when I saw it at school. I could clearly remember that first viewing, but couldn't remember the title of the movie, nor did I recognize anyone in it. I wouldn't have recognized Steve Martin at the time, but am surprised I didn't recognize Eddie Murphy. Sometime within the past six months or so, I came across the IMDb page for Bowfinger, and it wasn't long before I could tell what it was. When I discovered that, I intended to watch it again, and did just that this week. I knew it was nowhere near being one of the most popular comedies of all time, but it had reasonably wide appeal, so I was expecting a movie that would make me laugh (can't remember how funny I found it the first time), even if it wasn't totally consistent with the humour, and for the most part, I was pleased.Bobby Bowfinger is a struggling wannabe filmmaker who is now 49 years old and still trying to make a movie and get it released. For most of his life, he has been saving money for production costs. When he receives a silly sci-fi script entitled Chubby Rain, written by an accountant named Afrim, he thinks it's a great script and is determined to make a film out of it, so he invites Afrim over to his house and rounds up a cast of several wannabe movie stars, a camera operator named Dave who can borrow equipment from the studio he works at, and a crew from Mexico. Bowfinger goes to meet a studio executive named Jerry Renfro, who agrees to distribute the film, but only if Hollywood mega-star Kit Ramsey has a part in it. After Kit refuses the role, Robert K. Bowfinger decides he will have his cast act out their scenes in the mega-star's presence, without him knowing he's in the movie, while the crew hides with the camera and films these scenes! The cast is convinced that Kit does know he's in the movie but is method acting, and they are not to speak to him outside their scenes.The title character in his flick is played by Steve Martin, and the comedian certainly shows his talent here. Not only did he star in this comedy, he also wrote it. Eddie Murphy plays two characters here, the self-centred, arrogant, paranoid Kit Ramsey and his goofy, nerdy identical brother, Jiff. These two characters differ greatly from one another, but Murphy is very funny in both roles! The cast is mostly strong, also featuring Adam Alexi-Malle as Afrim, Christine Baranski as Carol (a member of the Chubby Rain cast), Terence Stamp as Terry Stricter (Kit Ramsey's councilor), etc. Heather Graham is not a very good actress, but I think even she has her moments here in the role of Daisy, another member of the cheesy movie's cast. Bowfinger may seem somewhat bland around the beginning, and only moderately funny at best for a while, but that changes. The movie is not entirely consistent, but there are so many funny bits of dialogue, and also really funny parts showing the process of Kit's scenes being filmed (with the other cast members playing their roles and the big star's reactions to them), and eventually Jiff doing his part for Bowfinger's project. The gags are enough to make this comedy funny for the most part, sometimes even hilarious! If you like the 1994 Tim Burton movie, Ed Wood and its premise, Bowfinger might be another film for you to check out, even though one difference between the two is that is that this one is not based on a true story. "},{"Title":"Is this where I go to be a star?","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger is a very clever, exciting, witty, FUN movie-within-a-movie, well written by Steve Martin and well performed by Martin & Eddie Murphy. Imagine the boldness and audacity of a sleazy Hollywood director who shoots a motion picture starring an action hero who has no consciousness of ever being filmed! The director is Robert K. Bobby Bowfinger (Martin), and the action star is Kit Ramsey (Murphy). Bowfinger devises all kinds of trickery and bamboozlement in order to star Kit in his new action movie Chubby Rain without Kit's knowledge. Kit is a smooth, fast-talking wit who unknowingly uses his paranoia about aliens to Bowfinger's advantage as his film crew secretly shoots Kit reacting in confusion to the antics of Bowfinger's actors. The end result Bowfinger takes the audience for a wild ride!My favorite scenes in Bowfinger include the following (DO NOT read any further if you have not yet seen this movie). Kit's nerdy brother, named Jiffrenson Jiff Ramsey (also played by Eddie Murphy), literally breaks out of his comfort zone as he fills in for Kit dashing across heavy, brisk freeway traffic while being filmed by Bowfinger's crew. Kit and his bodyguards panic as they try to dodge a car heading toward them in reverse; again, the action is secretly being filmed by Bowfinger's crew, with his first cameraman Dave (Jamie Kennedy) hidden in a ton of shrubbery on an elevated platform attached to a truck. Kit's paranoia in the parking garage scene is greatly enhanced by the high-heeled shoes worn by Bowfinger's dog Betsy. Bowfinger drives across the border into Mexico and rescues four fleeing natives from a war zone; they become his film crew! And finally, this movie boasts an excellent soundtrack; I especially like Marvin Gaye's You're a Wonderful One, heard during some of the opening scenes when Bowfinger steals an expensive suit jacket and sets out to crash a lunch date with big-time producer Jerry Renfro (Robert Downey, Jr.); as well as the funky Pick Up the Pieces, heard at the premiere of Chubby Rain.If you ask me, Bowfinger is a wildly enjoyable cinematic smash hit! In addition to Martin and Murphy, we have the great Jamie Kennedy as cameraman Dave; Heather Graham as a somewhat irritating nymphomaniac actress named Daisy; Christine Baranski as a wonderfully funny prima donna named Carol; Adam Alexi-Malle as screenwriter Afrim; Kohl Sudduth as wannabe actor Slater; Robert Downey, Jr. as producer Jerry Renfro; and Terence Stamp as Terry Stricter, Kit's MindHead counselor. "},{"Title":"Often funny satire of Hollywood.","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This intermittently and sometimes very funny send up of cheap movie making was written by, and stars, Steve Martin. He's pretty good, and so are the other performers. Loved Eddie Murphy as the loser/brother of Kit Ramsey. The film is efficiently directed.The humor, as in a lot of Steve Martin's stuff in The New Yorker, depends on incongruities and irony. The incongruity begins with the title of the film-within-a-film that Martin is supposed to be directing -- Chubby Rain. (Cf., Cruel Shoes.) The irony shows up in scenes like the post-coital murmurs between Martin and Heather Graham as a would-be actress sleeping her way to the top. I love you. I promise you I'll never use you, she tells him. And I will never betray your trust, he swears, after just having pocketed her credit card.Frank Oz did a good job on the direction. The scene is which an Eddie Murphy look alike (Eddie Murphy) is told to run across a multiple-lane freeway full of speeding cars and trucks is nearly perfectly done. Not just the idea but the set up and execution. The editing couldn't be better. Oz had to transpose that scene from a more-or-less detailed written screenplay into two dimensional images.Sometimes the script gives Oz an easier job than at others. As the end of the film approaches the pace becomes frantic and there were times when I lost it. Something to do with aliens and pod people. (One shot is lifted directly from Invasion of the Body Snatchers.) Martin is a bright and imaginative guy, obviously. His humor borders on the fantastic. Things take place that are physically impossible. And the jokes are liable to be over the head of a less alert audience. I mean, are the kids really going to get the connection between MindBust and Dianetics? Will they recognize the allusion to the pod people? He's rather like a West Coast Woody Allen, without the serious side, but more of a physical actor. His notion of what's funny is more literary than cinematic, bent slightly towards the late S. J. Perelman. I thought Martin's first film, The Jerk, was a disaster but there were scenes and dialog in this one that had me laughing out loud. When Eddie Murphy, as a famous movie star, is offered a script, he counts up all the k's in the text, divides by three, and comes up with the number of times the KKK is mentioned in code. No wonder he winds up at MindBust's Celebrity Rest Home.Not all the jokes are so successful, but it's a good-natured and diverting comedy -- better than I'd anticipated. "}{"Title":"Murphy + Martin= Another OK Comedy","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It must be Eddie Murphy's agent's attempt to revive his career. Think of who they've teamed him up with recently- with Steve Martin in this, Owen Wilson in I-Spy, Robert DeNiro in Showtime and Michael Rappaport in Metro.Once again, Eddie features in another ok comedy, with a few good moments and that's it. WHo would have thought his best movies would be two of his first Trading Places and Beverly Hills Cop. Murphy plays Kit Ramsay, a superstar actor very similar to boxer Kelly Robinson in I-Spy, an obnoxious loudmouth with a few issues. The Ramsay character is annoying and pretty unfunny, thankfully he also stars as Kit's nerdy twin brother. Most of the gold in the movie comes from the twin brother (see his foray into acting and his passion for errands). Besides Eddie, we have a solid performance from Martin as a struggling director, desperate for a major motion picture. He comes up with a clever scheme to make it big time and throws everything at it- but will it pay off? You'll have to see it to find out. "},{"Title":"Casting was the only problem...","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Too bad Steve Martin did not take the part of Kit Ramsey...I believe as Steve Martin wrote the screenplay, he wrote the part taken by Eddie Murphy in a style best befitting Steve Martin... not Eddie Murphy.I can easily see Martin doing all the lines and visual facial expressions better. The part of Bowfinger in the movie could have been played by either Bill Murray or Chevy Chase. Need that kind of a believable half-wit character type.What do you think?A starving desperate screenwriter / producer named Bowfinger played by Martin, trap-shoots a movie (by ambush) featuring a hot actor in Hollywood ... Kit Ramsey. Great writing. Unfortunate waste of talent with miscasting. Illegal aliens and borrowed credit cards might get his movie made yet! Steve Martin is a gifted screenwriter...and very capable of doing the parts that he acts in. Just a terrific premise...would like to see it redone with Martin and a new cast...and punching up some of the scenes...this is a deep well...you can come back and remake this movie a few more times! "},{"Title":"I liked it - (the second time around)","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this film for the second time tonight. As a result, the second viewing left me with a different impression than my first viewing. It did seem funnier the second time around. Mostly because my high expectations for it were already flushed down the toilet the first time I viewed it. This is not always a bad thing. When you watch a movie for the first time you often have unrealistic or misguided expectations about what it should be. Part of the problem with this movie is that people watch it and hope that both Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy will be the same cutting-edge type groundbreaking comedians that they were in their prime. So, when you see this film you are inevitably disappointed. My biggest complaint about this film would be that it could have been a bit more Zany. By this I mean that at their (Martin and Murphy's) age and level of success it seems they don't want to take chances. As a result they produce a kind of Bland tasting quaker-oats-esque style of comedy. It kind of leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. The truth is that they are both still very good. They are just not the same comedians that they once were. So, this movie is actually not all that bad, if you watch it without expecting too much. this is also why people usually say it could have been better. After seeing this film for the second time I would say that I liked it. It showed Steve Martin's creative writing ability (ie. the dog in designer pumps). It was also nice to see Murphy playing a role where is not the smartest/wittiest/most talented person in the room for a change.So, I guess some movies are just better the second time around. I could think of dozens of movies on the top of my head that did well at the box office yet were intellectually inferior to this film. Definitely worth a $0.99 rent at your local gas station. Jack P. "},{"Title":"So pathetic it's funny","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie while hanging with friends. It's a kind of one-watch time movie to see when you're tired. And I mean really tired. The whole idea of the movie was just so lousy and loserish that it was funny. The whole time I was laughing at the movie, not because I thought parts were funny, but merely because the whole idea of how such a movie could come about was just plain ridiculous. It's perfect for that kind of laugh like this-is-so-pathetic-it's-funny type. If the movie was just about the guy making a film the regular way, it would have dropped to me. But the whole thing just watching Steve Martin being a total moron filming a huge star without him knowing just killed me inside. I ended up screaming with laughter just laughing at the producers and the script writer. And the actors, especially Steve Martin. Parts of the movie might have been funny, but not in comparison to thinking just how big the losers can get. 'Chubby Rain'. Yeah. That's rich. You see, the total patheticness of the whole thing was just too stupid to even begin to analyze (I tried, and couldn't come up with a reason why the media would even allow this bull in the theater.) Oh well. Maybe it's just me (I laugh at Letterman all the time just watching him because he's such a moron that it's funny.) The sheer stupid aspect of something can really get me laughing.  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy plays....himself?  Steve Martin at his best!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The very premise of this movie is hilarious.  That a no-talent producer could actually make a film, staring a big name Hollywood actor, without the actorknowing, is not only funny, it sounds like a great idea.  Murphy plays a self- absorbed, neurotic, black actor, so focused on the fact that he thinks the world is racist and out to get him, that he is nearly rendered incapable of living in the real world.  Sequestered in his private world, and an association with what can only be a subtle reference to the Church of Scientology (Mindhead), Murphy'scharacter sees the world as a giant conspiracy.At the same time, our very funny producer, Bowfinger (Steve Martin), produces a film staring Murphy without his knowledge.  Murphy's geeky, but physicallyidentical brother (also played by Murphy), adds huge laughs to this alreadyfunny satire of Hollywood.  If you have any context with Hollywood this movie is frighteningly funny, if not, it still makes you laugh.See this film, you will be pleasantly surprised!  "},{"Title":"Funnnnny as usual with two of the masters of comedy.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin were perfect for their roles in this one.  Both are great comedians and together their synergy made it all the more enjoyable.  It also hits at how ridiculous some of moviedom really is, as a satire on the movie industry.  Robert Downey,jr did his role well, although I would like to seen more of him.  An enjoyable movie to relax with.  "},{"Title":"comedy that wears it's heart on its sleeve.","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Can you think of a movie that's come out in the year's since Bowfinger that loved it's characters with as much genuine feeling as Bowfinger? I can't. And having watched this movie again recently, I can't explain why it's so damn good. The best I can come up with is that the gags are generated by the characters, the writers and actors let the characters be the funny in this comedy and it works. It's one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, and makes me laugh in that slightly tender way I do at family gatherings. Steve Martin, Frank Oz and the crew manage to create magic on the screen. How can you pass up the opportunity to see that?  "},{"Title":"Hard working comedy works very well","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite some patchy moments, this thing holds together very well with some solid laughs and a good plot.  Eddie Murphy winds up playing two characters.  It's hard to say why this kind of thing happens.  You have Data in the Star Trek Generations series and Mike Myers with his spy spoof characters.  But it works here.  Eddie Murphy plays a black action hero actor and his dimwit brother.  Steve Martin is a failed movie producer trying to squeeze one out.A high point is where the dimwit is asked to cross freeway traffic for an action scene.  Twice.If you like this, you will probably like Martin's L.A. Story, another good comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny and Creative","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a comedy that is very underrated. Who would've guessed that Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy who make such a good job together. Yet there are many funny parts, there is still some not funny parts.Bowfinger is a failing producer who finally found the perfect script. Except when the actor he wants to play the main star refuses Bowfinger has to take action into his own hands. So he shoots the movie without Kit(the actor) knowing.Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy are perfect in this movie. They both are funny as heck and still keep there characters at the same time. Heather Graham does a great job too in her role.Rated PG-13 What I think it should be rated and why PG-13 for sex related material including content and for language.  ****/***** "},{"Title":"very funny, Murphy is good in dual roles","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bobby Bowfinger's film production company is in trouble. Then Afrim writes what appears to be a winning script about aliens who come to Earth in raindrops. (The title 'Chubby Rain'). All it needs is a major star such as action hero Kit Ramsey. When Ramsey says no, Bowfinger simply tells everyone Ramsey said he would do the film only under certain very strange conditions. He only tells cameraman Dave that Ramsey is to be filmed without his knowledge. The parts of the movie that don't involve Ramsey can be filmed separately. Bowfinger has a budget of only about $2000, so he goes out in the desert and hires a Spanish-speaking crew. He charges $25 for auditions, whether the person gets the part or not. An innocent girl from Ohio named Daisy succeeds in her audition, though she later turns out to be not so innocent. Ramsey is already paranoid and not nice at all. But when strange things start happening, he starts going over the edge. He already sees a psychiatrist at a place called MindHead, and treatment becomes even more urgent. Things get worse when Carol, one of Bowfinger's actresses, decides to have a conversation with Ramsey, thinking he knows.Meanwhile, a stand-in is needed for long shots and shots from the back, and the perfect person is found. Jiff has a dorky, gee-whiz quality about him, and all he needs is a haircut and contact lenses.The movie was funniest when Ramsey was being filmed without his knowledge. The scenes with Jiff were also great. During the second half, things got really wild. At one point, though, it appeared things were going to fall apart, but the movie redeemed itself by the end and things turned out great.Steve Martin was his usual self, which means good as always. But Eddie Murphy was very funny in his multiple roles. I don't recall him ever playing any characters like Jiff, though in 'The Klumps' his Buddy Love was a lot like Ramsey. Ramsey was so mean but also vulnerable, not in a touching way but always about to scream when things happened. Jiff, on the other hand, was Ramsey's total opposite--sweet, fun-loving, somewhat scared. Heather Graham made an appealing Daisy, though she did become manipulative as the movie progressed. I'm not sure what to say about Christine Baranski. She's usually so good, but her performance seemed cartoonish to me. If that was the intention, then she did her part well.This was great. It seemed to end all too quickly, though.     "}{"Title":"A comic gem","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great story, a great cast and a belly full of laughs.  Steve Martin again shows why he is still regarded as the top of Hollywood's comic A-list and Eddie Murphy, playing two roles, is funnier than he has ever been on film.  Christine Baranski is perfectly cast as the overly-introspective ingenue, Heather Graham fits the wide-eyed, new-girl-in-town, highly-compromising actress-wanna-be like a glove, and Robert Downey, Jr., parodies an insensitive studio exec better than anyone before.  Forget most of new stuff - Bowfinger will be the funniest rental you've made in a long, long time. "},{"Title":"Put me out of my misery!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on my birthday with a few friends, what a big mistake that was.  I should've stayed home and ate my birthday cake instead.  Heather Graham was nothing but a whore in this movie, and Eddie and Steve were just talentless in their acting.I don't know what kind of people will enjoy this kind of movie, probably only those who've escaped from a mental asylum. "},{"Title":"Great film, very underated","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People just don't appriciate this film enough. It's not exactly Shakespeare (you know where I'm getting at LOL), but very enjoyable nonetheless. Eddie Murphy did an awesome job as Kit Ramsey's brother. That interview scene is the best. All the secondary characters were great. The idea is very original and done well. The ending is fantastic, one of my personal favourites. "},{"Title":"Great film, very underated","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People just don't appriciate this film enough. It's not exactly Shakespeare (you know where I'm getting at LOL), but very enjoyable nonetheless. Eddie Murphy did an awesome job as Kit Ramsey's brother. That interview scene is the best. All the secondary characters were great. The idea is very original and done well. The ending is fantastic, one of my personal favourites. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Premise Comedies of the 90's","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey, don't take this film too seriously, remember it was written by Steve Martin and his take on the world is, well..his own. Nevertheless it reflects the kind of Gorilla filmaking that was done by guys like Ray Steckler (I was in The Incredibly Strange Creatures That Gave Up Living and Became Mixed Up Zombies and I should know). These were guys that made pretty awful movies on fifty cent budgets. It was really an excuse to get out there and work. Back to Bowfinger, Eddie Murphy knocks me out whatever he's doing - truly a cut above in talent, brains and likeability. Steve Martin the Wonderbread Man, is a one of a kind. There are some wonderful moments in the film that make it worthwhile, but honestly, it isn't the best movie ever made or the funniest. It's worth 95 minutes of your time and a discount rental! "},{"Title":"Bowfinger","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. Eddie and Martin are great together. See This movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Another Murphy comedy team","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***Starring Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, and Heather Graham.When a movie producer can't get the star he wants to star in his movie, he gets his twin brother to help him in secretly filming the film around the big star.  The movie has a great amount of laughs, especially of Jiff.  Murphy and Martin do great as another Murphy duo.  I recommend this film to everyone. "},{"Title":"Best premise ever!!!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the most brilliant comedy I have ever seen for the sheer hilarity of the premise.  Steve Martin is a genius - this movie reminds me why he is the funniest man alive.  I had to watch it several times because I was too busy laughing to hear the movie. "},{"Title":"No masterpiece, but very, very funny.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great farce about filmmakers and filmmaking.  Nothing is logical.  Nothing is real.  Welcome to filmmaking.  The characters appear cliched, but are rooted in reality the director (a hilarious Martin) who'll stop at nothing to make his movie, a self-absorbed leading man (surprisingly great Murphy), and the smalltown girl-actress who sleeps her way through the set (perfect Graham).  Anyone who works in the film biz will recognize these characters and the desperate, giddy film shoot that Martin leads.  Do anything to make your movie.  Bowfinger ridicules, yet celebrates the spirit of indie filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Bobby Bowfinger","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Movie making isn't always so easy as it may seem, as Bobby Bowfinger discovered in this excellent comedy about a man and his friends who have never touched a camera before, trying to make a movie with the nation's biggest star--without him knowing about it!  The movie is great--lots of good humor, and good acting from Eddy Murphy and Heather Graham. I watched it three times through after renting it for one night. I highly recommend this. "}{"Title":"Kinda familiar...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was very funny. made me laugh a lot. but i took quite a lot of notice that this movie is very similar to Ed Wood. cept i liked ed wood better. but yeah. heather graham did a good job. although she wants to be considered as a serious actress now. i commend her for her efforts though. oh yeah and steve martin and eddie murphey were hilarious.6/10 stars "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Awesome. Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin are both hilarious and they work together perfectly. I love this movie so much that i have seen it 10+ times because it is that good. It is a truly wholesome and comical movie that i definitely give a 10 out of 10 rating.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Awesome. Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin are both hilarious and they work together perfectly. I love this movie so much that i have seen it 10+ times because it is that good. It is a truly wholesome and comical movie that i definitely give a 10 out of 10 rating.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy are great together in this hilarious film.  Steve Martin is a hopeless director, who plans a scheme to get a big-named movie star to star in a low budget film.  Eddie Murphy is the big-named star and goes double as his twin, nerdy brother.  they all do great.  Heather Graham was there and was very sexy.  the whole movie is a laughing riot and you will love it.Overall the whole movie is excellent and very funny.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie worked on so many levels.  The actors were great in their respective roles, the script was clever, and, most importantly, it made me laugh.  This movie's nowhere to be seen on any list of the top comedy's of all time, but everyone I know that saw it thought that it was unbelievably funny.  On a pure comedic level, this is easily one of the all-time greats. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is a winner","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy just continues to prove himself as one of the greatest comic actors of all time in Bowfinger. His versatility and energy are put to brilliant effect in this whacky movie. The sheer terror and paranoia are themselves worth watching as he is approached on the street by people ranting and raving about aliens and plots etc.The weak point is Steve Martin, who continues to prove himself as one of the most mediocre comic actors of our times. Whether he is the Father of the Bride, enduring Parenthood, or filming as Bowfinger, he gives the same restricted range of emotion, the same strange mix of over- and under- acting, and the same sinking feeling whenever he is on stage.But there again, he's richer than me... so go figure! "},{"Title":"Still funny","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out in theatres here, and I loved it then. I've seen it about 10 times since (on cable tv) and it still gets me laughing out loud. Happy premise no 4 - Watch Bowfinger often, because it gets funnier each time. "},{"Title":"Trust me, it's good.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the first trailer I saw of Bowfinger I thought it was going to be funny. Even if they showed the funniest scenes in the previews, it looked like it would be a fun film. And it was. Eddie Murphy playing dual roles, Steve Martin as a film director, and Heather Graham as the beautiful woman, Bowfinger has all the right parts for a late summer, fun comedy.Steve Martin plays Bowfinger, a hapless director/producer who is broke. His accountant writes a screenplay entitled Chubby Rain and Bowfinger decides that this is the movie to make his comback with. The problem is, no one will work for him, and no producer will produce the film without a major star like Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy). Ramsey of course won't have anything to do with Bowfinger, so Bowfinger decides to do what any normal director would do. Film the movie with Ramsey as the star, just don't tell Ramsey he's in the film. He figures he can film all the scenes that don't involve Ramsey with his cast of characters (including Heather Graham, Christine Baranski and Jamie Kennedy), and shoot footage for Ramsey without his knowledge, then edit it all together. Along the way he picks up a Kit Ramsey look alike named Jiff, who is all geek (also Eddie Murphy). They all work their magic and in the end, manage to make Chubby Rain a success.This movie had a lot of funny moments, most of them involving Murphy. Having him play two characters allowed him to show two different comedic sides. Kit was an in your face maniac, while Jiff was all geek. Seeing Murphy playing Jiff was especially funny. Steve Martin seemed content allowing Murphy to get most of the laughs, while he played the straight role. Heather Graham was used mostly for her physical appeal. Her character was basically someone who used sex to get her way to the top. Not that I'm complaining mind you. There was one story line that I didn't really like, and that was the whole cult thing that Kit kept going back to. The only thing I could think of was that it was an attack on Scientology or something, but I don't know enough about Scientology to know that. If it was a joke I didn't get it, which is certainly possible. I just didn't think it did very much for the story, or provide any real comical moments.  So overall Bowfinger was a cute and funny movie that is perfect for late summer viewing. If you like Eddie Murphy and wonder why in the hell he made Holy Man, go see this film and you'll see something more resembling the old Murphy comic abilities. If you're a guy, any chance you get to see Heather Graham you should take. And if you're a Steve Martin fan, you'll get to see him somewhat restrained, but still a joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Steve Martin's best yet","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger was written by Steve Martin and it shows. Both he and especially Eddy Murphy have real roles and do some great acting. It's a crazy comedy that just escalates out of control.Just as you're thinking Wouldn't it be great if..., that's exactly what happens!I am reminded of the brilliant See No Evil, Hear No Evil with Gene Wilder & Richard Pryor. Neither film needs a racy edge of wise-ass put-downs to be funny.The film is a parody of Hollywood without being arty or in-your-face intellectual. But it is an intelligent story whose characters do things that make sense. Bowfinger can be grouped with The Ref and There's Something About Mary, as one of the funniest comedies ever.Who should see this film-- everyone, but don't expect comedy/romance or action/comedy. This is a straight comedy.I give Bowfinger a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy -- whadda guy!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I missed this movie when it first came out, and was just reminded of it recently by Ebert/Roeper.  Eddie Murphy is absolutely terrific both as an actor and as a comedian, and the script by Steve Martin has a lot of the same zing as LA Story (which I also adore).  It's laugh-out-loud funny in several places.  I love the deft skewering of race and ethnic stereotypes Eddie Murphy's Big Star riff on why black actors don't get Oscars, the Arab supporting 8 brothers and 4 sisters on a receptionist's salary, and the illegal Mexican aliens thrown into movie-making and rapidly becoming pro's at it.  Oh!  And the Nicole Kidman look-alike who sleeps her way to the top and to the side and to the outside and to all points in between ... and is sincerely natural in all her actions, interactions, and reactions.  Steve Martin has done for LA (more and more) the same sort of loving nuances that Woody Allen has done for Manhatten.  Just terrific fun stuff. "}{"Title":"A fine satire which falters towards the end","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a fairly unsubtle dig on Hollywood. Steve Martin is Robert Bowfinger, desperate for a great hit. Finally he has a script but needs a big actor in it to get it screened - he chooses Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy). Unfortunately he can't afford Kit and so he must try and put Kit into the movie, without Kit realising it...Eddie's character, much like in Shrek, steals the screen by being completely barmy and zany. He's a take on actors with inflated egos and his rants about racism in Hollywood are hilarious, undercut with a hint of truth (how he'll only win an Oscar playing a retarded slave..). Steve Martin, as the hopeless producer/director, is funny as a dig on stupid movies that we're shown and many of the elements - the studio hands, the lead actress, etc. - all touch the funny bone.Admittedly the script wanes now and then, and gets too ridiculous towards the end when it begins to fall apart. It's all balanced out though because you're laughing most of the time, and Murphy's OTT performance always stays just shy of being grating and within being very funny. No classic but a great way to spend some time - 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"I didn't have any desire to see this......","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But when I did, i was grateful I took the time to watch it. It is a comedy on one of the funniest subjects ever, bad movies. I think disappointed viewers of the film expected it to have a more raunchy or outrageous sense of humor. But this movie proves you don't need that to be funny and also demonstrates Steve Martin's genius. Eddie Murphy is hilarious as Kit and even more so as Jiff. Jiff is so different than the usual fast-talking, quip-saying characters he's used to. This movie isn't always laugh out loud funny, but is always subtly funny,and sometimes it's the little things that make you laugh the most. So give this a try.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best comedies to come our way in years.  A rare gem that is both satirically and gut busting funny.  I've read most of the reviews in IMDB for Bowfinger and was amazed at how many of the reviewers just didn't get it.  The only thing I would say is that this movie was probably too multi-layered for their taste and they would be better off watching American Pie or some other teenage farce.  If you want a grown up comedy with excellent writing, acting and satire, then this is a film for you. "},{"Title":"One word... hilarious!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is among the best spoofs of Hollywood to come along in years. Not only do Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy (in a dual role) demonstrate exceptional acting skills (the facial expressions alone are priceless... Eddie Murphy's 'face of fear' is both believable and hysterical), but Steve Martin also shows his considerable comedic writing talents as the film's screenwriter. The premise is funny yet simple. Let's make a really bad movie that we think is great with a star who doesn't know he's in it! On top of that, let's forget about a budget, plot, permission, or a conscience. Oh, and the fact that the film-within-a-film is about aliens which happens to be the star's greatest phobia -- again, the star of a film he doesn't have a clue he's in -- is pure genius. Martin expertly interweaves a crazy fictitious plot within a crazy fictitious plot! The product is a great comedic achievement far better than most Woody Allen comedic satires. The humorous elements were subtle and unpredictable yet incredibly funny in their execution. When Martin's character says he'll have to find the best crew he can afford, then the next shot is Martin and his cohorts at the US-Mexican border in a van with back doors open waiting to grant safe harbor for illegal border crossers fleeing gunfire was hysterical. He got his crew, who turn out to be film aficionados themselves! Another funny touch... This crew is suddenly fluent in English by the end of the film. Amazing what myths Hollywood can perpetuate. Besides being exceptionally funny, what's great is that no one escapes Steve Martin's pointed pen. Ambitious starlets, greedy Hollywood moguls, deranged film icons, the superficiality of materialism and dubious status symbols, insincere Hollywood accolades for film premiers not worth the price of admission, even Scientology masquerading in the form of MindHeads. All are well-deserved targets of Martin's obvious inside knowledge of contemporary Hollywood. The ending shouldn't be missed! Martin's character, the down-on-his-luck movie producer and director becomes a star in his own right, making (not B but Z) movies in Taiwan together with the less-than-stellar talents of the brother of his earlier film's major star. While extremely funny to watch, it's ironic in its truth. There are hundreds of filmmakers who feel successful making similar schlock. These aren't even worthy of being direct-to-video releases, but have their premiers in third-world nations via bootleg tapes likely financed by investors who want the losses for tax purposes. Bowfinger, however, is not such a film. It's well made, funny, and insightful. The acting, particularly by Martin and Murphy, takes the movie to a higher level. In his two roles -- one a maniacal Hollywood star who wants an Oscar for making movies not films, and the other a naive, friendly neophyte who's sole objective is to do errands -- Eddie Murphy is completely credible. He shows his range while this film will show you a great time. Watch it! You'll be glad you did. 9/10.    "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      Bowfinger is a great and fun comedy that is unusual but good. Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, and Heather Graham were a really good cast and did all good jobs on the movie. I mean, put a movie together with Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, with Heather Graham, boom, you get a great comedy! I give Bowfinger a 10 out of 10!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"A wonderfully surprisingly funny and ingenious movie!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I finally got around to seeing this movie, I thought I'd just be in for more of Steve Martin's often bizarre humor.  Was I in for a surprise - this movie is terrific!  The down 'n dirty look at struggling Hollywood wannabes, the desperate measures taken by a broke filmmaker in an attempt to finally make it big, the sneaky tactics they use to get free acting out of the biggest movie star, the diverse characters - I could go on for a long time about this!  I was caught off guard so many times with the humor - getting the best crew we can afford in the desert; the dog with high heels, the backwards car chase, the crossing the freeway scene; all our stunt drivers were very impressed.  I was amazed at how hard it was for me to wrap my head around the fact that Eddie Murphy played both Kit Ramsey and his nerdy brother Jiff.  Murphy is an outstanding actor (showcased as well in the Nutty Professor movies) and this role reinforced that fact.  The brothers look alike (obviously...) but the similarity ends there.  Murphy is incredibly talented, and Martin is his usual zany self.  This is one of the most creative and enjoyable movies I've seen.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"nice to kill some time","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A nice movie is you have absolutely nothing else to do. The story line is non catching, so you can switch off at any given time, and continue weeks later without missing anything. Unfortunately the end comes a litle quick... "},{"Title":"One of the best from Steve Martin in ages......","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Thankfully Steve is writing his own movies these days, because this one is sharp, funny, goofy, and VERY well done, unlike a lot of his recent work. The cast is excellent, Murphy steals the show as the idiot, and we get some nice work from both Heather Graham (underrated for comedy, IMHO) and the always superb Christine Baranski, whose character accidentally helps the scam  along....The gags are plentiful, the characters well done, and Martin and Murphy work VERY well alongside each other and both give their best performance in ages, the ending hints at a sequel, I'd love to see it..... "},{"Title":"Chemistry","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin is best in the movies he wrote himself. Eddie Murphy has chance to spoof his superstar-diva-image and again to play more than one role. At first sight, these two famous actors don't go together at all, but thanks to Martin's hilarious script, the movie is most entertaining and the chemistry is there.Don't forget to mention the supporting characters Christine Baranski, Terence Stamp and Robert Downey jr. seem to have great fun.Watch `Bowfinger', whenever you want to see a rather undemanding, but really well-done funny film about a couple of ridiculous people.  "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's back!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays an actor-producer-director Bobby Bowfinger who's career is going downhill all the time.Then one day he gets a movie script in his hands what's going to be a sure hit.Even the title Chubby Rain sounds very promising.But Bowfinger can't make the movie if he doesn't get Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), a famous Hollywood actor in the lead.But Kit says no.So they decide to do the movie without him, and with the help of Kit's nerdy brother Jiff (also Eddie Murphy).In the woman lead they get a wanna be actress Daisy (Heather Graham). Bowfinger from 1999 is a very funny comedy which was written by Steve Martin and directed by Frank Oz.Martin's career was going downhill but this movie brought him up again.The acting work is great.Steve Martin has always been a great comedian and he is marvelous in this movie.Eddie Murphy is amazing in the double role.He was hilarious as the nerdy brother and he made me laugh at loud many times.There is also Terence Stamp in the movie as Terry Stricter, MindHead Honcho.As the producer Jerry Renfro you can see Robert Downey Jr. who is struggling against drugs and trying to stay out of jail.He is a talented actor who got an Oscar nomination from Chaplin(1992).There are many funny scenes in this movie that make you crack up.It' a fun ride from the beginning to the end.I recommend Bowfinger for every comedy lover. "}{"Title":"Very Funny! Steve and Eddie are on top form!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I really enjoyed this movie! Steve Martin plays a film director who is trying to make it BIG in the big wide world. So how will Bobby Bowfinger (Martin) get Kit Ramsey (Murphy) in his latest, low-budget movie? By not telling him! This movie is full of brilliant gags that don't just rely on slapstick and toliet humour. Very enjoyable con! "},{"Title":"Better the more you watch","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't want to write a huge review of this film, but having just watched it again (for only the second time) on DVD, it surprised me. When I saw it in the cinema, it seemed fairly average, and I was slightly disappointed. It wasn't that it was bad - all the actors played their parts perfectly - it somehow just didn't seem to gel as well as other Martin or Murphy films I'd seen. However, on watching the DVD last week (I bought it in a sale!), I was amazed by how much better it was this viewing. I laughed far more, even though I remembered most of the plot and the various scenes! Sometimes films are like that, I find the more you watch them, the funnier they get! Despite my earlier opinion to the contrary, this is definitely one of those films! I think maybe it's the characters that do it when you see the film the first time, you take a little while to work out who's who and what they're like as characters, but the second time you know all that, and it's then that you can appreciate such things as the characterisation, writing, and comedy timing.One thing I didn't understand was why they replaced the opening scene with a new version (the first version is included as an extra on the DVD), because I preferred the original! It seemed much funnier!Bizarrely, I could swear that the unused original version of the scene is the one I remember seeing at the cinema! I don't know if they perhaps used that one in UK cinemas for some reason (?).So, my simple message is that if you saw this in the cinema and thought it was average, or maybe heard it was average and didn't see it for that reason, try the DVD, and you may find that you agree with me that this is one of those slow burner films that are enjoyed more on repeat viewings than at the time it was originally shown. "},{"Title":"A zany and delierious farce.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A zany and delierious farce (made by Frank Oz) about a struggling and financially strapped B-movie director, Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) who decides to make a movie based on a script (written by his accountant), quickly assembles his cast and crew, and he wants to have Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), a constantly frantic big-name Hollywood action star in it. There's a problem - Ramsey refuses to take part.  Despite the major setback, Bowfinger goes ahead with the filmming and lets his actors come up to Ramsey in public and say their lines.  There's isn't a single moment where I wasn't satisfied with the acting.  Martin (who wrote the script) and Murphy (who plays two characters) are both great here.  Jamie Kennedy, Heather Graham, Robert Downey, Jr., Kohl Sudduth, Christine Baranski, and Terence Stamp round out the impressive supporting cast.         "},{"Title":"a genuinely hysterical film","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not many comedies of the 90s have made me laugh, especially in the past couple of years when the majority of them substitute gross-out humor and bathroom jokes in place of good writing. But BOWFINGER was a pleasant surprise, most-likely because it was written by one of the funniest guys around, Steve Martin. In an age of gross-out situations, foul-mouthed jokes, bodily functions, and the audience's intelligence being insulted, BOWFINGER is a refreshing film. No foul language (with the exception of one moment early on that is said so quickly I didn't even hear it the first time around) and no gross-out humor, just good honest laughs and comical situations.Eddie Murphy is great as always, playing two parts, a famous movie star and his lookalike, and Steve Martin is watchable as always. This is one of both star's funniest films that I've seen. The rest of the cast is good, particularly Christine Baranski as the actress in the film. Heather Graham is hardly a great actress, but she does a surprisingly-good job here as well.I was surprised at how much I found myself laughing during this film, in all the right places, and never feeling embarrassed to be watching it with the whole family because of some gross joke that would pop up. This film has none of them, and works so much better because of it. If you want a comedy that has honest laughs and doesn't insult your intelligence, BOWFINGER is a film you have to check out. "},{"Title":"Despite a lapse or two, very funny","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Steve Martin and the majority of his movies.  This one is among the best, as he is a lovable Hollywood mover and shaker-wannabe who's more Ed Wood than Michael Ovitz in reality. He has a stable of actors who work for him and trust that through him their careers will be realized (its unclear if his actors have other credits) and their dreams come true.  An even clearer example is the new-to-Hollywood character played by Heather Graham, who is not as naive as she initially appears.As this part of the movie is getting set up, the other part involves a self-doubting mega-movie star named Kit Ramsey, played by Eddie Murphy.  Kit is a little insecure, a little at odds with himself and his manager (Barry Newman) and the world around him. He is a member of MindHead, obviously a Scientology reference. He also has a fear of aliens and a deep love of the Laker Girls. How the two stories come together would be giving a lot away.  I do want to mention that Eddie Murphy is terrific in this movie.  I love the way Steve Martin works within the Hollywood system and sees it for what it is and makes you laugh at the lunacy of movie-making. Why?  Cause we love it as much as he does.  "},{"Title":"actors what are they like","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well, this film is funny, and the 3 main stars work very well. i felt that Terence Stamp, Barry Newman and robert Downey Jr didn't work for me;it seemed to me that they were there just because of thier names. Martin,Murphy and Graham were enough.Terence Stamp, Barry Newman and robert Downey Jr just didn't have enough to do. So to the plot,Steve Martin who plays Robert K. Bowfinger, a director and owner of Bowfinger international films, is trying to make a good film called chubby Rain (but i will leave the storyline,i might spoil it for you). Martin has a few actors but he needs a big name to make his film the best. Enter  Eddie Murphy, as Kit Ramsey, famous actor. Martin asks ,or trys to trick Murphy into staring in his film. Murphy of course doesn't want to know, but Martin must have him. Then what follows is a pure fun. Martin, has to pretend to all the other cast that murphy doesn't want to mingle with the others, so all Murhpy's shots are done without him knowing.(like fly on the wall docu type filming), Heather Graham who plays Daisy, (who jumped into everyone's bed to make it big) finds out about Martin's con. The film gets made........ enjoy                  Steve Martin ....  Robert K. Bowfinger   Eddie Murphy ....  Kit Ramsey/Jiffernson Ramsey   Heather Graham ....  Daisy   Christine Baranski ....  Carol   Jamie Kennedy ....  Dave   Barry Newman ....  Kit's Agent   Adam Alexi-Malle ....  Afrim, Screenwriter   Kohl Sudduth ....  Slater   Terence Stamp ....  Terry Stricter, MindHead Honcho   Robert Downey Jr. ....  Jerry Renfro, Producer    "},{"Title":"Very funny but lots of 'in' jokes *Possible minor spoiler*","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Firstly I'm not going to write forever or provide a plot summary - there's a seperate section for that. What I will say is that if you enjoy a spoof of the movie industry and know a little about what goes on there and what life is like for the 'wannabes' you will enjoy this film. My favorite line - Jiff in the 'nude' scene with the biggest grin on his face Awesome. I still wonder about the ending 'though, was 'Chubby Rain' actually a success or not??? Anyways, great movie, great cast, clever idea, full of clever industry jokes. (And a fantastic send-up of a popular 'religious' movement). My vote 8/10 "},{"Title":"I thought it was funny.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Bowfinger was just plain funny. I enjoyed Ed Wood and this was practically the same movie with a little twist. I also noticed a goof when Jif came into the house and told Bowfinger that he had just had intercourse. Bowfinger said 'Kit come into my office'. I guess he could have said Jif, but it sounded like Kit to me. I recommend this as a rental. "},{"Title":"A comedy about an aging, out of work screenwriter, written by an aging, out of work screenwriter.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, ACTOR. At any rate, Steve Martin hasn't exactly been cranking out the movies Jackie-Chan-style lately. In Bowfinger, Martin plays the part of Bowfinger, a film producer/director with ridiculous taste in movies and who is hard up for material. And it's no wonder why he can't get his films financed, anyone who sees brilliance in a crapfest like `Chubby Rain' is not likely to be known for his keen eye for quality film. At any rate, some guy writes this crappy science fiction script and Bowfinger wants to film it, and he wants to have Kit Ramsey, the biggest action star of the time, star in it. When Bowfinger presents the script to Ramsey, he tries to lie to him to become friends, and when he is found out, Ramsey kicks him out of the limo and throws the script out as well. And thus, being the brilliant filmmaker that Bowfinger is (hey, he found this genius script, right?), he decides that he wants to make the movie anyway without Ramsey even knowing that he's in it, and even without his own actors knowing that Ramsey doesn't know he's in it.Kit Ramsey -, whose first name is creatively taken from a repeating phrase in his holistic therapy session, `Keep it together ' - is played, in a hilarious over the top performance, by Eddie Murphy, who fits the role very well except for the fact that he's not quite the action star that he used to be. His later films have been mostly comedies, and good comedies, at that. Heather Graham plays the part of the country girl from Ohio who wants to become a movie star, and she sleeps with everyone that she has to in order to get good scenes in the movie, and also to eventually get close to Ramsey.One of the funnier parts of this movie is the way that Bowfinger goes about the production of the movie, while trying to keep everyone from finding out that Ramsey really doesn't know that he's in it, as well as trying not to go over his shoestring budget. It seems that the only money that he has is a stash of dollar bills, because he has been putting away one dollar a week since he was seven years old, which is pretty impressive that he stuck with that, but it's also pretty sad that it's the only money that he has to his name in order to make this movie. At any rate, his star doesn't know that he's starring so he doesn't have to pay him, he hired a bunch of fugitive Mexican migrants for his crew, he sneaks onto his locations without a permit and works his way around the police, he even borrows nice cars (one of his crew is a valet) to use in the film so he won't have to pay for rentals.If nothing else, this movie gives some good ideas about how someone could make a movie with little to no money (Bowfinger has a little over $2,000, while the average Hollywood film has a budget of tens of millions), even though many of his ideas are not likely to work in real life. The irony of this film is that even though Chubby Rain is clearly a B-movie (you can tell by the purposely ridiculous acting and the idiotic story), it gets a standing ovation at the first screening at the end of the film. Ramsey's psychological and pathological problems and urges play a surprisingly significant role in the film, besides just making it funnier when he is approached by the actors, who deliver their lines about invading aliens to him, which terrifies him. Bowfinger is not the high caliber comedy that you might expect, especially given its cast, but it is an entertaining look at independent filmmaking with some occasional bits of great comedy, and of course, Eddie Murphy again showing his diversity as an actor by also playing the part of Kit Ramsey's geeky brother, who doubles for him in many scenes in the movie. This is below the standard of the people involved with the movie, but it is definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"This is one movie where hollywood really worked","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one movie where hollywood really workedBy Hollywood I mean typical fantasy crazy plots and action scenes and real crazy funny stuff. The movie is really tight as you would expect from experienced guys like this but it really has a fresh sort of plot. I sure had never seen anything like it before. It has one of the funnyest scenes also with eddie murphy playing a complete cluts. He really is so funny you are laughing as hard as you can and you think how the hell does he act like that. Steve martin also in good form and Heather Graham is not a huge part in this but she is funny and totally well cast. I really think it got missed by alot of people for some reason but is still well worth renting. "}{"Title":"Extremely HILARE!!!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is extremely hilarious. My brother reccomended it to me last year. I saw and loved it! Then I bought it at Blockbuster a few months ago. Every time I watch it, the Con really is On!! I laugh and laugh and laugh forever! Last night, my dad just watched and he loves Steve Martin so of course he laughed and laughed and laughed forever, as well. It is my brother's favorite movie, and of course, one of mine, too! In fact, I wanted to use this plot in a play I recently helped write. Although, no one understood the concept, I simply said You have to rent it!!! "},{"Title":"Totally Steve Martin ... Awesome ! !","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin &  Eddie Murphy make an awesome duo in this hilarious Hollywood spoof.  Eddie Murphy doing his classic dual role does a superb job as a paranoid Hollywood superstar being unwittingly led into a part in penniless Martin's last shot at director stardumb.  What follow is side splitting. "},{"Title":"Funny, Original and Very Watchable.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin has done some pretty bad stuff lately, including the absolutely disastrous Spy Hard. I expected this film to be just like it, but, fortunately, it was a very good movie. It is bound to bring Steve Martin back to his high standards.Martin stars as Bobby Bowfinger, an out of luck Hollywood film director. His latest script is given the go ahead on the condition that he manages to sign up Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to play the lead role. However when Kit isn't interested, Bobby tries to get around this by hiring lookalikes. However when they don't meet up to expectations, he tries to capture the real Kit with hidden cameras and gets actors to interact with him on film, unbeknown to the now paranoid Kit.Eddie Murphy is great in his role of two personalities and Heather Graham is very watchable as a complete slut! But it is Steve Martin who steals the show here, he proves he can go past his bad days and once again totally steal our hearts in a great role. His script is also loveable, well written and interestingly far-fetched. The storyline is pretty original, the film-in-a-film idea is excellent, and I can relate to some of the characters.Funny, original and slap-up silly, Bowfinger is a definite renter. I rate Bowfinger 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent film - could be Murphy's best","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Scientology parody alone is worth the viewing price. Murphy and Martin are superb. If you don't like this movie, you don't like satire, and you'll probably need professional help for that. "},{"Title":"Welcome Back Mr. Murphy","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a dyed-in-the-wool Steve Martin fan...so I shall attempt to recuse myself from any ranting discussion of my opinion of Martin's acting/writing talents, which I hold in the highest regard..EXCEPT to say that Pennies From Heaven is one of the great dark comedies of the last 20 years and you should be ashamed that you haven't seen it yet. (Don't lie!! I KNOW you haven't seen it!! NOBODY saw it!)Now to our old pal Eddie...one crappy movie after another since the good old days of 48 Hours and Trading Places. And now, with Bowfinger, we got Eddie back. And I couldn't be happier. It's about damn time somebody handed him a well-written comedy again. The guy is the second coming of Richard Pryor..and, as far as I'm concerned, it's been almost a decade since he's had a script worthy of his talent. Hope this isn't a one-shot deal. With all the garbage passing for comedy on screen these days, it would be a crying shame to see Eddie sitting it out on the sidelines.Heather Graham as a dumb-as-a-post ingenue is a hoot.A neat little comedy by one of my favorite neat little comedy writers. "},{"Title":"Witty Wackiness without Plausibility","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger set around the concept of a director out to make his feature despite the fact that there is no star, and this director deciding to take matters into his own hands has the makings of a very good film .And in most ways this works. Some of the scenes featuring their star who is unaware are hilarious. However at moments, the film stretches the credibility of the situation a little too far,  especially when Kip's lookalike brother comes along and could have someone like Heather Graham walk in on their audition just like that. But apart from these examples of artistic licence ,the economy of plausibility doesn't ruin what was a very amusing 1 and a half hours. The independent director foiling a plot to make a movie against Hollywood's odds was full of Steve Martin's trademark offbeat wackiness, but the laid-back pace of the film doesn't quite deliver the Steve Martin witty wackiness quite as fast as features such as Father Of The Bride & Housesitter. If you like what is admittedly yet another take on Hollywood and have enjoyed films such as Get Shorty and Postcards From The Edge, then you will probably forgive the discrepanicies and the fact that when needed things come together just a little too conveninently. You can get on with enjoying Steve Martin playing the odds and getting himself into incredible situations trying to boobie-trap a star round tinseltown. "},{"Title":"Johnathan Ross was right!!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The cover of the DVD included a comment by Johnathan Ross to the effect that this was the greatest film ever by Steve Martin and  Eddie Murphy. I expected this to be an exaggeration, however I am pleased to say that he was not far from the truth. Great film, very funny and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hit and miss, but always inventive Comedy.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Almost a collection of skits in an absurdist vein, strung together by a vision of Steve Martin's mild mannered lunatic personae, the characters keep our interest even when the plot slows and the chaotic comedy grinds gears. The parking garage scene alone is worth the price of admission, and is an instant comedy classic. Not to mention the freeway scene. As in all comedy, if you but the premise, you buy the bit. Of course we want to buy it, but the whole is not as satisfying as the parts. "},{"Title":"Martin, Murphy Team Up For Laughs","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin stars as independent movie-maker Bobby Bowfinger in `Bowfinger,' a satirical look at what it takes to get a movie made in Hollywood.  When a terrific script (involving aliens) lands in his hands, Bowfinger finagles a green light from producer Jerry Renfro (Robert Downey Jr.), with one condition  action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) must be attached to the project.  Ecstatic, Bowfinger goes to work; he hires a cast and crew and everything is in place, except that Kit Ramsey will have nothing to do with him.  Not to worry; Bowfinger convinces the others involved that Ramsey is aboard, but the scenes with their star will have to be shot, well, without the star actually being there. 	Written by Steve Martin and directed by Frank Oz, `Bowfinger' is funny and entertaining.  Murphy has one of his best outings in years in the dual role of Ramsey and `Jiff,'  the hapless double Bowfinger gets to stand in for his star for the action sequences.  Heather Graham is Daisy, a young actress literally just off the bus from the Midwest who is hired by Bowfinger for a small part in his movie.  Daisy, however, we soon learn is anything but `just off the bus,' as she comically employs the traditional Hollywood behind-the-scenes politics to convert her bit part into a lead role.  Christine Baranski is Carol, the lead actress who rationalizes her way through Bowfinger's ridiculous explanations of why she is doing scenes without the participation of the lead actor; and Steve Martin shines as the opportunistic Bowfinger.   	With an able supporting cast that includes Barry Newman (Kit's agent), Terence Stamp (Terry), Jamie Kennedy (Dave) and Adam Alexi-Malle (Afrim), `Bowfinger' stays right on track and offers some memorable moments, including a running parody of Scientology, and an especially hilarious scene in which Jiff negotiates traffic while attempting to cross a busy freeway on foot. When Martin and Murphy are `on' and have good material to work with, they can make you laugh; in this film, they succeed.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"A film that is waiting for that Fed-Ex Delivery.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is an imaginative film about a failed film director ( Steve Martin) who tries to make it big by making a film staring a top Hollywood actor (Eddie Murphy) without his knowlege. This does lead to some funny moments but not enough for my liking. Half way through the film we stumble across his lookalike who turns out to be his brother! It does get a little bit silly at times ( a typicle Eddie Murphy film) which spoils it a little. But there are enough funny moments to keep you interested. I love the look of Fake Purse Ninja's. I would pay to watch that! 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Compares with Ed Wood","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was in no rush to see this film, believing that Martin and Murphy haven't done a watchable film in years. I was pleasantly surprised by this film - plenty of good laughs, coupled with a clever story. Did anyone notice the similarities between this film and ED WOOD? Bowfinger and Ed Wood both shot low budget films, and both used inspired means to get famous people into their work (Ed Wood's use of Bela Lugosi, Bowfinger's use of Kit Ramsey). Having seen both, it seems clear to me that Martin was more than a little inspired by the Ed Wood story. All in all, I'd have to recommend BOWFINGER. "},{"Title":"Highly Enjoyable!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never really wanted to see Bowfinger, and when I rented it I must say I was very impressed! The screenplay was amazingly original and the acting from Heather Graham and Eddie Murphy was absolutely excellent! Yet it is really Steve Martin's movie, he is hilarious, and his blackly comic script is one of the best of 1999!By no means a comedic masterpeice, but a highly enjoyable comedy to boot.Rating 8  "},{"Title":"Bowfinger would have been better had Bowfinger been better","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are more than enough moments of hilarity; and in one respect I've become a convert Eddie Murphy is a much greater comic talent than I'd given him credit for being.  He nails two very different roles perfectly and (as it seems) effortlessly.  Steve Martin I'd never had any doubts about.  A very good comedy, then if you think, as I do, that Roxanne and LA Story were both funny and fresh, you'll think the same of this one.But all the same I wonder about one aspect of Bobby Bowfinger's character.  There's something about him that attracts followers, he's no fool, and when it comes to the mechanics of filming he exhibits pure logistical genius.  How could a smart guy like him POSSIBLY mistake Chubby Rain for a good script?  How could he make ANY of the idiotic aesthetic judgments he actually makes?  How could his film wind up being so bad?  Bowfinger's highly selective ineptitude allows Martin to crack a few jokes, but they're all fairly cheap jokes ha ha, aren't some movies dreadful.  I couldn't help watching how much better (funnier, richer, more sparkling) Bowfinger would have been had Bowfinger been making a GOOD movie.  THAT would have been a REAL challenge.  Bowfinger's manifest skill counts for little if all he does in the end is make a Z-grade shocker anyone can do THAT.A nice conceit, then, of Martin's, but not quite on target.  It's still very funny. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, better than many new comedies.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into Bowfinger thinking it would be the same old type of laugh-out-loud hysterics, because it has Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, but to my surprise, and delight, it was different. his movie is not the same old same old, it's fresh and very well written. I laughed quite a bit during this movie. That's not to say it's one of the best or anything, the film had a lot of problems, but, for what it was, I'd gladly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy together! It's got to be funny! (sarcastic humour intended)","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...if only this was the 1980's and both still made good movies every year. Steve Martin's descent into comedy hell has been well documented. Everyone knows he hasn't been funny for ten years. It's hardly a consolation that at his lowest he was still better than Robin Williams and Dan Ackroyd. You see, Steve Martin was never in Soul Man.Eddie Murphy has appeared on more than one occasion to be trading on past glories. But Steve Martin is such a nice guy that everyone hoped he could regain some pride.The reputations of both Murphy and Martin are resurrected in Bowfinger, drawn from a typically polite and inoffensive Martin script, which shows just how at odds his brand of humour is with modern comedy practices. Unfortunately, director Frank Oz - responsible for IN AND OUT - has directed a film similar to that effort in that great things are expected, but only mildly amusing ones materialise.   still manages to deliver an exceptionally nice Hollywood satire, which is strange. The big question is is it funny? Kind of. You best rank it as Martin's best film of the nineties, that way you can sit on the fence.It promises self-parody but the material is restrained and neither star plays on their real personalities. There's more than a hint of bitterness in Graham's character. She's an awkwardly manipulated caricature, like the writer was hanging his dirty laundry out to dry in public. The end result is more embarrassing than funny.It could have been great or it could have been terrible but BOWFINGER ends up being neither the masterpiece its inspired premise suggests or a complete failure. He's not a spent force, but if this is the best Steve Martin could muster, I wouldn't hold your breath for his next effort. "},{"Title":"Funny, goofy, and crazy!--But great!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was 'Awesome.'  To me, Eddie Murphy was really good in this movie.  He did a very good job of playing two totally different characters (He also does a good job of playing multiple characters in the Nutty Professor.)  and Steve Martin was funny. My favorite character in this movie was Carol (Christine Baranski), but Heather Graham was funny too (especially when Bowfinger was filming and she used that accent!)  Steve Martin did an excellent job at writing this movie- and I didn't find it boring in any part.  This movie is full of excitement, comedy, craziness, and a great story, with great actors. "},{"Title":"Martin and Murphy make one great team.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is it just me or does Frank Oz know how to make really funny movies? Examples In & Out, What About Bob? and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. Now he's made Bowfinger. He must be as wise as Yoda.In this movie Steve Martin is Bobby Bowfinger, a producer who is struggling to get his movie, Chubby Rain, made. He wants to get paranoid action star Kit Ramsey(Murphy) to star in it. But when he turns it down, he decides the best way to get him to star in it is to not let him know he's in it.Martin hasn't been this funny since his old SNL days. Murphy is great as Kit and his naive brother Jif Ramsey. It also has some other funny characters such as Heather Graham, Christine Baranski, Jamie Kennedy, Terence Stamp and Robert Downey Jr.This isn't one to turn down. So if you see it, watch it. It's a gas!  "},{"Title":"This movie has moments of pure hilarity","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although it takes it's own precious time to get to them, once Eddie Murphy's alter-ego kicks in, this movie has moments of pure hilarity.  Not to mention, some great, if slightly restrained, satire regarding the Scientology cult.  Steve Martin (who writes this film and co-stars with Murphy) actually still has a funny bone.  Who woulda thunk? "},{"Title":"Funny Steve Martin movie","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was better than I thought it would be.  The best work Steve Martin has done since Parenthood.  The script I thought was very original, the ending a little cheesy, but overall it was funny.  I enjoyed Steve Martin's character the most, but all the characters did a great job.  I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys Martin and his skits on SNL.  Watch this movie!!!!! "},{"Title":"Lotsa fun","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, when it comes to comedy, both Martin and Murphy areat the top of the game. Put them together, and they can almost do no wrong.First, to truly understand the comedic genius that is Martin, see Either Planes, Trains and Automobiles or Dirty Rotten Scoundrels (where he plays the straight guy and the nutty guy respectively along side the late John Candy and Michael Cain). Nuff said.Murphy is quite arguably THE best actor in Hollywood. Murphy has made a career of playing multiple parts in a single film, and has that ability to maintain the consistency of each separate character within each film. From Coming to America, to The Nutty Professor, to Life, etc., you gotta love it.Now about Bowfinger.You've read all the other reviews, but I think I like most that Murphy's acting does not upstage Martin's main character and story. Both Murphy's characters are...um...interesting, but he doesn't overdo it to get in the way of Martin's character, which is a cookie-cutter character he plays often; even though it's standard Martin, it's still fun.The parody on Hollywood life is fun, from Robert Downy Jr.'s recollection of how he almost lost his dream car in his divorce in which he wasn't saddened to let his ex-wife get the kids, to star-spotting and chasing, following them as they try to live their private lives in public, to fringe wannabe directors manipulating to get opportunities, to the stereotyped mid-west strumpet sleeping her way to the screen...All in all, if you're looking to relax and have a laugh, thismovie will fit the bill. "}{"Title":"Very amusing, Very silly","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BOWFINGER   * * *    Very amusing, very silly satire on Hollywood. Eddie Murphy successfully  creates two totally different characters, one a paranoid, arrogant action movie star , the other a dim-witted good-natured errand boy.  Steve Martin wrote the clever script and co-stars, "},{"Title":"I have expected more!!!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie should be one of the funniest movies of the 90's, but it wasn't, the story is good, the actors are great, but I felt that there is something missing that would make the movie much funnier, for example, the Jeff character which I think is the funniest of them all, yet the film makers didn't concentrate on and appeared on very few scenes. BS  "},{"Title":"HollyWoody","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As writer and star, Martin satirises contemporary Hollywood with much the same endearing quality as Woody Allen did for 1930s Broadway in his film 'Bullets Over Broadway'.Too often have past Hollywood satires been overtly self indulgent, packed full of in jokes and knowing references, thus alienating everyone but the avid Variety reader.  Martin's latest effort however, is sufficiently character driven to avoid this.  'Bowfinger', like the aforementioned Allen picture, has to its credit numerous entertaining characters who enliven the screen with their charming idiosyncrasies.  And the cast do them justice, especially Martin as the title character, a director who'll stop at nothing to get his picture made.  In fact Martin always looks best at ease when working off his own material.  Meanwhile Murphy once again proves more than capable of pulling off a double role with hilarious flair, and Heather Graham is as sexy as ever as a promiscuous Hollywood debutant.Of course it's vital in any comedy that there be one or two memorably funny moments, and there are certainly a few hilarious set pieces on show here.  A scene where Murphy, as the film star's dim witted brother, dices with death on a busy freeway full of cars that Martin has falsely informed him are being driven by stunts extras, is particularly amusing.It's good to see Martin returning to his true form again and let's face it... it's been long overdue!  "},{"Title":"Not as great as I thought it would be","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was okay, but not great. Steve Martin is the eponymous Bowfinger who has a dream. That dream is for a Fed Ex van to roll up to his house and hand deliver to him a package inviting him to direct a major motion picture. But in order to be noticed by anyone he first has to direct one film which will showcase his talent to an audience. After seeing his advances to major stars flatly rejected he hits upon the novel idea of filming one, Kit Ramsey, without his knowledge and slotting him into his latest blockbuster. This is basically the plot of the film and though it's pleasant enough to sit through it didn't strike me the way it should have. It seemed a lot like a b-movie straight-to-video, albeit a decent one, with top notch talent. Without Eddie Murphy's superb turn as the intensely paranoid conspiracy theorist Ramsey the whole thing might have sucked. In the end it was just okay. "},{"Title":"Finally Martin is back","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After over 10 years of dogs keek, Martin is back to his funniest best. His script was very, very intelligent and funny, I'm surprised he didn't direct this film himself. Anyway, he isn't the only amazing thing in the film, Eddie Murphy's performance as the 2 brothers is absolutely hilarious. The geeky one, Jiff, is by far the funniest thing in the film, just check out the karate scene at the end, comic masterpiece. Bowfinger is one of the funniest film I've seen all year. 10/10. P.S. The anamorphic DVD of this movie is brilliant. "},{"Title":"Good fun, but not as hilarious as its individual ingredients","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Apart from basically being a one-joke movie, this isn't bad at all. However I would expect more from two comedy greats such as Martin and Murphy, especially as the latter doesn't work his comedy until half way through the film. Steve Martin is solid, but has never reached his former heights. Heather Graham is, as always, beautifully appealing, but here again I feel more could have been made of her character.This is a good popcorn-ridden Saturday matinee film which will maybe leave you chuckling (slightly). Don't expect too much though... "},{"Title":"Cracking barrel of laughs","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I can't believe the amount of negative opinion that's stacked up on this reviews page - this is a great film packed with classic laugh-out-loud moments, Eddie Murphy proving once again he can do more than just variations on Axel Foley (both his roles are done quite brilliantly) and Martin, well, just doing his Steve Martin thing really, but in a great way. The script is packed with giggle lines and there are so many sight gags and situations its hard to keep up, you don't get time to recover from laughing at one scene to catch the next. Definitely one to watch again to spot all those bits you missed - love those movie posters around Martin's house/headquarters - maybe even to buy and see as often as the mood takes you (for me it would be at least monthly). Heather Graham's delightfully over-the-top wannabe actress is perfect, and the other cast members do well in limited roles, though Terence Stamp can't seem to decide if he's doing an accent or not. One scene (the bit where Jiff starts on about how great everyone's been to him) threatens to introduce the gooey sentimentalism that has drowned a lot of Martin's recent work, but it's cut admirably short and the comedy is back on track from there. Not as classy as Ed Wood, but as funny, and in a far lighter, more easy-going stylee. Good fun all round - and check out the spectacularly grand finale. "},{"Title":"Sorry, I really wanted to like this one","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie with high hopes I like Steve Martin and also Eddie Murphy, when he's funny (which doesn't happen always). Also, when I read the reviews, I expected plenty of laughs and biting satire. However, the laughs were scarce and the satire turned out to be rather toothless (in spite of such easy targets as Hollywood and New-Age cults). In spite of some good gags, like the dog with the high-heel pumps for the fake footsteps, and the Mexican illegal aliens who in the beginning know nothing about cinema and end up reading Cahiers du Cinma, it isn't really funny, or at least not as funny as I expected. And as I said, the story is good, but by the middle of it I realized that I had already seen this idea (people without money or talent driven by their obvious love of the movies) in a better movie, that is, Tim Burton's Ed Wood. The performances are not to blame in general they are very good (although the great Terence Stamp as the Pseudo-Scientologist guru is completely wasted). That does not save the movie, though. I cannot honestly say it is terrible, but it falls very short of what might have been.  "},{"Title":"This was laugh-out-loud funny without being adolescent.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm so tired of all the comedies aimed at 13-year-olds, so I found Bowfinger was a welcome relief.  I thought Heather Graham's frantic arm-flinging acting and her on again-off again vaguely Scottish accent was hilarious! Of course Steve Martin was great, and the send-up of Scientology was marvelous. I agree with others' comments that Eddie Murphy was funny again, thank goodness.  All in all, a satisfying and very funny movie.  Yeah, it was silly, but it wasn't stupid.   "},{"Title":"Great Satire!","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think alot of people who didn't like this movie either missed the point entirely or they aren't familiar with Hollywood. This was a great satirical look at Hollywood and the those who inhabit it. Steve Martin is probably one of the best comedy writers around today. And Eddie Murphy has finally made a movie where he's actually funny again. I thought Eddie Murphy's dual role was great, each character was halarious. See this film if you like comedy and satire. "}{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone was hyping this movie when it came out, how it was 'hilarious', roll on the floor funny. So I went to see it but ended up leaving bitterly disappointed. Everything in Bowfinger is bad. Bad acting, bad plot, bad script, and cringe-inducingly bad directing.The whole film has a very pathetic, amature feel to it. It's a contrived, unfunny, predictable, boring mess. Even the usually brilliant Steve Martin is awful in this and Heather Graham proves once again, that she can't act. (As if her 'performance' in Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me wasn't bad enough).Bowfinger is a forgettable, embarrassing, unfortunate mistake in the history of filmmaking. Nothing can save it. Not even Eddie Murphy. Don't waste your money, time or effort on this.Woeful.-1,000,000 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Rats! I thought it was going to be funny.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I might have laughed a couple of times, but it was probably in desperation after having spent $3 to rent it. Reading others' commentary here, I'm astonished that some people seem to be recommending it. Astonished, really. If the cast and crew aren't embarrassed to have their names attached to this, they ought to be. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin does what he does.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All right, all right.  It was silly and dumb and you could see most of the jokes coming two scenes away.  In other words, it was a Steve Martin comedy. As much as I found fault with it, it fulfilled the one ESSENTIAL role of a comedy.  It made me laugh.  Often.  Out loud even.Call me shallow, but I liked it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Hilarious!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Bowfinger came out, I had absolutely no interest in seeing it.  My wife rented it  on video recently and my first reaction was oh no!  Well, well, as it turns out, Bowfinger is a pretty good movie.  There are some scenes that were laugh out loud funny.  The Jiff character attempting to cross the highway as stunt doubles drive by was completely hilarious.  Steve Martin making a deal on a car/cell phone in a restaurant was another one.  There are plenty of laughs to be found here.  I'm not even a Steve Martin fan.  And Eddie Murphy, as another reviewer pointed out, is not consistently funny anymore.  So, I had no high hopes for this movie as the opening credits rolled; but, in the end I was happy with the performances.  8 out of 10 stars.   "},{"Title":"Started out OK, then went downhill","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had all sorts of hopes of this movie since my daughter and her husband both loved it.   It started out okay, but then it was just the same old joke.   It rememinded me of the zany comedies of the 30's movies where what might be funny then is no longer funny now.   I actually fell asleep toward the end and was glad when it was over.    Don't waste your time, rent a W. C. Fields movie like It's A Gift if you want humor.      "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger was actually quite funny.  I didn't bother to go see it when it came out in theaters, but I rented it not to long ago and I enjoyed it. I've never been much of a fan of Eddie Murphy's, but I have always loved Steve Martin and both of them were funny in this film.If you feel like watching a good comedy, then rent it tonight.  I gave it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Some familiar and fresh faces","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't expect so much on this one and you'll find more than a few laughs.  Heather Graham's not so dumb blonde sleeps her way to the top of a real oddball crew.  Christine Baranski is always a hoot, and I thought Steve Martin was pleasantly goofy in this one---certainly more fun than in The Out of Towners.  The restaurant scene with Robert Downey, Jr. and his direction of Murphy's Jif dodging traffic are played to perfection.  "},{"Title":"What a rip-off!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a giant rip-off of Tim Burton's ED WOOD which was a true masterpiece! Imitation is supposed to be the sincerest form of flattery but not in this case. When you see Bowfinger you get the feeling you have seen this film before and when the anti-climax comes with the scene in the movie house showing all the performers you get that sickening feeling that you have been hoodwinked! This film continues with another anti-climax, which everyone in the world and his dog knows what to expect, when the Fed-Ex truck has a delivery for Steve Martin's character. Then comes the climax which shows they will make more films with the brother of Eddie Murphy's character. The writers should mention Tim Burton in the closing credits for the entire idea of this film or hide their heads in shame for this gigantic ripoff! "},{"Title":"Entertaining. . .","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film because I wanted a quick shot of entertainment, and I got it. Will I watch it again? Probably not. It was a great spoof on the making of low-budget films, with the added attraction of being unabashedly irreverent to Hollywood. Sort of like biting the hand that feeds you, but I guess Steve Martin can afford to do so. The script was original, the acting believable. . . hey, it was a comedy! "},{"Title":"Doesn't everybody know a bowfinger?","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sophisticated enough to evaluate all the techniques of making a good film.  However, I am sophisticated enough to think a film is good if it transports me to a different time and place from the theater or living room I'm watching it from.  In the case of Bowfinger, it had me from the moment the title character was introduced.  I know people who scramble and scrape to carry off an image, and Steve Martin's writing nailed that guy I know to a tee.  I was totally fascinated to see how he came up with fast cars, good clothes and convenient coincidence in order to compete with the big budget producers.  Of course, I was pulling for him to be successful and the movie kept that realization just beyond my (and Bowfinger's) reach for an hour and a half.  Jiff's dash across the freeway had me totally collapsed. The recruitment, then development of the filming crew was clever as was Daisy's climb up the ladder (chain?)of success.  No smarmy sex, no filthy talk, no unwarranted violence.  I can see why nervous guys could diss this movie, but for those of us that just want to step away from Kennewick, WA for a couple hours, it was good stuff.   "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why everyone is raving about this film so much.  I only laughed a couple of times, and I thought it got quite redundant in the middle of the film with the crew following Murphy, Graham sleeping with someone, and Martin cheering the crew on over and over and over again.  Good performances, but not as good as everyone is making them out to be.  Steve Martin played his old cliched role, Eddie Murphy was good but I thought his duality in The Nutty Professor showed his talent more, Jamie Kennedy played the same character he always plays, Heather Graham was decent, Christine Baranski was funny in a hapless role, Robert Downey, Junior did a good job.  The only real laughs I got were from the premise of Chubby Rain, the film/movie quip, and the premiere of Chubby Rain.  I have no idea why this film was so critically lauded.. "},{"Title":"The movie was really funny, but there were some boring parts.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **** (4 stars out of 10) I have to admit, the movie lost my interest quite often, it wasn't exactly what you'd call suspenseful! There were some really funny parts, and Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy were great... but this movie was certainly not one of their bests. There were some really boring, slow parts. But I don't regret seeing this film, but I could have easily done with out it. I love comedies. However, this one was kind of, well weird in a bad way. The scenery wasn't tasteful, and it made me feel really bored. But I thought some of the scenes were just hilarious, and the over-all story was pretty funny. Like I said, it's one of those movies that you don't wanna see again... and really don't feel the urge to recommend. But don't get me wrong, I love Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, I just don't like this movie... p.s. I was kind of sleepy when I watched it, so maybe being more awake I would have enjoyed it more!  "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable comedy.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not really a fanatical watcher of comedies, but this one really delivered.  Nothing incredibly flashy or insightful, just a well-made and likeable film that executes its premise very well and provides more than a few honest belly laughs in the process.  Eddie Murphy is particularly good, and I happily recommend this to anyone looking to indulge themselves with a couple of hours of pure park-yer-brain-at-the-door entertainment. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a truly original comedy! Steve Martin has written a very funny movie! Eddie Murphy is great...again in dual roles! especially as the paranoid actor! Anyone who says that this is the worst movie they've ever seen have led very sheltered lives! This one's a definite DVD purchase! 3 0f 4 stars "},{"Title":"Not a bad rental, but ...","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Had I paid $8 to see this movie, I'd be wondering how I could buy back those wasted hours.  However, I only spent the price of a movie rental and wasn't bored.If you've got a couple of hours to kill and you'd like a chuckle or two this is not a bad rental, or better yet, wait until it comes on one of the networks. "},{"Title":"Finger this movie out and take it home.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Great, strange comedy that finally teams up Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy and both of them are in top form.  This is a truly fun film about the maker of B grade films who hasn't actually made a movie yet.  Eddie Murphy is great as both the ultra paranoid Kit Ramsey and the meek, nerdy but lovable Jiff Ramsey.  If you see it on the video shelf pick it up.  Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy's best work in years. "},{"Title":"Another good Martin script","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a nice companion to Martin's LA Story. A good spoof of Hollywood mentality and stereotypes, the movie highlight is one of Eddie Murphy's funniest performances.  Playing duel roles as Kit Ramsey, an action star, and Jiff, a gopher-wannabe, Murphy's Jiff is the typical nerd, a performance that gets laughs with simple facial gestures and goofy actions that many other actors might not have pulled off.The movie is slow the first act, and it's not surprising that when the Jiff character is introduced, it gets really funny. Personally not a Murphy fan, I admit that certain parts of this film, Murphy had me laughing out loud.Some of the gags are really quick and very Martinesque, and some of the movie drags, but overall, if you like Steve Martin or Eddie Murphy, you'll enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"A true side-splitting comedy","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  Steve Martin wrote it, and I think it's one of his best yet.  Actually, it's been a while since I've seen a good, goofy comedy as funny as this.  In it, Martin plays the type of character that he plays best, the sneaky con artist who manipulates everyone around him in order to accomplish his goals.  And Eddie Murphy is the funniest that I've seen him in a while; playing a dual role, and doing an awesome job with both characters.  This movie contains some of the most gut-wrenchingly funny scenes that I've seen in a long time.  I say that because I found myself laughing so hard at some spots that my stomach hurt.  And from what I heard, so did everyone else in the theater.  If you want to see a good, crazy comedy, see Bowfinger! "},{"Title":"Great comedy entertainment","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I expected this to be at least a good comedy, given the cast and screenplay, but it was actually much better than good.  Very entertaining, good pace and direction, constant humor and many major laughs, and even a significant message behind the humor.  Murphy and Martin are both excellent, and many of their scenes had me laughing out loud (which is rare for me).  Good for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Kudos to Martin and Murphy !!!1","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a fantastic movie,,,, I laughed my @@s off.... My favorite... the mexican day laborers, a very funny take on it. Eddie Murphy is great as the twin brother and its a side we havent seen of him! And Steve Martin, well what can you say... they have a great movie on their hands. Rent it, Rent it, Rent it!! wish I would have seen it on the big screen. "}{"Title":"scintillating comedy","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though not a comic jewel on a par with his 1991 LA Story, Steve Martin's latest comedy, Bowfinger, stands as an inventive, high-spirited, occasionally silly, but often hilarious take on the trials and tribulations encountered in the over-saturated world of low budget filmmaking.Martin stars as Bowfinger, a down-on-his-luck wannabe head of a movie production company that brings new meaning to the term shoestring.  With an equally ragtag band of idealists as his crew, this quixotic visionary hits upon an absurd scheme to bring his godawful action film script to fruition;  after it is handily rejected by Kit Ramsey, one of the hottest action stars in the business, Bowfinger concocts a scheme to film his screenplay AROUND the actor, plotting the man's every move, following him around town, and instructing his own amateur actors (who are oblivious to Ramsey's obliviousness) to jump out and act out their parts for the hidden cameras before an increasingly startled and distraught Ramsey.  This clever setup generates a considerable wave of comic energy that propels the story forward even though, like most films that rely heavily on a one-joke premise, the film does suffer a bit from the diminishing returns of repetition.  However, Martin's creative skills as both a writer and director keep the idea fresh for most of the film's running time.The film is blessed with an absolutely smashing comic performance by Eddie Murphy, who brings just the right note of both arrogance and anxiety to his portrait of a superstar whose internal insecurities and paranoia are hidden beneath a veneer of arrant egotism and aggressive despotism.  Murphy is less successful with his other role, that of a shy nerdish Ramsey look alike (he actually turns out to be Ramsey's brother) whom the crew is compelled to use as a stand in for the real star when the latter is driven to seek a rest cure to soothe his frazzled nerves, caused, ironically, by Bowfinger's own antics.  In all fairness to Murphy, however, in the character of Jiff, the actor has been given no solid center from which to build an effective comic performance.  As a writer,Martin has failed to really develop Jiff's purpose in the proceedings and the character seems tacked on mostly to give Murphy a chance to indulge in some weak displays of slack jawed buffoonery.Where the film does triumph is in the constant inventivenss of the situations, particularly the clever way in which Ramsey's paranoia dovetails so nicely with the absurdity swirling around him.  Martin has also cast a company of first-rate performers as the sharply delineated secondary characters who make up Bowfinger's never-say-die team.  Particularly wonderful are Heather Graham, whose character stumbles off a bus a naive young kid from Ohio, idealistically in search of quick stardom, who quickly learns to use her feminine wiles to enhance her starmaking opportunities, and Christine Baranski, whose over-the-hill and over-the-top method actress, determined come hell or high water to make an impression on the blithely unaware Ramsey, provides many of the genuine belly laughs in the film.Bowfinger lacks the keen societal and psychological insights of Martin's greatest film, LA Story, since it does tend to flail satirically at more obvious and less universal targets.  Nevertheless, Martin creates a tone of utter devil-may-care silliness that sparkles throughout the often quasi-slapstick proceedings.  Like any fine comedy, it envelops the audience in a world where just about anything can happen.  And Martin is filmmaker enough to make us want to come inside and be a part of it. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger wants to make a movie but can't without Kit Ramsay, after a failed mission to get him he, and his amatuer film company staff must improvise.","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) has a to die for script called Chubby Rain, but it wont get produced by a big-time producer unless Kit Ramsay (Eddie Murphy) stars in the movie. After trespassing onto Kit's property, impersonating a postman and pretending to be in the club Kit is a member of (mindhead) he still fails. But then he devises a plan to film the movie with Kit, without Kit knowing. Kit soon experienced characters (actors in Chubby Rain) walking up to him in public and doing acts, calling him Kieth, saying they love him, he soon is freaked and goes to a psychiatrist-like person at Mindhead (Terence Stamp). We discover that Kit used to see aliens and such and he thinks that the people coming up to him are aliens. And the movie Chubby Rain is about aliens coming down in rain drops. Soon he is running away from steve martin, heather graham (in her first well-acted role) and... Baranski (can't remember her first name). He is freaked and then theres the writer of the script who starts oozing brown goo, jamie kennedy (my fave actor from Scream, Scream 2, Three Kings), and then the cops find out about the making of chubby rain without bobby's permission we're talking about jail time. But soon the mexican immigrants they hired to be producers get footage of Kit doing something which persuade his psychiatrist to film the final scene. Also thrown in is (spoiler - - - -)Kit's brother (also Eddie Murphy) who they hire to do scenes when they can't find places to get the real Kit (when he doesn't know it's happening)Of coarse they don't know he's kit's brother. There are a few hilarious scene in this movie like when kit's brother must run across the freeway where stunt drivers are driving in his way, the fact that Heather Graham sleeps with anyone and everyone to get what she wants, the brown goo scene and whenever the actors come up to kit and do their scenes without him knowing and the fact that in the final scene they show the final product and it looks so amatuer and perthetic it is too funny! Then there is the scene with... Baranski with the knife when she is possessed by the aliens and she's screaming it is pure comedy. Steve Martin script is hilarious when it wants to be and as always my fave actor Jamie Kennedy gives a good performance but honours must go to Heather Graham who's acting skills are really put to the test (unlike in Scream2 where she played an actress in a movie within a movie that was meant to be cheesy, or Austin Powers 2 where i thought she didn't act well! And also Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin who are pure comedy geniuses in my books!  "},{"Title":"Movie making insanity from Steve Martin","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Right now, somewhere in Hollywood, there is an individual like Bobby Bowfinger.  This person is a  dreamer.  They dream of great, lofty ideas that will raise the art of cinema to new heights.   Unfortunately, these people don't have an ounce of talent to save their lives.  But, for what they  lack in talent, they make up for it in determination and no setback, like not having a major star,  will not stop them in their quest.   Written by Steve Martin, Bowfinger has enough jokes to fill  several films about the life of a Hollywood hopeful.  Eddie Murphy is at his hysterical best  playing the paranoid and loud Kit Ramsey, and in a totally opposite role, playing the meek and  quiet Jif.  Under the deft direction of Frank Oz, Bowfinger never becomes mean or cynical.   What we are presented with is a film about dreamers who hope to achieve what everyone wants  in the world.  And in the end, Bobby Bowfinger's dreams are realized.  Plus, the ending is a  howler!         "},{"Title":"How do you film a movie when the star won't do it? Don't tell him!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So here we have Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin), a director whose career has seen far better days. In the opening scene he is finishing a read of a script he just KNOWS will make him a star. Before too long, Bowfinger's pitching the movie to the industry's #1 action star, Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy). Ramsey, of course, isn't too inclined to take on the project, and seems a little unbalanced himself. Seems he's seeing a therapist on the side who has been advising him to keep it together (Keep It Together = KIT - get it?). So since Kit won't do the project, and Bowfinger's already told his cast and crew he WILL do it, what's a forlorn director to do? That's right, shoot the movie without Kit knowing it! There are six scenes with Kit's character, so Bowfinger shoots all the others as normal, then has to use a little trickery to finish the others. At first he shoots them actually WITH Kit, although of course Kit has no idea he's being filmed; for closeup scenes, he auditions lookalikes for the part. The winner is a decidedly unstylish, non-suave dork named Jif (also played by Murphy, who's experienced at playing multiple roles). Of course, the resolution of this movie isn't tough to figure out - will Bowfinger get his movie in the can, with or without Kit knowing - but it's the getting to that resolution that's the real fun. Martin's a real treat as the over-the-top, get-this-movie-done-at-all-costs Bowfinger, and it's a role he absolutely plays to the hilt. And I doubt this movie would have been a big deal at all if Murphy wasn't cast in it. I've always enjoyed him when he does multiple roles, which he's done in several of his films, but the spins he put on both Kit and Jif were tremendous! I sincerely doubt any other actor could have pulled off the feat as well as Murphy did, and who knows - maybe it'll resuscitate his career. The script is crisp, and there are hardly any slackers in the entire cast. One of the best is the lovely Heather Graham, who has shown her acting chops (among other things) to us in Boogie Nights, Lost in Space, and Swingers, to name a few. Graham plays Daisy, a just-off-the-bus-from-Ohio naif who sleeps her way from the cameraman to the screenwriter to the director to make sure her scenes are in the film. Frank Oz is the director, but I don't think he had a lot to do with the overall success of the film. He's directed a few Steve Martin films before (Housesitter and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels), and my instinct tells me that he kind of stepped back and let Martin and Murphy do their thing. "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Eddie Murphy, you will laugh hard to this movie.  Eddie Murphy plays two roles, a big time actor and the geeky version of his younger brother.  The way they make this movie is an imagination gone wild.  Steve Matrin plays a wanna be film maker who has been struggling for years to become a success in Hollywood.  He has a young guy - Jamie Kennedy -that is able to borrow whatever video equipment they need for the film.  They need a star without any money to be able to pay for one and some how ... they manage to do that. This movie is really funny the way that everything is put together in the end.  You'll want to see it over and over again. "},{"Title":"A Truly funny movie","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a very funny and entertaining movie.  A few bad words but really a god show for all.  I think Eddie Murphy gives a stunning performance as Kit.  He acted with feeling.  I have to watch it again and again.  I recommend it to ALL. "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good.  Enjoyable.  See it.  Rent or buy it.  NOW.  "},{"Title":"More Clever than Funny","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with many clever films, the audience is expected to persevere through the beginning of the film. (Rather like listening to a joke and waiting for the punchline) It is a worthwhile wait when the story takes rather interesting turns.Altogether there were some great ideas and a rather telling critique about the excesses in film making today. No doubt Eddie Murphy was in good form here. His performance as the paranoid Kit Ramsay has got to be seen. The ending is a scream! I just about split my sides laughing. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I admit I had to be dragged to see this movie but am I ever glad I did.  I literally laughed myself sick.  It's hard for me to point to a favorite part, although the scene in the parking lot, and another one where Christine Baranski's character goes up to Murphy's and starts spouting her lines come close. I'm not a big Eddie Murphy fan but he was dynamite here, and Steve Martin proves once again that he's one of the most underrated talents of his generation.  Hopefully this film will bring his talents to a wider audience.  If I had any say in the matter both of them would get Oscar nominations come spring time, and so would Christine Baranski, who's absolutely hysterical.  When I saw Bowfinger I was going through some stuff in my personal life and for 2 hours I was able to forget about all that.  Isn't that what movies are all about?  I've never recommended a film so enthusiastically.   "},{"Title":"Martin/Murphy combo works for me","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a movie during which you don't have to think too hard and generates quite a few laughs. Martin plays a washed up actor/producer that still yearns for that big break. Using his accountant's script and famous star Kit Ramsey (without Kit's permission) he attempts to film a blockbuster on a shoestring. He also utilises a Ramsey look-alike to great effect. Martin is slick as Bowfinger and Murphy does well as the paranoid Ramsey. A worthwhile flick that leaves you smiling. "}{"Title":"Too thin on laughs","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a pathetic movie.  If you have seen any previews or advertisements for this movie then you have probably seen most of the funny parts - so don't go and waste your money on it.  I can't believe Eddie Murphy agreed to do this movie.  But then again he also did Holy Man.  Maybe if I was American it would have seemed heaps funny - since shows like The Late Show with David Letterman and Mad About You are 'hit' comedies (even though they suck).This movie had the potential to be really funny, but it wasn't.  Maybe if Eddie Murphy had written the script it could have been good.  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy rules","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The scenes where Eddie Murphy is keeping it together are comedy at its best. He is really paranoid.I would recommend this movie to anybody wanting a light and very funny movie to watch.Rating 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Martin shows that he still knows comedy, even if other people don't.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Have you ever been in a movie where you were duly unimpressed at first, but at the half-way point you started to have fun, and enjoy it?  I recently did, and the movie was Bowfinger.  I don't mean ecstatic, this is the best I've ever seen fun, but basic enjoyment of a film.  First let me set the record straight.  I believe that Steve Martin is the funniest comedian out there, even funnier than (please don't hurt me for saying so) Adam Sandler.  Steve Martin's name on a movie always ensures some humor.  In this movie directed by Yoda and Fozzie voice Frank Oz, Mr. Martin (The Jerk, Father of the Bride) plays Bobby Bowfinger, a third-rate filmmaker.  He reads a script which he enjoys thoroughly, then goes looking for the cast and crew.  This leads him to popular actor Kit Ramsey, played by Eddie Murphy (Beverly Hills Cop).  Kit is to play the lead in the film&#133;only he doesn't know it.  Filming is done in a very creative manner, where the actors go up to Kit whenever they can film him and read their lines to him, recording his reactions.  One of the actors is  Heather Graham playing the slightly friendly leading lady, Daisy.  Her character is nice to look at, but I got a little bit sick of her escapades (with 6 different people, I might add).   Anyway, over time, Ramsey starts getting scared of his surroundings, in which people come to him off the street and read strange lines to him.  Of course, he doesn't know he's being filmed.  Eventually, the stress gets to him and he needs to be sent away and Bobby is without an actor.  So he hires a lookalike geek (also played by Murphy) to play the part in some scenes (including the highway scene).  I was rather disappointed by the use of the geek.  The previews played him up to be a really important character, but really you see most of his scenes in the previews. The pace of the movie starts to pick up at this point, having good scenes such as Bobby setting up for a date with Daisy, the hot scene from the previews (You're doing great!), and an absolutely hilarious scene involving Kit again and the shooting of a sort of FBI agent.  This is where the movie starts its upward climb.	 	All in all, this was a pretty good movie.  It was played cool at times, and often over the top, but in the end it all flows together.  While Bowfinger may not be a potential classic (as Regis predicted), it certainly is a good way to spend a few hours of your time if you're in the vicinity of a theater.  "},{"Title":"VERY FUNNY MOVIE","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BOWFINGER IS A VERY funny movie starring Steve Martin as a man who's trying to make a movie but cant get the right connections in Hollywood.So he tells the people in his cast that hes going to get Kit Ramsy (Eddie Murphy) the hottest action star for his movie. But Ramsey doesn't agree to do his movie. So Martin tells his cast to do lines in front of where Murphy is. Murphy gets freaked out and goes some where, were he wont be followed. Murphy gets a look-alike (also played by Murphy) to play the mute roles for Ramsey.Great comedy has Murphy and Martin in their comeback roles. Murphy is especially terrific. Heather Graham is also good as an actress who sleep with members of the cast to get bigger roles. "},{"Title":"how to shoot a movie","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is comedy stuff!Steve Martin wrote the script.In the movie, he did not.He tries to get out of poverty by persuading Kit Ramsey(Eddie Murfie) to participate in a sci-fiction movie. 'Close encounters of the third kind' is the style of movie to be shot.When that famous actor refuses to act,Martin will try to film him in his ignorance and in addition he will enrol someone resembling to the famous actor! Good humor,fast plot and harismatic scenes that will keep the spectator laughing. "},{"Title":"Not Out Of The Woods Yet","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To continue.  Films about film making.  Bowfinger is a pleasant enough romp.  I do like Steve Martin's clowning antics.  (The dog on the settee scene was laugh out loud.  Who says you can't upstage 'em?  And the Wetbacks.  And the Freeway.  OK.  There were a few.)  Eddie Murphy continues to entertain through sheer hard work and my appreciation of Heather Graham gathers pace.  But haven't we seen this before?  Isn't this Ed Wood again so soon?  It's all too easy isn't it?Ron  "},{"Title":"Ed Wood Revisited","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this movie really is funny and worth seeing. But why do Ed Wood all over again? There are so many similarities you could call this flick a remake. The basic premise is that the star doesn't know he's starring. Anyone who remembers the shots taken in front of Bela Lugosi's house which were incorporated into Plan 9 From Outer Space knows how to do this already. Where Ed Wood used a Bela Lugosi double, Bowfinger uses the star's brother. The end of Ed Wood is repeated here as well (although the movie moves on, and Fake Purse Ninjas is simply hilarious). The list goes on, but you get the picture Bowfinger's very well done, but hardly original.  "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in good film shocker!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, I'll admit it.  Since Beverly Hills Cop (1!), every Eddie Murphy film I have seen has been crap.  This was excellent though, and he only felt the need to play 2 characters!This was because of the return to the Dirty Rotten Scoundrels days by Steve Martin, he was at his comic best as Bobby Bowfinger, small time film producer.The support cast was very good, and Heather Graham stole the show by sleeping her way to the top, taking the mickey out of herself brilliantly in the process.Perhaps Eddie deserves a 94th chance! "},{"Title":"Live Action Muppet Show","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I noticed that Frank Oz directed this movie, I was surprised. But who better than a puppeteer to wring the funniest, widest-ranging performance yet seen from Mr. Exaggeration himself, Eddie Murphy?Murphy is just a big muppet in Oz's hands. A lot of the humor is based on his extreme facial expressions (not quite Jim Carrey, but closer than I thought I'd ever see) and otherwise over-the-top characterizations. And I don't mean that as a criticism at all, because it turns out to be really funny.Murphy plays both an action-movie star and his nerdy brother. The action-movie star bits use Murphy's patented loud-angry-black-man character, played to the hilt. The nerdy brother scenes, though, are something of a a shock THAT'S Eddie Murphy? They're the best bits in the flick. Murphy must have put more energy and effort into every scene in this movie than into the whole of Beverly Hills Cop 3. (Which, in case you don't get the hint, you should skip.) Any doubts I had about Murphy's basic talent have evaporated.So it's Murphy's movie all the way. The other folks?Steve Martin has a good opening scene, but after that he basically plays the straight man, which he does well enough I guess. As screenwriter, he wrote himself right out of center stage.Heather Graham's role is slight, but she plays it well. (Guys, she's modestly dressed through the whole thing. Yes, really.)Terrence Stamp is amusing as the low-key, screwball head of the new-agey MindHead organization. Hmm, I wonder what litigious bunch of powerful California morons screenwriter Martin is taking umbrage at there?7/10 "},{"Title":"A giggle a minute","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, it may not be the best Steve Martin film but it certainly rates against other ones for laughs.  I giggled from the beginning to the end and came out of the cinema with aching cheeks (facial ones that is) from smiling and giggling so much.  I'd recommend it to anyone who either loves Steve Martin or just needs a good old fashioned cheer-up. "}{"Title":"Funniest Film of the Year","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing the preview for this movie and just laughing my butt off. Then I saw it in theatre and I am still laughing. Everyone in this film were great but this movie belonged to Eddie Murphy. I hope Murphy(like Jim Carrey for The Truman Show) isn't overlooked by the Academy Awards. 8/10  "},{"Title":"an excellent satire on Hollywood (films) -- laugh till U drop!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Bowfinger' is a superb satire on Hollywood. Extremely funny, while at the same time serious issues like racism, sexism, exploitation, the nature of Hollywood films and others are addressed. Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is a wannabe-Hollywood-producer. His accountant Afrim wrote a screenplay Chubby Rain. Alien rain falls on the earth and turns people into pods. (Sounds familiar? Check out the Body Snatcher films!)To make the film, Bobby needs a star. Kit Ramson (Eddie Murphy)is the man, Hollywood's No.1 action star -- after Schwarzie and Sly, of course. But Kit doesn't want to. So they're shooting the film without him.... but with Daisy (Heather Graham)who goes to bed with anyone if it serves her career and Kit's brother Jiff (Eddie Murphy)... who looks exactly like Kit. But for some scenes, they have to follow Kit in order to film him -- good thing Kit is the guy who put the p into paranoia. At the same time he's a member of a powerful brain-wash pseudo-religious organization (the names have been changed to protect the film-makers from being sued -- big time!).... one of the year's funniest films! "},{"Title":"It's a great comedy , a must see !!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best comedy of 99 . Steve & Eddie make a great comedy duo . The laughs never stop . The best Frank Oz film since What About Bob . "},{"Title":"Almost as bad as Ishtar","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Slow moving plot(?) with far too many inside jokes. There was no real character development. I kept hoping for more from Steve Martin who did well in the Father of the Bride movies.Schedule a root canal rather than see this movie. "},{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am usually willing to give a movie the benefit of the doubt, and I can buy some implausible gyrations to lay out the premise of the movie. Bowfinger just asked me to accept FAR too many coincidences, even the basic plot  a superstar actor cast in a movie without his knowledge, and the producers just happen to find his estranged twin brother to play his stunt double?The only redeeming qualities are the scenes with Murphy playing Jiff, especially when we first meet him.  Even these become inane and boring as the movie wears on.I saw it on vacation in a little mountain town in the Sierras, so my expectations were pretty modest going in&#133;basically I hoped it would be funny.  Unfortunately, I only laughed a couple times, and actually felt sorry for the actors in many scenes.And I felt sorry myself for wasting $7.50 and 90 minutes.I hope Martin and Murphy can each make a real comeback because this is not it for either actor. "},{"Title":"This is a movie for the moviebuffs","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I been waiting for this movie for along time to be entertained and it didnt give my hopes up. Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy are pretty funny.  I think this is the movie of Martins career Ive seen it 10 times and I think I'll go another. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise didn't know he was in that vampire movie until two years after.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a simple movie filled with great one-liners and hilarious acting.  There's nothing special about this movie, this won't change the industry forever, it won't open your eyes, and for some people it might not even make you laugh.  But it does entertain. If you have nothing to do this afternoon, go see Bowfinger.  It's not gonna make your life better, but it's not gonna make it worse.  "},{"Title":"Funny and Fun","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was really good. Heather Graham was halioris as well as the other cast. I think if this really happened the people would be arrested but who cares its just a movie! The ending with the kung-fu fighting movie was the best part. I WANT TO BE BOWFINGER! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies of Recent Memory.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  On the level, Bowfinger is an outstanding comedy.  And it really is, don't get me wrong.  There are single scenes in Bowfinger that are funnier than entire movies.  And yet, it's also much more than that.It isn't surprising that Steve Martin wrote this wonderful script, because he's been inside Hollywood for a pretty long time.  He's seen the rise of Scientology, as well as the rise and fall of personalities.  He's seen characters like those portrayed in Bowfinger, and he makes them lovable and detestable at the same time.  He portrays them as ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances, and we're laughing the whole way.  There is, in my opinion, not a single dry moment in this movie.  It's funny, witty, and scorchingly satirical from start to finish.Steve Martin stars as Bobby Bowfinger, an out-of-work filmmaker who just wants a big break.  He thinks he sees it in Chubby Rain, and decides to go for it, no matter what.Which brings us to the actual star of Bowfinger, Eddie Murphy.  Murphy stars as two characters, and I mean that very literally.  He isn't one actor playing two similar guys, but his characters are each so distinct and definite.  It's a marvel to see Murphy weave two such original characters out of Martin's wonderful material.  Now, I ask you, why shouldn't Eddie Murphy be nominated for a Best Actor Oscar?  Comedians do not get enough credit, and I've always believed that.  For example, Jim Carrey should have at least been nominated for The Truman Show, but, dear me, he made us laugh, at least he used to, and we just can't have any of that, can we?  Eddie Murphy is, among other comedians, and outstanding actor, and he should be recognized as such.Bowfinger also features a host of other amusing characters.  Among them is the lovely Heather Graham, who makes a great follow up to her Austin Powers  The Spy Who Shagged Me.  Her character, Daisy, is determined to make it big, no matter what.  There are many others, of course, but theirs are not familiar faces as of yet, but they will be, sooner or later.Overall, Bowfinger is a wicked satire, a cunning comedy, and a chance for Eddie Murphy to really show what he can do.  Don't miss it.***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"The Beautiful Lie...","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a hilarious romp through a story of filming, cheating, and deception.  Martin plays a run-down film maker who is convinced of a friend's quality script and asks Hollywoods biggest star (Murphy) Kit Ramsey to play the part.  Ramsey gets pretty suspicious and goes into hiding and Martin finds a look-alike to do some parts.  The humor in this movie is plain hilarious with the best coming out of the Bowfinger staff with Martin and Murphy.  They should've added more time to the nerdy character Murphy was playing.  All through the movie, I was impressed on how well they did it.  Trust me... you'll love it.   "}{"Title":"Star power backed by great storyline.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With the likes of Steve Martin, Heather Graham, and Eddie Murphy in the lineup, there is no doubt that many movie-goers will be attracted to Bowfinger by this constellation of star power.But when they leave the cinema two hours later, what they'll remember most is a very clever story about showbiz  -- one in which the characters are anything but Hollywood movie stars.Bowfinger is a movie-maker (Steve Martin) who is plenty shady, which is actually a plus in tinsletown, but is cursed by a glaring fault -- exquisitely bad taste.About to enter his sunset years as far as the movie business goes, Bowfinger's dream of making a profitable feature-length movie is also turning into a desperate need as he sees his career slipping away.He comes across a script, written by his bookkeeper and phone answerer, Afrim, (Adam Alexi-Malle) about aliens who invade planet earth in the form of large raindrops. Following on the logic of this amazingly absurd premise, the title of this movie is `Chubby Rain.'Strangely enough Bowfinger knows people willing to help him make a movie so bad it would even make Ed Wood cringe. There is Carol (Christine Baranski) a thespian prone to overacting and on the verge of having to give up Hollywood for a life of bit parts in places like Edmonton.There is Dave (Jamie Kennedy), an air-headed hunk, whose flatness as an actor is exceeded only by his sense of self-importance.There is Slater (Kohl Sadduth), a felon who wants to be a cameraman but is valued mostly for his knack for stealing cars.All Bowfinger needs is a leading lady and a leading man.As it turns out getting the leading lady is easy. In walks Daisy (Heather Graham), the proverbial girl-next-door who, no sooner than arriving in Los Angeles from Ohio, begins sleeping her way to the top.The challenge is getting the leading man. Bowfinger has his sights set on Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), an action-movie titan. But Bowfinger is so far down the Hollywood food chain that, as we soon find out, his chances of signing Ramsey to a contract are as about as good as the longevity of a snowball on a Malibu beach.But Bowfinger does not give up, and this is where the fun begins Bowfinger decides to make Kit Ramsey the star of the movie without him actually knowing that he is being filmed. It takes plenty of well-choreographed planning to get Bowfinger's actors into situations where they are interacting with Ramsey.Adding to the fun, Ramsey suffers from paranoid delusions which, when he's having a bad moment, cause him to honestly believe that the world really is being attacked by aliens. So when people he doesn't know run up to him and start screaming about invading space monsters, his mental balance goes a little whacky.The whole premise makes for plenty of great moments throughout the movie. And for a movie about non-actors, there is plenty of good acting. Murphy, for one, takes on two roles, the other being Kit's nerdy brother Jiff, who plays the role of Kit's butt in the Chubby Rain, while not out fetching the coffee.Baranski is hilarious as the actress `dedicated to the craft,' while Martin and Graham are perfect as the cad and caddess.There is also a nice touch when Bowfinger, in search of cheap labour, drives a van to the U.S.-Mexico border, opens the doors and simply waits for three illegal aliens to hop in. By the end of the show, they're well on the way to establishing themselves in the industry, making one wonder if we're not being a little tough on the recent arrivals from China. (For those of you not aware, five loads of boat people have arrived on the shores of British Columbia).Either way, Bowfinger, which was written by  Martin and directed by Frank Oz (What About Bob?, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Little Shop of Horrors), shows that among their other talents, these stars can pick a good script. "},{"Title":"A lot of little laughs, one right after the other","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though only occasionally hilarious, this paean to movies is still consistently funny from start to finish. In a last-ditch effort to strike any claim to celluloid fame before his fiftieth birthday, Steve Martin is inspired to shoot an epic science fiction movie (on a budget of only $2,184!) featuring the biggest action star on Earth...without telling the star (Eddie Murphy) he's on-camera! Murphy's resulting confusion, nay, complete mental breakdown over the course of the shoot in and around Hollywood provides most of the humor, with additional laughs supplied by Murphy in an endearing second role as the star's terminally geeky lookalike. Aiding Martin in his outrageous plot are Heather Graham as an ambitious starlet (in this case, rhymes with harlot) and Christine Baranski as the kind of aging tinsel-town doyenne who needs motivation to walk across a parking lot. Some critics have called this movie mean-spirited; it is anything but. Bowfinger cleverly celebrates the paradoxical risks of movie-making, the lengths one will go to get the shot and the consequences one suffers (or savors) from such a venture. As Baranski poetically points out, Martin's project is a beautiful lie. "},{"Title":"The con may be on, but the comedy isn't until the last half hour.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies where I really made an effort to enjoy it. I did. I mean it. I sat there and tried to force laughs at parts that were obviously intended to be funny, but I just wasn't feeling it. I don't understand why everyone's panties are in an uproar about this film. I didn't understand with Rushmore, either, which to me, wasn't at all funny. But then I thought Wild Wild West was a riot, so I guess you can't really trust my opinion. You might like it, I thought this movie blew until the last half hour, which was funny except patently unrealistic. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film with a well executed plot and a few digs at Hollywood","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bizzarely this is the first film I've seen Steve Martin in at the cinema, I'm not a huge fan but he has come up with one of the more original and entertaining comedies of recent years.The basic plot is a small time producer/director Bowfinger (Martin) wants to film his alien schlock action/sci-fi blockbuster Chubby Rain with action superstar Kit Ramsey (Murphy). Although being rejected by Ramsey, Bowfinger decides to shoot the film anyway in order not to disappoint his friends and colleaugues but he still has the problem that Ramsey is not in on the project. Realising he only needs 19 or so scenes with Ramsey in the film he decides to follow Ramsey and contrive situations which he can put in the film. Eddie Murphy is entertaining as the highly strung actor who becomes increasingly paranoid as his co-stars approach him going about his daily life reciting strange dialogue about aliens. A nice subplot is that Ramsey belongs to an organisation called MindHead, which is an obvious (and hilarious) dig at Scientology. Terence Stamp is excellent as Ramsey's MindHead councillor.Robert Downey Jr appears briefly as a film exec. and Heather Graham is excellent as the initially sweet seeming but in fact ravenous wannabe actress. The film is not perfect, some jokes miss (as some do in most comedies), and I think you need to be more of an Eddie Murphy fan rather than a Steve Mertin fan. You also need to ignore some of Murphy's overacting. But overall this film is certainly worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie in years.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is not a movie to get intellectual about (although the stab at Scientology was pretty obvious), just one to be enjoyed and not overly criticized.  In a nutshell, this movie was so funny that I laughed until I was hoarse.  Enough said. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Sight","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only went to see this movie because I had nothing else to do and I felt like seeing a comedy.  I ended up rolling in the aisles (well...not literally), not caring if the other patrons thought I was a fool.  Eddie Murphy is great in a dual role and Steve Martin is the glue that holds all of the other actors together.  Inventive and charming, this movie will leave you laughing out loud.  "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable, smart comedy.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warning  My review may give parts of the movie Bowfinger away!!What can a guy say?  Frank Oz did a superb job on this film.  The plot (almost bankrupt movie maker trying to score big on a film with a star that doesn't even know he's in it) is brilliant.  In the conversation about when an actor has it, you start to notice every little thing they do.  You started to notice their it.  Now when that conversation came to an end, so did my noticing of it.  This film had the perfect combination of smarts and slapstick.  There was a few times when Steve Martin got hurt.  Heather Grahams character was funny, especially when she was with the women at the tail end of the movie.  Those are just a few examples of why Bowfinger is one fun-filled film. "},{"Title":"95% of all IMDb users are completely misleading","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What kind of Country do we live in, or, more appropraitely, what kind of people are most who  review these movies? Oh boo hoo, so it was boring for the first 20 minutes, and wasn't enough to carry your mili-second attention span. Go and pay cash to see your horribly stupid teen movies, your formulatic romantic comedies, your scary movies solely because they don't show the dead people...and so on. How a movie like Sixth Sense (Which was good, but not THAT good) can gain as much recodnition as such classics as  The godfather, Schindler's List, Psycho...HOW?? Is there a chip in their brain that makes them not tell a great movie? Or maybe the people were to dumb to actually think of a bad thing about the movie. Bowfinger was an incredibly funny satire, and for people like me, who crave SMART and ENTERTAINING movies, this is a genuine relief. So if you're like me, you'll love this movie (* * * 1.2) Others can go see their stupid Blair Witch Projects or  incredibly overrated Episode 1 and Sixth sense's. Leave the smart movies to me and whoever else out there has a brain. "},{"Title":"Funny!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit that last night when my friends draged me to see this, I wasn't expecting much. Much to my suprise this was a very funny movie with a great plot. Lots of laughs and fun for everyone. This is definetly worth your time, especially if your a theater person like me! "},{"Title":"One of the year's best comedies.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In a summer that will be notorious for raunchy, tasteless, gross-out comedies (see `American Pie,' `Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me,' and `South Park Bigger Longer & Uncut'), `Bowfinger' stands out as a witty, intelligent and ambitious comedy.  It stars two comedy greats paired together, finally, to tell a satire of a producer resorting to desperate measures to make his dream film.  Steve Martin is at the top of his form here, playing a character so miserable and desperate for a hit, he would devise a clever scheme to have the biggest star in the world in his film without him knowing he's in it.  The star, hilariously played by Eddie Murphy, is Kit Ramsey, an insecure image-monger with a racial tip on his shoulder.  He's crazy enough to believe these strange encounters with the actors Bowfinger has assembled.  However, Murphy really shines as Jiff, an ultra-shy nerd with no acting experience that Bowfinger hires as a double for Kit.  The way Jiff is played, Murphy gets much sympathy from the audience because we would feel his pain if he knew his new friends that he loves and respects were using him.  The script, written by Steve Martin, is very witty and funny.  He knows how much people want to be in the movies and he uses his experiences and resources well here.  This is a major accomplishment for Martin and Murphy, one of the best films of both their careers.  Why didn't they make a movie together before? "}{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always been a big Steve Martin fan, though in recent years my experience with him at the movies is more of enjoying his presence rather than laughing at his jokes. Planes, Trains and Automobiles was the last REALLY funny flick of his.I have always been a big Eddie Murphy fan, though in recent years my experience with him at the movies is more of tolerating his stilted efforts at comedy. The Nutty Professor and Lost in America were ok, but his last REALLY funny flick was Trading Places.I had heard good things about this movie, but I had no expectations other than spending a couple hours (1.5 actually) with a couple (1.5 actually) funny comedians. Needless to say, I wasn't completely thrilled. I laughed occasionally and fairly hard once or twice. The ending was very funny. But, most of the time, I sat and watched. Woops, time to go. "},{"Title":"NEAR PERFECT COMEDY!","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BOWFINGER is hands-down the funniest movie I've seen so far this year! What else would you expect from Steve Martin, who's not only a reliably hysterical actor, he's a pro at writing riotous funny screenplays.  The setup of this movie is a lot of fun. The very idea of producing a movie and the star of the movie not knowing he's in the movie is really clever.  I like how the movie uses its plot to the fullest and doesn't make this a one joke movie.  Eddie Murphy is psychotic as black action star Kit Ramsey, as he constantly complains about how black action stars don't get cool lines like  HASTA LA VISTA BABY!  He is also hysterical as Jif, a geeky and shy stand-in for Kit. Heather Graham is perfect as the rising co-star who'd do anything and anyone to get more screen-time.  Christine Baranski is also psychotic and perfect as a stage veteran who really needs a movie role to get her back on top.  The laughter never stops in this movie.  BOWFINGER manages to be witty and clever..without having masturbation jokes and apple pies in it. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"The Scientology thing was so unreal.","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie having heard of its spoof on Scientology (my religion) but what I found funny was not so much the spoof itself but how COMPLETELY off base and un-realistic it was. It took me half the movie to figure out what the spoof was and I spent the other half laughing because it was so unlike anything we do in Scientology. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin writes a script with more laughs than There's Something About Mary, or Dumb and Dumber. ***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BOWFINGER (1999) ***1/2Starring Eddie Murphy, Steve Martin, Heather Graham, Christine Baranski and Robert Downing Jr.  Director Frank Oz   Written by Steve Martin   97 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for sex-related material, language and some brief comic violence)By Blake French	Bowfinger is the funniest movie of the year--or any other recent year. It works in every way possible. At a time in American Cinema where most comedies are based on sex, crude or black humor, this film towers over all--providing many more laughs than Office Space Dumb and Dumber, and yes, even the inevitable There's Something About Mary. Bowfinger is one of the best films I have seen in a long while, and is worthy of your heart earned money.	The feature stars (and is written by) the wonderful Steve Martin, who couldn't excel above a few major road bumps in his other film this year The Out of Towners. That film had laughs, but this one has even more. It tells the story of a small time, struggling director Bobby Bowfinger, and his many adventures he and his film crew encounter as they try to hit big down the road of success. Bowfinger gets the chance at a green light picture called Chubby Rain if he can cast big time action star Kit Ramsey. One problem Kit doesn't want to star in the movie. 	What to do now? Lie. Bowfinger explains to his crew, including Daisy, who thinks she can sleep her way to the top of Hollywood, that Kit will do the movie, but secretly plans on shooting Kit' scenes without his knowledge. Far fetched, but some major laughs evolve, and smartness permits.Things go well, the actors go up to Kit, act out their roles and recite their lines to him, and follow the script. Kit is soon finding this very strange; wired people come up to him calling him Keith, and shout things at him about aliens taking over the world. Wouldn't you find this a bit on the odd side too.Soon, however, Kit is off to his psychiatrist for a few days, leaving Bowfinger and his crew to only dream about finishing this production. But wait! He has to have a look alike or two out there. How about a real nobody named Jiff, who thinks it is wonderful that he can be a delivery boy and get any item from here to there. He gets the part, but can't act very well, and many times he breaks down in laughter, especially when he shoots a scene where Daisy takes off her blouse.  (spoiler) The funny thing, Jiff turns out to be the brother of Kit.	The film's funniest scenes usually happen when the story is most successful. This movie has hilarious potential without its big comic stars because the plot is so amazing and laughter rich in itself. The things that happen are outstandingly funny. It induces audience participation the whole way though.  Like The Out of Towners, this movie has many kinds of humor contained the odd couple, slapstick, sight gags, witty one liners, inside jokes, sex-orientated, physical and the dumb and dumber type are all present--giving the viewer a selection to laugh at. You see, if, for instance, someone disliked the sexual humor, but enjoyed physical humor, this movie would still appeal to them. 	The film is directed by the great Frank Oz, who has hit big before with the also comical What About Bob, and recently flopped with In and Out. He has a of turning humiliation and personal tragedy into comedy.  He also has contributed his voice to movies like Star Wars Episode 1 The Phantom Menace, and Muppets From Space, both which failed during the course of the summer. This is a man of many talents, and I look forward to seeing his next feature film.Bowfinger is a smart, sassy, witty little production that offers more laughs than one can handle in the course of its running time. This is one of the years best films, with my only complaint being the shallowness of a few of its characters. Bowfinger is a movie masterpiece, and in its closing when alas, Bowfinger watches his film, Chubby Rain, he remembers all the work he has put into it, all the troubles he has faced, and all the wonders he has achieve, as we see his face lit by the reflecting projector light which glows with ease and wonder. The comedy is gone and meaning permits. At that point, Bowfinger has achieved his life's goal, and we fully realize his emotions. Scenes like this are why Bowfinger is one of the reasons why I love the movies. "},{"Title":"M'eh.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with high hopes, but I finished watching it with disappointment.I figured, Hey this movie stars Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy, two comic geniuses. It HAS to be good! But thats how they suck you in!Don't get me wrong. Bowfinger is not a bad film, its just not that good either. Mainly, I felt cheated since everybody on TV was singing the high praises of this film.In particular is Jay Leno of NBC's The Tonight Show. Whenever he'd have a cast member from Bowfinger on his show, he would bring up what he called the funniest scene in any summer movie this year. Said scene is Eddie Murphy running frantically on a freeway. While I did find this scene amusing, I would hardly call it the funniest in any summer movie this year. Take basically any scene in South Park Bigger, Longer, and Uncut or American Pie, and they're still about ten times more funnier than that scene.At least the basic plot of the film is simple to grasp. Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is a pathetic excuse for a film maker who opperates out of a run down shack. He's about to give up, until a fantastic screenplay comes across his desk. Unfortunatly, he doesn't have much money, so he hires some friends to star in it, and in order to get it distributed, he has to somehow get the hottest film star in the world, Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to star in it. Naturally unable to do so, he and his crew simply follow Ramsey around with the camera and have their stars approch him with their lines, basically freaking him out. To patch up the gaps in the film, Bowfinger hires a small town actress named Daisy (Heather Graham), and a nerdy Kit Ramsy look-alike named Jiff (Murphy, in a duel role), who have some of the funniest scenes in the entire movie, (Bowfinger, not the one in the movie, don't get confused). However, that's not saying much.All in all, Bowfinger is a decent movie, but if you can see anything better this summer, like Mystery Men or American Pie, you should see those instead.Overall 2 1/2 Stars "},{"Title":"There were 2 scenes alone that were worth the price of admission.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Murphy was excellent and really helped carry this movie.  Steve Martin wrote another very witty script.  While the movie had a lot slow parts there were 2 scenes that had me falling out of my chair.  These scenes alone were well worth the money. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin proves himself once again","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Uh, that is that he proves he can't seem to make a funny film. Remember (all of you old people) when you first saw Steve on the Tonight Show in '74ish? Hey, that guy was funny!, you said. Have you noticed that you're still waiting for him to be funny again? Here's another Steve Martin film that plays like a phantom bowel movement. You keep waiting for it to really happen but...it never does. I'm going to put a movie review on a softkey to save me time. It would say this If you've seen the trailers then you've already seen the film. The rest of the movie is just an attempt to set up the funny bits. Where is the writing skill that movies used to have? Where is the craft of the set up and the powerful punch line? Well, it's not in this film. You already know the basic plot, no need for me to parrot it. Expect to laugh occasionally. Pay only a matinee admission. Try to get someone else to pay for it. It will reduce the pain.  "},{"Title":"Funny and witty","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One film critic recently wrote that Steve Martin ought to write more of the movies that he acts in. After viewing Bowfinger, I certainly agree.  This is a funny, witty film, in which Martin plays the title character - Bobby Bowfinger, a down-on-his-luck Hollywood producer.  He works with a devoted group of equally down-on-their-luck actors, headlined by the brilliant Christine Baranski. Desperate to make a film, he devises a scheme to use the hot action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) without Ramsey actually being in the film. To say much more would give the laughs away, but a dog in high heels, spoofs on Scientology, Heather Graham's innocent (or is she?) actress just of the bus from Ohio, and Martin's terrific spoofing of Hollywood, all combine for one funny ride. Steve, stay away from clunkers like Sgt. Bilko and keep up the great writing! "},{"Title":"VERY, VERY, VERY FUNNY","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin has provided Hollywood with some of the most innovative comedies of this century and while Bowfinger does not classify as one of the true greats, it is an enjoyable ride filled with some hilarious scenes and some of the best comedic acting in a long time.Martin plays Bobby Bowfinger, a down on his luck producer who still dreams of making it big. After obvious years of struggling, Bowfinger discovers a script written by his accountant and falls in love with the plot. Gathering his band of actors, and his writer the accountant, Bowfinger goes after some production company support, only to find that his only chance to get the movie produced is to have a big star signed on. The big star Bowfinger goes after is none other than Kit Ramsey, played wonderfully by Eddie Murphy. Ramsey refuses to consider doing the movie, leaving Bowfinger with only one option; to film Ramsey in the movie without Ramsey knowing it. What is left is a very witty, always enjoyable plot that never slows down.Martin is wonderful as the hapless Bowfinger and shows the characters unwaivering desire to make his movie at all costs. As usual there is a sweetness to a Steve Martin character, and while Martin could have choosen to spoof the uncaring, apathetic movie producer to a tee, he instead chose to give Bowfinger a very sensitive side to counteract the characters manipulative actions. You can't help but fall in love with Bobby Bowfinger, and a movie that gets you caring about its characters has won half the battle.Heather Graham, who plays the not so innocent Daisy, is good as the pure looking Ohio beauty who secretly will sleep with anyone to get to the top. She is not spectacular, while her appearance as usual is, but she holds her own in scenes with both Martin and Murphy, which is something not to many people could do. Christine Baranski plays the part of Carol, the over the top actress who stars in Bowfingers movie, to perfection and her comedy, I believe, unfortunately will be lost in the totality of the movie. I wish Martin had given her more lines, more parts, and more opportunities to show her talents because she is one of the better comedic actress's out there today.This movie, however, belongs to Eddie Murphy. Somewhere down the road, in the fog of action movies and record deals, many people forgot what a true comedy genius Murphy is. Names like Martin and Brooks and Allen are thrown around in the comedy circles as the deities of the profession, but Murphy is as good, and more talented than all of them. Those talents have been on diplay more these last few years, with the Nutty Professor coming out, but no where does Murphy shine more than in Bowfinger. His ability to create two equally wonderful and funny characters, so distinctly different from one another, is truly amazing. As Kit Ramsey, Murphy shows us the paranoid, racist, sometimes schizophrenic action star who relys on the cult religion of Mind Head to get him through life. Murphy is wonderful as Ramsey and while the character is made to be disliked, one can't help but truly like Ramsey all throughout the film.His true genius comes through in Jiff, the super dorky Burger King worker who Bowfinger highers to double as Ramsey and to run errands. Never has Murphy, in my opinion, created such a funny character as Jiff. With his nerdy glasses and his straightforward tone, Jiff is an absolute gem and provides the funniest moments in the film. The scene on the highway, which unfortunately has been shown at nauseum on T.V., is still a comedy classic and every moment Jiff is on the screen the audience is laughing. It shows Murphy at his best, which is always a beautiful sight to behold.This movies works because it is fun. It never takes itself seriously, never takes its characters seriously, and never expects the audience take anything seriously. There is no hidden message in Bowfinger, only the message that film is suppose to entertain, and this one definitely did. Martin never fails to make films people enjoy for many years after, and Bowfinger should be no different. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the year!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I expected funny and my expectations were filled and then some. This is the funniest movie I have ever seen! It made me laugh till I had tears in my eyes! I've never laughed that hard, that much in my whole life! This is the funniest movie since Tom Hanks' 1986 film The Money Pit. Five stars out of four! If you haven't seen the movie you might not want to read any further.The scene with the high heels in the parking lot had me almost rolling on the floor laughing. And Kit's paranoia about aliens was hysterical ! Eddie Murphy is brilliant in both roles. Steve Martin is excellent! The whole cast was incredible. "}{"Title":"Captures Martin's sense of the absurd better than most of his films","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie generally captures Martin's gentle sense of the absurd much better than most of his films, with a large number of on-target visual and verbal one-liners the dog wearing high heels on its front paws to spook Murphy out (actually the dog's pretty funny throughout); the evocation of D-grade special effects; the rounding up of illegal Mexicans at the border to serve as a crew; Murphy's inspired paranoid monologues etc. It's best if viewed as a simple series of black-outs, and feels a little more strained whenever it has to attend to plot mechanics - the more actorly performers like Baranski seem a bit stranded. As such, the film seems completely ineffective as a satire of anything; hampered both by its fragmented structure and by the rather enigmatic nature of Martin's own character he doesn't have the blindly basement-happy fervour of Ed Wood, but nor does he have any real aesthetic sense - so what does his ultimate success represent other than a cold, calculating commerce? Hard to get excited about that (the would-be sweetness of the ending isn't that persuasive in the circumstances). "},{"Title":"Members of Academy - Please Nominate Eddie!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just saw Bowfinger this past weekend.  Laughed hysterically all the way through it. I definitely agree with most of the users that the scene in the parking garage was a classic! It is definitely not a classic movie but there are some memorable lines and bits that will leave you in hysterics -> the best was Eddie Murphy's line as Kit about there being a certain number of  a certain letter of the alphabet in the script.Speaking of Eddie, the one thing everyone seems to agree on when reviewing this film was the fact that Eddie Murphy's performance was outstanding (although someone did say they would have casted Will Smith, hey don't quit your day job if you're making casting decisions like that).  Eddie was outstanding in this picture because he pokes fun at his own image as a the premier action/actor. He is cocky and has a certain swagger but then as he starts to lose his senses he loses it in such a believable way.  And Eddie as Jif was incredible.  If you closed your eyes and listened to Kit and Jif's voice you would have no idea they came from the same actor. Eddie did a great job handling both characters and did not go over the top.  If any members of the Academy are out there surfing, PLEASE NOMINATE EDDIE for a best supporting actor nod. I'm not saying he should win but he is certainly deserving of this recognition.   "},{"Title":"This is why I love this site","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How many times have you thoroughly enjoyed a movie only to hear a friend comment it sucked or it was stupid ?  Or how many times have you been told to you have to see it only to sleepwalk through it ?I just saw Bowfinger this evening and loved every minute of it.  Throughout the movie I was either laughing or smiling as I admired the screenplay and Eddie Murphy's performance.  I came home and immediately logged on to read many messages expressing disappointment or even disdain for it.  Never hurts to be reminded that there are many opinions out there.This movie is a dedicated satire, not just a movie with satirical moments. That's probably the most important thing for you to know.  If you enjoy satires (and I do), and enjoy movies, you will enjoy this.  If you don't particularly care for satirical humor, you won't enjoy this as much.Some people have bemoaned the movie's lack of realism.  But that's the purpose of a dedicated satire.  I find it odd that people would discourage viewing multi-level humor in this movie, and instead refer you to one-dimensional South Park (language) and American Pie (sex).But, then again, that's what is so great about this site. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger is a fun movie; a happy break from mainstream Hollywood.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would like to say simply that, although, Bowfinger is not a strike of genius, it provides a refreshing break from boring mainstream Hollywood.  Being involved in the film industry for the past ten years I related to the story and yes even the dreams of Bowfinger and his mismatched cast and crew.I saw this movie as a simple dreams can come true story.  I actually had fun watching a group of dreamers chase after their goals, which is more than I can say for most flicks.  I have no doubt that Steve Martin and the makers of Bowfinger would be happy to hear that their audiences had fun.  Bowfinger is the type of movie meant for fun, and I think it's creators reached their goals! "},{"Title":"I must have been pretty bored","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You saw all of the best parts during the commercials (trailers).  Eddie Murphy has created a very funny character which produces most of the good laughs.  Heather Graham just cracked me up when she jumped in the air and twists her body.  It's a switch from her ice cold roll that she played in Lost In Space.Rent it.  Don't pay to see this.  The laughs aren't big enough.7/10 "},{"Title":"It made me CRY!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was really in touch with the character of Jiff Ramsey(Eddie Murphy). And when he was put in harms way or had to do something he didn't want to, I just wanted to hug him and I cried several times in the film. I didn't like the film because it made Jiff himself look stupid and he was taken advantage of. I would never see this film again and I would be proud to date Jiff, by the way. "},{"Title":"Good Spoof of Hollywood with the Comic Pairing of 2 Modern Legends...","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin is a very perceptive person, especially in regards to the nature of Hollywood and the town that surrounds it.  He proved adept at this with the decent L.A. STORY in 1991, but here he takes it to a rampant, more delirious level.  It is reminiscent of his early humor from the 70's. Having written BOWFINGER, he also could not have come up with a better idea to cast Eddie Murphy as a head-case movie star.  Murphy is a comedic weapon in this picture which has a laugh in almost every scene either because of Murphy's antics or because of what Martin and company are doing to him.  A movie is being made starring Murphy's character Kit Ramsey, but he has no idea what the hell is going on.Martin paints the town once again with some familiar gags and rips, especially at the religious mind-set of many stars in Hollywood. MindHead is probably a stab at scientology, which so many of the actors and producers take part in out there.  Kit Ramsey reminded me of Martin Laurence in real life, sort of a manic personality.  Murphy no doubt takes liberty with the material and creates his first genuinely funny character since Axel Foley. It is good to see him pairing up with the likes of Martin and seeing the true comic genius that has always existed within Murphy.  BOWFINGER is a huge departure from his recent star vehicles, most of which disappoint.Steve Martin turns in an equally sensational slapstick performance as low-budget director Bowfinger with a hint of do or do not, there is no try.  You will be reminded of ED WOOD during many scenes because of this mad cracker of a director, who will stop at nothing to get his flimsy film made (even if it includes carrying a very unusable cell phone and shooting footage of security screens capturing the story he is trying to make). Director Frank Oz keeps the pace relentless and the chuckles plentiful as a new revelation halfway through extends Murphy's ability to make us laugh.It turns out there is a Kit Ramsey look-alike out there and Martin and the gang audition him to be an errand boy and to showcase his butt as a stand-in for Ramsey.  This character is even funnier than the original and the film's best scene has this awe-struck, goofy loser (also played by Murphy) running across a busy L.A. highway risking life and limb and braces. Heather Graham is an effective caricature of the dumb blondes who supposedly get off a bus every day in California and ask Where do I become a star?.  There is more to her than meets the eye and she seems to have a good idea of how to get what she wants.BOWFINGER is not exactly original.  We have seen this before in GET SHORTY and the aforementioned ED WOOD.  This film may be superior because the characters are so hilarious and the story spares us nothing that you cannot help but laugh.  It is an uproarious comedy with a sometimes tender side that brings Eddie Murphy back into cinema form and has the viewer stomping and spitting popcorn with BIG laughs.  Check it out.RATING *** "},{"Title":"A Real Mixed Bag","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger leaves you in the middle.  It is terrible some of the time, mundane most of the time, and brilliant occasionally.  It's not a great combination.  The stars are...Hollywood stars, working hard on being themselves.  It's a Hollywood satire...that in the end says Hollywood does great things, even if the means are evil.   Since the film is so average, so Hollywood, I'd like to point out how it portrays women and minorities.  The only two women in the movie are actresses.  None of them work on the production of the movie.  Heather Graham has to have sex with everyone to get to the top, but we are actually led to dislike her because she screws over some of the sympathetic characters.  Isn't she a heartless bitch! says the viewer.  Eddie Murphy is the big star, but he is portrayed as paranoid, foolish, aggressive, and is always surrounded by a posse.  What a typical rich black guy says the viewer never appreciating all we have given him.  Some of the crew are Mexicans just over the border.  They are being shot at when Martin recruits them. Well, at least we were shooting at them and not just letting them in says the viewer.  By the way, this can be done with almost any major studio production and is the end effect of a system where all the decisions are made and all the art carried out by middle-aged white men.  Just start paying attention and it will all become clear.      "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the year.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was really one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  While Steve Martin is the same old Steve Martin - which certainly is no bad thing - Bowfinger is at its best when showcasing Eddie Murphy at his best.  This is by far Murphy's finest performance ever, playing a dual role, both as a Hollywood superstar and a complete nerd.  It's really too bad that comedies get no respect when it comes time for awards, but in the tradition of Kevin Kline in A Fish Called Wanda, Murphy really deserves consideration in the best actor category. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin at the top of his game.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin continues to prove that he has dominated American comedy over the last 20+ years. In his latest writing effort, he has crafted the story of Bobby Bowfinger, a sham of a movie maker, throwing everything he has left at his last chance to get a movie made. In his attempts he enlists the help of his merry band of misfit Hollywood wanna-bes. One of which is Eddie Murphy in a dual role. He plays Kit Ramsey, the biggest action star in Hollywood, and Jif,a hapless errand boy who looks exactly like Kit Ramsey. Mayhem ensues, but it's not cookie-cutter movie making. Steve Martin delivers brilliant dialogue, great storylines and a top notch performance. This is a must see for fans of Steve Martin, comedy-at-large, and the goofiness of the Hollywood scene. Thanks, Steve for another gem. "}{"Title":"You've got to see it to believe it...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was very questionable about this movie, because it looked pretty stupid. Though it isn't the Oscar winning comedy of the year, I think Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy pulled this movie off better than anyone could have guessed. Heather Graham is a small town girl new to the big Hollywood lights, so you think. She shows she knows how to get to the top really fast, a normal Gram roll. Christine Baranski is a great melodramatic actress seeking the part that will put her back on top. It's a funny movie about a washed up director (Martin) looking for the script to bring his name back to life. He finds his script, now he has to bend over backwards, do a few flips in mid-air, and get the hottest actor in Hollywood (Murphy) to play his leading man. When all plans are flushed, Martin gets the next best thing... a look-a-like. This nerdy kid (Murphy) not only brings his looks, but power for the making of the movie as well. If you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. Jiff (Murphy) is the one scratching Bowfinger's back, and as it strangely turns out Bowfinger (Martin) is more than happy to scratch Jiff's back. Like I said in the one line summary, you have got to see this movie to believe it.Want a fun night at the movies? Go see this funny movie.  "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy and what could be better than getting them both in the same movie?  ANYTHING.  No one in the audience was laughing.  This was so unfunny that they even explained some of the jokes to me like I was too stupid to get it.  I don't live in Hollywood but I didn't fall off a turnip truck either.  I have a great idea for Eddie's next movie. Hey, Eddie, call me. "},{"Title":"A amusing and witty satire on Hollywood.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin) is a person I can relate to. He's a person who wants to direct a movie.  A successful movie, that will not only make him a lot of money, but famous.  I can understand that, I too am a struggling director-to-be that wants to make a successful and good movie.  Then Bowfinger comes across a script that his Iranian accountant wrote titled, Chubby Rain.  Bowfinger believes that this can be a good movie but wants to be sure that it's a green-lighted picture. Bowfinger takes the script to a studio executive (Robert Downey Jr.) who sarcastically tells Bowfinger that if he gets Hollywood's biggest action star, Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), then he has himself a go picture.  This makes the hard on luck Bowfinger happy, who then tries to pitch the idea to Ramsey while riding in his limo, ten seconds later, Ramsey throws Bowfinger out of his limo.  So what is Bowfinger to do? He  tells his also struggling cast and crew that Ramsey wants to make the picture.  So in a Steve Martin way (which is usually witty), he decides to make the film around Ramsey's life.  Which has funny results.  Then Ramsey freaks out, and hides, so Bowfinger gets a nerdy look-alike of Ramsey, named Jiff (also played by Eddie Murphy) to do the long shots and scenes that don't require Ramsey's face to be shown. I'm guessing that people are going to be expecting a laugh-a-minute comedy like AMERICAN PIE and BIG DADDY out of BOWFINGER, well, it isn't.  AMERICAN PIE had a strong opening, as well as a strong follow-up.  BIG DADDY had a strong first-half, and a sensitive by the end.  BOWFINGER starts off a little slow, then it builds and builds up to a funny climax. I'll admit, that BOWFINGER isn't for everybody.  It requires more than one viewing, especially for understanding the jokes.  But once you understand the jokes, it's a nice treat.  It's a brilliant satire on the look of the film industry and the Hollywood life-style.  Martin not only hit his mark with the L.A. lifestyle with L.A. STORY, but also on BOWFINGER as well.  And personally, I would rather watch another satire look on L.A. by Steve Martin, than a satire on New York City by Woody Allen.   Martin does a good job with both his writing and his acting.  He is at his best since L.A. STORY with his witty and troubled role of the director.  And Eddie Murphy?  Well, I would put this film up there on his good film list along with NUTTY PROFESSOR, BEVERLY HILLS COP (the first one only), TRADING PLACES, and COMING TO AMERICA.  BOWFINGER shows that Eddie Murphy is a misunderstood excellent talent.  First there's his role of the Hollywood celebrity, a person that hates the scripts that are offered to him, and regularly vistis his Free Mind, New Age like sessions.  Then there's the scene stealing role of Jiff.  A role that makes Murphy shine, and shows that he's one of the most talented comedians out there.  All Jiff wants to do is to deliver things, and make people happy. Leave it to Frank Oz (WHAT ABOUT BOB? LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS, and IN & OUT) to direct this witty satire, and adapts Steve Martin's witty script into a equally witty film.  I enjoyed all of the Hollywood inside jokes.  It's the funnest take on Hollywood that I have seen since Robert Altman's THE PLAYER, and hopefully Albert Brooks' THE MUSE will be just as witty and funny.  And I am also glad to see a witty satire take on the New Age religion with the so-called Mind Head, where they are more concerned about a person's income, than a person. I'm waiting for Tom Cruise and John Travolta to start protesting against this film. And by the end of BOWFINGER, is shows us why people want to go into the movie business, and I was personally touched when I saw this. It showed the reason on why I want to go into the filmmaking business as well, and that I am not the only one who also shares that dream.  I would highly reccommend BOWFINGER to the following people  Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy fans; people who want to go into the film business; intelligent people (the same ones who like EYES WIDE SHUT); and those who know how movies are made and love to watch them. For those who want a brain-dead comedy, then go stand in the AUSTIN POWERS 2 line again, you won't get that kind of juvenile humor here.  In the end, I didn't walk out of BOWFINGER laughing, I walked out with a smile on my face.  And with that smile, I give BOWFINGER  ****1/2 (out of five) stars.  "},{"Title":"It's cute--for better or worse, it's cute","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's cute--for better or worse, it's cute (or for better and worse, it's cute).  There are are fair amount of laughs, and some chuckles; it's an SNL sketch capably stretched to a full-length movie.  Two or three things are stretched too much  a girl who has sex with everybody who might just shove her forward; the overdone ending; the Yugo Story.  Oddest though is the treatment of racism in Hollywood.  The symbolic black star is shown as crazy-paranoid--but he is in reality justified in this.  Every black in the film is reduced to Shaft or to Stepin Fetchit--sometimes both.  The courage to run across the freeway is also degraded to get the coffee.  I laughed a lot more than I wish I had. "},{"Title":"In Memory of Ed Wood","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For background, read Ed Wood's book on making it in Hollywood.  I found it my public library last spring.  Anyway, am so happy to see Eddie Murphy with a good script, good ensemble.  We laughed a lot and hated to leave this Martin-Murphy universe to return to our real world.  Jamie Kennedy is a cool, compelling player by the way.  Man, the more i think about it, the better i like the texture of this motion picture.  And the whole feeling of intermingling with locations was cool, may i say non-Hollywood?  more European or Chinese or Japanese.  Worth another viewing. "},{"Title":"Best comedy of 1999","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  By now everyone has a good idea of the plot of this film. Best scene is the parking lot. a sure classic. This is the kind of scene that will be done up again in a Police Story or Hot Shots type movie. This film will on many of the top ten lists. Best comedy in the last two years. Better than Truman, Something about Mary, etc. Best Steve Martin film of the 90's Murphy does another excellent job of bringing more than one character to one film. This time with little make up. Go see this!! The audience applauded loudly at my cinema.  "},{"Title":"Wait a few months and rent the video","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A good premise that could've been executed much, much better. Martin's script has the right idea, but could've used a polish or two. And who keeps giving Frank Oz these directing gigs? The guy has no imagination. This premise is so ripe for cinematic potential. Picture a back-and-forth between the actual story and the guerilla movie that Martin and his crew are trying to make - the variations in stock and technique. With a few small tweaks in the script, BOWFINGER could've been another TRUMAN SHOW.  Instead what we get looks like an above average movie-of-the-week.Still, it is a funny attempt at times. Eddie Murphy gives another hilarious performance as two characters (one crazy, one stupid) and the Hollywood details keep the laughs steady.  Nothing spectacular enough to warrant a trip to the theater, however. Wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"SAW IT ON AUG.14,'99","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Here it is, two days later and I'm still laughing. It's a  don't miss flick if you want to stray from violence and all that jazz. A wonderfully innovative script written by Steve Martin and played to the max by him and two-role brilliant Eddie Murphy. The funniest film I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Very funny picture","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As an extra (background actor) in Hollywood, I found this spoof of the movie business very funny, especially the crew who began their careers crossing the border and ended the picture discussing Stanley Kubrick films and using cell phones. Steve Martin knows the movie business. "},{"Title":"Smart and Hysterically Funny","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I did not know that Bowfinger was an intelligent comedy. But that is OK! The fact that it both smart and hysterically funny makes it even more appreciated. It is nice to see a funny movie that does not have any American Pie or There's Something About Mary type of humor (not that I mind that in a movie). I also thought this was going to be like The Nutty Professor. It's not; it is after all, a Steve Martin film.Now that you know what it is not about, what is it about? Basically, Steve Martin plays Bobby Bowfinger, a wannabe Hollywood Producer. He has a fledgling movie company, Bowfinger Films International. His accountant, Afrim, gives him a script that he wrote and Bowfinger falls in love with it and vows for it to be their first movie. Without revealing too much, it gets to the point where in order to get the film distributed, he needs to have Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), a Will Smith/Arnold Schwarzenegger type in his film. Of course, someone of that status doesn't want to be in a low budget feature like Bowfinger's. Bowfinger decides to make the movie with Ramsey anyway with only one catch He won't know he's being filmed. Bowfinger has all the actors run up to Bowfinger at certain places and say their lines to him. That is the premise of the film, and the scenes they create are hilarious.This movie is about making movies and Martin takes a few jabs at his industry. Some of the humor in this film works better if you have an understanding of the movie industry. This movie is not all about sight gags and things like that. I was expecting that when Murphy played the role of the dork that it would be very funny. The funniest parts were when Murphy was in the Kit Ramsey role and reacting to Bowfinger's stream of actors running up to him. The movie is not all laughs, but the parts that you do are extremely hilarious. This is the Summer of 1999's smart comedy. See it if you would like that. I did.  "}{"Title":"not quite great, but very funny","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've got an odd reaction to this movie.  I laughed almost all the way through it and had residual chuckles within the hour or so after, but I can't say that this is a great movie, however effective it is.  Like L.A. STORY it has its charm, portrays people -- even its targets -- with a certain decency, has a somewhat inventive story, and eventually comes off as a mild, pleasant movie, if not exactly an achievement.It's certainly very funny and I don't want to give anything away, so avoid this paragraph if you want not even the hint of a spoiler.  Okay, here we go a scene in a parking garage and the click of high heels is wonderful and provides a concrete context for a wonderfully surreal image; Jiff crossing the highway is very funny and tense (and the punchline is ironic, as its the only time we see Bowfinger ask for a second take).  The highway scene also supplies a wonderful how-the-heck did they do that? bit of stuntwork and masterful editing.The film has a couple of spots which, while not exactly deadly to the pace, certainly slowed things down the brief romantic evening Bowfinger has is the main culprit, though his own duplicity (first the wine innocent enough, then the credit card whoa!) adds a certain spin.Eddie Murphy surprised me in THE NUTTY PROFESSOR, so I was prepared this time, and I think this is an even better performance.  In PROFESSOR, Murphy's Buddy Love didn't work for me at all, but the professor was wonderful.  Here, Murphy's Jiff is a marvel, and the action star Murphy plays is -- flamboyant paranoia notwithstanding -- more believable than his previous Buddy Love.  It's tough to say, because the exaggerated personality, paranoia, fetishes and quirks make the action star in BOWFINGER a little unreal anyway, whereas Jiff's character is generally rooted in reality.  Murphy plays him with honesty, sweetness, and no condescension. As the gang sits around at a restaurant and Jiff expresses gratitude that the troupe likes him just for being himself, the film's emotional core deepens, if only for a while, and for a few scenes the movie has nearly lifted to a new level, like the best of Sturges' comedies have done.  The penultimate scene in the theater is supposed to do that as well, methinks, and it comes close.I wish the casting had been uniformly strong.  Martin is okay -- I've never thought he was much of an actor, but sometimes he manages something besides his superb physical comedy -- but characters like the young hunk don't ring properly true.  For instance, the girl who plays the nymph is a bad actress, but in the scenes in which she plays real life, she is completely convincing.  In the hunk's real life scenes, he is only a little less phony than when placed before Bowfinger's camera.Overall, I would recommend the movie as a fun matinee ticket which will deliver some genuine laughs without insulting the audience.  It has memorable moments -- the ones listed above, Bowfinger explaining that all movies are made for $2000, the deepening eroticism of the kiss between the young couple during casting (and Bowfinger's discomfort and subsequent punchline)  -- but probably won't last in the public's memory or cinema's.Maybe I'm expressing too many reservations for a movie I genuinely enjoyed; perhaps I'm also expecting too much from Steve Martin's pen.  Like Albert Brooks, his pieces have a certain dependability and quality.  So far, Brooks has managed only one film which could be argued to be a masterpiece (DEFENDING YOUR LIFE, not the way-overrated LOST IN AMERICA); I'm looking forward to seeing Steve Martin hit one out of the park as well. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies this summer!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie. Out of all the movies I have seen this summer, I would probably rate this the best one so far. I think the best character in the movie would probably be Jiff, because he has that great goofy attitude to him. I hope the movie makes it to number 1! **** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"A return to wonderful comedy from two comedic geniuses","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie and I must say that is was great!!  I felt like it was a return to an Eddie Murphy that I had missed very much.  Steve Martin was also excellent as always.  Perhaps I got sucked into the cheap humor and farcical story line, but it was hard not to!!  The story about a struggling directory in Hollywood and his band of misfits finally hitting it big was great!  Of course I have to mention how hysterical Eddie was. The way he played Kit was great.  He really let himself go, and let his Eddie Murphy image go to do this, it worked fabulously.  This is a must see movie for any that has even an inkling of a sense of humor.  It's absolute fun and entertainment. "},{"Title":"Does NOT live up to the HYPE!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Romano Rating  74%Great sketch - but thin film.  The script has a clever premise but once you catch the general idea, the rest is filler.  The film is saved, to a degree, by a funny epilogue.  Bowfinger is NOT of the same calibre or as funny as this year's better comedies (such as South Park, American Pie, Analyze This, Rushmore and Election).  Does not come close to living up to its own hype and promotional frenzy.Best Part    Three words - Fake - Purse - Ninjas  "},{"Title":"This is a mildly amusing satire of the movie business.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger could have been so much better if Steve Martin had gone for a little more subtlety and a little less heavy-handed humor.  Most people who see this movie will compare it with Ed Wood, which was superb and much better written.  This movie lacked heart and warmth and it was only intermittently funny.  Martin winks at the audience with his in jokes, but this gets tedious after a while.  The performances were OK, but the movie as a whole is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Gentle satire at its best","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the story of Cinema Nouveau -- an odd combination of MTV's THE REAL WORLD, THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, and method acting. It is a lighthearted and good-natured spoof of Hollywood, trendy cults, moviemaking, and human nature  in general.Martin and Murphy lead a great cast in this hilarious nonsense. The odd thing is that it could probably happen.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie of 1999","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked American Pie, I saw Rushmore and thought it was good, but this is the out loud funniest picture of the year.  I sat in my seat after the movie was over for a few minutes just laughing more, which I haven't done in a movie in a long time. This is the first movie in a while I was literally crying I was laughing so hard.  There are some very classic scenes, but the whole movie just moves fast enough and has even humor that it just builds and builds.  Of course, the Oscars don't give any awards to comedies usually, but if this doesn't win the Golden Globe for best comedy, it's a shame. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny movie about a director who tries to do a movie on a very limited budget.  He tries to enlist Murphy, who doesn't even look twice at the script.  With nothing else left, the director still tries to film the movie, only without letting Murphy know he's being filmed.  All of the humor from here on is directed towards the fact that Murphy has no clue what is happening around him. this movie has no slow parts, and that is what I like about it. There's a lot of humor in it, and the characters are easily understood.  The plot isn't too deep, just around the basic fact of Murphy not understanding what's going on around him.  Overall, this movie is very enjoyable.  Eight stars out of ten.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment for a Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy film","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve and Eddie are great actors and are very talented.  This movie did not deserve such great actors.  I went to the movie theatre expecting a fantastic movie.  I was wrong.  It lacked creativity, humor, and emotion. For the most part, all of the funny scenes were already shown in the previews.  I think that it was a great idea for a movie, but could have been put together a lot better.   "},{"Title":"hilarious & insightful","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  a really funny look at the workings of Hollywood; the best I've seen since 'Burn Hollywood Burn' (which I consider to be a high compliment).  I haven't enjoyed Steve Martin's roles for quite a few years now, so i was looking forward to what appeared to be a change of heart for me.  as for Eddie Murphy, i like most of what he does (even 'Metro'), so i expected to get some good laughs from him. With that basis, 'Bowfinger' was just what i expected and more very funny. Both stars play their roles to the hilt and they succeed; indeed, Murphy is able to pull of his dual roles perfectly, as usual.while Heather Graham's character is funny here and there, the jokes get tired and predictable quickly. that aside, the kung-fu fighting scenes are everything the trailer hints at and more possibly the funniest film sequence of 1999.it's about time Murphy and Martin got really funny again - i hope this is the start of a comedic renaissance for each of them.a solid 3 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"So Silly, So Funny...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While some people may say that this movie is too silly, too ridiculous... Well, it is both of these, but it's darn funny as well. Really funny. Sure, there are several points at which I said to myself, Gee, I wish they would have done it THIS way..., but for the most part it is very original and hilarious. Steve Martin plays his semi-straight role to perfection, and Eddie Murphy is funny again, even while avoiding the street-slang talking that he did so well in the Beverly Hills Cop movies (and those OTHER ones). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Lots of laughs, but you can wait for the video.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nothing too special about this movie, but I had a lot of fun. The swipes at Hollywood are funny, but have been done before. Steve Martin is fine, and Eddie Murphy's crazed character is fun to watch. Heather Graham is very good as well. Christine Baranski is irritating, though.The plot -- filming a movie starring a major action star without the star's knowledge -- has been discussed a lot; it's very clever and funny. What's less clever is that they're making the world's worst movie. I actually think Bowfinger would have been a better movie if the movie being filmed was a better one.Still, much of the slapstick will make you laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Direct-to-video Ed Wood","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Always agreeable and frequently riotous comedy about a B-minus producer (Steve Martin) making a movie with the world's biggest action star (Eddie Murphy)--who's unaware he's in the movie. Murphy is triumphant as a paranoid, thinly-veiled-Scientological egomaniac, and as the egomaniac's geek brother--it's the most inventive acting he's done since 48 HRS. And Heather Graham as a highly available climber fresh off the bus from Ohio, Terrence Stamp as a gelid L. Ron Hubbard clone, and Robert Downey, Jr. as a manicured studio exec are all perfectly cast. The director, Frank Oz, could have hired some more pizzazzy actors in the smaller parts, but BOWFINGER has the hum of a smart, effective comic machine, a rarity in this age of invaded fruit pies. "},{"Title":"Well put together film, but lacking momentum.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film was well put together and provided many laughs, as would be expected from two of the best in the business.  However, it seemed to lack momentum and I found myself waiting for more out of the pairing of Murphy and Martin.  It was a similar disappointment to the one I had after watching Father's Day with Crystal and Williams but it was a much better film overall than that bomb.  Overall, good for a few laughs.  Worthwhile if you are in the mood for lighter fare. "},{"Title":"Eddie's Movie","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went and saw this movie recently and was hoping it was going to be as good as the trailers showed it to be. More importantly, I was hoping that it was going to be the movie that Eddie Murphy finally breaks out of his acting slump. It's been a long time since I've seen Murphy do a truly funny movie and I can happily say that he's finally done it.The movie revolves around Steve Martin's character, Bobby Bowfinger, a down and out small time movie director hoping to find that one script that will launch him into director stardom. He finally finds a script that he believes is 'the one' and proceeds to put together the best filming crew and cast that $2000 can buy, which is needless to say, a hodgepodge of people. His one trump card is Kit Ramsey (Murphy), the movie industry's biggest action hero actor. With him, the movie is a guaranteed success. But unfortunately Ramsey refuses to do the movie. Bowfinger then decides that he can shoot the movie with Ramsey in it by filming around the actor's daily life without him knowing. Along the way, Bowfinger meets up with Jifferson and decides to use Jifferson as Kit's double for some of the shots. The rest of the story I'll leave to you to see.This movie definately belonged to Eddie Murphy. The first part of the story, we meet Murphy as Kit Ramsey. He plays Ramsey as a paranoid actor that will do anything, including belonging to a religious cult, to solve his paranoia problems. His fast talking, loud brash character is amazingly funny but his true talents shine as he plays the dim-witted Jifferson. His ability to play Jifferson as an incredibly sweet but naive character makes Jifferson all that more endearing and unbelievably funny. Steve Martin is his usual crazy self and provides a few laughs but Murphy is definitely the attention getter.Despite the great performance by Murphy, there were some rough spots though. At times, it felt that Martin's writing and directing was trying to be too smart. There's no doubt that he is an intelligent man and that he was obviously poking fun at a variety of aspects of the Hollywood life but in some of the situations, it almost felt like he was trying to make too subtle of a statement. This resulted in some parts that were rather slow or dull. The beginning took a little while to get into and to some audiences, this may start them off on the wrong foot.Overall, ride out the slow points and enjoy Eddie Murphy's best performance in years. This is definately a funny movie that will provide you with more than a few laughs....7/10. spoilers removed - ed "},{"Title":"A Very funny movie.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays a film producer who wants Eddie Murphy to star in his new movie,but Things gets weird.Very funny comedy Has a witty script from Martin,and Eddie Murphy is great in double roles.The scene involving the alien cop is hilarious.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"quite a few laughs, more needed however....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Bowfinger on Sat. Aug. 14th and while it had quite a few laughs it had a few minor problems as well.  As for one (I don't  know if they did this on purpose) but the foley sound artist went a little too far on the high heels scene in the parking lot But all in all it is a good comedy, Eddie Murphy saves this movie by playing a paranoid actor who thinks aliens are trying to steal his brain (hey the fact that Steve Martin is making a space movie and that Eddie Murphy's char. is afraid of aliens is enough to go see this movie. I gave it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Where's the beef (plot)?","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a big Martin and Murphy fan, and I thought that many of the scenes in the film were very funny.  But, I did not see much plot or character development after the first 15 minutes.There are enough laughs to make it worth seeing, probably Eddie Murphy's best film. "},{"Title":"Welcome back, Steve!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin hits it just right again in this beautifully funny new comedy. This goes down in history right along side previous triumphs for Steve like 'Roxanne' and 'LA Story'. Every one of the main characters is fascinating, and the front-line actors deliver a beautiful performance. Especially good is Heather Graham as the just-off-the-bus starlet. Bowfinger also features a surprisingly bold swipe at Scientology and other nutty Hollywood cults. Go see it a lot and enjoy! "},{"Title":"NOT a smart comedy!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  funny, yes (but at the cost of taking pot shots.) movies like SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, AS GOOD AS IT GETS (and in some parts of BOWFINGER) may be well written and performed well but when jokes are mean-spirited and hurtful i'm not laughing. there's nothing smart about that.   "}{"Title":"if you are in a mood to laugh...this is the one","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hope my comments here make sense...the headache that I have from laughing so hard may cloud my judgment. This is the best movie that Eddie Murphy has made since Beverly Hills Cop. He is absolutely hilarious in both roles. Steve Martin isn't his usual crazy self (as in Dirty Rotten Scoundrels or The Jerk) but he is funny in this film as well, although not nearly as funny as Murphy. The writing in this movie shows the comedy genius that Steve Martin possesses. It is an original idea for a plot and everything works very well together. A must see for Martin and Murphy fans... "},{"Title":"perhaps TOO affectionate a view of Hollywood","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps TOO affectionate a view of Hollywood.  What this needs is a little more cynicism about its subject matter.  All of the people making the movie-within-a-movie are just so gosh-darned excited to be making a movie (ANY movie)-- even the ones who know what is really going on.  Wouldn't it have been funnier if at least a couple were just in it for the money?The final sequence (the new movie being made in Thailand) should have been eliminated.  Visually and logically, it doesn't fit, and it is an emotional let-down after the jubilation in the preceding scene (which SHOULD have been the end of the film). "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Lacks Edge","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin's latest film has its share of laughs, but it left me wanting more.  Martin is his reliably droll self as the Hollywood bottom-feeder who just wants to make a movie at whatever cost and Murphy is doubly funny in two roles....the arrogant, self-centered action hero actor AND as the shy, sweetly goofy look-alike Martin hires as his double.  But the story, as a whole, lacks a certain bite....it should be taking bigger swipes at the whole Hollywood movie business.  And Martin is certainly smart and witty enough to do just that.  There's enough funny stuff here to recommend the movie....I just think the film (outside of the characters) would have been more memorable if it hadn't been so polite.   "},{"Title":"Still laughing...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's fun to go to the movies and have your throat hurting from laughing so hard! Murphy is great. Graham and Martin are fantastic too.  Now you see what happens when 2 comedic geniuses get together, a clever, laugh riot!  "},{"Title":"Good ol' Steve Martin","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie brings out the best in both Steve martin and Eddie Murphy (who's been selling out for the last couple of years and forgetting his own crude sense of humour seen on SNL years ago). The idea's new and it's written by one of the best comedians of all time. The cast is solid, but you might not find yourself laughing continuously through the whole movie. Basically, better than most of the comedies released this summer. "},{"Title":"A comedy in which it all works.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen many comedies in which it doesn't work. The actors say their dialogue and nothing happens. This film is different it has more laughs than most films have had all year. Even though it's not a classic it is very good. In fact if Steve Martin is given a Oscar nod for its screenplay I would be very glad. Also  I believe this film will show people that Eddie Murphy has alot  of talent. Even though a lot of people think he isn't that great . I believe this film will prove them wrong. I would also like to point out that the performances by the Mexican immigrants was really good and had a lot of laughs. I have to admit this is one good film. This film also proves the point that any film with Frank Oz involved has to be good. "},{"Title":"A Real Great Film","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As I sat through Bowfinger, i felt kind of disappointed because it seemed as though most of the funny scenes were already shown in the previews, but then at the very end I realized how much I enjoyed the characters and I felt how much they really wanted to be in a movie. And besides the fact that this movie is very funny, all the characters are each very enjoyable in their own way, especially Eddie Murphy's Jiff who is just so eager and happy to be starring in a movie, you feel his excitement and anticipation. "},{"Title":"Funny in the first degree....","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I went to go see this movie, I was afraid that I was going not going to laugh. At first, I thought my fears were confirmed, since the first five minutes of the film really does not have that many laughs... but after the first five minutes, I began laugh, and after about fifteen minutes of laughing, my stomach began to hurt, and it really did not stop until the end of the movie. As I write this, I have just gotten home from seeing it, and my stomach is still sore. This is just great comedy. It is one of the most original comedies that I have ever seen. Nothing is really borrowed, and all of the jokes work (well, maybe not all...).Eddie Murphy did a great job of bringing laughs to the screen as the paranoid action star Kit Ramsey and the nerdy fast food worker Jiff. Whenever he played the character Jiff, most people in the theater were almost bawling with laughter. Steve Martin's character, Bowfinger, is less funny, and is more of the straight man, but Martin plays him well also. Then there is Daisy, played by Heather Graham, who sleeps with all the main male characters to get to the top... she does a good job also (she does a lot of great wiggling....). The rest of the actors fulfill their characters well. What surprised me was seeing Terrence Stamp as the leader of a hilarious religious enterprise very similar to Scientology, called MindHead.This movie is great; I have not laughed this hard since I last saw Monty Python's Meaning of Life. I do not think that I have seen a comedy as original as this one for a while. Frank Oz and Steve Martin made a good team at bringing this movie to life. However, I did not laugh at a few scenes. One was a scene with a few racial jokes. Is it just me, or are racial jokes just not funny? Although I admit they are better timed and placed that in Wild Wild West, and in character, but they still made me uncomfortable. The other was a funny scene at first, but after I thought of it, it was not so funny. The scene shows a bunch of Mexicans trying to run for the border while the Border Guards are shooting at them. Bowfinger then herds some of them into his van to use as film crew. That seemed like it trivialized what they go through. However, besides that, Bowfinger is the best comedy of the year. Forget that teen comedy garbage and see this. Be sure not to eat too much before you see it though, or you might actually bust your gut.**** stars (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"Another El Lay Movie","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The story is not the most original, and there are a lot of L.A. industry and culture jokes.  BUT, it is fast paced and loads of laughs.Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin work very well together and off each other. The rest of the crew work exceedingly well together as well.  And it is fun to watch the 'illegals' grow in their jobs.Altogether, it is a very good investment of a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"I'll disagree with steve layne's comment","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah right... this one blows American Pie and Austin Powers 2 away. American Pie wasn't that funny, it was. But not funnier than this. That movie was sooooo over-rated. This movie has it all. I'll laugh at this movie more than those movies. The funniest movie of 1999. Go see it!!!!***1/2 "}{"Title":"An Inventive Comedy That Showcases The Talents of Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is an entertaining comedy that was creatively written by Steve Martin himself. It reminded me a bit of a similar story, Ed Wood which was about a down and almost out movie producer that is forced to think of unusual ways to realize his dream. Eddie Murphy is excellent and Steve Martin is charming. An effective cast includes Heather Graham, Christine Baranski and Terrance Stamp. I found myself laughing out loud several times along with the rest of a full theatre. I do wish that more of characters had been developed better. It seems that some tender moments might have really made this film great rather than very good. No matter, you will enjoy this romp and you will especially enjoy Martin and Murphy at work together.  "},{"Title":"The funniest thing Eddie has done in a long time...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw Bowfinger a couple of hours ago and I am relieved about several things. First, the movie was just as funny (if not funnier) than I thought it would be. It is a smart comedy that doesn't need to insult the intelligence of its audience or resort to flatulence humor (not that a well-placed fart joke can't be funny) in order to entertain. Secondly, I was relieved to see that Steve Martin hasn't lost his comic touch. Not that I was so much worried about that one. His book Pure Drivel was incredibly funny. I have been a longtime fan of Martin and I am pleased to see that he just keeps growing as an actor and getting funnier with age. Finally, I was relieved to see Eddie Murphy give a performance that reminded me why I ever thought he was funny to begin with. This is easily the funniest role(s) Eddie has had since I don't know when. His fast-talking, paranoid turn as Kit Ramsey is a scream, which makes his performance as the shy, honest Jiff all the more astounding. That he could give two performances so diametrically opposed in the same movie is a testament to his skill as a comic actor. For fans of Martin or Murphy, I have but this to say SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Martin and Murphy are great!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is easily the best comedy to come out this year, maybe in quite a while.  It has everything, from big stars to good acting, to a great script, and plenty of good lines.The highlight of the movie is Murphy's portrayal of the cast-off Jeff (Jiff?), the geeky character you will have seen in the previews (you might say he's awesome).  He is also excellent as Kit, the movie star with the hyper-inflated ego.Steve Martin is very good as the lead, and another highlight performance comes from Heather Graham, who is infinitely better here than in Austin Powers 2.  The cast is rounded out well, though I can't imagine how hard it would be that hard for an actor to play an actor looking for work.The script is well-written, with only one weak point, Kit's Mind-Head organization, which gets a little confusing.  Beyond that, the script had enough twists and good enough dialogue to easily keep it going between gags.This is an excellent movie.  The audience (at least at my showing) was really into to the movie.  You almost feel like you're watching it happen, or you're watching a documentary about the making of the film.  Bottom Line A top-notch movies with memorable performances from Martin and Murphy. "},{"Title":"A marginal attempt that could have been a lot funnier","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems that Steve Martin wrote this movie with a few really good ideas in mind.  The movie is sporadically funny but doesn't offer much in the way of plot or character development.  It has its moments the freeway scene, any scene with the dog, and anytime Eddie Murphy's geeky character speaks. I'd recommend this film for matinee. 7 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"I laughed myself soiled... even better than I had hoped!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was able to see a special screening of this wonderful comedy about a month ago... I am a huge fan of Eddie Murphy and an even bigger fan of Steve Martin, especially as a writer.  Essentially, everyone involved in the film was incredible and had their own special moments.  Heather Graham is incredibly sexy, without even saying a word or dressing provocatively. Martin is just plain awesome.  Murphy pulls off yet another double/multiple role project.  The gags are hysterical, the premise and situations increasingly funny, and the acting and writing remarkable.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The last three movies Steve Martin has written - ROXANNE, L.A. STORY, and A SIMPLE TWIST OF FATE - were all based on what we think of as classics. ROXANNE, of course, a modern day romantic comedy version of CYRANO DE BERGERAC, L.A. STORY was inspired by HAMLET, and A SIMPLE TWIST OF FATE was a modern version of SILAS MARNER.  For BOWFINGER, however, Martin goes to a classic showbiz story; that of a guy on the fringe hoping for his one big break.  Another contrast; while those three films had some big laugh moments in them(like in L.A. STORY when we realize the message the freeway sign is spelling out), we remember them more as films which make us smile and feel warm without feeling cheap(whereas, in my humble opinion, the FATHER OF THE BRIDE movies make you feel cheap).  BOWFINGER, on the other hand, is a laugh out loud comedy like his earlier works such as ALL OF ME and DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS.If I think ROXANNE and L.A. STORY are better films, it's not because I don't appreciate the laugh out loud movies, it's just that those two are better made.  BOWFINGER has a few too many slow spots, and it's not the masterpiece you'd expect from the teaming up of Martin and Eddie Murphy.  Still, there are some huge laughs to be had here, like when Murphy tries to cross the L.A. freeway.  And Martin has a lot of affection for his characters, so you're always laughing with them as well as at them.  Also, it must be said Murphy delivers one of his funniest performances.  Everyone is raving about his portrayal of the sweet if clueless Jiff, but I also liked his paranoid Kit and his mantra of Keep it together.I always like Heather Graham and Christine Baranski, and it's nice to see them here; they play stock characters(and using Imani Coppola's Legend of a Cowgirl is not, shall we say, the most subtle way of introducing Graham's character), but play them for all they're worth.  And Terrence Stamp is a hoot as Kit's new age guru.  All in all, very funny. "},{"Title":"very funny!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  a lot of scenes in bowfinger are very funny. it's veryfunny to see what links bobby bowfinger,and his film crewgo to,to make this movie. it's a real cheap film crew.steve martin is very amusing,and eddie murphy is even funnier with his two roles. bowfinger bumps out drop deadgorgeous for being the 3rd most funniest movie of the yearso far,but i doubt any comedy coming the rest of the year can beat out american pie,and austin powers the spy who shagged me. but bowfinger is still very funny. i give bowfinger *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Bowfinger Rocks!   It is absolutely hilarious.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger Rocks!Let's cut right to it Bowfinger Rocks!   It is absolutely hilarious.  You will roll in the aisles  responding to some of the freshest comedy delivered to the big screen since Get Shorty. Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy and (real director) Frank Oz earn principal credit, but the entire cast earns kudos for their part of this side splitting romp.It's a movie about making a movie just like Get Shorty, except the mobsters are replaced by Martin, who plays  sleaze-bucket (fake director) Bowfinger; casts a lead female capable of replacing star-struck Eve in All About Eve; coerces an unwilling leading actor in Murphy;  and recruits a production team from the Mexican/US borderline.  It's so old it's fresh. I loved it. No matter how zany, every antic is rational and plausible.  But there's more.Producing great opening scenes and endings are easy in film. So Martin writes a superb middle act, and clamps it between a terrific beginning and excellent ending.  Everything works. There are dialogue nuggets peppered throughout that'll wind up pinned to this site's 'memorable quote' collection. However long this movie is, you never care . . . and you wish it would last forever.It IS the perfect date movie.  Just when Blair Witch was produced for $35K, the King of Schemes reveals precisely how much every Hollywood movie really costs ($2,184!).  Talk about great timing.Don't miss the The Yugo Story poster in Bowfinger's office, or forget to listen carefully to all the Hollywood-speak (double entendre rich!)  This is a non-stop, roller coaster ride you'll want to pay twice to see before its theater run ends.All thumbs and toes are skyward are this movie.  See it tonight.Bill Stoll  "},{"Title":"Absolute Hilarity!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone familiar with Martin's essays for the New Yorker will be happy to know how well the versatile comic's wit translates in his absolutely hilarious screenplay for Bowfinger.  Attacking every and all nuances of the Hollywood system from cell phones to Scientology, Bowfinger scores and scores big!  Eddie Murphy hasn't been this funny in years.  It is so wonderful to see him act in film like this after suffering through low-brow humor of child's fare like Dr. Doolittle and The Nutty Professor.  His performance as both an the brink of a breakdown super-star actor and his simpleton double is seamless.  The rest of the cast makes for a wonderful ensemble of seemingly imbecilic Hollywood wannabes. Martin captures the plastic hilarity of the West Coast as seen in his former work L.A. Story and Barry Sonnenfield's Get Shorty.    "},{"Title":"Finally, A SMART COMEDY!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BOWFINGER ranks as the top comedy of the year! BOWFINGER is an original and very SMART comedy with an awesome script by Steve Martin. I saw this film at a preview screening over four months ago in Los Angeles. The audience (and myself included) laughed consistently throughout this hilarious film. It's finally a treat to see Hollywood bring together two gifted comedians AND put them both in a great film. I will return on opening day to see this one again. I laughed so hard throughout this film, I know I missed more great jokes. Steve Martin, your script is great. Bowfinger rates a solid grade A! "}{"Title":"Fall-down funny","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Each time Steve Martin has written a comedy, it's been a delight (if you don't believe me, just rent Roxanne or LA Story), and with this latest entry, he outdoes even himself.  The funniest film I've seen in 1999 concerns a manic wannabe producer and his cast of misfits trying to make a movie with an out-of-it movie star, but the plot isn't really what matters here.  It's the way Martin elevates the entire film above mere slapstick nonsense and into the category of the best farce.  Each performance is wonderful and expertly timed, and the writing is sharp enough to cause even the most cynical viewer to crack out loud with laughter.  Top notch. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest combos in years","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest films I've seen in years. Eddie is back in multi-character form after a lackluster Metro and Dr. Doolittle. Try not to laugh at the mugs and nerdy faces Kit Ramsey's stand-in makes throughout the film! I dare you. And Steve Martin has written one of the funniest screenplays since Roxanne. What other comic genius could come up with the idea of shooting a sci-fi film around an unsuspecting movie star? Forget American Pie. This is 1999's There's Something About Mary...only funny!!! "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny film.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was in a theater filled with a preview audience of people laughing themselves out of their seats.  The movie is both smart and silly.  Eddie Murphy is a genius.  His performance is priceless as both the paranoid movie star and the nerdy brother.  Just try to hold back your laughter as Steve Martin's zany character directs Eddie Murphy to cross an L.A. Freeway during rush hour.  It's going to be a big hit. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found this movie so enjoyable. Today the comedies are lacking story lines and actual funny content! This made me laugh from the middle of my gut instead of a forced laugh which most comedies these days make me do. I am a young film maker and the accidents and mistakes that are continuous though out the film, I can totally relate to because I am bound to do the same. Overall the film has a good pace and the script is not too cringe worthy. This is possible the first film were I am actually impressed by Eddie Murphy's performance. This can also be said for Steve Martin. This means it is a must watch for many one who loves to laugh. "},{"Title":"Joyful mayhem","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm amazed that this funny movie only gets an average of 6.5 votes. It perfectly combines satire with slapstick. The central premise - that you can make a movie without the star knowing about it - is wonderfully realised by the inspired Steve Martin and his crew of barmy losers. Eddie Murphy naturally steals the show in two different roles. The traffic-dodging scene had me rolling on the floor. My favourite quote (from Heather Graham as the nymphomaniac starlet), I've never done it lying down before! How can anybody not like this utterly charming movie, which bears throughout the stamp of Steve Martin's unique view of life? It's a true return to form for two of America's great natural comedians - just when we thought they had stopped being funny forever. "},{"Title":"Wicked Satire - Feel Good Finale","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With an IMDb rating of only 6.3, I'd like to address the deficit.Comedy character acting isn't easy. Legends like Peter Sellers could do it, Sir Alec Guiness could do it. Here, we get to enjoy another master of that Art, Eddie Murphy. In this movie, he's at the top of his game.The sequence when Nerdy Burger Boy Jiff (played by Murphy) has to run across a freeway is one of the best-engineered comedy routines on film. I literally find myself aching with laughter as Jiff courageously negotiates highspeed cars, bikes and trucks, contorting his body in an afford to remain in one piece! (In fact, I wonder how they managed to film this sequence, since it looks so realistic!) The essence of great comedy is, unfortunately, other people suffering. (Not real suffering - acted suffering - due to comically-engineered situations). Laurel & Hardy knew this. Keaton and Chaplin knew this. Murphy and Martin know this. Without missing a beat, Bowfinger (played with aplomb by Martin) asks Jiff for one more take. The real director (Oz) decides on just a few seconds of close-up as Jiff dashes across the lethal freeway oncemore. Looking at Murphy's tortured face is an achingly funny moment.But the laughs don't stop. Bowfinger amounts to a deliciously wicked satire of Hollywood's many shortcomings. Unhinged superstars, Mexican film crews and desperate starlets are all ruthlessly parodied for our entertainment. This is intelligent comedy and I appreciated its subtlety in every chuckle-inducing frame.If you feel down, I'm certain Bowfinger will supply the antidote. "},{"Title":"How To Cast A Big Star In A Movie","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Bowfinger' pleasantly surprised me. Since the cast included the likes of Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Christine Baranski and Heather Graham, I was expecting to laugh but I wasn't expecting something satirical. It's much cleverer than the average Hollywood comedy. It exposes a lot of the less-spoken-about truth that happens behind the making of a Hollywood film and does so with a sensible sense of humour. There are plenty of laugh out loud moments and they linger long after the film has ended. I found myself randomly chuckling at the memory of the some of the scenes. Frank Oz has done a brilliant job here. I liked how he stays on track and doesn't go outrageously overboard with his plot devices, like his realistic use of the Kit-look-a-like. Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Christine Baranski, Jamie Kennedy, Adam Alexi-Malle and Heather Graham form an excellent and hilarious team. They're all spot on in their delivery. Graham's Daisy echoes the stereotype of a small town girl doing anything to influence the cast and crew to climb the ladders of stardom and Baranski's Carol echoes that of a has-been who has managed to remain dignified without resorting to tragedies like alcoholism or drugs. I only thought Robert Downey Jr. was wasted in a tiny role. To sum it up, 'Bowfinger' is a movie that I didn't know I wanted to see. I wouldn't mind a revisit in the future. "},{"Title":"Funny crazed director and friends","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You could think this movie will turn predictable in certain parts, but it does not. It is a really comedy, with some unexpected resources. The plot of the film shot by Bowfinger can be a little messy sometimes, but that neither affects the goal of the movie nor is more explained than it should.&#x95;Bowfinger is a crazy director that wants a celebrity in his movie but the means he uses to get him into it are a bit weird. And his movie is really a minimum-wage one!!!. Even Bowfinger's life is minimum-waged...Although we may have seen lots of times the typical nerdy character, Eddie Murphy does a really good one. And the craze celebrity is amusing as well. Steve Martin funny as always, with that uneasiness his characters tend to have, and a bold facet though.Watch it if you can! "},{"Title":"deeply surprised","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i was so surprised on how much i loved this comedy. i don't like Steve Martin or Eddie Murphy, there both nearly as bad as Adam Sandler. so seeing a film with these two in it made me not want to watch it but one day i ended up buying it on the clearance shelf for next to nothing. when i started watching it i was laughing and didn't stop till the end. the flaw in this film was the ending, a little too cheesy for my liking. Eddie Murphy is superb and i might be going a little over the top about this but i think he should of been nominated for an Oscar for his duo role in this. Heather Graham was brilliant too as a girl who will do anything to become a star. a good cameo performance by Robert Downey Jr too. the rest of the film apart from the end is a ten out of ten. any person who wants to be a film maker should watch this. i think thats the reason why i loved it so much. for all you Eddie Murphy and Steve martin haters out there..... don't judge this film till you've watched it. as I've said i was deeply surprised....... 9/10.........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated comedies ever!","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the most underrated comedies ever! Steve Martin plays Bobby Bowfinger who's career one downward spiral. Then one day he gets a movie script called Chubby Rain! Even the title of script is freaking hilarious!!!Steve is back to writing his own movies these days&#133;and thank goodness! The cast is excellent, Murphy steals the show as the idiot, and we get some nice work from both Heather Graham and the always superb Christine Baranski. The gags are hilarious and Martin and Murphy work VERY well alongside each other and both give their best performance in ages. Other great supporting characters Christine Baranski, Terence Stamp and Robert Downey jr. are awesome! Watch 'Bowfinger', when you just want to have fun! "}{"Title":"I don't understand why this movie isn't seen as a GREAT comedy","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very few people went to see Bowfinger. It was a big surprise because it starred BOTH Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin and both are playing their A game. Maybe those who went to see it expected something very different from what they got. After all, the plot was a little complicated, there were no explosions and there were no exposed breasts (all the elements NECESSARY to make most comedies succeed).Bowfinger is a man who is the modern equivalent of 50s schlock-meister Ed Wood. He tries very hard to convince those around him that he IS a big-time movie producer and director but his films are actually substantially worse than those produced by Troma Films. Amazingly enough he actually convinces many would-be actors to join him in making a sci-fi alien flick starring the totally insane Kit Ramsey (hillariously played by Murphy). The only problem is, Ramsey does NOT know anything about this--and then the FUN starts!!! "},{"Title":"Kings of Komedy and Kung Fu","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From Eddie Murphy's character Kit Ramsey quoting the voice in his head which states clearly that 'the laker girls need to be taken down a peg or two' to Steve Martin explaining that 'every' movie production costs under 3 grand cash to actually make to Robert Downey Jr. reading the tag line of a movie script (written by Martin's character) which reads 'Gotcha Suckaaaaz!'...it's understandable that this film is a hidden gem of talent, writing and comedic quality. I don't think Steve Martin ever truly 'lost his way' as some critics suggest, but that he was waiting for the right time to do a film project HIS way rather than the film company's way. There are even little film geek jabs, in the movie, at production companies like Paramount and Universal. Murphy is almost at his best here since 'Beverly Hills Cop' (that's right, there's no number after Cop because the other two don't really count) and makes the gut flex and strain quite a few times with his double nerd/buffoon role playing both the hilare Kit Ramsey and Kit Ramsey's brother. All in all, two kings of the 80's/90's comedy film scene get to steal the show together and even do some Kung Fu fighting (with the song playing) to win our hearts and our hope for the future of good, quality comic fun on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger 8/10","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Movies about movies is like adding ice cream to more ice cream. It just keeps getting better and better no matter how many times you do it. You may get sick at the end from too much of it, but it's a fun ride while it lasted. A movie with just enough ice cream without getting sick is Bowfinger, a low-key comedy from the minds of on-off director Frank Oz (who's responsible for the genius Little Shop of Horrors and the idiotic The Stepford Wives) and the always great Steve Martin (well, not always great-he was in Cheaper by the Dozen). It's always on key, en route to greatness, and barely gets bogged down by sentimentality.Bobby Bowfinger (Martin) is a filmmaker who has fallen on hard times. He has a few constant actors at his helm, including Carol (Christine Baranski) and Dave (Jamie Kennedy). He gets a script for a horror movie called Chubby Rain, and is able to make it if they can get huge action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) in the picture. Kit refuses, but Bowfinger and co. film around Kit so he doesn't even know he's in it. Kit has his own mental troubles, including delusions of paranoia and exposing himself to the Lakers cheerleaders. Meanwhile, Kit look-alike Jif (also Murphy) is hired for a stand-in. Of course, things soon get out of hand.Put simply, Bowfinger is a hilarious movie. Martin hits a home run again with this movie. Considering he wrote it also, he knew exactly how to do each line, and his almost dead-pan performance fit into the humor of the role. Murphy plays two very different roles here, both to perfection. Kit is almost like Chris Rock in one of his movies, while Jif is at the completely different end of the spectrum. He's a low-key guy, and Murphy did a great job with that character. All of the other actors added to the humor of the script. There's not really much more to say about Bowfinger except that it's very funny. And that's all I have to say about that.My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for sex-related material and language. "},{"Title":"Cleverer than it looks (couple of spoilers)","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a TV show in the UK where a comedian poses as a showbiz correspondent called Dennis Pennis and ambushes celebrities with impertinent questions. When he encountered Steve Martin he shouted across a crowded foyer Hey Steve, why aren't you funny anymore?. For the most part, this film gives the lie to that jibe.A reflexive movie-movie in a line that goes back at least to Singing in the Rain via Day for Night, The Player and more pertinently Ed Wood and Get Shorty, Bowfinger takes an affectionate look at Hollywood's Z-list underclass.This is not, as they say, Shakespeare, but it's put together with considerable wit and attention to detail. There are slapstick elements to keep the multiplexes happy, and understated in-jokes for the cinephiles. Examples The wetback crew members are seen to be reading Cahiers du Cinema in a two-sided joke referencing guerilla film-making and the ambitious self-education of immigrants; MindHead is a parody of the Church of Scientology and Heather Graham's character takes up with one of Hollywood's most influential lesbians in what I assume is a pop at Martin's ex-girlfriend Anne Heche. I also like the moment in the opening scene where the background song reaches the lyric don't walk out on me and Martin's dog leaves the room.For me the film's weakness was in the ending, the Ninja parody went on *way* too long, and the enthusiastic reception for Chubby Rain was off the mark - it would have been so much better to have the premiere audience boo the film and the cast and crew go home depressed until they get the wonderful news about the Z-movie offer from Taiwan. Perhaps that didn't play too well with the preview audiences and they changed it.All in all though, a likeable, well played piece of work and better than anything else Martin or Murphy have done in recent years. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is great!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a smart comedy. The scenes that Bowfinger and his crew secretely film Kit was very funny and original. Kit's mental problem, which shows almost at the end, also was surprising and funny.  Actings were good as well. Steve Martin plays a goofy character well as usual and Heather Graham also was a good cast for a country girl who would do anything for a success. The funnies thing about this movie, however, is to watch Eddie Murphy plays two very different characters.  He plays the cold but worrisome action star and his nerdy brother so superbly and believable. His ability is proven once more in Nutty Professor II.  He's a pure genius.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is a very entertaining movie, I laughed out loud quite a few times while I watched the film, which is a good thing since this is a comedy. Steve Martin does what Steve Martin usually does, and Eddie Murphy is great as the two characters he play. I am actually surprised that Heather Graham didn't ruin Bowfinger, in every other film I have seen where she is in she has destroyed the experience with her poor acting, but in this film she's actually okay. Could be that she plays a really bad actress in the movie and that we get to see this actress work a lot&#133; I mean, I wouldn't notice if it was Graham who was bad. But to be fair she was okay. Entertaining film. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Martin and Murphy are great","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin's Bowfinger is a ireverent comedy about a con-man (Robert K. Bowfinger) trapped in a dreaming movie maker.  He wouldn't be a con man, but the star he wants for his movie Chubby Rain, Kit Ramsey, refuses to star.  So, Bowfinger decides to follow Kit around and make the film with him in it, without him knowing it.  Funny as a Steve Martin/Frank Oz directed film can get, this film looks at a type of Ed Wood guy trying to make it big.  Though Martin is funny with his cast of characters, the funniest part of the movie is Eddie Murphy who plays 2 characters.  One is Kit Ramsey, the loud-mouth, narcasistic and crazy action mpovie star who gives laughs while being chased by fake aliens.  The other is Jif Ramsey, a twin brother of Kit who is shy, clumsy and funny as can be who only wants to run errands to boost his career.  This brings the film to such funny heights.  Martin hasn't made this good of a film since 3 Amigos, or even the Jerk.  Favorite line Bowfinger- Did you know Tom Cruise didn't know he was in that vampire movie until 2 years after it came out?.  Brilliant.  A+ "},{"Title":"First half excellent, then it stalls","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie, and gave it a 6. But it was almost two movies. In the first half, the plot is set up beautifully and Eddie Murphy, when he is yelling about racists in his mansion, is the funniest I have seen him in years.But a little past the halfway point of the movie everything slows down. The end for some reason made me think of Men in Black, with one of those typical big finish climaxes which seemed out of character for this movie. It would have been better if it had stayed a small film.Still, great concept, and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Silly farce showcases the talent of Martin and Murphy","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This farcical comedy is a sendup of the wanna-bes that live on Hollywood's fringes hoping for a break.  Steve Martin wrote and stars in this improbable story of a director who attempts to make a movie around a superstar actor who doesn't know he is in it.  The director, Bobby Bowfinger (Martin) creates scenes and plays them out with the unwitting Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) on the streets of Hollywood with cameras rolling.Basically the script was narcissistic with Martin writing himself a ticket to play a character only he could play.  Ironically, though this was more or less the Steve Martin show, Eddie Murphy stole the entire movie.  Once again, Murphy plays two completely divergent characters; superstar Kit Ramsey and his nerdy brother Jiff.  While Martin attempts to be funny by playing someone absurd trying to be serious, Murphy plays one over the edge paranoid ego maniac and a self conscious geek and gets the majority of the laughs.  Give Steve Martin credit for having the guts to bring in talent that could overshadow him.Frank Oz does a good job of making filmmaking look like what we think it must be like and nothing like what it really is.  I think most people think filmmaking is like filming the news; you go in take some shots and leave.  The reality is that 90% of shooting a movie is setup, lighting, marks, stunt coordination, etc., to say nothing of post production.  The actual filming is the smallest element of the project.  Heather Graham makes great window dressing as the naive Ohio girl ambitious to become a movie starlet, having sex with anyone and everyone she thinks might help her career.  Her unusual combination of sweetness, sexiness and gawkishness made her the perfect choice for her character.I gave this movie a 6.  This is pretty silly stuff that has enough going for it that Eddie Murphy can hold it together and make it worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good, if not exactly original, concept (see Ed Wood and Mickey Rooney). Laughably untalented hacks lucking into a movie deal- it should've been a lot funnier. The whole notion of making a movie around its unsuspecting star was clever. However, the story lagged too often, and there were WAY too many ridiculous coincidences (come on, the biggest star in the world's dorky twin brother just happens to end up being in the same show they're filming around the star?) Also, Heather Graham's character was an insulting caricature of the casting-couch shark; hopefully, that's not writer Steve Martin's true view of women. "}{"Title":"More Jiff","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jiff Ramsey is not only the funniest character Eddie Murphy has played, but one of the funniest on screen characters of all time. The only problem is the promoters realized this and made the movie appear to be centered around the nerdy Jiff.  In reality, Jiff is simply a secondary character.  What a shame!  Still worth seeing though.  "},{"Title":"Bring Back The Jerk","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bowfinger is a distinctly average comedy starring some top-flight actors. Steve Martin's script falls somewhere in-between the goofiness of The Jerk and the occasional subtlety of LA Story, but it's nowhere near as good as either of those films. I get the feeling that maybe Martin's best work is behind him and that he should concentrate on acting in other people's movies. He's a good comedy actor, despite appearing in some ghastly misfires over the last decade or so.I watched Bowfinger, waiting desperately for a Laugh-out-Loud moment that never came. All that I got was a predictable script, stereotypical characters, a wasted cast and a few smirks. Hardly vintage Steve Martin.If you're looking for a decent film about a hack producer/director, look no further than Tim Burton's Ed Wood. At the very least, it's got more laughs in it than Bowfinger. "},{"Title":"The Con is On - And a Funny Con it is!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BowfingerPLOT SPOILERS (If you don't want to know the plot BASIS, do not read; however, there are no spoilers per say)...`Bowfinger' starts out with Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin), an unsuccessful movie director who has oddly enough, at his ripe old age of forty-five, never directed a movie. Every week he puts a dollar away into a little tin to save up for his first movie. Well, now he has bills up to here and debts to pay, and some promising actors to satisfy with a script. And he's got the perfect script to make it all come true `Chubby Rain.' It is about aliens coming down from space in raindrops, hence the name `Chubby Rain.' And Bobby Bowfinger has the perfect man for the film. He can already see the tagline (well, I can, at least) `And there is only one man who can stop them. Only one man who is an instant moneymaker, audience-attractor and action-hero. Kit Ramsey.'Eddie Murphy plays Kit Ramsey, a successful billion-a-film movie star who has been having some paranoid delusions recently. He goes to a therapist whenever he sees these visions, and the therapist calms him. But he has no idea what he is in store for.After Bowfinger tries to contact Kit in an effort to attract him to the `Chubby Rain' script (to no avail, obviously), Bowfinger hatches a ludicrous plan. A plan that might just work. Who says actors need to know that they are in a movie? What if they were just.filmed, staged? What if you sent an actress up to an actor on the street, told the actress what to say, and filmed it. It could come across that the actor she is talking to is part of the movie. And that is exactly what Bobby Bowfinger does. He films Kit without Kit knowing he is filming him (it all sounds so confusing, but it really isn't).But after Bowfinger's actors go up to Kit and speak to him on the street, Kit thinks that the actors are aliens, and his therapist puts him in a secret mental hospital (rehab?) unit.Bobby Bowfinger is left without an actor.So now, the game is on, as Bobby must find a Kit look-a-like. Fortunately for Bobby, he has just found Kit Ramsey's dorky, nerdy twin Jiff a braces-boasting, gum-chewing, thick-rimmed glasses wearing, loveable freak.But there are more surprises just around the corner for Bobby, as Kit is released from the mental rehab unit and is chased by Bowfinger's actors again, leading to the film's climax. (`Got you, suckas!')Well, now I will evaluate the cast, because the cast of `Bowfinger' is very ensemble.Steve Martin is great in his role as Bowfiner, a hassled director who must resort to an all-time low of filming. But what is great are Martin's dumb-grin expressions throughout the film that make him look like a little child.I have now seen two Eddie Murphy films in two nights `Bowfinger' and `I Spy,' his performance in both surprising me. In `I Spy' he fit Kelly Robinson like a glove, using his loudmouth antics to full advantage, for once. In `Bowfinger,' Murphy uses his talent to his full advantage as well, convincingly pulling off an egotistical actor and nerdy geek.Heather Graham plays an actress wannabe who sleeps with every man on set of the movie to get her way(s).Robert Downey, Jr. has a small role as a film producer; he is in the film in the very beginning, about five seconds in the middle, and at the very end. I'd estimate his screen presence at about four minutes total.Jamie Kennedy plays Bobby Bowfinger's assistant and friend; he works in a back-lot film studio. To help film the `Chubby Rain' movie, Kennedy's character `borrows' film equipment from the film studio and returns it to them before night. Kennedy was very good in this movie, as he is in his television show `JKX' (The Jamie Kennedy Experiment).Now, on to the interesting aspects of the film`Bowfinger' has some very interesting and hilarious sequences, including one segment where Bowfinger is having Kit run across a traffic-packed highway during rush hour for the movie he is filming. Hands down the best scene in the film.The movie also has some interesting `con' ideas, which are very provocative and thought provoking. For instance, Bowfinger sets a camera in a large tree-clipper truck, sets Kennedy up there, drives on a highway and films Kit Ramsey in his car, who is being chased by one of Bowfinger's actors. Who would ever think of that? Only Steve Martin, the writer of this film.The thing that makes this movie so funny is the fact that Kit Ramsey has no clue whatsoever about what is going on. One of Bowfinger's actors (the guy who wrote the `Chubby Rain' script) walks up to Kit and, using a special prank, cuts off his own arm (of course it's a fake arm, but Kit thinks it is real and runs away).Unfortunately, believe it or not, I was overall a bit disappointed in the movie. Yes, it is a clever parody of the film industry, and it was not a bad film at all. It was quite funny. But frankly, I was expecting more laughs after reading so many good reviews and finding out Martin wrote the script.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Borefinger","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsI was attracted to this movie because I have recently become more drawn to family comedy type movies,and because I like Steve Martin.I have always found myself drawn to his opportunistic charm,and comic charisma.But in this movie,his charecter was just horrible.As were most of the others.He plays a self absorbed,thoughtless prick low budget film producer who is prepared to put Eddie Murphy's poor guy action hero charecter through all manner of personal hell just to get him to appear in his dire action movie.Heather Graham ,my surname's sake,plays a filthy whore aspiring actress,who sleeps with most of the film crew ,including Martin,just to boost her fame status.About the only two charecters who I could give half a toss about where Murphy's 2 charecter's,and Terrence Stamp's mental health boss,who finally manages to put his foot down on Martin's selfish little game.Ultimately,Bowfinger emerges as a wasted idea project.It had the potential to work an hilarious,original idea to the ground,but thanks to a crass script and one track performances,comes out as something quite untasty indeed.There are a few funny moments here and there,but,ultimately,I'm suprised this is what the collaboration of two fine hollywood comics boiled down to.** "},{"Title":"The return(?) of Steve Martin","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The nineties were not a good time to be a Steve Martin fan; the last movie he did which showed any spark or inventiveness was L.A. Story and that was nearly ten years ago. Not surprisingly, that also happens to be the last time he acted from a script which he himself had written. He was content to spend the rest of the decade embodying flat, middle of the road characters in flat, middle of the road movies (Father of the Bride parts I and II, Housesitter, The Out-of-Towners) while his creative muse sought other outlets in the theater (his play Picasso At the Lapin Agile premiered in 1993) and in the form of  humorous essays (like those collected in his new book, Pure Drivel). These last projects indicate that Martin's surreal and inventive mind has not gone dry, but he seemed to have lost his confidence in film as a forum for communicating his unusual gags and ideas. Would we ever get another original screen comedy from Steve Martin?On that score, Bowfinger is both good and bad news. The good news, of course, is that the script is a Martin original. The bad news is it's clear he has been out of the practice for too long. Or rather, perhaps, he's worked in so many plodding and monotonous comedies now that it's blunted his style. For, the actual idea behind Bowfinger is suitably off the wall (I won't summarize it here, you can read it elsewhere at this site). It's the execution of it that ends up being so uninteresting. The material here needs to be pitched at a heightened, absurdist level if it's going to work - something in the spirit of The Naked Gun or, to reference Martin's own work, The Man With Two Brains. It needs to be clear the filmmakers are aware that the plan here could never really work all kinds of practical problems are involved, from the ability to get good shots of Ramsey without proper camera and lighting setups of him, as well as the need to get him to sign a consent form - not to mention the huge script problem of working his character substantially into the story when the shots they get of him are only few and far between.Now, I can hear some people saying, But it's a comedy!  You're not supposed to think of all those very practical concerns while you're watching it. I agree - so the fact that I DID think of them tells me the film wasn't working, or I wouldn't have gotten so caught up by them. It's because it never really establishes the right *tone*, so we don't know how seriously to take these people, their dreams and desires. On one level Bowfinger is a pure cartoon, just like Martin's Jerk or Sgt. Bilko. Yet, there's just enough pathos and desperation sketched in so that we kind of think of him in more human terms - like Ed Wood, say, or Woody Allen's Broadway Danny Rose. For whatever reason, the combination just doesn't work, and leaves you with the idea that the filmmakers just couldn't decide what kind of film they were making.It doesn't help that Martin is actually pretty lame here as a performer. In fact, I don't think I've ever seen him so tired and apathetic. He valiantly tries to do an impersonation of his normal high-energy character, but it just falls flat. And when you catch performers trying to do themselves, it's a dangerous sign. I can't honestly recall one single thing he personally did or said in this movie which made me laugh. As someone who's worshipped Martin practically from the cradle, it was a pretty dispiriting experience.So should you see this movie? I dunno. It's not a bomb or anything - just kind of average. But considering how lunatic the premise is, average here seems kind of like  failure. One thing's for sure, though it contains one of Eddie Murphy's all-time greatest performances - maybe his best EVER. I'm not talking about his part as Kit Ramsey - that actually draws on the loud-mouthed, overbearing side of Murphy that I think has gotten real old and real annoying. No, it's his part as Jiff, the sweet and slow-witted Ramsey look-alike which Bowfinger uses as a body double. The look and tone he finds to portray this character are just priceless - he draws howls just from his gestures and his reactions. It's your standard geek character, but so wonderfully inhabited and underplayed that it feels totally fresh (and works better than his more hammy and obvious approach in The Nutty Professor). Is it enough to recommend the movie?  Hmmm. . . tough call. It really is a great part, yet the rest of the film does not support it very well. How about wait for a bargain night at your video store - or better yet, just catch on television when it finally airs.  "},{"Title":"Film about a low budget struggling director, this film was low budget!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is about a struggling movie producer, Bobby Bowfinger (Steve Martin), who decides to make a movie with one of hollywood's biggest actors, Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy). The twist is that Bobby can't get Kit to sign a deal so he and the other cast members decide to shoot the movie anyways by taking video shots of Kit in his everyday life without him knowing and piece it together to make the film. I think it would have been better for Eddie Murphy's career if he didn't know he was in this movie cause thats how bad it was. Probably the worse movie I've seen with Eddie Murphy, as for Steve Martin, well when was the last time he was in a good movie? Planes,Trains & Automobiles... 1987. If you have 2 hours to kill or need a good movie to fall asleep to, then yes this would be a good film, Otherwise leave it on the shelf at the video store. "},{"Title":" 2 comic all-stars fail miserably","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from this movie,but with the people responsible for THE GOLDEN CHILD, DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS,      ROXANNE, BEVERLY HILLS COP...You get what I'm saying. I was not the least bit amused. If you want to see a GOOD movie about a bad director, see   ED WOOD "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb, stupid, inane, worthless, and stale -- a 90-minute Saturday Night Live skit with a handful of funny moments and two cute inside jokes.  Many of my friends, and not just the men, enjoyed this film and after seeing it, i haven't the slightest idea why.  It's obtuse, obvious, lowbrow humour with bad timing -- a great companion piece to Austin Powers 2, The Spy Who Shagged Me. "},{"Title":"super bad.","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I took a break after the first half hour of this movie (which I found mildly bad), I read some very negative reviews of it. Some people called it one of the worst movies they'd ever seen. I thought C'mon, it's not that bad. I hate hyperbole. But as I tried to finish the movie ...I agreed. Viewing this was an exercise in watching the clock, and fast-forwarding. I'm very grateful I wasn't stuck watching it in a movie theater. Bowfinger is soooooo bad.The writing is pure limpness. Frank Oz directs a half-interested cast including Martin, who wrote the damned thing. Structurally... also limp. There probably is a funny movie to be made about a vigilante film crew, surreptitiously making a movie without the star knowing he's in it. But it's just not going to be this wholesome and perky. And we're not going to be preoccupied with whether we like the scumbag-producer at the end. John Waters riffed on a similar idea, but made it funnier in Cecil B. Demented.Typical jokes - Martin positions himself at a restaurant to be overheard by a big producer making a phony phone-call using a handset with a detached cord hanging from it. That's the joke. The character and writing are that cutesy & stupid- When Martin says he's going to hire the best crew money can buy, we cut to the desert where he's waving illegal aliens into a van. Firstly, the bump/spike joke format is dead from overuse and lack of imagination, and second, this isn't a joke some establishment guy in his fifties can get away with.Humor in action is a beautiful care-free thing. This ain't humor. How do you have a naturally funny actor like Robert Downey Jr. in your movie and somehow provide him with nothing to do? You'd actually have to work hard to get in the way to make Downey unfunny. Martin was always too concerned with being likable; then he jumped on the Touchstone gravy train, which transformed him into some sort of freakish monster of solicitousness and ingratiation. This is why his stuff will never rise above mediocrity - He's just too boojie in his concern for what people think of him. Everything is played broad so Joe Average will get the joke. Every idea is too mediocre. A viewer couldn't be less involved.Oz and Martin tirelessly flog their toothless, mainstream angles; it shows in every frame of this. Comedy has moved on. This isn't a movie, it's a product for people who want to consume funni-ness and leave the theater with a clean, empty mind. Terrible. "},{"Title":"Pretty Ordinary","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't mind this movie, although I do believe Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin's movies are gradually decreasing in humour. Neither seemed to be too comfortable in their roles throughout the movie, which decreased the natural delivery of humour they both usually possess.At best, worth a look on video. "}{"Title":"A desperate producer makes a film, but the star doesn't know he's the star","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin is a producer with what he considers a great script --Chubby Rain - in Bowfinger, a 1999 film also starring Eddie Murphy, Heather Graham, Terrence Stamp and Christine Baranski. Martin, who wrote the screenplay, is Bobby Bowfinger, a producer who is convinced that he has a hot sci fi property and wants Kit Ramsey (Murphy), a huge action star, to be his lead. (The script, by the way, sounds awful.) He has no way of getting to Kit, but he tries - and fails. Then he decides to make the film starring Kit anyway, except that Kit won't know it. He has a cast that has been on hold for months, and he rounds it out by holding auditions for $25 each (no checks). Here he finds his leading lady (Graham) and his - and everybody else in the cast and on the crew's - future girlfriend. His parking attendant friend can steal fancy cars for him, and he has another friend who can steal cameras and sound equipment. And he can get a top crew by going out in a van and picking up illegals trying to cross the border. He's set.Bobby tells his cast that Kit won't meet anyone and doesn't want to see the camera, and then stakes out Kit's house, finds out where he's having lunch, etc., and has his actors walking up to Kit and saying lines about aliens, screaming at him or chasing his car. Little do they know, Kit is a little paranoid when it comes to extraterrestrials. He's a member of a mind cult, run by Terrence Stamp, who keeps having him repeat that there are no aliens. As the filming continues and Kit is continually approached by aliens, Stamp sends him on an enforced vacation. That's when Bobby hires a Kit lookalike named Jiff (also Eddie Murphy).This is a preposterous story that's done well enough so that you can believe it could work, and it's a great premise. I may be a sap, but I found the end when everyone is watching the final film very touching. There are some hilarious moments and lots of satire from a very funny cast. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Welcome...to MINDTHINK....","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THis in-joke Hollywood film is probably gonna leave some viewers in the cold,but being a bit of a cinemaholic meself,I was tickled by this offering.Filmmaker Bobby Bowfinger(Steve MArtin) is the perennial loser of losers in the movie mecca that is Hollywood,but he is such a true believer in plying his craft that he simply refuses to give up on his dream of making the ultimate action movie. Short on cash but full of ideas,he cooks a scheme to try to get action star Kit Ramsey(Eddie Murphy) in his latest project. There's just one problemKit wants nothing to do with Bobby or his project. Needless to say,this does not deter Bowfinger,who instead tries to film around Kit. In the process,he not only enlists the help of his usual repertoire(among themChristine Baranski and JAmie Kennedy) and immigrant labor but gets two unforeseen bonuses an ambitious,game actress just in from Ohio(Heather Graham,quite good here) and a likable doof who bears an uncanny resemblance to Kit(also Murphy,who is superb in both roles).Frank Oz,for many years associated with the Muppets,directs another brilliant movie(In & Out,Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,What About Bob?) that features wry,perfect comic timing. The summary line refers to the organization that Kit belongs to,which is a not-very subtle dig at Scientology. Basically,this film is a one full slap at the slickness of the movie industry,showing everybody as having some ulterior motive or moral weakness that drives them to make poor,laughable decisions all in the name of making pictures and,thusly,becoming stars. I can wager it'll probably be more identifiable to those who've had their brushes with the industry(no doubt this'll sting any Scientologist out there). Still, I believe even somebody from outside the dream factory can still appreciate this slightly mean-spirited parody of the people who make moving pictures. "},{"Title":"What a team!!!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What happens when you bring two of the biggest comical actors from the eighties (after that they haven't made many good movies), who both have an enormous career of their own, together in one movie. There are two possible ways that this can go. Either it doesn't work at all, because the two gigantic ego's can't be combined, either you get an excellent comedy. In this case it has become the second option.Until today, Bobby Bowfinger hasn't had a very successful career as an actor / producer / director in Hollywood. But that will all change. He's reading the script which a friend has written and he is so convinced of its quality, that he decides to take a last shot at fame and fortune. However, there is one small problem no-one wants to buy the script ... except for one famous producer who promises him to do it, when he agrees with one extra line in the contract Kit Ramsey, Hollywood's number one star, has to be in it. Bobby Bowfinger pays a visit to Kit, but the man says no. But no problem! Bowfinger has an 'excellent' solution for that problem. He'll hire the cheapest film crew available and adds an unknown beauty from Ohio, a mentally retarded man, someone who has an unimportant job at a studio... and together they start shooting the SF-film starring Kit Ramsey who doesn't even know he's in it. As they keep following the man through the city, they make him go completely paranoid because of all the strange things that happen around him, but in the end they are able to finish the movie.What probably surprised me the most was how well Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy perform together. I don't think it is very easy for these actors, who are used to be the only ones that offer the comical note in a movie, to share that role. But it works perfectly and together they have made an hilarious movie. Especially Eddie Murphy did an extraordinary job. Not because he was so much funnier than Martin, but because he did not play one, but two roles and still was able to convince me. Of course they have been helped a lot by Frank Oz. This director hasn't got a big career in directing, but what I've seen from him so far certainly wasn't bad (except for the remake of The Stepford Wives which really didn't do it for me).All in all this is a very good comedy about Hollywood and film-making. It's perhaps not the most intelligent movie ever, but it offered me some great laughter and that's still the most important thing for me when watching a comedy. I give this movie a 7.5/10, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable yet Instantly Forgettable","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While watching this film, I really enjoyed it.  I especially liked that Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy both reminded of old after years and years of mostly terrible roles in subpar material.  However, this movie is so very light that I forgot it almost within seconds of leaving the theater.  It was very odd-- never before have I liked a movie so much that stayed with me so little.  The fact that nothing about it etched into my memory may be a testimony that it is not the fine film that the fine performances of Murphy and Martin suggest it should be.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two film comedy actors of the 80's teaming up together to make this film. Murphy plays both the baffan and himself in this 'Prince and the Pauper' story. The impression given to the audience through the marketing of the film is that Murphy is now reduced to portraying the baffan in order to be present in 90's and 21st century Hollywood. However, when you watch the film you realise that his actual character is the prince, and it is the pauper (baffan) that is enlisted to take his place so that Steve Martin can make his film. Not a funny film in and of itself, but it does demonstrate that Murphy needs to team up with up and coming actors in order to sustain his credibility in Hollywood, and to lift new talent to greater heights. "},{"Title":"I had higher hopes","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had a lot higher hopes for this film with Steve Martin writing it. I thought he did a great job on LA Story and Roxanne. However, this one fell fairly flat for me. Some good bits in it, but not great as a whole. "},{"Title":"sadly disappointing, the only real value is eddie murphy's performance","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  lately, friends of mine have convinced me to drag myself away from the computer which supports me in my day (and night) time job, and get out and do something fun once in a while. this usually amounts to going to sneak previews, which are always a surprise. thus it happened that i sat in the theater a week or so ago, and watched the silver screen with anticipation, guessing at which movie would be shown this time. when the title bowfinger popped up, i got a big smile on my face and sat back in the chair, waiting to be enjoyed. a few hours later, i woke up in a bar, nursing a drink and realizing that something had gone wrong. perhaps i'm too big of a steve martin fan, having seen most of his movies either three or four times (and i'm not joking either, this is serious), but going into this movie i thought 'oh joy! a steve martin flick, a new one and finally i catch one in a cinema!'. going out of the movie, the only true thing to be said about it is that eddie murphy really impressed me with his overall performance. this movie showed more of his strengths than most of his movies in the past, in fact, if for the nerd persona alone i'd say this'd put him into my good book again. sadly enough, the question is whether you want your name linked to a movie like this. i'll not say i didn't laugh in the movie, but mostly i did laugh because of eddie murphy's play, and a few of the pokes at the movie industry. what other reviewers before me have said however is that something like this has been done before, and better. even though it carries a good idea, and yes, does show certain scenes that are worth seeing, only the last part with the fake purse ninjas was really out and out hilarious. it saddens me to see steve martin in this movie, and witness his abilities be wasted on something like this. he tries, he seriously tries, and since he's written the script, like so many ppl keep telling me, i am sure he really believes in it, but with me, it just hit false notes. perhaps, the future will bring on another movie that does carry some of the enjoyment of his earlier ones, and this is just a 'you can't win them all' situations. in the meantime, if i were you, i'd either go out and rent his earlier ones, or watch this one only for the fun that eddie murphy brought into it.  "},{"Title":"Finally An Eddie Murphy Movie I like","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Our family enjoyed the movie because of the premise Make a movie with a Big star, without the big star knowing it. Watching how Martin and his motley crew of wannabes pull it off kept us laughing.Steve Martin did well because he did not try to get laughs doing slapstick but let the premise be funny on its own. Eddie Murphy was enjoyable for once because he was not the mainstay of the show. Most of his I will play 10 roles myself movies stink in my opinion. How a star can be so entranced with himself to think he can be all thing to all people is beyond me. In this movie he played two roles well. He became the buttress the other stars and situations could butt up againstSecondarily the whole movie was a satire of Hollywood. Locklear changing sleeping partners every time it furthered her career. Aspiring actors and actresses dreaming of being in film even when they don't even get paid. A producer so desperate to succeed that he would do anything to produce a hit.Throw in a few illegal aliens recruited during a firefight to be moviehands and you get a funny film. "},{"Title":"Funny sound and light signifying nothing","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the author of Bowfinger, it's screenwriter and star Steve Martin, the organizing idea seems to have been that life is a movie sound and light signifying nothing.Bowfinger (the movie) can be read as a spoof on Hollywood, containing wicked running gags and funny set-pieces galore. As that, it's glorious. Eddie Murphy's double impersonation is a particular comedic tour de force. But the movie can also be read as philosophy. True, it can be revealed, Bobby Bowfinger eventually does get his FedEx. But the movie doesn't end there. Instead it has him opening the envelope to find a contract--yessss!!!--to make a daft kung-fu epic in Tawian with Jiff (not Kit) as star. We then see it actually being filmed, co-starring Bowfinger himself. Whose martial arts moves are more lame, we idly wonder, his or Jiff's? Never mind, for the movie Bowfinger abruptly halts on a freeze frame of the two leaping ineptly at the lens.In other words, we're left with vacuity, not even the sentimental glow which might have suffused us had Bowfinger ended with the desideratum FedEx laid in a triumphant Bobby's hands. All triumph, we are left feeling, is prologue to absurdity. "},{"Title":"amusing, but slight","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger is certainly amusing, but after LA Story and Roxanne I expected a little more from Steve Martin.  He sets up easy Hollywood targets and more or less skewers them, but he doesn't seem to be stretching himself to do it. Eddie Murphy proves once again that there is no better comic actor when it comes to playing multiple roles in a film.  A film like this should build manic energy as it progresses, but there is no momentum.  Worth seeing, but not worth going out of your way. "}{"Title":"The Worst Comedy of 1999","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger was supposed to be funny. I paid some cash to see it and I sat in the theater wondering if it was a comedy or a tragedy gone awry.There is nothing to recommend in Bowfinger. Steve Martin is so washed-up that he would be funnier doing Fixodent commercials. Eddie Murphy hasn't had a hilarious movie in years and he repeats himself in this film.It doesn't deserve even a moment of your time. If you have seen it - I'm sorry. If you haven't - save your money and see The Pink Panther.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Poor","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Combine Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy in a movie.  How can you go wrong? The surprising answer is easily, if you have a poor script.  And that's it in a nutshell.  Uninteresting script, uninspired acting by two actors capable of much better and a story that just drags on, though it does have some funny moments. The whole premise of a movie about someone making a movie has been done to death.  Let it rest in peace.   "},{"Title":"Technically, Ross is right.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the greatest movie by Steve Martin AND Eddie Murphy.  However, it's nowhere near the greatest movie by Steve Martin OR Eddie Murphy.Before you look it up, this is their only joint feature-film project. "},{"Title":"Avoid it.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the reasons why I watched this movie was the high rating here at IMDB (6.9 by the time I'm writing this), and the cast full of big names. Don't let that deceive you; if you want to watch a good Hollywood satire try to catch reruns of Action, one of the greatest shows of this season, that, unfortunately, got the axe too soon (it was too good to be on network TV, I guess). Once you've seen Jay Mohr as Peter Dragon you'll never laugh at any other of these behind the scenes of a movie type of film.4/10 (and I'm probably being generous) "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise, Poor Execution","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin had made some good films...this ain't one of them...and Eddie Murphy can't need money this badly.  Unless you are just absolutely desperate for entertainment (and I really hesitate to use that word) go walk the dog, talk to the spouse, play catch with your kids, paint the garage, anything. This is just not worth the time.  I have to admit the keepin it together had a curious appeal but this film could have been entertaining and fun and funny...wasn't.  The characters are flat, and predictable, and really, well, dull.  Thank God I only rented it..... "},{"Title":"Movie B-  DVD B+","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger	B-/B+					3.6.00			1.851/5.1 	First Viewing		Anamorphic WidescreenZany comedy is not my taste.  That said, there are some good laughs in this Steve Martin film.  The DVD includes a few deleted scenes, but not enough.  (I'm certain there must have been tons with this cast!)  "},{"Title":"90 minutes of my life, gone.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You know a movie is terrible when the best performance is given by the dog.  Bravo, pooch.  The rest of you, hang your heads in shame.I've been wondering why I found Eddie Murphy so funny when I was 13.  It's finally hit me--it's BECAUSE I was 13.  Now that the numbers are reversed, his act has gotten tremendously stale.A bad movie about making a bad movie.  The only saving grace is that my roommate paid for the rental. "},{"Title":"Started strong, then completely fell apart.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie started off strong. But then it started a downward spiral that just kept getting worse. I've seen very few movies that do this, unfortunatey this was one of them. Once again, it started off very interesting and enjoyable. But by the end the movie had turned into a complete and boring stupid piece of c**p! "},{"Title":"Great setup.  Goes nowhere.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger	-	**Movies about filmmaking are so prevalent that they form an entire genre.  Some of these films, such as They Player, focus on the rich and powerful elite in Hollywood.  Others, including Mistress and Ed Wood, are more concerned with the bit players who toil in obscurity, hoping desperately for one shot at greatness.  Steve Martin's Bowfinger falls into the latter category.  It tells the story of nearly bankrupt moviemaker Bobby Bowfinger (Martin.)  Armed with a screenplay entitled Chubby Rain, which he is convinced is the next action masterpiece, Bowfinger attempts to secure megastar Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to play the lead role.  When Kit promptly refuses, Bowfinger finds himself unable to deliver the sad news to his crew, which is composed of country rube Daisy (Heather Graham,) accountant turned screenwriter Afrim (Adam Alexi-Malle,) and a hammy prima donna named Carol (played by Christine Baranski.)  Instead, Bowfinger reports that Ramsey accepted the role, but on special terms.  Ramsey, he claims, is a method actor who refuses to interact with any crewmembers while off camera.  Moreover, Ramsey does not even want to see the camera during filming.  Such a thing would distract him and break his concentration.  Bowfinger's plan is an audacious one.  He essentially stalks the megastar, engineering situations in which his cast members can approach Ramsey and deliver their lines while a hidden camera records the scene.  Kit will star in the movie against his will.  This setup is a brilliant basis for a movie, filled with comedic potential.  Unfortunately, Bowfinger fails to deliver on the premise.  The cause of its failure is in its lack of detail.  A brilliant premise is not enough to sustain a film.  A film also needs sharply written details, of which Bowfinger has precious few.Take, for example, the character of Daisy.  She is a wide-eyed country girl, just off the bus from a midwestern state.  But before you can say action she is eagerly hopping into bed with whoever can advance her career that particular day.  We are treated to several scenes of her seducing first Bowfinger, then Afrim, then another actor, then finally the cinematographer. Even the first scene was shaky in its comic potential.  By the fourth, this plot line is merely tedious.  Another weakness can be found in Ramsey's membership in Mind Head, a new-age religious cult apparently modeled after Scientology.  The sets, costumes, and performances in the Mind Head scenes are so outlandish that they stop being funny and merely become silly.  One gets the distinct impression that these scenes were included simply because Martin could not mine enough material from his main plot to fill an entire movie.These shortcomings are a shame, because there are several diamonds in this rough.  While Eddie Murphy turns in a strong performance as the egotistical Kit, he outdoes himself in the dual role of Jiff, a wide-eyed innocent hired as Ramsey's stand-in.  Chubby Rain, the movie within the movie, is a hysterical parody of action film cliches.  Indeed, I would have preferred that Steve Martin completely rework Bowfinger as Chubby Rain, an action film parody from start to finish.  Many critics have praised Bowfinger as a superior comedy.  The only explanation I can find for this is that, at its core, it is a sweet movie populated with fairly likable characters.  This puts it in marked contrast with other big name comedies of the year, including American Pie and Bid Daddy, which use crude vulgarities and shock tactics to entertain.  It is true that Bowfinger is not crude.  But it is also not very funny.  "},{"Title":"And they let Robert Downey Jr. out of jail for this?","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even when a film is this badly done, one can at least get some idea as to what they were trying to do. In the case of Bowfinger even their intent escapes me. This was another example of posting the only good points of a film in the trailer, nothing else worthwhile remains. "}{"Title":"7.1????????","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, in a year where you put American Beauty on a pedestal like it's some kind of divinity you also crucify possibly the funniest film of the 1990s? It figures. I've hardly ever laughed this hard at a movie. I liked every piece of it, and think it should be up for a lot of Oscars this winter, though it won't, because it's a film that America forgot.  "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know I'm probably the only person who thought that this movie sucked, but I'm willing to be the odd-man-out on this one. Everyone I know who has seen this movie loved it, so there must  be something wrong with ME, right?  I don't think so.  You know what I think?  I think everyone WANTED so much to like this movie, they effectively fooled themselves into thinking it WAS  funny, when in actuality, it was anything but.  It's like this  Steve Martin hasn't done a funny role in a long time, and people  want very much to see him do that again.  Eddie Murphy hasn't  been consistently funny in years.  Everyone has always wanted them to do a movie together.  Unfortunately, it didn't happen  until now.  It struck me very much as a movie that MIGHT have  been funny if it were made during these comedians' heyday the 80's.  As it is, it was incredibly UN-funny.  There was that one bit toward the beginning where Steve Martin is faking the cellular phone call in the restaurant.  I must admit - I did chuckle somewhat at that.  But as for the rest of the movie - I was just wondering when it was going to be over.  I found myself repeatedly checking my watch thinking It can't possibly be any longer, can it?  It was one of the few times in my life that I  left the theatre TRULY lamenting the hours of my life wasted in  there.  I can usually smell a stinker a mile away, but this one even got ME.  Eddie Murphy as Kit Ramsey was just trying TOO hard, and it showed (at least to ME it did).  Very much like his Buddy Love character in The Nutty Professor Trying too hard, absolutely NOT funny.  Actually, it was more annoying than  anything else.  Eddie Murphy is at his best these days when he does characters, like he did in The Nutty Professor (the family at the dinner table scene). "},{"Title":"Struggling Movie...About A Struggling Movie","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy were the two greatest comedy stars of the decade. Unfortunately, that decade was the 1980s and this was the late 1990s. Bowfinger disappoints more than it amuses.Martin is Bobby Bowfinger, luckless wannabe movie director who comes up with a desperate scheme to break into the big time Surreptitiously shoot action star Kit Ramsey (Murphy) so Bowfinger can feature him in a film about attacking aliens. Bowfinger thus will have Ramsey's services and marquee name without having to go through the trouble of signing or paying him.I get the feeling the inspiration for writing this movie came to Martin right after he saw Ed Wood. So much of Tim Burton's classic serio-comic celebration of the courage of believing in yourself no matter how bad you are winds up in this film it's almost a remake. Martin has fun satirizing Hollywood culture, not new territory for him or anyone else, but the digs at mindless cults and celebrity lesbians come off labored and thin.The film does start well. We watch Bowfinger carrying on a conversation with a disconnected car phone, trying to impress Robert Downey Jr. playing a slick producer. (Downey is typically brilliant here but badly underused). Meanwhile, Ramsey is counseled on his rampant paranoia by his handlers at Mind Head, the Scientology-like organization Kit belongs to. Even though I feel like I might ignite...I probably won't is his self-help mantra.Murphy is on fire, both as Kit and especially Jiff, a nerd Bowfinger hires as a stand-in when Kit is taken out of circulation for a while. Jiff is one of Murphy's sweetest and funniest characters, a gawky, brace-wearing guy whose idea of complete happiness is running coffee errands and being liked for himself. Asked about his show-business career, Jiff explains he is an active renter of Blockbuster. Will he drop his pants on camera? Jiff breaks into a surprised, embarrassed grin that's one of Murphy's best-ever moments on screen.Jiff is the one plus in the film's second half, which otherwise crumbles into a dopey and contrived farce, pushing Kit really thinking he is under alien attack while Bowfinger gets his footage. As Krumski put it in a 2000 review, it's not the contrivance that's wrong, but that the comedy is so tonally off you can't help but notice it.Maybe if Martin found better actors to beef up his supporting cast. Heather Graham is a bad actress playing a bad actress. I'm not a Christine Baranski fan, either, but she may be the victim of a script that gives her little to do. No one else even registers, not even Bowfinger's dog, and I'm a pretty easy audience for dogs.The worst performer here, it pains me to say, is Martin himself. He waves his hands around antically and plays his part too broadly, straining to sell every one of his lines as comedy gold. They aren't, like when he tells a young actor about the mystical quality called it.It's a special quality. No matter what's going on, you can't take your eye off that person.Do I have it? asks the youth.I'm sorry, I wasn't listening, what?Director Frank Oz teamed with Martin three times before with good results so it's a surprise to see this misfire. Also a shame, given Murphy doesn't collaborate with equal partners often, and brought so much to the table here. Bowfinger entertains in parts, but leaves you wishing and knowing it could have been more. "},{"Title":"From Lewis to Allen to Murray..................","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having run the gamut of comic heroes from Jerry Lewis to Woody Allen and back again during his career,Steve Martin seems to have settled in this movie for a cut - rate Bill Murray persona,the faux sentimentality without the sharp edge. As the eponymous bottom - feeding hustler trying to cobble together a movie about an invasion by aliens disguised as raindrops Mr Martin is in the gutter but looking at the stars.Notably Mr Eddie Murphy cast as a megalomaniac box - office giant with an entourage the size of several small countries who sit around all day laughing at his jokes. Clearly this role is not intended to resemble any person,living or dead. He is in thrall to a cult that is also clearly not intended to resemble any cult,living or dead. Bowfinger suffers from trying to ride off in too many directions at onceat the same time it aims for satire,slapstick and social comment. This would be a neat trick indeed if it could be pulled off but sadly the movie's reach exceeds its grasp quite considerably. Mr F.Oz is to be commended for trying to think outside the box to bring new life to a plot that is less well - worn than many,but ultimately,like most movies about movie making,it's all a bit like coming upon an isolated community where intermarriage has weakened the strain and mocking the unfortunates living there. "},{"Title":"Average Comedy","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre when it came out.  It was only $5 for that particular theatre, but going in, I was expecting something horrible a la Nutty Professor 2. I was surprise in that this movie did not totally stink, and there were some funny moments.  I'm not an Eddie Murphy fan, but he did a reasonable job.  I only liked coming to America - the rest of his movies stunk.This movie is just average but considering it stars Eddie Murphy, that's saying something.  Only watch if it's on TV and you have 2 hours to spend watching this mindless comedy. "},{"Title":"Was Steve Martin playing himself?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented Bowfinger due to several reasons.  To begin with Steve Martin has written other scripts many impressive (L.A. Story & Three Amigos); he is also pretty solid actor, both in comedy and drama.  Secondly we have Frank Oz directing having many great films under his belt (What about Bob, Little shop of horrors, In and out and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels - also with Steve Martin). However, these great men, here with Eddie Murphy, manage do create a boring, unfunny comedy.  In an interview Steve Martin says that he had thought about this film for 12 years, but when he hadn't worked for three years he wrote the script and decided to have it produced.  In some ways I get the feeling that creating this film has been done with similar desperation as the character Steve Martin is playing.  The idea itself is not all bad, and maybe with a little bit more thought put into it, it might have worked. The biggest downfall of the film though is how unfunny it is.  I didn't laugh ones, and hardly smiled.  It is unbelievable how two great comedians like Steve and Eddie can team up, and not produce a single funny scene.  I would avoid this one, as it has damaged my otherwise good opinion of the lead actors.  4/10  "},{"Title":"Less funny than the trailer...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and on reflection I didn't think the trailer was that funny! It looked promising, though, but as is too often the case, most of the best bits were in the trailer.  The basic premise, making a movie without the main star knowing he was in it, is pretty sound.  Bowfinger was that but, unfortunately, only that.  In fact, it was really the same bit - a scene being filmed - over and over again.  The vast majority of the jokes, such as they were, fell quite flat - some because you'd already seen them in the trailer, some because they weren't well implemented, and many just because they weren't funny!  I definitely laughed at least twice, and other people laughed slightly more than me, but that part of the audience seemed mainly to be kids.  This is definitely a film where you smile - not laugh - at the funny bits.We saw The Runaway Bride straight after Bowfinger, and that was much better! "},{"Title":"Ok, I did laugh a couple times","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy ARE funny people, no-one can deny that.  If they're in a movie, you know you're going to be made to laugh at some point, and I admit it there were some funny gags.  But this one just didn't do it for me.  As they say, that was two hours of my life I'll never get back.  Instead, maybe you could read a book or play with your kid or something. "},{"Title":"Muppets Take Hollywood","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Frank Oz directs a film of loveable l-users in search of a dream!  Is it Kermit leading the rag-tag band of muppets to the end of the rainbow?  Nope. Bobby Bow-finger directs a small cast of loveable stereotypes (muppets on an emotional level) as they attempt to make that blockbuster that leads to the gold at the the end of an opening weekend.I see this satire as nothing more than a string of old chestnuts from the Hollywood culture done in the manner of a poorly-made Muppet Movie.  In short,  it's a movie by Hollywood,  about Hollywood,  for Hollywood.I laughed harder at 3 Amigos,  which looks like the Citizen Kane of comedy next to this.  4 of 10 -- only while fighting insomnia and watching 'USA Up All Night.' "},{"Title":"Great setup.  Goes nowhere.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger       -       **Movies about filmmaking are so prevalent that they form an entire genre. Some of these films, such as They Player, focus on the rich and powerful elite in Hollywood.  Others, including Mistress and Ed Wood, are more concerned with the bit players who toil in obscurity, hoping desperately for one shot at greatness.  Steve Martin's Bowfinger falls into the latter category.  It tells the story of nearly bankrupt moviemaker Bobby Bowfinger (Martin.)  Armed with a screenplay entitled Chubby Rain, which he is convinced is the next action masterpiece, Bowfinger attempts to secure megastar Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy) to play the lead role.  When Kit promptly refuses, Bowfinger finds himself unable to deliver the sad news to his crew, which is composed of country rube Daisy (Heather Graham,) accountant turned screenwriter Afrim (Adam Alexi-Malle,) and a hammy prima donna named Carol (played by Christine Baranski.)Instead, Bowfinger reports that Ramsey accepted the role, but on special terms.  Ramsey, he claims, is a method actor who refuses to interact with any crewmembers while off camera.  Moreover, Ramsey does not even want to see the camera during filming.  Such a thing would distract him and break his concentration.  Bowfinger's plan is an audacious one.  He essentially stalks the megastar, engineering situations in which his cast members can approach Ramsey and deliver their lines while a hidden camera records the scene.  Kit will star in the movie against his will.  This setup is a brilliant basis for a movie, filled with comedic potential.  Unfortunately, Bowfinger fails to deliver on the premise.  The cause of its failure is in its lack of detail.  A brilliant premise is not enough to sustain a film.  A film also needs sharply written details, of which Bowfinger has precious few.Take, for example, the character of Daisy.  She is a wide-eyed country girl, just off the bus from a midwestern state.  But before you can say action she is eagerly hopping into bed with whoever can advance her career that particular day.  We are treated to several scenes of her seducing first Bowfinger, then Afrim, then another actor, then finally the cinematographer. Even the first scene was shaky in its comic potential.  By the fourth, this plot line is merely tedious.  Another weakness can be found in Ramsey's membership in Mind Head, a new-age religious cult apparently modeled after Scientology.  The sets, costumes, and performances in the Mind Head scenes are so outlandish that they stop being funny and merely become silly.  One gets the distinct impression that these scenes were included simply because Martin could not mine enough material from his main plot to fill an entire movie.These shortcomings are a shame, because there are several diamonds in this rough.  While Eddie Murphy turns in a strong performance as the egotistical Kit, he outdoes himself in the dual role of Jiff, a wide-eyed innocent hired as Ramsey's stand-in.  Chubby Rain, the movie within the movie, is a hysterical parody of action film cliches.  Indeed, I would have preferred that Steve Martin completely rework Bowfinger as Chubby Rain, an action film parody from start to finish.  Many critics have praised Bowfinger as a superior comedy.  The only explanation I can find for this is that, at its core, it is a sweet movie populated with fairly likable characters.  This puts it in marked contrast with other big name comedies of the year, including American Pie and Bid Daddy, which use crude vulgarities and shock tactics to entertain.  It is true that Bowfinger is not crude.  But it is also not very funny.  "}{"Title":"Just didn't do a lot for me...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where do I begin ? I was so looking forward to seeing this movie, and I left the theatre feeling a bit empty and unfinished. Unfortunately, I only found one scene in the entire movie to be drop down roll over funny, and it was one from the trailer. I guess this film had a few momnets, but aside from Heather Graham's dumb girl in disguise, the movie lacked heart. Though I must say it had some nice imagination to it. On a scale of 1-10, I gave this movie a disappointing 5. "},{"Title":"The Con Is On alright -- at the ticket window","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This just didn't work for me.  Aside from seeming like a grade D rip-off of Ed Wood, there wasn't enough reality here to work as a base for the comedy.  Eddie Murphy was funny and the premise and the situations seemed loaded for laughs, but they didn't pay off.  Maybe Frank Oz isn't the director to light the match.  Steve Martin hit some of the same targets a lot more effectively in L.A. Story. And in the penultimate scene he offers Robin Williams some stiff competition as Contemporary Cinema's Saintly Fool.  Ick. "},{"Title":"a bad movie about making a bad movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can understand why this was a go picture.  Steve Martin wrote it so he naturally had ears listening to him before he even got through the door.  So he goes to Imagine Entertainment and let's just pretend that Brian Grazer and Ron Howard are sitting in the board room.  He walks in and tells them the idea of filming a movie without a stars knowledge.  He tells them that it's a satirical look at Hollywood, he has written it, he will star in it and his buddy Frank Oz wants to direct it.  Brian reads the script and then likes it based on what he can see and read.  I'm sure that this idea for a film does look funny.  Especially when you have Eddie Murphy playing the dim witted brother with more naivete than a a young woman coming to Hollywood.  It all looks great.  But something happens when this film is transfered from paper to screen.  It really isn't that funny.  And most of the funny parts really are in the trailer.  It's not that this was one of the worst films ever but it certainly wasn't the best either, or even really that good.First off, Eddie Murphy is the wrong guy to play Kit Ramsey ( the star that they are going after ) in here.  There is absolutely no need for comedy in this role and I could see Will Smith playing the straight and narrow character with more conviction that Murphy.  As the dim wit however, Murphy is priceless.  So we are one for two here.  Heather Graham is perfect as the seductress who just cares about getting her career started without worrying who she sleeps with or who she hurts in the process.  Martin is good as the producer that will do anything to get his picture made.  And that is what I did enjoy about the film.  I liked how much energy and drive Bowfinger had to getting his film done.  He had a dream and he was going to stop at nothing to complete it.  So you have a message there.  And that I am a sucker for.    But the rest of the film was pretty bad.  And perhaps you are supposed to suspend all disbelief here but there is no way that this film that they are shooting would sell.  First of all they are using one camera, there are all long shots of Ramsey and they have one take to make the shot work.  They also film some of the movie off of a security camera and that just wouldn't work.  I just didn't buy it.  Maybe that is just the stuffy film critic guy coming from me, but hey, I just didn't buy it.Is this film funny?  Yes.  Is it funny more than what you see in the commercial?  Not really.  There are a few humourous moments but nothing to get you excited about.  The inside Hollywood stuff isn't really introspective either.  Producers are sleaze and cut throat and woman sleep their way to the top and stars are spoiled and sex starved.  Yea.. and?  We all know that.  You can get that just by reading an article in Premiere magazine.  So that wasn't earth shattering either.  Really there wasn't that much to like in the film.If you want to laugh this summer, go see South Park or American Pie.  Bowfinger is short on laughs and really doesn't entertain that much either.  It's not really worth the time.  This is a not so great film that had potential to be really great.  Oh well.  Maybe next time.  "},{"Title":"Somewhat funny but mostly stupid.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A nearly broke movie producer, played by Steve Martin, lies and scams his way into getting a film produced. Martin must work around the fact that the big star he had hoped to cast, play by Eddie Murphy, refuses to have anything to do with the script which is about Aliens invading the Earth in the rain drops. So Martin, bent on making this film, resorts to trickery, having other actors walk up to Murphy and read their lines while Martin films from behind the bushes.It just so happens that Murphy's character is undergoing psychiatric therapy for his extremely paranoid delusions involving Aliens, which makes for very interesting reactions when he is approached by Martin's actors.The acting by Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy and Heather Graham was excellent, but overall this movie was so far fetched that it can best be described as stupid. While the movie did get a few chuckles from the audience there was no prolonged roaring laughter that you would expect from the excellent talent in this film, and once again most of the really hilarious scenes were spoiled if you have seen the previews.Three out of ten bullets on the Hit Man Critic scale due mainly to the sheer stupidity of this film.  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a movie with Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin,I thought it would be extremely funny. Unfortunately I hardly laughed at all. Its funny but not gut wrenching funny. Don't let the trailers or the previews you see fool you. They're all the best parts. It was NOT what I expected from seeing the previews. se yah "},{"Title":"TV comedy without the laugh track","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bowfinger was a smirk movie. It had some amusing moments, but never anything so outrageous or funny that I laughed out loud. I spent the whole movie with a half smile on my face, chuckling occasionally at antics that I knew were supposed to be inducing aisle-rolling, but didn't. Bowfinger is pleasant enough, with very likable characters. But it never crosses over any lines, and what's more, it telegraphs just about every joke beforehand so there's little to do but wait patiently for the payoff. In that regard, it's an average-level TV-sitcom script with A-list movie players. "},{"Title":"Can anyone tell me what exactly is FUNNY in bowfinger?","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe its just a question of sense of humor, but I cant understand, how anyone can say this movie is really funny. Okay, the storie, that Bowfinger tries to make a movie with low costs and without the knowledge of Kit Ramsey being the main star, is in itself a little bit funny, but I remember not a single scene which made me laugh.For example Heather Grahams role After she switched her lovers the first time it was obvious what she would do next.. I dont want to say, that the movie is bad, but its certainly NOT a masterpiece and not even close as funny as Analyze this, Showtime, Naked Gun or The Guru of Sex just to name a few.  "},{"Title":"pure crap","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is without a doubt the worst movie that I have ever seen in my entire life.  I am an avid movie goer and I am seriously shocked at how horrible this movie was.  How could two gigantic names in Hollywood sign their names to a script like this.  I know that I am not going to be very popular with IMDB members by writing this comment but I feel that it must be done.  I actually went to see this movie twice.  The first time was on opening night.  I thought that it was really bad, and not funny at all.  A few weeks later I was online and I saw that the comments for this movie were great.  I am a rational person so I thought that maybe it was my mood or something that affected my take on the film.  I was dead wrong it was even worse the second time through.   "},{"Title":"Unfunny ripoff of Ed Wood","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't believe they got away with it. Eddy Murphy is painfully unrisible. The only good bit is with Terence Stamp as some kind of motivational guru - there's a target worth throwing things at.IMDb wants me to write some more lines. OK - I watched this movie through gritted teeth (thanks to those yoga lessons). It's awful. How's that? No? It's terrible. Don't watch it. Is that long enough now?Apparently not. This movie is the pits. There isn't a single laugh in it. Watch Roxanne instead. Or Boogie Nights. Or Priscilla Queen of the Desert. That is if you want to see these stars doing something worthwhile with their time. "},{"Title":"A disappointment considering the cast.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be a disappointment, especially considering that both Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy were co-starring.The lead character in Bowfinger is director Bobby Bowfinger (Martin).  After reading a script for a new movie, Chubby Rain (you don't want to know), Bowfinger decides that a major star would make the hoped-for film a success. He would like to cast action star Kit Ramsey (Murphy), but Ramsey is not interested.  He attempts then to film Ramsey anyway, that is, without Ramsey knowing.  Sound dumb?  Yes, it is.  And not that funny either.A fourth of the way into the movie I wished I had wandered into a different auditorium of the multiplex.  By the end, I wanted my money back.  After a funny start (an unseen telephone bill collector tells Bowfinger that it is not necessary to visit a home to cut off phone service), the movie lapses into silliness that I didn't find amusing at all, particularly so after all the media hype.  I should have known that I was in trouble after the opening credits list Steve Martin as writer. A good and talented comedy actor he is, but a writer, he is not. Save your money and wait for it to come out on video.  The big screen is wasted on this effort. "}{"Title":"This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie with high expectations and was very, very disappointed. Steve Martin and Eddy Murphy are two of my favorite stars and I generally go and see anything they make.  This is the story of a down and out producer/director film maker (Martin) who needs to make a hit movie but cannot get a star or the financial backing to do it.  He comes upon a bad script, bad cast and cons them all into thinking they are making a real picture with a real star (Murphy).  This movie is a bad the phony one Bowfinger is making.  The only gag in the whole film that made me laugh was when Murphy, playing the nutty brother of the real star, is coaxed into running across a busy highway.  In fact, the only good gags can be found in the movies trailers.  I just sat there waiting for something to happen, something to laugh at.  And that is all that I did, sit there and eat my popcorn.  Do not, I repeat, do not go and see this movie.  When I walked out all I could think was that I was played for a fool.  I cannot believe that anyone in Hollywood bought this and put it on the screen.  I give Bowfinger the finger, thumbs down, and zero stars. "},{"Title":"If I ever wasted a movie ticket...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...it was to see this movie.  So completely unfunny.  Quite a shame, too, because I think Steve Martin is absolutely hilarious. I really wanted to like this movie, too.  In fact, I made my friend go see it with me instead of the Sixth Sense...BIG mistake!  We knew what was supposed to be funny, and it wasn't.   It wasn't even Gosford Park (great movie) wit that was funny, this was just dull and boring and long and boring and dull.  1/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible - Don't be fooled by fake reviews","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Beware all the good reviews for this movie...THEY LIE! It is a case study in micro-marketing - the majority of the positive reviews come from the studio or Steve Martin's mom or something...I paid money for this movie and I paid in two hours of God-given life that I can never have back.ONE OF THE WORST MOVIES I'VE EVER SEEN. Make no mistake, I very much wanted to like this movie (after all, I paid money to see it and I've definitely enjoyed some of the previous work of Eddie Murphy and Steve Martin) but my God! Steve Martin showed all the range and versatility of a block of wood! And the rest of the excuse for a cast were no better. Granted, the script was complete bollocks, so I guess it is no surprise.More than any other example, this movie proves Sickboy's theory from Trainspotting...Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"single dad, halfway successful, pros dialogue and well thought movies","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just watched a bit of the movie and was immediately turned off. Dialogue is forced and doesn't flow. No prior knowledge of any hype, or lack thereof, the movie may have derived prior to my watching. Unintelligent and forced is all I can say. Not a good one. Just read the minimum of 10 lines of text message. Honestly, I don't think that this guy deserves even 5 lines. It is literally terrible (I'm still watching it, gaudiness and all!) I am a bit interested into the history of the film, i.e. what the actors where saying to the media at the time it was released. Not enough interested to waste my time with the research, I guess. On to something else. "},{"Title":"This movie was so bad it made me physically ill.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I realize that different people like different types of films, and I admit that stupid comedies are not my favorite. But this was way beyond stupid, and not even funny. The plot was ludicrously unbelievable and the characters were offensive stereotypes. It was loud and ugly. At the end, I felt physically ill, as if I had been assaulted.  "},{"Title":"I'd wait for the cable showing","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that the movie itself had a plot that was basically stupid.  The two leading stars are known to be the funniest men on the earth when playing in their own roles.  They have two different styles that I don't think work together in this film. Granted there were parts of the movie that made me laugh but this humor wasn't what the industry hyped it up to be.  I am just one man though so you don't have to take my views as the only views "},{"Title":"what about...","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sooo boring that I actually changed the channel ( drive -thru movie) and listened to music.dont  get me wrong i tried understanding the whole plot and idea , but it just didnt do.. All out boring and not a tad funny. */***** "},{"Title":"Not very funny","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As usual, I read a number of the user comments here before heading off to see Bowfinger.  I was surprised at how unfunny I found the movie, and almost walked out early.  There were a couple of moments in this movie, but all in all I found the storyline very implausible and not very funny.  I also didn't find the audience in general to enjoy this movie.  There was one group to my right which seemed to enjoy the movie, but when they tried to get the audience to clap at the closing credits there was dead silence. "},{"Title":"A dud.","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin was never a reason for me to see a movie. I mostly found him neutral to slightly annoying to outright bad-slapstick-get-on-my-nerves annoying. For some reason several of his older works and a few more recent ones (Shopgirl) found their way into my rental queue, and I had occasion to revisit his stuff, Bowfinger among them. This is how I discovered that (a) he cannot act, (b) he isn't a very good comic, (c) his writing isn't great, either.It isn't that he hasn't his moments, as an actor, a comic, and a writer. But bad acting, horrible comedic timing, and utterly contrived and unfunny writing are pervasive enough to make it impossible for me to enjoy the better bits properly. Yes, he pokes fun at stuff that deserves to have fun poked at it (Hollywood, in this case, L.A. folks in L.A. Story, etc.), and there are many delightfully accurate observations in his stories---mixed, unfortunately, with saccharine-sweet morality, ham-handedly executed slapstick, and just blatant juvenile stupidity.His absurd is not Monty Python, it's not Charlie Chaplin, it's not even The Simpsons. His absurd is the middle-of-the-road, hit-you-over-the-head-with-the-punchline absurd, no joke unexplained, no movie without message.Of course, it does not help that in this production he is supported by a cast of rather questionable acting talent, such as Murphy, Graham, and Downey Jr., and a puppet master in the director's chair. The combination is about as subtle as the Muppet Show and as funny as Downey Jr. I hope for your sake that you find better things to do with your time. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger down the back of my throat","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is close to the worst movie of all time second only to Holyman.Watchin this movie felt like going to the dentist. I can't believe the pain I endured in watching this trash.Eddie Murphy, what can you say about the man. His movies are either good or super extra ultra bad! How in the hell did this movie get a rating in the 6's???????The plot was weak, the jokes, even weaker. I can't believe a studio signed off on it and that Eddie and Steve put their talents to it. Stink, stink, stink.I will ensure I never make the mistake of watching any Eddie Murphy films in the future telling myself you never know, this one could be really good. I have to run to the toilet now. I feel once again like I have been violated! "}{"Title":"Possibly the worst film ever made!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film combined some of the best stars of the 90's to create what I believe is the worst film of the 90's. Ridiculous, unfunny, moronic plotline.  This comedy is analagous to a porno without sex.   An absolute stinker. Rent if for someone you dislike! "},{"Title":"Gaacckkk!!!","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Remember when Steve Martin used to be funny? Remember when Eddie Murphy used to be funny? Two of the funniest guys of their time, guys who once, each, defined what modern culture thought was funny, teamed up and made this 97 minute waste of my life.I want my hour and a half back.I want my money back.I want an apology.What were these people thinking? Please tell me that Mr. Martin and Mr. Murphy are not so desperate for cash that they have sunk this low.It can't be true.Run away, is my best advice. Leave the video where you see it on the shelf and quietly remember these guys when they were funny.You can thank me later. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a waste of a great cast.  One would think with an acting great of Steve Martin that this movie would be a laugh-a-thon rather than a yawn-a-thon. It was absolutely horrible, and the biggest waste of a movie theater ticket I've ever used, and hopefully will ever use.  Plain awful. "},{"Title":"Bowfinger","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Directed by Fozzie Bear from The Muppets and Yoda from Star Wars, Frank Oz (Little Shop of Horrors, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, In & Out), I watched this a couple of time, but I guess I didn't really appreciate properly, so I'm glad I gave it another chance. Basically Robert 'Bobby' K. Bowfinger (Steve Martin, also writing) is the rundown actor/producer/director who hasn't had a hit for some time, and then he finds what he thinks is the perfect script, written by his friend, accountant Afrim (Adam Alexi-Malle). Taking a chance on the script, Chubby Rain, which sees aliens falling to earth in raindrops, but of course the script is hard to sell to a famous producer and studio executive Jerry Renfro (Robert Downey Jr.). He is insisting that the film can only be made if it stars currently-hot action star Kit Ramsey (Eddie Murphy), who is brash, pompous, obnoxious, neurotic and very paranoid, he even sees psychiatrist Terry Stricter (Terence Stamp) about his belief in aliens and such things. Bowfinger does manage to get together a team of filmmakers and actors, including determined Carol (Christine Baranski), good looking Slater (Kohl Sudduth), and aspiring young actress who seems naive but has an effect on men, Daisy (Heather Graham), but Ramsey refused. Therefore he comes up with a plan to film Ramsey in secret in order to get all the shots of the movie he is needed, they will film other actors separately. So this includes going up to his house with cameraman Dave (Jamie Kennedy) and the team, having the actors say their lines, not knowing it is secret filming, with Kit reacting in whatever natural way and saying whatever, even if he is terrified. As well as having the cheapest film crew in Southern California, for back shots they have a good lookalike for Kit Ramsey, who they unknowingly didn't know but find out is his brother, nerdy Jefferson 'Jiff' Ramsey (also Murphy). Slowly the people around Kit realise there is something going on causing him to act overly scared and paranoid, and when Bowfinger and the crew want to film their final big scenes that is when they catch them in the act. The film is taken from them because they had no permission, but looking through some footage of Kit just hanging about, they find something that they are able to blackmail Stricter and MindHead with in order to get it back and have Kit himself finish the film. In the end the movie Chubby Rain is an arguable success, and Bowfinger receives a letter he always wanted from FedEx, offering him the chance to direct a new movie with Kit's brother Jiff, this turns out to be martial arts movie Fake Purse Ninjas, where Bowfinger himself also stars. Also starring Barry Newman as Hal - Kit's Agent American Pie's and John Cho as Nightclub Cleaner. Martin is good both acting as the director with the daft ideas for movie-making, and he has written a good satirical script looking at low budget films, and Murphy is good fun as both the loudmouth panicky actor and his overly smiley slow thinking brother, I can sort of agree with the four stars the critics give, a fun comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"More smarmy than clever","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Inoffensive but unmemorable comedy continues writer-star Steve Martin's love/hate relationship with Los Angeles (which began with the 1991's tepid L.A. Story). Story concerns a fifth-rate movie director attempting to make a feature with a big name action-star in the lead...but without that star's knowledge! Some laugh-out moments only slightly compensate for uneven scripting and too-smug handling, not to mention a torturous sub-plot involving Terence Stamp as a self-help guru. Why does Martin feel the need to dumb-down his characters and his premise? More sophistication might have made for a funnier movie. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Amusing, could have been lots better","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Bowfinger' just didn't catch fire. The audience I was in politely tittered at a couple of scenes, but that was all. Long gaps between mild laughs. And that same piece of eye candy that spoiled 'Austin Powers' for me was in this one, too. Heather Graham has one expression, sort of a 'Gee, look at me, I'm in a movie' smirk that's inappropriate half the time. She's also on camera too much. Graham looks exactly like a Hollywood starlet-- surprise!; she should have been a star-struck wannabe from an Iowa farm with bad hair and excess poundage. Janeane Garofalo from 'Mystery Men' would have been right on the money.Steve Martin wrote a great script, but he should have given the lead to someone with a manic sense of action-- Phil Silvers in his prime would have been perfect. Martin's too controlled, too much in charge. Eddie Murphy's two roles, one an action hero type like Will Smith, the other a nerdish double, is uneven. The first one works, the second one enters the movie 'way too late and doesn't have enough time onscreen so we really get to know him.Frank Oz's direction tends to focus too much on the main characters and lets everyone else slide. The illegal Mexican workers that become part of the shooting crew are a golden lost opportunity.There's a sendup of Scientology/New Age Cultism that doesn't go far enough. It could have been the funniest part of the show if it was handled properly.This certainly has been a bummer of a summer for comedy. "}]