[{"Title":"Why did Charles Band leave the PM series?","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, who the hell is this Doctor Magrew and what ever happened to Rick Myers? Just because Rick wins against the forces of Sutec, doesn't meant he series of movies is over. There is always new evil a foot. Plus did the Puppets turn against him or what? Where did this Doctor Magrew come from? How did he learn that the Puppets could movie on their own? Why did Charles Band stop working on the Puppet Master series, what happened to the promised Puppet Wars? These are questions I want answers to. As for the curse of the Puppet Master, it takes forever to get going, you barely see any of the puppets in the movie, it's mostly about Tank. But still it's not totally a waste a time I give it 7 STARS to the series, but fans of the series will be disappointed. Charles please get your Puppets back! "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About 95% of the Puppet shots were patched together from other Puppet Master movies. This produces the interesting effect of having someone from the present chatting face to face with a puppet in 1940's Germany. Did they think we wouldn't notice? It just shows you what these film makers think of their audience.Then there's the scene in which Tunnler drills a guy between the legs. Where are the guys hands? Flailing around! I think I see a way out of this. Pick up the puppet that is drilling into your balls!Idiocy. This was the beginning of Full Moon's death. "},{"Title":"I guess folks would pay to see about anything.","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After not being terribly impressed by the last two additions to the franchise, I wasn't expecting all that much from Curse and this was a blessing disguise. I found David DeCoteau's sequel somewhat a step-down in quality (which at times looked very second-rate), but probably a little more enjoyable if a tad creative in its story (despite a silly script, unintentionally humorous plotting and an abrupt ending). While still being one of the weakest, it skipped that childish feel of the recent ventures&#x85; to only deliver on the nasty and gory quota with its nightmarish details (resembling the tone of the original features), but while the jolts and cruelty is there it seemed to meander on its characters interactions and the constant mystery surrounding a disappearance, which is rather predictable to figure out. The puppets have always been the stars and that's nothing new here, as the creations are well-used despite some obvious stock footage from other features. The uncanny appearances and personalities come through, although some are underused; The Jester and especially Leech woman. However there are plenty of images of the puppets cementing how they are best of pals. DeCoteau's practical direction is raw and threadbare, but there's a lyrical guidance that shows in some atmospheric visuals. Most of the performances are particularly lousy and over-enthusiastic, but Emily Harrison seems to be an exception to the trend. "},{"Title":"Better than any of the sequels that followed after this.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When FULL MOON went bankrupt in the mid 90's, PUPPET WARS (which was supposed to follow Part 5 of this series, as a spin off franchise), along with a slew of other FULL MOON features went into oblivion. Now we get CURSE OF THE PUPPET MASTER THE HUMAN EXPERIMENT, despite Band's on screen assurance during the Video Zone featurette on the tape of Part 5, that the story was completely told. Three years later, Band re-started FULL MOON ENTERTAINMENT. The difference here was that he would not have PARAMOUNT's backing & thus would have to fund his own movies. So he decided to do a sequel to the franchise that earned him the most money PUPPET MASTER.Due to a small budget, Full Moon couldn't hire a name actor & had to settle for no name actors, even David Allen wasn't around to do some of his fantastic stop motion animation work with the puppets (he was gravely ill at the time). As a result of all this, FULL MOON had to re-use stock footage of the puppets from the previous five films & the scenes that are not stock footage with the puppets, are poorly done, as we can see that the puppets are merely being held up & moved by crew members. Producer Band then re-listed director David DeCoteau (credited as VICTORIA SLOAN) to take the helm, after his previous effort with the puppets, PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE was considered by many fans & critics to be the best of the series. One would assume with DeCoteau at the helm that this film too would manage to recapture that films magic, but no luck...DeCoteau's direction is absolutely awful! whatever changes that happened in DeCoteau's career since he helmed Part III, clearly were not for the best. For starters he over lights everything, clutters the film up with fog & a lightning storm every time there's a shot set up at night & at certain points in the film, it feels like he was sitting in a row boat as he was filming, since the camera seems to float in the air. Another problem is with this films glaring continuity errors. Right from the opening shot till last, we have a whole bevy of questions that go unanswered like How is LEECH WOMAN in this movie? wasn't she burned to death in PUPPET MASTER II? Where did TORCH & DECAPATRON go? whatever became of puppet master Rick Myers, who swore to be with them & guard Toulon's secrets against the forces of evil? The climax is also muddled, early in the film, we see the lead character Robert carve a wooden puppet out over a series of a few days, but when the puppet is revealed, it's a mechanical puppet, NOT made of wood? so where did the wooden puppet go? it seems as though the film-makers were hinting at something here, but the film just ends to abruptly to figure out what, even after repeated viewings. Another problem is the main story, all though the characters are well fleshed out & the story interesting, it leaves out one important factor - the puppets! they barely serve the plot at all, in fact you could take them out of the story & you would still have a movie! the puppets are only here to sell the film & have nothing to do with the plot at all.The film despite it's short comings, is the first one since Part II wherein the puppets are evil & the last entry to make them so & this would also be officially the last entry that tries to be a dark & violent horror movie & although the gore flows freely, the kills only occur in the last fifteen minutes of the movie.On the upside, the story that tends to dominate this sixth instalment is interesting, the idea of transferring one's soul into that of a puppet he or she has put their heart into, has never been touched upon in previous instalments (or any of the ones after) the fact that a nice person working on said puppet, can slowly turn into a cold blooded killer is also a nice addition to the mythology. What's notable is how this entry seems to abandon the elixir that keeps the puppet alive, it's the first & only instalment in the series not to deal with the re- animation serum, it's just never seen or mentioned in the film & the acting is pretty good, despite the miscasting of both George Peck (who despite his fine talents can't seem to get a good handle on the character) & the actor playing Robert, the latter of whom is to big the be playing a bullied kid.All in all, despite it's many short comings outweighing it's positives, I will say I enjoyed PUPPET MASTER 6, maybe not as much as the first five, but at least FULL MOON was trying here & I honestly believe if they would have had a better director & more money to do better puppet effects & if they could have only integrated the puppets more into the story, there's no doubt in my mind, this would have been a better reviewed movie. If you can look past it's extremely low budget, it actually remains a pretty good instalment to the franchise. See PUPPET MASTER LEGACY for a complete chronological order of the series. Followed by a prequel - RETRO PUPPET MASTER*** stars "},{"Title":"Where's the Rest of the Movie?!?","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Curse is a standalone movie, which is part of the problem.  You got this wacked out scientist who got hold of Toulon's puppets, and who obligingly let him know they're alive and willing to help him.  Why they're willing to (initially) kill for him isn't clear.George Peck's off-key performance is another problem  he acts like a thirty-year old in bad aging makeup.  Maybe he is 60-70 like he is supposed to be, but he looks and acts really odd.  And why does he have a 25 year old daughter?!?There are very few people to like here, which also hurts.  The romantic leads are vaguely sympathetic, but the scientist, the obnoxious town sheriff, the local town bully, etc., are all very unlikeable, making them slaughter-fodder.The worst problem though, is the end.  The movie just...stops.  run credits!  Whaaatt?  Who knows.  Catch the sequel, #7, when it comes out, I guess.The uninteresting human characters mean that the puppets have to hold center stage.  They're pretty much relegated to the odd gory slaughter or two, though.  Even they seem somewhat confused as to what their motives are here. Jester and Leech Woman are relegated to the background as always, Blaze is missing (despite, as noted, his appearance in the opening credits), and the only new puppet we get is the new TV/Tank puppet, which appears for about 30 seconds at the end of the movie.Definitely the weakest entry in the Puppet Master series.  Even at the worse of time, the others in the series have had something to contribute.  But Curse... just hangs there with nothing to support it or recommend it. "},{"Title":"A long way from the fun first three films of the series","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Magrew (George Peck) and his daughter Jane (Emily Harrison) run Magrew's Marvels, a sideshow that features the puppets of Andre Tulon (Magrew simply states that he bought Tulon's trunk of puppets at an auction; we're never shown what happened to them post-parts 4 & 5). They hire a guy named Robert (Josh Green) to work the show and carve some new puppets for Magrew. Naturally, the doc has more nefarious plans for his new hire. CURSE OF THE PUPPTER MASTER finds the series back in the hands of David DeCoteau, who previously made the good part III. Without the help of Paramount's funds though, the difference is quite noticeable. This is the first entry to not feature any original stop motion by David Allen. Even worse, 90% of the footage of the puppets is stolen from the previous 5 entries. There is one genuinely creepy scene where Jane discovers the burnt remains of a human-puppet hybrid in the woods and DeCoteau does have two surreal dream sequences where Robert thinks he is made of wood. But it isn't enough to salvage such a cheap production. It literally just ends with the characters never heard from again as the team went old school with RETRO PUPPET MASTER (1999) after this. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of the Puppet Master Human Experiment is one of the series better entries.**SPOILERS**Returning home from college, Jane Magrew, (Emily Harrison) and her father, Dr. Magrew, (George Peck) run into town for chores and meet gas station worker Tank Winsley, (Josh Green) being picked on. Noticing his carving skills, they take him to visit their house, a museum of magic props and puppets. Shown a special group of puppets that are alive without being attached to strings, he is commissioned to help carve a new puppet for their show, and he does so at the expense of everything else. When he becomes implicated in a series of murders around town, no evidence is gathered up. Realizing that there's a sinister force at work that's causing the murders, they recruit the help of the puppets to put an end to the danger around town.The Good News There's some good stuff here that really helps the film. The fact that there's a return to the original puppets after introducing either new ones or different designs for the classic names is something to appreciate, and it gives the film a more natural slot with the rest of the series pitted back with it's familiar assortment of puppets. The stronger rating definitely comes into play here, making it much more graphic and violent and really letting loose at times. The blood does flow in it's few kills, as there's a couple of face slashings, a hook used to chop up legs and ankles, a drill to the crotch and a couple flurries of stabbing that really come off nicely. There's also a strong opening bit, as a dark-coat clad figure works feverishly to bury an unknown object in the ground during a raging thunderstorm, and sets it on fire bury burying it. The murders in the museum are fun, and the ending has a really nifty gore scene to go out on. It's all apart of the revenge section at the end, which here is justified, fun and comes off as wholly satisfying considering what had been spent on it before. This one also has a really nice ability to still be fun despite the brevity, and it doesn't seem as short as it is and it remains fun throughout. On the whole, this one wasn't as bad as it easily could've been.The Bad News There's a few problems with this one that do manage to keep it down. The fact that the relationship with the dolls being in their possession makes no sense, as this one has no scene of the elder passing on the secrets to the next generation. This one doesn't even give any knowledge they know how the dolls came to life to begin with. There's more emphasis on getting the structure right, meaning that it has more significance than the formula which brings them to life, a stark contrast from the others and something that should've been addressed. There's also how easily the newcomer takes to the revelation that they're alive, merely acknowledging it and then dismissing it, getting to the main crux of the story easier but also pointing out the flaw in the pacing. As is usual, the short time means that it plays cruel tricks on the pacing, as the police investigations with the friends, the first dinner time meal and the scene in the postal office go on for too long to beat a simple idea to death, but there's the ending, which just comes out of nowhere and then it's over, when it should've been stretched out a little more. The last flaw is the discussion of the inner will, shoe-horned into the plot for no reason and certainly isn't needed. These here hold the film down.The Final Verdict A much better entry than expected, this one has some good parts and a few mild flaws to put this one down. If you've come this far into the series, it's not a bad one and is certainly watchable by series standards, but if there's a problem with the series up until here, heed caution with it.Rated R Graphic Violence and Language "},{"Title":"Evil Little Dollies","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based totally on the interesting looking cover I saw, I decided to see this movie. I had not seen any of the previous sequels, so I started from scratch. It starts out strange as a man is burning something and tells whatever it is that he was sorry. This man turns out to be Dr. Magrew, an old tinkering man that appears to be a scientist or something. There are these dolls, strange looking ones that move by themselves. One with a knife, a top's head, pinhead, and a cowboy with six arms. I assumed that they were evil, but they only seemed to kill humans that seemingly deserved to die. Two sheriffs and a bully were the victims. The most evil of the beings turns out to be Dr. Magrew who is turning an innocent man named Tank into some puppet. Jane Magrew is also innocent and for some reason loves the Pinhead doll. This doll loves her more than the human Tank whom she falls in love with. A very strange ending as Tank's anger gets the best of him with Dr. Magrew receiving his wrath. Poor Jane just survives but with many questions to answer with all the dead bodies laying around her house. If you like strange then this film is for you.  "},{"Title":"Little wooden puppets take care of the bad guys.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dr. Magrew (George Peck) strives to give human attributes to expertly crafted wooden puppets. Emily Harrison who plays Jane Magrew is the bright spot of the movie. But the puppets themselves are the real stars. The killer puppets do away with the bad guys. The action scenes are good, but there are too few to get excited about. Even with the finale slamming the door on you; this mild horror movie is still fun to watch.Peck is less animated than the puppets. Also starring are Michael Guerin, Josh Green and Jason Dean Booher. "},{"Title":"Darker and deeper than the rest...","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of the Puppet Master takes a very different turn from the rest of the series, which for many is a bad thing - I have to agree as it does not fit chronologically anywhere in the original story...Another notable thing that may upset many fans is the amount of footage from previous movies that has been used to cut down on the budget... Sadly, where this is done it is VERY noticeable and it does ruin the immersion in the story.With that said, it is far from a terrible film but has marked a new direction which has upset long standing fans... My guess is they could not get a good enough script for a true Sequel or the cast were not willing to come back after Puppet Master V.Either way, this is a new story arc in itself.A doctor has now taken possession of Andre Toulon's puppets and seeks to recreate the work that his predecessor had done, but the opening scenes suggest all is not well.While the change of story arc is unwelcome (If you wanted to fit this movie in Chronologically, it would appear somewhere early on as Leech is still alive...) the overall quality is good and the acting is actually better than some of the rest.Joss Green who pays 'Tank' is brilliant in his role, which makes it surprising that he has not had more roles overall - He has the potential for great things... I could really see him in an Avengers role.So, yes - if you were expecting a continuing story - Afraid you will be disappointed, but the new story arc has some sufficiently dark turns to get the nerves tingling! "}{"Title":"You've Seen It All Before (And I'm Not Just Referring To Stock Footage)","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Curse of the Puppet Master is the sixth entry in the low budget horror franchise by producer Charles Band and Full Moon production. It borrows as much special effects footage from previous entries as it does ideas from countless (and better) mad scientist pics from the past. The latest Master; Dr. Magrew attempts to transform unwary assistants into puppets to join his 'House of Marvels' museum and theatre. Josh Green stars as the simpleminded gas station attendant in danger of transformation and Emily Harrison is Jane, Dr Magrew's lovely daughter. This mediocre entry is closely patterned after the largely forgotten horror movie 'sssssss...' from 1973. Watch that instead. "},{"Title":"Curse of the Puppet Master","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse is probably the loosest movie if you're following the Puppet Master series chronologically being somewhere jumbled up between the original and the second movie. Being a fan of continuity I struggle liking the film as much as I could have. I have a guiltily liking for two of the main leads being Dr. Magrew and his daughter Jane. The movie had a potentially strong story if it remained a little dark and cheesy instead of being flat out silly at points. There weren't enough puppet scenes either seemingly they recycled some old footage they didn't use for previous films in this one to save a few bucks. A lot of fans gripe about the movies end but in my opinion I thought it tied the story together nicely like a bow and it made a legit cool cliffhanger. As far as it goes with the other Puppet Master films I saw it's pretty much on par for the course, not terrible but not good by any means. "},{"Title":"Curse of the Puppet Master Half of a Good Show, then Crash!","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's an absolute shame, I tell you! Full Moon had things going so well for Puppet Master; Puppet Master 5, I thought, was a satisfying B-budget film with loads of fun to offer. Then, Full Moon's contract with Paramount ended, and the studio became independent. This, I believe, is to blame for the tragedy that is Curse of the Puppet Master.It has been said that a good thriller is like a roller coaster; you're taken on a ride that excites you, has several surprises up its sleeve, and doesn't slow until it stops. I would use a different comparison with #6 Curse is like the first 30 seconds of a roller coaster; it climbs and climbs up to the top, then plummets to disaster terrifyingly quickly.This film saddens me, because it could have been the best in the series. All of the actors are good in their roles, and a visible amount of effort was put into the script-work. For the first 50 minutes of this 80-minute-long movie, you think that this film is going to be a step up for Full Moon. Then, with the first murder in the picture, you see the tragedy as it strikes. This is because, terribly enough,the worst element of this puppets' escapade is the puppets themselves!I don't know what Full Moon was thinking; for the first 50 minutes of the film, the puppets are mostly stock footage from previous films. Lazy, to be sure, but it soon becomes clear that this is better than the alternative; when we are forced to see new footage of the puppets, we are shown renditions that look like Barbie dolls being worked by hand. The walking sequences, which are supposed to involve shoulder movement and something betraying life, are the worst no effort was put into making our puppets look alive. What's worse, there are actual technical lapses in which the rods by which the puppets are (barely) moved are not just visible, but take center stage! Who was responsible for this rape of our once-beloved puppets?!I won't complain anymore, at least not in front of you. It just saddens me how far the puppets manage to sink their own movie here, just by being there. If they had been better made, this could have been the best entry in the Puppet Master franchise. But they're not, and because of it, this is perhaps the worst film yet in the series. Cursed indeed. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was too bad","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (I was going to skip this one)This movie is a stand alone movie in the series, is not connected to the last two movies or the others,Is brand new master and this as a New plot, A scientist attempts to master the art of transferring people's souls into puppets.I didn't think it was too bad but i liked the Idea of the plot, it's brought some freshness to the series, it felt like the Puppet as some of Creep factor back.There were some very bloody moment in this, which was not bad, I felt same as all the other in this series, another Average movieThe acting was not that good at all from some of the cast and some were bearable5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Where did this movie come from?","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching the movie we can all tell it's recycled, that's the most I will say of that, so now I'll start.The first five movies had continuity, even if the third was a prequel, the first five movies all made sense in the end. Andre Toulon fled Berlin during WWII and found himself at Bodega Bay Inn where he has hidden the puppets and that's where they have been even when they got a new puppet master, Rick Myers.The movies showed little to no flaws in story (other than six-shooter not existing for one & two) which is confusing as to where this movie takes place. Leech Lady is featured in this film (playing no role what-so-ever) which would place it between one and two. Now this is my question, how did the puppets get to, wherever this takes place, back to Bodega Bay?The story was rather predictable from watching the first two scenes (other than the love story, that wasn't necessary) but they could have thrown in some more deaths, there was only four which they squeezed in the last 30 minutes.Director David DeCoteau. Actors Good looking muscular boys (not men) and one female. Tank was shown in his skivvies three times through the movie and one other actor was gonna bust-a-nut while working out. They probably spent all their animation of the puppets having Tank pillow fight with the puppets. Later editing they must have taken a vote to burn the footage and pledge never to speak what they saw. Distraught, David DeCoteau slapped a fake director name wanting his puppet pillow fight.Six-shooter lasso was cool, I added a fourth star just for that. "},{"Title":"Curse of the Puppet Master is the first truly bad film in the series...  A misstep after the more grounded and more fun first five films...","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director David Decoteau (under an alias for some reason in the credits) comes the sixth movie in the Puppet Master franchise- Curse of the Puppet Master. And to me, this is the first film in the series that was an all-in-all bad movie. Sure the previous five movies weren't high art, but they had a lot going for them. The first two films were fun little creepy horror movies that were easily accessible and had some nifty special effects. The third movie (also directed by Decoteau) was actually a decent revenge tale telling the origins of the story in Nazi Germany and had a lot of cool (albeit low budget) moments. And the fourth and fifth films, which were shot back-to-back and were essentially one movie split in half, were silly but a lot of fun and were the first movies to turn the puppets into heroes, and actually explain more of the magic behind it all.The sixth film tries very hard to be unique, at times feeling like an ode to classic Universal monster movies like Frankenstein, but it just can't quite pull itself together. It lacks back-story, is extremely rushed and feels a lot cheaper than the previous movies.The evil Dr. Magrew (George Peck in a delightfully hammy performance) has somehow taken possession of Andre Toulon's magical puppets, and uses them in his House of Marvels tourist attraction. His daughter Jane (Emily Harrison) has returned home to visit, and seems worried that his past assistant has gone missing. They soon meet socially awkward Robert Tank (Josh Green), a kind-hearted but meek young man whom is a talented sculptor, but is bullied by others. Magrew hired Robert to help sculpt him a new puppet, and a friendship between the two grows, as does a romance with Jane.However, when a bully from Robert's past threatens Jane, the puppets must once again resume their deadly deeds, and Magrew's devious secret plans are revealed shortly after... plans that may spell doom for the innocent Robert...The problems with the film begin from the opening credits, which made me realize this film was going to be padded beyond belief with re-used footage from the previous films. The credits seem to stretch on forever, and it's simply a montage of poorly edited snippets from previous films. And this film is very bad at hiding the fact that most of the puppet footage is re-used. You will recognize shots from the previous movies constantly, and its very distracting.This film also has a ton of continuity problems from the cheap budget- you can tell the didn't have time to shoot all of the footage they needed. (Case in point is one hilarious scene where the puppet Pinhead is injured, and while he is being fixed, they show a shot where you can clearly see him in a cage, put back together, before cutting back to him being fixed again. It was atrociously bad editing.)The biggest problem, though, is the lack of explanation of the story- the film makes no effort to connect itself to prior entries with no explanation of what happened to characters from the previous films. Also, the film seems to make up the rules as it goes along, and it's very messy- the story simply doesn't make sense, and without spoiling anything, the final 20 minutes are a poorly edited pile of shots with almost no coherence or logic. The story needed a lot more work than the screenwriters gave it.This is the first truly awful movie in the series. While a few of the entries after this one (particularly the more light-hearted and fun Retro Puppet Master) were actually decent, starting from this movie onward, the series fell in a big, bad way. This gets a pretty-bad 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Puppet Master Series Continues To Stink","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist (George Peck) attempts to master the art of transferring people's souls into puppets.With the film directed by David DeCouteau and edited by J. R. Bookwalter, you may not know what to expect. Bookwalter is pretty great, but does it show through with editing? DeCouteau is very hit and miss, with many more misses than hits. His Full Moon days may be among his best work, and that is not usually a compliment.Despite being a short film, they used a good deal of recycled footage from earlier films in the series (which is something the series as a whole tends to do). If you cut down to only the new footage, the film may be an hour long... maybe. "},{"Title":"Why extend this series further?","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst film in the Puppet Master series is also one of the worst films I have ever seen. This film is not even built off of the continuity established in previous episodes (which was also destroyed by the fourth and fifth installments).  Speaking of continuity, 90% of the puppet footage is from the previous five Puppet Master films!  And the new puppets look DIFFERENT from the older ones. The same puppeteers from the other films apparently worked on this one.  The puppets are the only cool thing these movies have going for them, and these guys did do a nice job before, but they must not had much of a budget for this one.  One scene in particular looks like the puppets are being held my sticks that partially appear on camera! And the acting, well its just no good at all, laughable at some points.  The story is pointless as well.  This is just a bad film and a bad installment for this series (not that the series was any good the begin with). "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was not one of their best movie for puppet master and why was it called Curse of the Puppet Master if the curse didn't even happened but at the end. And why was this movie rated R, because only one person did in a not so bloody way and not so much cursing in this movie. And what bothered me the most was two things, one was why was their a doll under that girl, it was a useless scene that needed to be deleted. And why was that old guy trying to get his worker in a toy, up to know I don't understand both of those things. Al I'm saying is don't make more Puppet Master movies because after part 4 if was boring, stupid, and pointless. "},{"Title":"Not bad, for a little flick","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit, I never watch the rest of the series except this one and the seventh installment. I have chance to watched Retro Puppet Master first than Curse of the Puppet Master. From my opinion the Retro Puppet Master is very-very lame and I barely have any interesting to watch Curse of the Puppet Master, but I give it a try and I surprised that it still could amuse me in a fun-watch.The plot tells us about a puppet-artist, Dr. Magrew (George Peck) hired Robert 'Tank' Winsley (Josh Green) to work to him. Dr. Megrew have a live-action dolls as his main attraction. Meanwhile Tank himself is begin to raise an affection to Dr. Megrew daughter, Jane (Emily Harrison). Unbeknownst to Tank, Dr. Megrew have a hidden agenda to him. The oblivious Jane herself find a broken doll that she believes that it used to be her father previous assistant. Things are getting worse when some murders is committed.Despite the slow pace it has, Curse of the Puppet Master manage to make us as the audiences to keep seating on our seat just want to know how is the end. The killing scenes is gory enough. The tension is builds well. The dramatic aspect is decently views. In general, Curse of the Puppet Master is a little horror flick, but definitely worth to watch.6/10  "}{"Title":"Why God, why?","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rent horror flicks all the time, the campier the better, even such stinkers like Blood Diner... but this... I think that if they had used this film on Alex DeLarge in A Clockwork Orange, he would have gone homicidal again. Full Moon begins to crash and burn, leading to the ultimate craphole, Puppet Master Retro.  The kills are so retarded, and at the end, which made me wish to commit suicide... Tank spends the whole movie carving this puppet out of wood, when he is transferred into it, there's a TV screen?  And a laser? Did I miss something?  And then the way he zaps the scientist... I've seen better special effects in the Power Rangers tv show.  What I realized is that if you read the back of this video box, it tells you the whole story... Seriously, the whole thing.  Damn you to hell for making this movie, Full Moon, and may God have mercy on your souls. "},{"Title":"Gotta love those little killers!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the Puppet Master series, partially because the little dudes always kill off the bad guys. I don't know of many horror flicks that go like that. Number 6 in the series was too short and abrupt (not only that, the puppets themselves had very little air time). Despite these details however, I think the movie was pretty dang good.   "},{"Title":"Very good sixth entry","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Curse of the Puppet Master is a very good entry into the series.  It takes time to develop its characters and provide some good suspense.  The body count is fairly low too.  It is truly a good horror movie, and that is why the abruptness of the ending is very shocking--you get into it, and then BAM, it's over.  Still, a good movie. "},{"Title":"This one is Good","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This One is the 2nd best installment in The Puppet Master Series. Unlike the First Five, this one is not hard to come across. So go rent it! I Liked this one because it Focused on The Puppet Master (Unlike Parts 4 & 5)I also Liked it because of the Fact That Mr.Tough Guy got....Nevermind. I also Enjoyed the way that the ending was Such a Twist. I mean, Who Would have thought that all along th....I won't spoil it for others. Also Recommended for fans of The Puppet Master Series Slumber Party Massacre, Child's Play, Halloween, The Hannibal Lector Series, Friday the 13th(Can' Wait for Jason X to come out), and Leprechaun.  "},{"Title":"The most under-rated in the series.","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" CURSE OF THE PUPPET MASTER 🌕🌕🌕🌗🌑 3.5Despite what everyone is saying,this movie is pretty good. The acting is convincing enough, the plot is good and creep, plus the effects aren't too bad, even with David Allen gone, and some of the archive footage fits in alright I guess. The best role in the film is Doctor Magrew, played by George Peck. He turns in a great performance, being creepy and just slightly off, which works great for the movie. And most of the other roles are played well too. There are also a few dumb lines that are very funny and many creepy moments. So in all a quite good, especially with full moon falling through, and David Allen being gone. A great edition to the series. "},{"Title":"Lackluster entry in the series","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The puppets find a new master in feisty mad scientist Dr. Magrew (well played by George Peck), who's doing sadistic experiments with humans by transferring their souls into puppets. Director David DeCoteau, working from a blah and talky script by Benjamin Carr and David Schmoeller, lets the insipid plot plod along at a sluggish pace and crucially fails to develop much in the way of either suspense or spooky atmosphere. Instead this picture gets too bogged down in a tepid romance between the gentle, browbeaten, dim-witted Robert Tank Winsley (a likable turn by Josh Green) and Magrew's sweet daughter Jane (a charming performance by the lovely Emily Harrison). Moreover, the puppets are given precious little to do and nothing really happens until the last third of the film. Worst of all, the crummy abrupt ending fails to wrap things up in a satisfying manner. That said, the infrequent scenes of the puppets attacking folks are staged with some flair and deliver the gory goods and the cast struggle valiantly with the so-so material (Michael Guerin in particular does well as mean local bully Joey Carp). Both Howard Wexler's sharp cinematography and Jeffrey Walton's shivery score are up to par. Okay, but it could (and should) have been much better. "},{"Title":"Very Good Addition To The Puppet Master Series. I give it a solid 7 out of 10.","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The director of Puppet Master 3 Toulon's Revenge now brings us Curse of the Puppet Master.I don't get these negative reviews. The film is not that bad. In fact I was very entertained by it. The effects in the film are better than average and so is the acting and dialogue.As a horror fan you will get all that you want in this film. Those of you who criticize this film are probably doing this because they didn't feel enough GORE in this film.For most horror fans GORE=GOOD FILM. For me, SOLID PLOT AND SUSPENSE=GOOD FILM.The film I saw says its directed by Victoria Sloan. Check out IMDb and it says its directed by David DeCoteau.(?) Apparently DeCoteau was ashamed of his ability and used the directorial pseudonym Victoria Sloan. Why ??? This guy also directed Leather Jacket (A GAY) Love Story (1997),Creepozoids (1987) starring porn star Ashlyn Gere and Ancient Evil Scream of the Mummy (1999).Now for a director that directed the best 3rd part of the Puppet Master Series P.M.3-Toulon's Revenge, this film should have been far better.David should go and visit a shrink to get his head straight - that's the only answer. Why this guy is still getting offers to direct films is a mystery. If he has any shame he should have stopped long ago. Majority of his films are flops.I give rating of 7/10 because of the good work he put in P.M.3. That's all the sympathy he ever get...ever. "},{"Title":"Deja Vu And What Did I Just Watch... At The Same Time!","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I am catching up on my horror movies and have been watching the Puppet Master series over the past couple of days. I agree with most of the reviews on this site on this one. About the director, the lame cut off ending. Wow, that was a bold move. What were they thinking?! Like, maybe they had some footage, but they didn't like it and were like, Let's just cut it here. That'll work. Bad guy dies. Everyone else is just. . . well, you know, what's happened has happened. Let your imagination take hold and finish the rest yourself.I didn't want to rate it low, but it's definitely not one that should be way up there. I think too many people believe a movie is going to be fantastic or totally bite when you really just need to take a movie for what it is and allow yourself to suspend your disbelief, and use your imagination... unless you're so bored you can't, but sometimes you just need to look at something a little closer.Well, I thought the puppets had quite a fair share of air time, but I'm surprised that no one has mentioned the biggest disappointment about it... Half of the puppet shots, (if not more) were from the first five movies. Yeah, they just recycled footage so they wouldn't have to do any extra animating. Not that they did any to begin with. Anyone could have made this movie by getting a bunch of novelty puppets or replicas from the films, about ten people they know, and filmed the puppets walking along a ledge as long as their hands weren't in the shots... that's pretty much what happened with the exception of a little bit of lightning effects at the end. And don't forget the footage ripped from the other movies. Gotta fill space, show the puppets, and not do any extra but much needed work in the process.Yeah, I have gone over all the negatives, but positives... not a whole lot. Everyone rips on the acting, but it's quality B movie acting (that would be a craft of its own). I've seen way worse. There was at least one good death scene... Maybe two. I hated the cop so much that I loved it. You just wanted to punch the cop and the bully in the face. It was great. The story was a little slow moving, but for some reason it kept my attention. Probably cause there was a little bit of a story, and the movie attempted to build some relationships between some of the characters. I did say attempt, and you have to admit that there are Hollywood Blockbusters today which still fail at something as important as a story. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein's Come-Uppance","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Curse of the Puppet Master has a good premise that is undermined by unconvincing puppet violence and the usual weaknesses of low-budget films.The direction was good, moving the story along.The eye candy was limited to underwear/gym shorts scenes with the hero and with the bully, separately.  There was a tasteful suggestion of a sex scene. The goriness was in line with expectations, not overstated.Unlike other reviewers, I found the action straightforward enough.SPOILERSThe new Puppet Master, Dr. Magrew (George Peck) is experimenting to discover the methods the original Puppet Master, Andre Toulon, used to create semi-living puppets.  Assistants, who first carve the 444 wooden pieces that go into a puppet, can be transformed by a lightening-like effect into the inner workings of a puppet.  (The director used this idea later in his Voodoo Academy.)  The movie starts with Dr. Magrew disposing the results of a failed experiment and finding a new person, Robert Tank Winsley (Josh Green), to be the new carver.  The problem is that Dr. Magrew's daughter, Jane (Emily Harrison), takes a romantic interest in Robert.  Bully Joey Carp (Michael Guerin) wants his way with Jane and isn't too fond of Robert. Meanwhile, the police are wondering why Dr. Magrew's former carver has disappeared.  The threads all move along to their conclusions.END OF SPOILERSI can't say how this movie compares to the others in the Puppet Master series, but on a stand-alone basis it was entertaining enough.  The big thuds for me were the victims' inability to get away from attacking puppets and the leap of insight which allowed Jane to find some evidence of earlier activities.  Lightening effects were too pervasive.  Say, 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cursed...","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A little random entry in the Puppet Master series with a 'gentle giant' gas station attendant Robert 'Tank' being offered a job for Dr. Magrew mirroring the work of Andre Toulon. George Peck who plays Magrew is fairly similar to the original Puppet Master (William Hickey). Anyway, Magrew daughter, pretty Jane (Emily Harrison) falls in love with Tank while Magrew wants to use him not only in recreating the dolls of Toulon but also more literally in his quest to create a range of 'perfect human puppets'. Of course Jane wouldn't want Tank to be used in this way and perhaps neither do our lovable puppet friends...Well made film, directed by David DeCoteau. Fairly tame (except for a few scenes of Tunneller) but fun and a pleasant aside from the main series tale of Toulon's plight and his puppets adventures. Entertaining. "}{"Title":"Better!","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Phew! After the torture of plodding through through parts 4 and 5 (I kid you not it must have taken about 6 separate attempts for me to make it all the way through both those films) the sixth film is the series is actually a lot of fun and, thankfully, a change in direction.What I like about the stronger Puppet Master films is that rather than simply present a film about puppets killing people, there's often a lot more happening. Colourful characters, or set amidst a Nazi uprising, there have definitely been factors that make this straight-to-video series a little more sophisticated than you would expect.This film is not the strongest of the series, but still we're given some nice story elements that keep us watching- the shy Robert taken in by Dr. Magrew, who runs a showroom of oddities, a man who seems to have dark secrets that go beyond the living puppets he now owns.I enjoyed this film, it took the action away from Bogada Hotel, and it doesn't follow continuity with the previous 2 films (thankfully!) It brought a sense of fun, tension and mystery back to Puppet Master.Of course it's not perfect. Yes some of the acting is downright atrocious, and it's clear this film represents director Decoteaus' first steps towards his soft-core jocks in tight boxers style of horror film making, opting for looks over talent in some of his male actors, but thankfully it doesn't dominate this film- I watch horror to be scared, not aroused.Overall a fun way to spend 90 minutes, and one of the better sequels. "},{"Title":"horrible!!!!!!!!!! do not watch","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie sucks and is in no mean entertaining. the only cool thing is the killer puppets!! and the creepy music. i hardly know the names of the characters because they were barely mentioned.the horrible plot a country boy working at a gas station starts working for a puppet master while Toulon(the puppet master) plans to turn the boy into a puppet. the acting is outrageously pitiful. the boy seems half asleep throughout the movie. it is not scary! spare yourself the 90 minutes and watch a good movie. avoid at all costs. this movie is so boring too. i don't know how/why i finished it. it looks so good on the DVD cover but it is so bad. i hated it.1/10. i haven't seen any other movies in this series but i'm sure they are somewhat better. at least waist your time on those or good horror movies like Clownhouse by Victor Salva.Rated R for Some Strong Violence/Gore and for Some Language "},{"Title":"I have seen this before!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hello all, I have read all comments and I realized that nobody caught the worst part about this movie. If you have never seen this movie all you have to do is watch another. I do not remember the name of this film but, if you take Curse and change the puppets into snakes...It is a copy of another movie. The dialog is almost exactly the same as well. I am a die hard puppet master fan and it saddens me to say that the acting and and plot were better in the other film. It should have stayed in that film as well. I believe that the plot could have worked and I can understand wanting to use it, but I would consider this plagerism. If you were going to use the human experiment, write your own script. Full Moon, you just may have saved yourself with Retro. I will say, Buy it, it is part of the series, in name at least, and you should have the set.  "},{"Title":"Why Is Gregory Peck In This Movie? Extremely Bad!!","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, I have no idea what Gregory Peck was thinking when he decided to make this incredibly awful movie. Now I have seen ALL of the Puppet Master movies and besides the first and third episodes the rest were pretty much crap.It's interesting however to see the Puppets start out as evil slayers for their master Andre Toulon, but then become more as heroes fighting evil in the 3rd & 4th movies. Still, this movie is just plain BAD. The acting is horrible and the little bit of special effects is below B movie quality stuff. I'm not even going to go through what the movie is about, as other reviewers have already explained it. So much more could have been done with this series. Instead of it advancing to higher standard, it has actually sank way below what we'd expect. Stay far away from this movie. If you must see it, definitely rent it for the cheapest price possible. You've been warned though.  "},{"Title":"Pure Mung!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's Mung you ask yourself, I DON'T KNOW! And I really don't know what this movie was ever made for, boy is it bad. Andre Toulon is abandoned for a new rich owner. Basically the maintenance man on the grounds is dim witted, and a bunch of guys make fun of him, so the puppets kill them all. At one point 2 of the puppets are walking side by side and the camera shows them down to the tops of their shoes, the legs were not moving! That is bad film making! You can almost see the stick connected to the side of their leg that they used to move them forward. BAD, BAD, BAD. Then the rich guy uses the dim wit to build a doll, so he can try to transfer a human soul into a puppet body.  The daughter is a bad actress, she doesn't even get naked, which is a standard in bad horror movies. The puppets role is once again down played, so with bad human acting, it kills the movie. BASICALLY IT STINKS START TO FINISH. "},{"Title":"I don't understand....","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok, Tank is under the curse, and he is making a puppet, which is going to contain his life essence... I understand this part. what I don't understand is why is he carving a humanoid body, when he ends up as a TANK!?!?   I Don't get it....  also the use of old footage for the puppets is just bad. I usually enjoy full moon films.. . I did not enjoy this..... "},{"Title":"A good movie...But not a sequel!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its a GOOD movie but has nothing to do with the original Puppet master movies or the link with Andre Toulon. Its OK if you have nothing better to watch - Other wise dont bother!!!Buy this movie however if you wish - its still an addition to the Puppet master series. "},{"Title":"Could it be the curse of..... stupidity?!?","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Puppet Master series is comprised of really awful movies featuring really cool puppets. The puppets, who sometimes are shown moving in stop-motion animation (very cool), are neat little killers each with their own little gimmick. The series' best entry was part three (Toulon's Revenge), but the following two installments were undeniably terrible, so it should've come as no surprise that I hated this, the most recent film and sixth part of the series.Despite the fact that this is directed by the same guy who directed part three (the best) and was edited by J.R. Bookwalter (I've never seen it, but apparently his film The Dead Next Door is pretty good) it is really, really boring. The characters are uninspired, the sets are run of the mill, and the killings are non-existent (despite one okay moment when Tunneler drilled a guy in the crotch. I guess the only good part of the movie was inspired by America's Funniest Home Videos).Worst of all, the puppets hardly ever make an appearance, and when they do they are obviously being held up by just-out-of-the-frame stage hands. There's hardly ANY stop-motion animation. I was also disappointed that Torch, one of the cooler puppets, was not in the film, even though he appeared in the credit sequence (which was a montage of footage from the previous movies).In short Don't see this movie. It stinks! "},{"Title":"The worst of the series to this point.","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of the Puppet Master is set in a small American town where the ever so slightly dim Robert 'Tank' Winsley (Josh Green) works as a lowly gas station attendant for $30 a week, that is until curio collector & owner of a museum of oddities Dr. Magrew (George Peck) & his lovely young daughter Jane (Emily Harrison) stop for gas. Magrew notices that Robert is an extremely skilled carver with an exceptional imagination & offers him $35 a week to work for him, with the $5 a week pay rise too much to turn down Robert accepts. Dr. Magrew show's Robert various living puppets made by puppeteer Andre Toulon that he brought in an auction some years previous & ask's Robert to carve the perfect puppet which Magrew hopes to inject with life & recreate Toulon's success...Curse of the Puppet Master was the fifth sequel to the rather splendid killer puppet flick Puppetmaster (1989) & apparently had the working title Puppet Master 6 The Curse but by this stage it was probably a wise decision to stop numbering them & thus try to fool a few unsuspecting buyers. The first three Puppet Master films were really good & I think they are all great although Puppet Master 4 (1993) & Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter (1994) were pretty bad apart from some impressive stop-motion animation effects & the nicely atmospheric Bogeda Bay Inn setting which are both absent here from Curse of the Puppet Master as the ambitions of the filmmakers & the budget gets increasingly lower with each new entry into the franchise. Directed by David DeCoteau under the name Victoria Sloan one of his many pseudonym's he had actually directed Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge (1991) but there's no repeat of his earlier magic & Curse of the Puppet Master is pretty dire stuff & even at a paltry 75 odd minutes in length the script feels padded & uneventful. There's no continuity to the earlier films at all, there's no mention of the green life giving serum & Curse of the Puppet Master changes the whole central concept to animating the puppets with a human beings soul which is transferred into the puppet thus giving it life instead of the serum from the previous films. To be honest it's a lame story which is supposed to unfold as some sort of mystery but it's pretty predictable & the single worst aspect of Curse of the Puppet Master is that it relegates the killer puppets to no more than bit parts who do virtually nothing the entire film. There's no explanation of why the puppets obey Magrew or why they suddenly turn on him at the end & like the previous two films they are nowhere evil enough. Another thing is while Magrew makes Robert carve a puppet out of wood the puppet Magrew uses at the end is actually made out of metal is some awful looking tank like creation with a couple laser guns for arms. The ending is awful too & is one of those occasions where the film just literally stops dead & your left thinking 'is that it?' or 'what happened?' or 'did my DVD player just skip a chapter?'.The puppet special effects are the worst of the series so far too, there's a few seconds of stop-motion by the vast majority of the effects work is simple poorly operated rod puppets which look still & have very limited movement. The opening credits have a montage of special effects shots from the previous five films & they beat anything else seen in this. For some reason the puppet Torch is ditched even though he appeared in Puppet Master 5 while Leech Woman makes a reappearance for the first time in the series after having been burnt in Puppet Master II (1991). The film is gorier than either parts 4 o5 although two bloody murders don't make this particularly good, there's some slashing & bloody cuts & Tunneller sticks his drill into some guy's groin & his wedding tackle. The whole film & production just looks cheaper than the previous entries, the moody setting & lighting have all but gone & there's a bland visually flat & dull look to it.With a supposed budget of about $250,000 the budgets were getting lower & lower & it show's frankly. Apparently shot at Canoga Park in Los Angeles. The acting is forgettable from no-one I have ever heard of before.Curse of the Puppet Master is worse than the five previous Puppet Master films & to be honest they should have stopped making them after Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge while the series was on a high. The only Puppet Master film I have left to watch in the series now is Retro Puppet Master (1999) which I can't say I am particularly looking forward too. "},{"Title":"Oh My......","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There aren't very many movies where after I've watched them I've wanted my time and/or money back, but unfortunately this was one of them! After having endured the other 5 in this series, this one I was holding out for maybe a slightly different story twist or some more character development or something, but no, heaven forbid that'd happen!! Sitting through this felt like more of the same with some lame plot being given and then surprise, the dolls kill somebody! Oh sorry, I gave most of the movie away.  The only major highlights of this movie were the underlining suspense throughout the movie, the top-notch animation of the puppets, and a rather nice surprise presence from Emily Harrison, who plays Jane carried my interest somewhat. However, the ending was probably the most abrupt and confusing ending ever, certainly leaving the door open for No. 7, heaven forbid that comes to light, which it probably will and I'll probably sit through that too.Overall 2.5 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Better Than Its Reputation","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Curse of the Puppet Master (1998) ** (out of 4) Four years after the previous film, Charles Band and Full Moon decided to bring their puppets back and this sixth installment tries to be its own picture and not just connect to the previous. This time out Dr. Magrew (George Peck) and his daughter (Emily Harrison) hire a slow-witted man (Josh Green) to help them build our beloved puppets. The doctor has been able to give them partial life but he needs help giving them their own souls and of course it doesn't take long for our puppets to harm anyone who goes after their friends. CURSE OF THE PUPPET MASTER is considered by fans of the series to be the absolute worst but perhaps since I'm not a fan I could see it differently. Yes, this is an ultra low-budget film that doesn't have too much action in it and yes it's clear that the attempt to try and take the series into a new direction didn't work all that great but I thought it was rather refreshing seeing something different and not just a stretch of the storyline that was the first five films. I mean, is what we see here really worse than the puppets battling a Demon God? It's clear that Full Moon was working with no money because the film doesn't even have any stop motion. The puppets, for the most part, are just being pulled by strings or other devices and this is certainly a first for the series. The visual look of them isn't all that impressive and this also means that there's more story than action but I'll admit to being a sucker by getting caught up in that story. I thought there were some major flaws in the film but mostly character development. The slow-wit for some reason turns smart and into a ladies man without any explanation. The doctor has some bad motives that come out of no where and I think the twist doesn't work that well. You have a bully local who beats up the slow-wit, sexually attacks the daughter and then breaks into her home yet I guess it never dawned on anyone to call the police. The love story aspect doesn't work either. With all of that said, I still got caught up with the characters because the three leads are actually pretty good in their roles. The puppets might be lacking in terms of special effects but they do get back their killer personalities and we get a couple death scenes that add on some extra gore. The Part 6 was dropped from the title and I'm guessing this was done to try and sell the movie as something new and original, which it pretty much is. I know fans were outraged that their beloved puppets were put in a new format but I still think it was a good decision and especially after the last two flicks. "}]