[{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"57 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been a nurse for 20 years, and have been around many patients who must contend daily with what normal people would consider to be adversities and handicaps. I've always looked upon them with (1) great admiration for their personal strength and determination, and (2) a pervading sense of sorrow and an aching heart, for their misfortune in having been denied the opportunity to interact in the world with the benefit of an intact, healthy body.This movie really struck an emotional chord with me, and made me realize how my feelings for these `unfortunates' could be construed as condescending and insensitive. I've often wished that I had the power to heal the handicapped, or to make them whole and normal. The idea that they could feel totally satisfied, complete, and happy, despite their limitations -- and that it is presumptuous of us to think otherwise -- was intelligently brought to light in this screenplay. This film is based upon a true story of a man who had come to terms with his blindness, and who, instead of wallowing in bitterness and self-pity, had learned to use his remaining senses of hearing, touch, smell, and taste -- along with a delightful sense of humor -- to become a happy, positive, and resourceful human being, with a keen sensitivity toward -- and appreciation of -- the world and the people around him.  This is very much like handicapped patients I have cared for through the years, who left me in wonder at their strikingly positive attitudes and warmth toward humanity, despite the obstacles they face on a daily basis. One of the reasons that I enjoy Val Kilmer's performances so much, is that he has the uncanny ability to capture the subtlest nuances of the characters he is portraying, whether it's Virgil, Doc Holliday, Jim Morrison, etc., and then is willing to bare his soul to bring the role to fruition for public enjoyment/critique.  It's a risky, daring, thing to do -- and I applaud him for his courage!    I appreciate the effort he makes to hone his performances by extensively researching the people and situations he is contracted to portray, instead of just showing up on the set, spewing his lines, picking up the paycheck, and moving on.  His portrayal of a blind man was COMPLETELY believable, and I forgot for two hours that he was a sighted actor playing a part.  One reviewer criticized him for smiling too much when his character interacted with people.  I have to ask whether that person has ever watched Stevie Wonder, Ray Charles or Jose Feliciano, while they are interacting in social situations.  Kilmer nailed this part, and beautifully expressed the gamut of emotions experienced by Virgil in the transformations that took place in his life. Other issues that have been mentioned by reviewers  (1) -- A supposed `lack of chemistry' between Kilmer and Sorvino &#150; I have to wonder if we were watching the same film!  (2) --  Yes -- as a warning to households with young children -- there is nudity, but their intimate scenes were enacted beautifully, with sensitivity and tenderness; there was nothing raunchy or sensationalistic about them.  However, some might take offense at the scene in the strip club &#150; it wasn't essential to the plot development, and could have been omitted.  (3) -- The only `bad language' in the film were rare, scattered expletives, which conveyed the understandable frustration of the main character when he was confronted with overwhelming emotions and tribulations, and (4) &#150; the scene of confrontation between Virgil and his father, which some people thought unnecessary, but which I felt was very appropriate, since their relationship and the father's abandonment of the family had been such traumatic, devastating events in Virgil's life.This film is an emotional roller-coaster ride, but WELL worth the trip &#150; LOVED it!  o) P.S. &#150; If you haven't seen Kilmer as Doc Holliday in `Tombstone,' RUN, don't walk, to your nearest  video store, and grab the Vista Series DVD &#150; it's absolutely one of the best performances EVER recorded on film!  The Academy must have slept through 1993!!!!      "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"35 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into the theater expecting the normal amount of mushiness one can assume will be present in a love story.  However, I was pleasantly surprised.  At First Sight contains little sappiness, or other such material that only takes up time.  Instead, the film was an honest look at one man's attempt to adjust to the sight world.  At First Sight offered a look into the struggles Virgil Adamson faced after having sight for the first since he was 1.  The film also outlined the pain of his loved ones, as they tried to help him adjust to a new environment, while facing pain and confusion themselves.At First Sight is an emotional roller coaster.  The film jumps around from rejoicing, sadness, frustration, confusion, and happiness.  Yet because these are very real emotions for the characters, the audience sympathizes. The film uses these emotions artfully, without appearing to jam them down the audience's throat.As any good movie will, At First Sight opens the audience's eyes to the people who live through these experiences.  Everyday things, like what a bird is, and what an expression means at a given moment, must be explained Virgil.  The lessons Virgil must learn and the way he deals with them are both amusing and sad.This movie challenges traditional beliefs by stating that a handicap is a barrier.  Often the real problem is trying to fix it.If you're in the market for an excellent movie, with a solid cast, and good effects, see At First Sight.  "},{"Title":"Amazing, absolutely amazing!!!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight is an absolutely amazing movie.  I had hesitated to watch this film in the theaters cause of all the bad reviews it got from the critics and from word of mouth from other people i knew.  Well, now I've learned a valuable lesson  Don't listen to what other people say.  I knew I should have watched it in the theater but it's okay.  I have seen it on video and nevertheless I saw it.  I went into it expecting a big disappointment.  But, rather than that, I fell in love with the movie.  It touched me in every way.  The fact that it really happened also made me feel extra emotions.  This movie is a good one.  I don't know what the critics were thinking.  I don't know what my friends were thinking, but I guess when I look at it, us romance/drama movie buffs are a small number compared to the action/adventure movie buffs.  This movie is absolutely amazing and whatever you do go see it.  If you're a romance/drama movie person I'm sure you'll love it!!!   "},{"Title":"A nice movie.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only way I can really describe At First Sight is that it is a nice film. A feel good movie, something like that, and a very beauifully shot feel good movie. The cinematography is excellent, the story on the other hand could have used some tightening. Kilmer and Sorvino kind of walk through this film on cruise control, I really enjoyed Nathan Lane's small role as a vision therapist. This is a nice movie to watch on a rainy day or with someone you love. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile visit","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I happened to come across this movie one night on cable. I have to say I'm sorry I didn't see it in the cinema. Val Kilmer did an excellent job playing a blind man, and the struggles it entails as he adjusts from his dark world, to a seeing one, and having to adjust to loosing it all again. I could't help but get wrapped up in his struggles to adjust, the frustration he feels when he tries to adjust to the seeing world and what Amy (Mira S) expects of him as his eyes begin to fail him once again. I was surprised to see, at the end of the movie, that it was based on a true story. Hats off to Val Kilmer for job well done - he was very believable. "},{"Title":"I believed in their love. I cared for their love. I feared for their love.","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. I adored it; I felt it was one of the more genuinely touching and real love stories that I had seen in a long, long time and even now, more than twenty-four hours since I saw it for the first, and I promise you, *not* last time, I am still haunted by its emotional power and how it drew me in with its passion. Inspired by a true story and starring a very real actor and a very real actress, At First Sight touched my heartstrings and yanked on them all the way through. It also contained a very humanistic touch apart from its romantic elements, one that I think everybody can appreciate in one way or another.As the movie opens, Amy Benic (Mira Sorvino) an overworked architect is essentially booted out of her office and sent to the winter land countryside resort on a vacation by her co-workers. During her stay there, she befriends a blind therapist (Val Kilmer) with whom she begins a slowly-developing romantic bond. Despite his condition, they grow closer to each other and become passionately devoted, up to and past a surgery that they hope can restore his eyesight.At First Sight is a fictionalized adaptation of Shirl and Barbara Jennings, a couple who passionately loved each other even though the former was completely blind. Their story was documented by Dr. Oliver Sacks. Adapted from his account by Steve Levitt and directed by Irwin Winkler, the movie becomes a powerfully dramatic love story that contains so much of that real-life passion from the people that inspired it.It is easy to criticize At First Sight for being too conventional, too derivative of other Hollywood love stories. But I don't think this picture falls under those categories and those type of films, such as Hope Floats. First of all, sometimes it's not about plot twists or breaking the mold. Sometimes, a movie can strike with just as much power (or more, as in this case) simply by utilizing those conventions and building upon them in a way that is fresh. And they do that here. The two central characters are very well-written, characterized as thinking, caring human beings who love and hunger for each other. A commendable move on the filmmakers' part was the casting. Instead of placing the typical romantic leads, who are more body than personality, they cast two very real performances. Gifted and good-looking as they are, Mr. Kilmer and Ms Sorvino, I've always felt, were very real. They aren't merely putting on a convincing act, they transition something very real into their performances and you can sense that. And as a defining example, I want to cite the scene in here that I usually gripe about the sex scene. Whereas with most erotic scenes in movies, I tend to get the feeling that my time is being wasted, or that the director is losing faith in his own picture and using a cheap gimmick to stimulate my interest, I did not feel that here. There is a brief and very visceral erotic moment between Mr. Kilmer and Ms Sorvino - and I know people are going to start laughing at this point - and I did not get a negative reaction because this scene was not lustful. I wasn't thinking about the sex, I wasn't even thinking about Ms Sorvino's body. I was thinking about the passion and the love that was emanating from this scene. Here comes the one that I'm sure will get the biggest laugh yet.I was not turned on; I was moved.That's the core of what I loved this movie. Unlike so many of those contrived excuses of love stories that I see in so many movies, I *believed* in the love between these two characters. I was convinced they were two people who adored each other. I believed in their love, I cared for their love, I feared for their love. But what also makes the movie so good is the way the subject matter of blindness is treated. I imagine that for some, seeing or merely knowing about the subject matter of this movie can be a comforting reminder that lack of eyesight is not lack of humanity. For me, it was a reminder of just how thankful I am to not only have my eyesight, but my health. These two very authentic emotional elements stirred a great passion in me as I watched the film and kept me in play clear to the end.Can I criticize anything in the movie? Well, yes, two short moments. One was a super-fast zoom upon Val Kilmer's eyes accompanied by a whooshing sound effect. The other was a jump cut montage of Ms Sorvino imitating emotions. These two scenes were a little out of place and seemed to be from other movies. But it's a two hour and nine minute movie and these two bits add up to, what, less than a minute? You do the math.At First Sight is a wonderful movie with a strong emotional chord. Mr. Kilmer and Ms Sorvino are absolutely wonderful, as are the underrated Kelly McGillis as the jealous, troubled sister, Bruce Davison as the optimistic surgeon, Nathan Lane as the unorthodox and deliberately comical vision therapist, and Steven Weber as the lascivious fellow architect. It's an incredibly touching love story that I'm telling you, I cannot be satisfied with after just a first sight. I'm going to need at least two more before I could possibly even come close to being too familiar with this genuine little jewel of a motion picture. "},{"Title":"Do we have the right to make changes for others?","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film on late night TV and definitely enjoyed it. I think it will stay with me because it reminded me that sometimes I try to change people to make life better for them as I think it should be. I must be more conscious in finding out What they want before I start the process of changing. I think Virgil was much more intuitive and happy in his blindness. Although his life was a simple one, he was happy. Amy tried to make him part of her world and regaining his sight became very frightening and confusing for him, especially in New York City. He went from serenity and peace with his life to confusion and anger. Maybe it is good that he lost his sight again. "},{"Title":"Awakenings Redux","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film on AMC and part way through it, I felt as if I had seen it before. Then I realized I was thinking of the 1990 Penny Marshall film Awakenings, starring Robin Williams and Robert De Niro.At First Sight is a true story about a blind man who temporarily regains his sight, then goes blind again. Awakenings was about a comatose man who woke up temporarily, then slid back into a comatose.Oh, and by the way, they're both written by the same guy.For what it's worth, Love At First Sight is actually a pretty likable and overall watchable film. It's not great or anything unpredictable (how convenient - the female love interest) but Kilmer gives a remarkable performance (all considered) and there are a few moments in hte film that are a BIT out of the ordinary.Worth watching, but don't go out of your way or anything. "},{"Title":"a good movie with revealing insights","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight was a film with two stories to tell. The first was a love story and the second about a blind young man who has a chance to regain his sight.  For some reason the two stories both separately compelling did not seem to mesh well--or as well as I expected.  I'm not sure whether it was the writing or the directing or just me. With that said I thought the per- formances were outstanding. Ms. Sorvino, as the love interest, and Ms. McGillis, as the older sister who helped and cared for him were both good, but this was Mr. Kilmer's movie.  He was EXCELLENT. He made me realize that a handicap is often more that of others than the supposedly handicapped.  I suppose I knew this but Mr. Kilmer's performance brought it to conscio usness.  He also portrayed well the confusion and bewilderment of entering what most people would consider the normal easy world of sightedness. I truly enjoyed the scenes where he displayed genuine innocence of adjusting to his new world.  I don't want to be specific here.  He showed great dimension to make me realize that sighted or not he was a complete person. There is much to be appreciated about this movie and everyone can learn from it. On the basis that this is a true and important story and Mr. Kilmer's performance---three plus stars.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very interesting subject, but not done as well as I'd hoped.  I thought the beginning of the movie was quite well done, but then it seemed to suddenly jump.  I felt like it skipped a step.  All of a sudden Sorvino and Kilmer's characters are in love.  The movie plodded along a bit more, and I felt like we'd NEVER see him have the operation to get his sight.During the operation there are boring scenes, which go on much too long between Sorvino and the sister.  AFTER the operation, it begins to get interesting again.BUT, BUT, BUT... they don't spend enough time on the interesting stuff. The movie skims over everything.  The romance is going stale, he's learning to see, and there's that absurd father story-line, but none of the story-lines are fully developed. And the ending was the slowest part of the movie.Peeve - Why did he get a new dog, and leave behind his beautiful yellow lab????Quite disappointing. "}{"Title":"In this case, seeing is not believing, 6 out of 10","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Between the tear-jerking excesses of two of the Christmas season's biggest movies, Patch Adams and Stepmom,you'd think that even the staunchest fans of those caring-and-sharing medical weepers would have reached their limit. But here comes At First Sight,which is not quite so life-and- death, but it's just as determined, in its modest way, to milk those tear ducts dry. In this case, though, the scientific context of the movie -- about a blind man who regains his sight with unexpected repercussions -- makes for a subject considerably more interesting than the romantic drama to which it is attached.At First Sight is based on the writings of neurologist Oliver Sacks (the movie Awakenings was adapted from his work as well). It tells the true story of a 50-year- old blind man named Virgil who works as a YMCA masseur. On the eve of his wedding, he has cataracts removed, which allows him to see for the first time in 40 years. The experience, however, turns out to be more painful than joyful. As Sacks notes, the questions raised are profound, and have interested philosophers from John Locke to George Berkeley. Is sight a learned activity? What is the relationship between a world understood through touch and one understood through sight? The basic facts have been moulded into a trite romance that could easily fit between a pair of Harlequin covers. Unfortunately, the film glosses over the science and deliberately avoids some of the odder aspects of the original case. Virgil, on gaining his sight, also managed to pack on about 50 pounds; stress made him eat. Somehow, though, you don't expect a star of Val Kilmer's magnitude to take the Raging Bull route to character authenticity through poundage.Instead, what we have is a story of a woman who discovers the perfect man, almost loses him, and then regains him. Mira Sorvino plays Amy Benic, a hot-shot New York architect, who heads off for a spa weekend in a charming New England village. Before she knows it, a hunky masseur has her calf muscles in his hands and has her melting like warm butter under his probing fingers. Entranced, she returns for further rubdowns until one day she approaches Mr. Magic Fingers as he's getting on a bus and discovers -- omigod! -- he's blind.After a brief Internet search, Amy discovers that Virgil doesn't necessarily have to be blind, and she lands a top surgeon (Bruce Davison) to cure the problem. It turns out that Virgil is a bit reluctant, and his sister Jennie (Kelly McGillis) is downright hostile to the idea of improving her brother's lot. Love wins, though, and Virgil agrees to undergo the treatment. Soon, Virgil and Amy are sharing her New York apartment. But Virgil, who has accommodated himself quite well as a blind man, is now a very inadequate sighted man, who can't read or write or interpret even the most basic social signals. He's miserable trying to learn how to see again, and the relationship goes into a tailspin.Much of the dialogue, during these dreary lovers' quarrels, focuses on blindness in love and living with one's blind spots and limitations (she has a too-symbolic chunk of unfinished sculpture she started in college). Nathan Lane pops up in the role of a wise and funny counsellor, the sort of part that usually goes to Robin Williams. Isn't seeing wonderful, he says to Virgil, when he takes him to a strip club. Seeing sucks, says a disconsolate Virgil. Roll over, George Berkeley, and tell John Locke the news.Director Irwin Winkler (Night and the City)is rarely better than pedestrian in handling this story. At worst, the dramatic elements are plain clumsy.The most interesting moments in At First Sight have nothing to do with the love story, but rise instead from Virgil's struggles with the social rules of seeing. What do facial expressions mean? How do we learn to look away from the homeless? There are a few moments that try to capture Virgil's viewpoint -- lights, glare, moving shapes -- that are as useful as anything the movie has to say about the conventions of seeing. Given the rich visual opportunities of such a topic, it seems a great waste the movie wasn't directed by someone with a more astute eye. Benjamin Miller, Filmbay Editor. "},{"Title":"Slow-moving love story","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I might have enjoyed At First Sight a lot more if it had edited down to about 100 minutes.  It moved slowly, and although there were some good scenes scattered throughout, there were slow patches between them.  Most of the acting was good, although whenever I see Bruce Davison in a movie looking meltingly sincere and sympathetic it makes me long for Stallone or Schwarzenegger.I hate that phrase chick flick but I must admit that my wife enjoyed this film a lot.  "},{"Title":"OK I suppose but just too many absurdities","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" first of all, the paramount rule of eye surgery is YOU DO ONE EYE AT A TIME AND SEE HOW IT WORKS OUT. if the surgery is successful you do the other eye if not then need to seriously reconsider waiting until medical technology gives you another crack at it on the other eye.you don't do experimental surgery on BOTH eyes in the same operation.also, no freakin way a responsible medical practitioner would allow glaring camera lights in the room for a patient who's going to see for the first time in 25 years!!! DIM THE LIGHTS PEOPLE !!! I wont elaborate on the other absurdities but for me there were just too many.the good news is the performances were done well, this is a nice 'feel good' film with a so-so happy ending 'based on' a true story FWIW.Mira Sorvino has those classic Italian features and is very very smart lady fluent in 3 languages. maybe 4. very smart. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry for everyone who liked this movie, but in my eyes it's absolutely horrible. The characters are unrealistic, the emotions are overdosed to the maximum and the screenplay throws in so many standard story cliches that you stop counting when passing 100. Just a few examples1. The Sorvino character needs an eternity to even recognize that the man who gave her a massage and talked to her for ten minutes is blind. 2. Val Kilmer is the baddest screen-blind I have ever seen. And for the first hour of the movie he is permanently smiling, in a way that makes me want to smash his face. 3. What the hell is the father doing in this movie anyway? Here you got the greatest standard plot device ever, and it serves absolutely no purpose.I could go on and on, but I got better things to do than talking about this crap. "},{"Title":"Blindness and Love ?","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie follows two main lines the recovery of a blind person and love at first sight. The two lines blend and interwine to form this movie. The recovery is treated beautifully What must it feel like to recover vision but not to understand exactly what you are seeing ? How would it be to start to acquire knowledge about all things in a total different way you were used to? The love at first sight line is good too. Mira Sorvino is very competent within her role and the couple is very convincing. What I find amiss about this movie  Which of these two lines should the movie focus on ? It doesn't focus in any. I find the first line one to be worked into and I hoped the movie continued on the experiences of the former blinds.For this and only this, this movie gets 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Only works because of the performances. *** out of ****","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  AT FIRST SIGHT (1999) ***Starring Val Kilmer, Mira Sorvino, Kelly McGillis, Steven Weber, Bruce Davison, Nathan Lane Director Irwin Winkler     124 minutes    PG-13 (for sexuality and nudity, and some language) ***By Blake French, based on comment by Lynda French and Faye BlinkIn many ways At First Sight, is not a good movie. For instance It does not do a good job of explaining the inspiration for the plot, the blind man's optical surgery. That is unfortunate, because I really was interested in that concept.The film, based on a novel called To See and Not See, is centered on a man who has gotten used to being blind. He knows his entire way around New York. He then falls in love with an architect. Her name is Amy. Virgil, the blind man, is hired by complete coincidence to be her massager. The minutes he touches her, she knows that this man is different for other men she has formed relationships with in the past. The plot is strong, but thin at the same time. For instance, the film takes heed in developing the characters, but never the conflict, or villain, or sub-plots. If the director would have decided to focus on those things a bit more, or a lot more in that matter, the film would have been wonderful. After all, it is well written and performed. There is a sup-plot, however, that is detailed. The filmmakers throw in a false break up between two characters, and how Vigirl deals with the misguided  presence of his distant father. This incidence is only in existence to create sappy melodrama to further the movie's running time.My main recommendation comes only from the first rate performances from Kilmer and Sorvino. Val Kilmer (The Saint 1997, Heat 1994) delivers is outstanding as the blind man. He brings to life the confusion of lack of sight. Mira Sorvino (Mimic, 1997, Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, 1997) plays Amy with boldness and verve. She also captures the wonder and creativity of the audience's imagination. The sub-characters including Steven Weber (Sour Grapes 1998, The Shinning, 1997) Bruce Davidson and Nathan Lane (Mousehunt 1997) are also very suburb in their roles. 	That said, this film is not all that original. Think about it for a minute two people fall in love, who have many differences and problems. Does this sound familiar? The truth this is just another romance story with a gimmick. The film works, but only by the skin of its performances. "},{"Title":"At First Sight...It's Bad. At Second Sight...It's Worse!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At First Sight (1999) Dir Irvin Winkler / Cast Val Kilmer, Mira Sorvino, Kelly McGillis, Steven Weber, Bruce Davison Romantic drivel about both the physical blindness and the unawareness of love. Val Kilmer plays Virgil who has been blind since age three and regrets the fact that his father left him at age eleven. He seems to get around and has a passion for skating on a nearby pond. Mira Sorvino plays an architect named Amy who strolls into town establishes a friendship with him. She tells him of an eye surgery back home that may help him. This leads to a depressing conclusion in an attempt to get a tear from viewers who should realize that the screenwriter is cheating them. Director Irvin Winkler is at best when exploring Virgil's senses as when he listens to the rain. His previous film, The Net dealt with sense also but from a different perspective. Kilmer is at the mercy of romantic clichés when more about his dealings with his condition would have been more interesting. Sorvino labours under cardboard basically acting as the love interest. Kelly McGillis is wasted as Virgil's concern sister. Then there is Bruce Davison as a doctor out to give Kilmer sight so that he can see what a piece of junk he has been cast in. Is this film taking the whole blind condition and surgical possibilities seriously? Perhaps, but it is more likely that it is dull to the senses when factoring its giddy delivery. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite guilty pleasure romances.","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There I said it. I just like everything about this movie even though (if I'm honest) this time through I did find Val Kilmer's perpetual goofy grin and childlike ways kind of off putting (unsexy) On a plus this was made back when he still looked Top Gun good and the initial massage sequences are very sensual.Kilmer plays Virgil Adamson a blind masseur who falls in love with one of his clients (Mira Sorvino). He goes home with her to New York and agrees to undergo a risky operation to restore his sight. The outcome however is not what anyone could have predicted and leaves him longing for his former sightless world.Ultimately, besides being a great romance this movie made me think about seeing in a whole new way especially in how your brain processes vision. Kilmer does do a great job showing Virgil's struggles in that respect. Based on a true story. 12.13 "},{"Title":"I'm blind and you're deaf. What a perfect pair","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Irwin Winkler's At First Sight stars Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino as a couple of lovers. He's a blind masseuse, she's an architect, and together then embark on a journey rife with back rubs, kissing and cuddling.The film's first act does well to sketch the difficulties of the visually impaired. By its second act, however, Kilmer's blindness is used as a hokey metaphor for the wisdom of the sightless, who are able to appreciate the oft overlooked subtleties of nature and womanhood. As such, Sorvino melts in Kilmer's arms, this dashing blind dude peering deep into her soul like no man with 20/20 vision ever could. Conventional? Yes, but Kilmer and Sorvino have good chemistry, and the film's massage scenes are interesting, Kilmer's generous hands practically spurring Sorvino to orgasm. If only, she thinks, all men saw as as Kilmer does.6/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Minnelli's The Clock. "},{"Title":"Uninspired romance","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From the closing text, this is based on a true story. Virgil (Val Kilmer) is a blind masseur who has a special touch. Amy (Mira Sorvino) is a hard working New York architect. At a resort, Amy falls completely head over heels after getting a massage from Virgil. When Amy learns of a new radical surgery, Virgil is angered at first, but relents to do the surgery. He regains his sight, but gets new problems that puts strains in their relationship.It may be based on a true story, but it's not a compelling story. It's as if somebody had laid out the rom-com formula, and fit the story to it. For a story with an interesting premise, there is a distinct lack of drama. It's fairly uninspired. "}{"Title":"Well-acted, Powerful, Plausible drama","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 5.7 ! I can't believe how underrated this movie is. This is genuine,powerful drama. The first segment highlights the courtship of Amy and Virgil. It went well and stomped somewhat familiar ground and we thought it would pace the movie into expected and nice conclusion. The middle segment dealt with the operation and how Virgil had to retrain his brain to new-found vision as adult. ***SPOILER*** then the last segment makes an unexpected,tragic and cruel turn. If it was gut- wrenching to watch imagine how the real life Virgil for whom this true story was based on must have felt. Then the epilogue and closing remarks about the real Amy and Virgil. This is powerful stuff. Val Klimer I thought was as action kick-butt guy only - was I wrong! He intelligently plays the first blind Virgil who had reconciled himself, then as the sighted Virgil who had to relearn everything as an adult, and lastly the at-peace Virgil again when he went blind again. In between sighted and then blindness he saw his older sister for first time, commented how beautiful she was and how she had given up life to take care of him, having both been abandoned by their runaway dad. His relationship with Amy is more complicated. He needs her but wants to have some Independence, while Amy is all loving and supportive. To provide some irony Amy had brief moment close to submitting to Duncan, the scheming ex-husband who wants them back together again. But it was too brief a moment and Amy affirmed her love to Virgil by abruptly breaking away from Duncam. We see these characters in real life. They are around us. They are us. Just like having doubts about Val Klimer, I had initial doubt about Mira Sorvino who too often associates with light comedy. Here She was caring and devoted to Virgil and shows she never lost sight of who she is. Kelly McGillis' protective, self- sacrificing big sister was believable. I spent my whole life looking down, checking for pot holes so Virgil wouldn't fall in, she said. The medical staff was convincing. Ken Howard's brief but important appearance delivered the counterpoint. The script was intelligently written and many details about how the blinds adjust to their environment display careful research. This is the movie if you are in the mood for a well-acted and powerful drama. "},{"Title":"1999 was definitely THE year in movies","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At First Sight is a beautifully made romance film about a guy who's been blind since always and falls in love with a girl that helps him finding sight. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen as planed, but has such a good story anyways.The actors are very sensible, their conversations are so well made (congratz Steve Levitt) that leave many philosophical thoughts to the spectator. How would life be without sight? How would we imagine things we've never seen? Virgil (or Val Kilmer) has such an aggressive expression, I felt like he was about to spank someone eventually. Don't know if it was intended, but that was my impression.So, this film is one of those rare romances that entertain and the time seems to fly, so I surely recommend this to everyone. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the film yesterday on TV, although I missed the first part of it, I still think it's a great film. Actually I didn't know the name of the film yesterday when I was watching it. And when I was checking the filmography of Val Kilmer just now, I thought this film might be called Blind Horizon. ) It's utterly true that sometimes seeing people don't really see the world. They take too many things for granted. It's tragic he lost his sight again when he has just got used to eyesight, but he got love, that's the most wonderful thing. Amy's description of horizon is touching. Maybe in reality, it's not really possible for blind people to achieve so much, Val even worked out on a jogging machine! "},{"Title":"Fine acting, but not much else","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't have a lot going for it. The story has been done and really there wasn't much interesting dialogue...almost boring. But what it does have are two very strong performances form it's stars. Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino are both at their best for this movie which is what saves it and makes it decent. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"a sweet old-fashioned story...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It may not be a very original film, but the cast is superb. Both Val Kilmer and especially Mira Sorvino are excellent. Val Kilmer is the blind man who is working in a town with his sister Kelly MacGillis, in  a superb form as an actress, isolated from the real life in the big cities. Mira Sorvino is the architect, who is so tired and bored from her life, and visits the town for vacation, falls in love with the Kilmer, and tries to help him. The scenes where Kilmer is learning the meaning of life, like a small child, are small scenes of poetry, and there is a magic chemistry between the two actors, who are obviously enjoying themselves. Also another scene which is very poetic is the scene where Sorvino and Kilmer are traped in an old factory, when it starts to rain, and both explain what rain means to them. The film has the fortune to have a musical score by Mark Isham, and one excellent love song that is one of the best of the last decade. It is an old-fashioned love story, but it does not feel and does not seem old. After watching it you will feel a lot better... "},{"Title":"a sweet old-fashioned story...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It may not be a very original film, but the cast is superb. Both Val Kilmer and especially Mira Sorvino are excellent. Val Kilmer is the blind man who is working in a town with his sister Kelly MacGillis, in  a superb form as an actress, isolated from the real life in the big cities. Mira Sorvino is the architect, who is so tired and bored from her life, and visits the town for vacation, falls in love with the Kilmer, and tries to help him. The scenes where Kilmer is learning the meaning of life, like a small child, are small scenes of poetry, and there is a magic chemistry between the two actors, who are obviously enjoying themselves. Also another scene which is very poetic is the scene where Sorvino and Kilmer are traped in an old factory, when it starts to rain, and both explain what rain means to them. The film has the fortune to have a musical score by Mark Isham, and one excellent love song that is one of the best of the last decade. It is an old-fashioned love story, but it does not feel and does not seem old. After watching it you will feel a lot better... "},{"Title":"Seeing is Not Believing!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read over 20 reviews of this movie I am amazed at the variety of critical viewpoints. While some reviewers say the movie is soppy, slow, poorly paced and trite, others say it is genuinely moving, technically well done and inspiring. The comments on the lead actors veer from the sublime to the ridiculous. Val Kilmer is variously described as brilliant, nicely restrained, overacting, deadpan, acting with his teeth or showing genuine emotion. Mira Sorvino is superb, sincere, shallow, flat, not up to the job, poignant.....did all these reviewers watch the same movie? How can an actor be overacting and at the same time deadpan! Are these film critics visually impaired? Which all points to the fact that a review is merely one persons opinion and not an accurate assessment of the film. You really need to see a film for yourself. I really liked this film for many reasons, and thought it a most fascinating subject. I felt the acting was excellent, and the cinematography was great, but I also thought it could have been done better. The romance was too rushed...Virgils off to New York to live with Amy and have a life changing operation after knowing her for one week? As to a doctor saying that there was a good chance of curing Virgil's blindness without ever having examined him....grossly unprofessional.!!The romance then deteriorated so much after the operation you wondered why they stayed together, there was no touching between them when they talked...people in love are constantly touching each other, they just looked glum . Luckily things did pick up later, but the film would have benefited from less Hollywood melodramatics and teary tribulations, and more concentration on the difficulties faced by Virgil in trying to cope with vision. The dialogue in the early part of their relationship was sweet and funny and it was easy to see why they were attracted to each other. I wish the filmmakers had continued in that vein. !! "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though i really do not believe in the reality of romantic movies ( defined by our world today to which such is possibly nonexistent ), I was touched by this film. ALthough love is an open matter to which no one can define,At First Sight shows us a  glimpse to the nonentity meaning of love.We are shown a struggle of a man's life to survive in a hostile world without the aid of his vision or sight. Finding out his true love by means of trusting his instincts is a story that tells with vivacity what our hearts can truly do. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Love is the best guide !","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've truly enjoyed watching this movie ! At First Sightis a wonderful tender movie that gives a different perspective on the idea that blind people are completely helpless. Virgil Adamson is a man able to take care of himself in a controlled environment and not only. He's capable of taking chances, such as his trip to New York. My belief is that Val has displayed one of his most inspired performances and the movie is not only a wonderful romance but also a living proof of his talent. Adam existed before falling in love but only afterwards he began living. His love guided him places that sight alone wouldn't do the job. I advise everybody to go see what they see for themselves i don't think they'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"could have been a darn sight better!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong I really did enjoy this movie.  The acting/casting was well up to standard.  The setting blended in nicely as well.  But the one thing this movie majorly lacked in was interesting script.  Although this movie is a true story, it was made as the someone had come along and gone wow this would make a great movie and about 1/4 of the way through got bored and didn't care where it was going!  I think this movie deserved a lot more attention than it got.  I grade it a C for effort on the actors behalf! "}{"Title":"Sorvino A Sight for Sore Eyes","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got this movie (DVD) cause I felt it was a good movie to share with the little woman. She likes girlie type movies and she does a great job of enduring the guy movies I love to watch. So what the heck.  Let's give it a try.A great date movie and the fact that it was based on a true story really made it interesting. Mira Sorvino gave what I felt was a great performance, she was incredibly charming, believable, and real. I felt more sympathy for her character than I did Val Kilmer's. His performance was believable to a certain extent. Overall it wasn't his best.Maybe because of the script, Kilmer's character became annoying midway through the movie where the whininess became redundant and even annoying at times. The script seemed to try to make you feel overly sorry for him but it just didn't work. It dragged 15 minutes to long.Nathan Lane gave an uplift to this movie when it really needed and probably saved it from being mundane.A mild feel good movie. Worth at least a look-see.*** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Fiction, fiction, fiction","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very poor depiction of a true case study by Oliver Sacks. Val Kilmer's character learns very quickly about the sighted world -- too quickly. In truth, learning to deal with the sighted world for a person once blind is a process 100x's harder and slower than depicted in this film. A fictional and highly disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Beautifully moving","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautifully moving movie loosely based on a true story by Oliver Sacks about the relationship between a blind man and his sighted girlfriend. The film is gloriously filmed, you really need to watch this on laserdisc or DVD if not in the theater. Somehow, it evokes both the joy of seeing for the first time and of sight; but also of the sense of feeling and touching and listening, not literally, but in the deeper sense of within our souls. It is a movie about trust and growth.Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino give truly powerful performances that are so unlike anything else they have done. Although this movie may not have been a hit in the box office; it will definitely be a sleeper hit  "},{"Title":"best movie in years","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight was a great movie. It touched me in so many ways,that I now have to go out and buy it. Val Kilmer was very insightful as a blind man,it was as though he was truly blind and that it didn't seem unrealistic and he's one of today's top notch actors.And Mira Sorvino she is good in all her movie roles.I mean seeing her in the  role of Amy  made  my wife and I enjoy this movie all the better. I really felt for the couple and hoped every thing would work out for them when Val was able to see,but with all great movies everything isn't always that way.  "},{"Title":"It's a movie that makes you think about the things that are normal","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to the theatre with the thought that it would be just another melo-dramatic movie. When I read about the movie, I only knew the story would go about a man who was blind and would get an operation to see again. When I saw that, I was really sure that I would fall asleep during the movie, because there doesn't seem to be any story in it.Then I was in the cinema and the movie started. Maybe it was because I thought it was going to be a very bad movie, but I really had to laugh sometimes, and there was a lot more going on than only the blindness of Val Kilmer.Afterwards I had to admit that it is a really good movie. It was at least much better than I expected. The music and the acting was really great. The only bad thing was that the microphone was hanging in the picture lots of times. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watch the first scenes and you expect to get an overdose of romance, tragedy and tearjerking for the rest of the 120 minutes. But don't leave the theatre too soon! The film isn't as melodramatic as it seems. The script is excellent, with a good portion of classic 'Hollywood' psychology. (You can see, now you must learn to watch). There are hardly any detectable faults, except maybe for Amy's statue. What did it look like after she'd fixed it? The performances are very acceptable. Kilmer is good-looking, Sorvino is sweet, Lane is funny, but McGillis undoubtedly gave the best performance as Jenny. I didn't know she was still into acting. What a surprise surprisingly good. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight really is a pretty good movie, it has all the best aspects of a good Hollywood film, it has romance, humor, good acting, a good story, and last but not least, for that blood-thirsty American populus, brief nudity. But then again you could really put Mira Sorvino in any movie and it'll make money, just from here legions of fans, myself included. Also if I may say that when I saw this film, Miss. Sorvino had appeared to be showing some signs of aging in her facial expressions, personally I thought it was from her not having the blonde hair anymore, but maybe those films are starting to take their toll on her. Any-hoo, this is just a good movie, by far not Sorvino's best work, but still none the less, a high quality film. Val Kilmer was also pretty good, though in parts he didn't exactly play a blind guy to well, but then sometimes he did. It all depends on what you're looking for. Another thing is that this is a perfect movie to snuggle with your signifigant other with, just bring the Kleenex or a dry shoulder to be cried on. "},{"Title":"Love is everything, blindness is nothing.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoy the movie, it's great.Val Kilmer's acting is superb, while Mira Sorvino ... I saw Mira's great acting in Mighty Aphrodite, Mimic, and Romy & Michele's High School Reunion, and I think she could do much better than she did in this movie.The story reminds us that sometimes we overlook the greatest gift we have by worrying too much about other things. Virgil and Amy have the greatest gift... love! Amy, not realizing what might happen, tries to cure his blindness. So, he can see. But, he doesn't like what he sees. When he starts to like what he sees, he goes blind again. At the end, they finally realize, they already have the greatest gift ... love, and love doesn't need vision.   "},{"Title":"Kilmer shines!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer once again gives us a brilliant performance that deserves much more attention than it got. His portrayal of a blind man is very convincing and it is only a shame that he was not allowed to flesh out the feelings and process Virgil went through as he dealt with his new-found vision. More Kilmer!  "},{"Title":"Says it like it is","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was extremely well done. I enjoyed everything it had to say. Showing Virgil`s struggles within himself as well as the physical struggle of learning to see again. His strength when his vision began to fade was awesome. I found this film to be both exciting and touching. I will watch it again and again. Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino gave top notch performances here!! It must have been very difficult for Mr. Kilmer to play the part of a blind person and I applaud his efforts!   "}{"Title":"De-Emphasizing the Visual makes movie a good view.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this with my girlfriend.  We went for different reasons, her for the romance, me because the notion of gaining sight after not having it, and the difficulties that might pose, seemed quite intriguing.Briefly, I thought the premise was a good one, even while intertwined with the usual Hollywood shortcomings of a quick love/hate/love relationship.  In some scenes, the difficulties encountered by Kilmer's character were very well presented, while in others they were ignored.However, I very much enjoyed the film, and will see it again, on the merits of its series of small lessons.  We live in a society that over emphasizes the visual (TV, looks, image is everything), and places little or no value in the substance of things.  I thought this film, perhaps by accident, presents a number of powerful images to refute the importance of things visible.The best moment in the film for me was Kilmer's quote Just because you don't see something, doesn't mean it isn't there.  This followed by Sorvino's That's the definition of faith, right?I recommend an objective viewing of this film for reasons other than the love story. "},{"Title":"A decent story of love","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie saying that I was not a fan of Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, but came out of the theatre having enjoyed this movie. Between quirky independant movies and action-packed flicks, there aren't enough love stories being made for my liking....at least not good ones. The combination of Virgil regaining his sight and the love that developed between Amy and Virgil made for a very watchable and moving movie. "},{"Title":"Good ensemble cast make this an Oscar-worthy movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight is the type of movie that the whole family goes to see. It is filled with hope, innocence, happiness, and sadness. Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino have the best on-screen chemistry I've seen in a long time. This is based upon a true story; I feel that I saw a genuine interest in Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino to stay as close to the true account as possible. This movie excels at every corner including cast ensemble, performances, storylines, plots, and settings. Val Kilmer portrays Virgil Adamson and Mira Sorvino portrays his girlfriend Amy Benic. While on vacation, Amy meets a man that would forever change her life. There is only one problem he is blind. As the relationship develops, she convinces Virgil to have eye surgery. Supporting performances by Kelly McGillis and Nathan Lane made this movie a real winner in my book. I love this movie because it is easy to follow, light hearted and filled with genuine caring and kindness. With these elements it is definitely worth mentioning at Oscar time.  "},{"Title":"This drama hit at the heart of a compelling human experience","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had no problem in placing myself in the shoes of these people.  Like the heroine trying to imagine myself as being blind only made my admiration for the hero grow as we see him not just coping with life as a blind person but really living a very full life.  Than through contact with someone he loves realizes that there might even be more for him if he cuts the very safe and loving bounds that tie him to his small town, sister monitored life.The other side of course, is we, the sighted people, that think that sight is more important than it really is.  Our heroine's learning experience shows us that what we are as people is more important than our physical capabilities as humans. This film was very good to those that have an open mind about life and its possibilities. "},{"Title":"I Rated it a 10 but I should have given it a 7","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had the potential of being great.  Val was wonderful as Virgil as I expected he would be,  however he and Mira had no chemistry.  She was not at all believable portraying an architect and she was not believable as a woman in love. I think that the movie should have concentrated more on Virgil and his struggles with adjusting to sight.  I don't think that is believable.  There were too many holes in the story. I gave it a 10  but only because of Mr. Kilmer's brilliant acting.  He stole the show,  give that man the Oscar!!!! "},{"Title":"Many Lessons, Little Excitement","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight was everything that I expected, but nothing that I anticipated.  Val Kilmer does a commendable job portraying the character Virgil Adamson, but does nothing extraordinary to make this movie interesting.This is the type of movie that you see because the story sounds intriguing, but when you go you don't really get anything from it.It's filled with emotion and the ending is happy, but don't expect to be surprised. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first glance, At First Sight appears to be a typical sappy romantic movie. After watching it however, one sees the movie as much more. It successfully portrays a blind man struggling to deal with the complexities of newfound sight and love.  "},{"Title":"Second Sight","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stressed out NY architect Mira Sorvino (ROMEY & MICHELLE'S HIGH SCHOOL REUNION, THE REPLACEMENT KILLERS) and blind, small-town masseuse Val Kilmer hit it off.  Thanks to an all-paid operation from the Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital Val gets his sight back in the city for awhile, sees a Rangers game, appreciates life and cotton candy, works with blind kids. Cameo by Nathan Lane.  Signature Mark Isham sparse piano and soulful blonde Diana Krall on, `Love Is Where You Are.'  Ham-fisted.  "},{"Title":"Short and Sweet","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great.  I totally bought the chemistry.  Good lesson, too, about seeing people for who they really are and learning to accept the things we can't or shouldn't change . "},{"Title":"Don't waste the time","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only would I suggest not to waste your money on this film, I am also suggesting that you spare the two hours of your life.  As a die hard Kilmer fan, I was expecting so much from this movie.  The story is great, the acting..terrible.  I don't think that there is a co-relation between blindness and speech impediments.  Kilmer gives a sad performance. The only reason one might sit through the whole movie is the belief that something might turn around.  This does not happen.  Kilmer and Sorvino have ruined what could have been a great love story.  "}{"Title":"A heartwarming good time","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I didn't really want to see the movie at first, it was my girlfriend's idea. By the time the movie was over, I had enjoyed it more than she had.I thought the movie was great. My biggest complaint was the sobbing guy that sat next to me, never had I seen the wife hand the husband tissues.Although I held back tears, my girlfriend did not. Yes, it is one of those films, and having seen my share of them recently (One True Thing, Stepmom, even Patch Adams) this is just a good a movie as any of them. I encourage all to go see this movie. It is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"The movie makes you laugh, cry, and think in many ways","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie!  Besides being a great romantic movie, it really makes you look at life in a new way and appreciate life. Val Kilmer really is splendid as is Mia.  Go see it, you won't be disappointed!   "},{"Title":"Don't Look Twice","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie would have been greatly helped by more focus on its medical issues, a la Awakenings.  Instead we sit through a contrived melodrama, with two romantic leads who lack any hope of chemistry.  None of the doctors seemed credible either.  At First Sight constantly wavers between romance and medical drama, providing little satisfaction in either category.  "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Good","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie would be another Hollywood piece of fluff, with all the usual surface emotion tricks. Instead, I found that it was the best attempt at portraying what sight is and is not I've ever seen. I have never been a fan of Val Kilmer, but that may change now. There are several actors I would have cast before him. As it turns out, he is awesome. Now I can imagine no one but him in the part of a man who has been blind since he was an infant and is given a chance of gaining his sight.I can see many people being turned off by this story because it does not cut everything up into little bite-size pieces for the audience. For those of you who thrive on movies made to go down like potato chips and baby food, this is not for you.  "},{"Title":"this movie could have been so much, but...","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight has the potential to be a fabulous, touching drama about a man and his struggle with regaining his sight.  While I thought his dealings with the sight were pretty realistic, his relationship with the character played by Mira Sorvino was completely unrealistic.  This movie was ridiculously corny.  Please, Mira saying she had never felt so close to someone as when they listened to the rain, the first time they conversed for more than two lines.  I am just not buying it.  As well, the sub-plot with the dad was a waste of film, it didn't move anyone at all, nor did it explain his issues or the sisters.  I suggest that if you love Val Kilmer, you should see this movie.  If not, don't bother, it is a huge disappointment.    "},{"Title":"NOT a glowing review.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight is a movie full of pat dialog, telegraphed actions and motivations, and is a good example of mediocre movie making.  A passable story, and though miscast, the leads do a good job despite some directional faux pas.  Obvious ad libs are left in, ostensibly to give the movie some spontaneity that it lacks otherwise, and you can almost hear the director telling Val Kilmer to drop the Stevie Wonder affectations.  The best scene is in the first quarter of the film when Mira Sorvino and Val Kilmer find themselves in an empty old building during a rainstorm and he describes how the rain helps him to see his surroundings by giving him audible dimension clues. There are no surprises, no suspense, no plot twists; in short a flat film.  "},{"Title":"Okay movie, great acting, but crappy directing","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The problem with At First Sight isn't the story, the acting, or the screenplay, it's the directing.  And this isn't Val Kilmer's first movie that has been destroyed by Hollywood.  In his last three (now four) movies, he has given a great performance but the movies have been terrible, but had huge potential.  The Ghost and the Darkness was a terrific story turned into a mindless action flick, The Saint was a great character turned into an action film wannabe. And of course, there was The Island of Dr. Moreau. This has always had the potental to be an Oscar caliber film. With great allusions to human nature and the bible, but it was turned into another carnival like action film toward the end.  AFS is more like a soap opera or a high budget t.v. drama then a big screen movie. But Val gives a great performance, as usual, he doesn't overplay the role as this blind man. Sorvino seems a little awkward in her role but does a pretty good job. Why can't Val ever be in a good movie, with a good performance, and be the star all at the same time?  Oh well, perhaps Joe the King will be good.  Score one for Val, nothing for the rest, and burn Irwin Winkler and MGM at the stake for ruining this potentially great movie. "},{"Title":"A blind man regains his sight","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Virgil (Val Kilmer) is a man with a simple small town life.  A great masseur, a great brother (who's sister is surprisingly played by Kelly McGillis), but is missing companionship.  Mira Sorvino is an uptight, professional New Yorker who goes away for a holiday, then falls in love with Virgil's magic hands. Despite the lack of chemistry between Sorvino and Kilmer, this movie also could have been cut down about an hour, instead of dragging and tripping over every detail and event in the process of Virgil's returning sight. "},{"Title":"loved the story, no chemistry between Val and Mira","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great story, but I left the movie theater wanting more from MiraKelly McGillis was great as Val's sister..Val was great.....but no chemistry between Val and Mira......I felt empty not full... disappointing.....whimper, whimper  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really emotional for me because it brought back memories of my sister when she was five years old.  My sister was born 99% deaf and could have lost all her hearing if a certain operation was not performed. For the first time at the age of five after an operation my sister was able to hear fully. She reacted very similarly to that of Val Kilmer's character in the movie. He learns to cope with seeing for the first time. It is very strange for him.  Everyone that can see all their lives take many things for granted.  It really brings out how hard it is to cope with such a change.  I know from personal experience how hard it is to help someone through such a drastic change.  "}{"Title":"Involving and well-acted albeit with a few minor missteps","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story that was novelized by the author of the similarly themed Awakenings, At First Sight has many things going for it. To me, Val Kilmer did an excellent job of conveying his character's soul and thoughts to the audience -- this includes some selfish and irrational, but never overly irrational moments. What more could one ask from the lead actor? Mira Sorvino likewise realistically portrayed a woman so ready for love that she lets her agenda override her judgment and her vulnerabilities succumb to things that may hurt her beloved. All rings very true in this piece.Nathan Lane is marvelous in the all-too-brief role of Kilmer's sight-adjustment therapist. Steven Weber's glibness is used well in his role as Sorvino's ex-husband. Kelly McGillis comes close to stealing female acting honors from Sorvino as Kilmer's stoic and resolute yet complex over-protective sister. Her performance adds two layers of dimension beyond what the writers provided. There is a marvelously wry cameo shortly when Kilmer is adjusting to having sight. Publishing magnate and multi-millionaire Mort Zuckerman plays a writhing homeless man who Kilmer questions Sorvino about avoiding eye-contact with.Unfortunately, the main exploration of a blind-since-shortly-after-birth man who gets to see for awhile, but not without consequences, is done selectively and incompletely in a manner that left me feeling vaguely cheated by not being let know how certain adjustments and transitions went within the lead character's mind. Some of Winkler's hand-held camera-work feels unnecessarily intrusive, but that has been a hallmark of this particular director thus far. Also, as usual with Winkler, the pacing drags a bit with unnecessary melodrama around the film's midsection. Finally, the one performance in the film that I hated was delivered by the normally brilliant Bruce Davison who, apparently, was unable to overcome the carnival-barker-like way his character was written. He was much too glib, but his was the only false performance among many excellent ones.Overall, this movie made me weepy, and I recalled the poignancy of several scenes the next day. I recommend it to anyone interested enough to watch it. "},{"Title":"The movie is excellent. I really was not able to sleep until I inish watching it","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed the movie. it is so touching. Val Kilmer and Mira portrayed the characters very well. I become an instant fan of them. They should be given more films like this. I was surprised to know that it was a true story. It made me even more satisfied. I also enjoyed the way Val massaged MIra. It was so realistic. He really an excellent role of being a blind masseur. And also, Mira is so beautiful. I was mesmerized by her smiles. She is gorgeous. She acts so well that she could be nominated to the Oscars. I would love to watch her other films. Finally, I believe if this movie will be shown in my native country, the Philippines, it will be a big hit. "},{"Title":"Quite Simple But Touching!!!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's so easy to take for granted every thing or privilege that we count as natural.Kilmer plays a very convincing blind man who's learnt to rely fully on his senses. The scene where it's about to rain is beautiful, his perception is intuitive.His smile speaks of acceptance of a fate that he's unable to change but is facing with it with dignity. Sorvino is an equal foil for him and paces him subtly.This is a beautiful look at a world where we are imperfect and therein lies perfection.At First Sight is simple and poignant and anyone who criticises it needs to look at themselves critically. DEEP DEEP MOVIE "},{"Title":"Chick flick, Sorvino looks great","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, if you've seen Awakenings or read Flowers for Algernon there's not much point in seeing this film, with one exception. Val Kilmer greatly irritates me for some reason. However, it is hard to discount his talent. He has made some of his previous roles, such as Jim Morrison, and Iceman, his own. He is good here, too, but still irritating. Nathan Lane, in a small part, was much less irritating than usual. Steven Weber, in another small role was just as irritating as always. Kelly McGillis is either not aging well, or deliberately played this one frumpy. That's probably the case as frumpy fits the character perfectly. And, Mira Sorvino. Well. She looked so beautiful with her sad smile against the winter backdrop. Her acting was good, too, I never thought of her as out of character throughout the film. This is worth seeing if you are a fan of Sorvino, or Kilmer. Otherwise, skip it. "},{"Title":"It's not enough to see, you have to look.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an inspiring film that shows that the only thing that matters to love is that people connect with each other. Amy is what one might call a work-alcoholic. The love and understanding of a blind man allows Amy to see the world. Virgil, a small-town massage therapist is used to having his older protective sister take care of him, but when a client walks into his office, they fall in love with each other. Virgil didn't care what Amy looked like, he loved her. When an operation allows Virgil to regain his sight, he moves away from everything he knows, and into a world where he has to be reliant on sight. This begins to test Virgil and Amy's relationship. Was Amy herself blinded by the fact that Virgil wasn't meant to see? This truly is a movie of  love and understanding, patience and passion, determination and drive. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on At First Sight...","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I simply adore Mr. Kilmer and his work... This movie really touched me... Since I myself am wheelchair bound... I thought of, what if I was suddenly able to walk, but after a while lost the ability again...I'd be feeling the same as Virgil did... Thank you Val, for making it... "},{"Title":"Remake the second half...","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was rolling along beautifully, right up until some point during the second half.  Then, suddenly, it began to let me down.  The pacing became uneven, too much was happening at once, and I lost the ability to suspend disbelief which is so critical to the enjoyment of most movies.  Then Val Kilmer lost his sight again, and the movie turned to pure formula.  What a letdown!  It seemed so promising in the first half; new vistas were being explored.  Somebody please put this movie back in the cutting room, clip off the entire second half, and re-film it!  There was so much promise, and then it went off the deep end.  6/10. "},{"Title":"OK, left wanting more","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie twice. The first time I really liked it, but the second time was disappointing. LOVED the beautiful scenery and outdoor shots, and Val Kilmer and Kelly McGillis were both exceptional in their roles. The biggest plot mistake was that they totally missed the boat in the return of the Adamsons' father. One two-minute, throwaway scene. And the movie really should've had an R-rating because there was so much nudity and sex, and a heated shower scene. It was OK, but could've been much better. "},{"Title":"Kilmer and Sorvino At Their Worst!","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you can wade through the first half of At First Sight, you might wind up thinking that this film was worth seeing, albeit marginally. Kilmer and Sorvino have done much better work than this please feel sorry for me film. I didn't care for the characters and thus did not feel emotionally involved. Even Nathan Lane's character was flat and I was hoping he would have elevated the film to a respectable level. It didn't happen.Don't waste your valuable time on this poor effort. "},{"Title":"How incredibly bad is this movie?","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, a note to director Irwin Winkler  one powerful monologue per ninety minutes is okay.  Maybe.  However, one every five minutes is not. You're not revolutionary, you're sloppy.  Monologues with bad, supposedly uplifting background music do not replace plot or motivation or emotion. This is your last warning, Irwin.Secondly, a note to whomever wrote the adapted screenplay, or, really, to everybody who was involved with this film in any way  doctors should know what's going on.  Now, I'm not a doctor, but I do know that when an adult who has been blind since toddler-hood has his sight restored, adapting to this new sense will be very difficult.  How does this come as a surprise to *anyone* in the film, especially the best . . . on the eastern seaboard?I almost forgot  no one in the film is likable or sympathetic, not Sorvino, not Kilmer, and certainly not McGillis.  The only exception is the always flamboyant Nathan Lane, who, while not especially good, was tolerable.Never again. "}{"Title":"This movie was too long, too sappy, had no ending, and Val Kilmer didn't portray a blind man very well.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw previews for this movie, I though it was a good idea. The trouble was, it wasn't an idea, it was a true story. A story that should have been left alone. This movie dragged in too much sex, too many tears, and way too many moments that had no significance whatsoever. It was long, boring, and sappy. There was no ending except for the little blurb that said they lived happily ever after. Val Kilmer could never portray a blind man. He's known much too well. I believe that they should have gotten a new actor to play this role. The only person I thought did a terrific job was Nathan Lane. He was definitely perfect for this role. I would recommend that you don't waste seven, eight, nine bucks to see this film. I would even recommend wasting two, three bucks for renting it.  "},{"Title":"About 80 minutes would have been sufficient not the 128 minutes","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here in Crete Greece there are many films shown during the night on TV so my wife and I use the users comments to decide which films to record to watch at a decent hour. Although this film only got a rating of 5.6 which we feel is the bottom end of a film worth watching the plot outline sounded interesting so we gave it a go.Well I think that 5.6 is a bit too good a rating. 4.5 is better.The basic story about a man who was blind from the age of three regaining his sight is fine. However about 80 minutes would have been sufficient not the 128 minutes forced on to us. It was dragged out for the sake of it with lots of valueless scenes included. Our DVD recorder automatically put markers every six minutes on a recording and after about 80 minutes we started zapping forward 6 minutes and watching for 30 &#150; 40 seconds to keep up to date with the plot.Val Kilmer's portrayal of a blind man was for him to smile incessantly throughout every scene, he seemed more creepy than anything.When they enter the old abandoned building which Kilmer had not known existed before then, he was very confident for a blind man entering a new space. He steps gingerly forward without his stick in to what? Could have been an old uncover well and that would have been the end of him and the film. But luckily for him it was just good solid floor boards.The father serves no purpose for being in this movie.The little kid next door pops up for no good reason and gets pretty annoying.It was OK to watch but perhaps I should have baked some bread it would have been better use of my time. "},{"Title":"Blinders","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How ordinary this turned out to be...Here was an enormous opportunity to give us an exposition on the discovery of sight - what else are movies for? But no...this is reduced to the lowest common denominator of melodrama.This really could have been something in the hands of, say, a DePalma - someone who understands that perspective comes first...Winkler sticks to flat notions of fish out of water jokes transmogrifying into occasions to grab the tissues.But then, how can we expect adventure when these things are built around star appeal? Pretty-boy Kilmer acts with his upper teeth; Sorvino is just embarrassingly bad, not even glamorous. "},{"Title":"Very interesting movie!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer (The Saint) is Virgil Adamson, who lost his eyesight at a young age. Val Kilmer does a great job playing the part.This is not an easy role. I think that I read somewhere that he wore contact lenses that blocked his vision. This is a very interesting character. Virgil is a really sweet person. Amy Benic,  Mira Sorvino (Mighty Aphrodite) has to take a vacation at a resort because of her job and as she drives by in the night she sees this guy playing hockey. Jennie Adamson, Kelly McGillis (Top Gun), is his sister and has taken care of him all his life. Dr. Charles Aaron,  Nathan Lane (The Bird Cage), helps Virgil to cope with the temporary gain of his eyesight. The problem is that not even the doctors know much about how to help Virgil. He has no sense of depth, no sense of  perspective, can not read, the world as a person who can see is very treating to Virgil. I felt during this movie that most of us do take a lot of what we are and have for granted.  I am very nearsighted and cannot see in the mirror, and have to ask for help when I lose my glasses. To me contact lenses and the highlight lenses are two of the most valuable inventions of this century. Most people do not realize that I am so nearsighted because of the nice lenses in my glasses and the contacts that I wear, but without those I would really in be trouble. As an adolescent I had problems because I thought that it was ugly to wear glasses. But I had no problems with contacts at that time. I have been wearing them since I was fifteen. My contact lenses are called Toric, and have to be custom made. I could never change my eye color with those lenses because that they do not come that way.  Thank GOD for the scientific advancement of this century. I could not have laser surgery because my eyes have not stop getting worse. I have a real appreciation for Virgil. What I have is nothing compared to him! The ability to see the world, the beautiful color, our loved ones, understand people's expressions on their faces. That is all wonderful, and a wonder! I was thinking  how difficult it is not to see and the special effects helped to comprehend the problem even better.  Amy tries so much to help, but after trying so hard as Virgil did it is difficult to have hope. He lost his sight but did not lose his heart. This is a nice movie! Moreover especially because it is a true story.  I recommend this movie.Favorite Scenes Virgil skating with Amy. Virgil playing hockey in the middle of the night. Watching or listening to a hockey game. Amy asked Virgil Are they losing?  He said  I prefer to think that they are not winning. What a positive attitude. The cotton candies! That is awesome. Favorite Quotes  I wanted to behold not to be whole.  I am having a bad eye day! "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable, and Laughable.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I hadn't been with friends when I saw this movie, I would have walked out for sure.  Within the first 15 minutes of the movie you realize that even though the main character is blind, he doesn't need the operation to see where the plot is going.The screenwriter goes through almost no effort to develop character or plot. Characters make major changes in their lives with almost no motivation or solid reasoning.  There are enough issues plaguing Val Kilmer's character that he could hardly be the happy, carefree soul we are introduced to in the first reel.  And why he leaves that happiness behind for MIRA SORVINO is well beyond me.  She has a moment or two in this film, but most of it continues to prove that her Oscar was earned more by Woody Allen's writing and directing than by her acting.Val Kilmer is fun to watch (pardon the pun), and Nathan Lane adds a needed bit of levity, but the rest of this movie is dreck.  Avoid it like the plague! "},{"Title":"Sloppy massages and fat thighs","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Laugh your way through At First Sight.  The film had the sloppy dialogue of City of Angels matched with the miserable photographic direction of... City of Angels.  The problems with it are too numerous to mention in totality, so here are a few  The massage sequences looked more like a soft-core snuuf flick.  Val Kilmer seemed to think he was in a comedy (his timing matched that of Top Secret). Sorvino has been beautiful in other roles (Replacement Killers, Mighty Aphrodite).  In this film she looked, um, miserable, and since she can't act in drama, she was just miserable, painful. I tried to leave the theater, but my date was laughing too loud. "},{"Title":"One of the finest movies on the topic of blindness, Kilmer and Sorvino are terrific","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Amy (Mira Sorvino) is a successful but overly-dedicated Manhattan architect. As she has become testy and depressed at work, at times, her colleagues at the firm insist she take a much-needed vacation. Amy heads for beautiful upstate New York, where she takes refuge at a spa-type resort. It is there that she meets Virgil (Val Kilmer), a talented masseur who restores her, body and soul, with his skilled hands. Amy is startled to soon realize that Virgil is blind, as he is quite capable on the job and elsewhere. Yet, she is drawn to him and they are soon quite in love. Virgil's caring but uptight sister (Kelly McGillis) is skeptical but understands Virgil's wish to move to New York City with Amy. Things get even more complex when Amy discovers that there may be an operation to restore Virgil's sight. Should he risk the surgery and its aftermath? This may be Kilmer's finest hour, as his Virgil is one of the best blind characters ever put on screen. His portrayal makes it clear that no sighted person can ever truly comprehend what blindness entails or what is truly best for the disabled person in general. Sorvino is lovely and touching as the woman who truly cares for Virgil but who finds it difficult to understand his overall situation. McGillis is excellent as the caretaker sister and Nathan Lane also shines in his role as a therapist to the disabled population. Everyone will also love the costumes, settings, and look of the film. In short, those who adore romantic dramas will not want to miss this one, as it is compelling story of true love. But, the movie's depiction of the disability of blindness is so first rate that anyone wishing to understand the unsighted should put this film on their A-list now. "},{"Title":"A love story","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An almost perfect date movie, AT FIRST SIGHT tells the largely true tale of a man, blind from an early age, who risks one last operation in an attempt to restore his sight. Val Kilmer, always an acquired taste, plays the blind guy. Mira Sorvino, looking an awful lot like the older daughter on FAMILY TIES, plays his newest love interest who encourages him to try the tricky operation. The film is long, but the romance leading up to Sorvino's determination to get Kilmer onto the operating table one more time, is strongly compelling. The film has a sensuous side, as Kilmer is a professional masseuse and has a very erotic massage scene involving a nearly naked Sorvino. Veteran actress Kelly McGillis of TOP GUN fame is aboard as Kilmer's overly protective older sister. If you can stand frequent closeups of Kilmer's flabby lips and googly eyes, AT FIRST SIGHT is hardly the worst chick flick ever made. "},{"Title":"don't really go for love stories but","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i've never really went for the gushy movies (boy meets girl, boy...er...whatever girl, boy marries girl) but this is the second one that was tolerable. other one was 50 first dates. this one shows what happens when the guy's girlfriend likes the guy who's blind, but wants him 'perfect'. translateunblind. if i may leave the subject of the movie for a minute, i adopted a deaf great dane puppy two years ago, an act that many told me was not a good idea. terms of untrainable and such were offered (my reaction is i hope they never have the blessing of a handicapped kid!!). she was rescued from a breeder and a fate we can all just imagine. because i know more sign language than signals used by dog trainers, i taught her sign language. she is now two and a half years old, full grown, and basically a happy healthy dog who adores everyone. the fact that she can't hear these people does not affect her. i have had some suggest that surgery may repair her hearing. fact is, why?? to disorient her? so i have the challenge of training her again? to make them feel better because she's complete? why put her though this discomfort for something that may not work? this movie brings this to light. if the person (or pet) is adjusted to what the rest of us may see as a handicap, why try to fix it? the main character in this, expertly played by val kilmer (note i'm not a raving fan of his, but becoming one), used to his blindness, is turned into a seeing person who crashes into things because he's not used to using his eyes. he could see his surroundings before, without the burden of vision. the blind people i've known embarrass me with they way they negotiate through a crowd. makes me wonder who the handicapped one is... all in all, a movie that tells us it's okay to be different, and it's okay to accept others who can see with their ears and fingers, or listen with their eyes. find your favorite blind person, or deaf dog, and go for a walk. you'll never believe what you're missing. "},{"Title":"A really fascinating subject that deserves better treatment than this.","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have conflicting feelings about different elements of this movie.Great premise. It's uniqueness was what kept me in the film. -- Val Kilmer A workmanlike effort to look and act the part, both as a blind man and as recently-sighted person. Forced storyline doesn't give him much time to develop believable reactions to plot elements. -- Mira Sorvino As beautiful and likable as ever. Nice subtlety to her expressions and inflections helps us suspend our disbelief now and again during the film. -- Supporting cast Kelly McGillis chews the scenery. Nathan Lane always does a good job, but isn't on screen much. Steven Weber is a bit wooden (again, mostly the script's fault) but manages to be a suitably smarmy ex-husband. -- Camera-work Most of the scenes are visually rather pretty. Given the challenges of showing the POV of a disoriented, newly-sighted person, not a bad effort -- Plot Sloppy, with forced emotions, mismatched scenes, unnecessary subplots, and loose ends. -- Dialogue Horribly contrived and stilted. Lots of unrealistic monologuing. -- Storyline prior to his operation, most of the plot elements seem lifted from old Longstreet episodes. The small town is completely cardboard. In New York after operation, things are less cliché, more inventive, but still a struggle.OVERALL AVERAGE 5. Not great. May be worth seeing because of the unique premise, but if you skip it, you're not missing much. "}{"Title":"A little too cheesy","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The producers of this movie had two good things going for them when developing this movie. 1. It was based on a true story. 2. It had a very interesting psychological dilemma of a blind man seeing for the first time.The problem with the film was that the love story was a bit too cheesy. You know the kind of film where the chemistry between the actors just isn't there? This is one such example. Val Kilmer plays his part like one of those Pretty Boy Lifetime Television for Women 'nice guys' who go onto be psychotic wife beaters. And because 75% of the movie was a 'love story', this weakness pretty much ruined the film. Seeing him struggle to learn to associate his new found vision with actual attributes such as shape, motion, and depth is mildly interesting, but not enough to keep the movie a float. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and melodramatic but not altogether worthless","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I won't say I hated it or even regret having spent two hours watching it, but it was definitely one of the cheesiest scripts I've ever seen. In the process of trying to convey to the audience what it is like to be blind, Val Kilmer completely sacrifices his manhood and Mira Sorvino eats it up. Virgil, the blind guy, seems to have a little something more than blindness wrong with him. He breathes heavily, speaks with the vocabulary of a child, and acts like a complete baby every time things don't go his way. The only redeeming part of the movie for his masculinity is a steamy sex scene with his girlfriend (Sorvino). Crucial bits of the story are left underdeveloped and sadly, Nathan Lane is only featured for a few short minutes. This film just oozes with melodrama, but if you're in the mood for a chuckle and a new perspective on blindness then give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Great Acting, many have played blind parts but none with such intensity.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe all you naysayers.  Were you expecting an action adventure film. It was clear from the get go what was going to happen, it was not a suspense thriller, it was a story.Kilmer played the part to realistic perfection. His acting is brilliant. Sometimes a story is just that, a story.  You know people still go and see Romeo and Juliet and they too know how it will end, but appreciate the performance.This is one of Kilmer's best performances.   "},{"Title":"I wish I was a blind masseurre.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blind guys get all the hot chicks, how is that fair?  They don't care if they're with a homely lady. Anyway, the movie isn't particularly engaging, it moves a little slow for my taste.  But then, a lot of chick flicks do. However, if you like having your emotions tugged with, as I know I do, then you should see it. And if you don't, well watch it anyway because Val Kilmer's in it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and moving picture","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Superb acting, story and screen play.  I don't want to give anything away, but Val Kilmer and the rest of the cast did a wonderful job.  This is truly an emotional and inspiring movie.  I'd like to say more, but don't want to risk spoiling it for anyone.  You'll truly enjoy this moving picture. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but interesting drama with some generally good performances.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `At First Sight' is a generally satisfying movie. There's nothing evidently bad about it, but there's little memorable about it either. The topic of blindness isn't one that has been tackled as a serious plot many times before in movies. The end result is fairly interesting. But the main problem in the film is the corny dialogue and long length of time that the film takes up. Luckily, the acting standard is one of the better things. Val Kilmer is very good as the sensitive blind man. It's just too bad that he's such a b*stard in real life. Mira Sorvino is also very good as the jilted lover. She has a lot more talent than the high school kitsch that she's showed in the past. Forgotten actress Kelly McGillis is seen here in her only big role as of late. She's made the transition from blonde bombshell to older sister (at last) and makes sterling support. The rest of the cast support the film and make it more interesting. This is from the likes of Bruce Davison, Nathan Lane and Steven Weber. Perhaps a little bit of humour might have livened up the long sombre scenes and after about 110 minutes your just hoping the ending will come quickly. It tries to blend in a matter-of-fact story about recovery of sight with bittersweet romance and succeeds on it's own level.Overall, `At First Sight' is interesting, but also overlong and over-sweet. The resulting rank is just above average. I give it 5.6/10.  "},{"Title":"Delightful romance based on a true story","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Basically, if you like a good love story then you should enjoy this film because that is mostly what this is. It is also the story of a blind person who has adjusted to his life as a blind man, until one day all that changes. He meets a beautiful woman and they fall in love, almost, At First Sight. Deeply smitten by her, he quickly decides to leave his old life and moves to live with her in New York. All goes well until he finds that to take any interest in her work as an architect he would have to be able to see. This leads to an operation involving the regaining of his sight, and with it, the added complexities of life which he was previously spared. The pressure of coping with it all slowly pushes them apart and he is forced to take stock of his whole life again. I love this movie. And I really can't fault it at all. I enjoyed the acting, especially the lead parts played by Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino, and I see nothing wrong with the film, as I approached it with the right attitude. It also has a few wonderful messages in it, not just about blindness but also about the joy of living. I found this movie equally enjoyable to the excellent Scent of a Woman. 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Val & Mira dazzle!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  AT FIRST SIGHT, in my opinion, is a VERY sweet, touching, and romantic film. I thought that Virgil (Val Kilmer) was a very sweet and kind man, even though he had been blind since childhood. To me, Amy (Mira Sorvino) was a very sweet, kind, and loving woman. I felt happy for her when she found Virgil. This was because she was looking for the right man. And her ex-husband, Duncan (Steven Weber), wasn't the one for her, although they still worked together at the same company. I couldn't believe they still worked together after they got a divorce. In my opinion, Virgil was the right man for Amy. Before I close, I want to say to all you people that are Val Kilmer or Mira Sorvino fans, I HIGHLY recommend this film. In conclusion, I think Val and Mira dazzle as Virgil Adamson and Amy Benic. "},{"Title":"** stars A little boring","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At First Sight is the type of movie you would watch on a boring day if it was on tv. It is a typical love story but there is little passion or chemistry between the two main characters.PLOT Val Kilmer plays a blind man who falls in love with Mira Sorvino who is taking a vacation. He has a chance to regain his sight and be with Mira but his overprotective sister- Kelly Megillis is against it. Will their love conquer all?VIEWS It is a touching love story but there is no chemistry between Mira Sovino or Val Kilmer. He is believable being blind but you wish there was more to this love story. It is based on a true story which is interesting but it goes too slow and is somewhat boring. Kelly Meglillis (Top Gun)is good as his sister and you sympathize more with her then the two lovers.SCENE TO WATCH FOR When Val first goes to the city. "},{"Title":"First of all....I didn't like it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all....I didn't like it. At first sight, you would think this film has the potential of really touching the audience's heart, but instead the only thing this film impacted upon was your wallet. Val Kilmer plays a massage therapist, who has been blind since a child, but has an enhanced sense of touch. Enter Mira Sorvino who is seeking a retreat site to get away from it all and finds herself at the mercy of Val's magic touch. While re-energizing, she finds time to contact a world-renowned eye doctor who can restore Val's sight. Amazingly, all this seemed to be developed within the first 15 minutes of the film. I found the movie boring, predictable, and way to fast. I felt as though I missed something...like two hours of the film. There was very little cohesiveness in the transition between scenes and almost no character development. Sorvino was predictable and spacey, which became a lethal combination. You will be bored, you will be tired, you will be wondering when this film will end. The only person I liked in this whole movie was Nathan Lane, who played a vision-therapist. Now the film was not designed to be educational, but I felt Lane's character taught me something about blindness and sight that I didn't previously know. Bottom line...Val Kilmer looked more like he was doing a blu-blocker commercial rather than putting his acting skills together for what could have been a strong role. "}{"Title":"A few problems....","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, but there were a couple of things that kept it from being extraordinary.First, the best thing Virgil had to offer Amy was a new vision of the world, particularly of spaces and dimensions that are not perceived visually. She seemed to appreciate this ability and the potential it could have added to her professional work as an architect. However, the only new thing we see go into her work after that are trees. (The scene in the abandoned building during the rainstorm was one of the best in the movie for giving us the insight into blindness that this movie needs.)Second, as darling and talented as Val Kilmer is, the only scene in which he displays any typical mannerisms of blindness (inappropriate head movements, lack of body language) is the final scene. Did he finally learn to be blind by the end of the movie???? Blindness is difficult to portray for the sighted. Perhaps he should have either worked harder at it or not shown us any of it at all.As a final note, anyone looking for sappiness won't find too much. The tears only jumped out during the last scene between Virgil and his sister. It was a surprise to be moved so much by such a straightforward scene.P.S. Oliver Sacks rules!  "},{"Title":"Not a great movie.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a run of the mill romance.  Very average.  I will forget about it in less than a week.  "},{"Title":"You Were Expecting Anne Bancroft?","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Tightly-wound New York architect Mira Sorvino (as Amy Benic) gets a rubdown from hunky blind masseur Val Kilmer (as Virgil Adamson), and the two fall in love (you guessed it) At First Sight. One can see this coming as Mr. Kilmer's strong hands begin to caress Ms. Sorvino's body. This is very much how the entire film plays out. Everything is obvious. The main plot development is when Kilmer undergoes treatment to recover his sight, thanks to conveniently placed doctor Bruce Davidson (as Charles Aaron). Kilmer has some good scenes after the operation, sister Kelly McGillis (as Jennie) makes the most of her supporting role, ex-husband Steven Weber (as Duncan Allanbrook) makes you want to see him win, and vision therapist Nathan Lane (as Phil Webster) gets in a few good lines. Director Irwin Winkler's most valuable player is clearly cinematographer John Seale.***** At First Sight (1/12/99) Irwin Winkler ~ Val Kilmer, Mira Sorvino, Kelly McGillis, Nathan Lane "},{"Title":"Val & Mira dazzle!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" AT FIRST SIGHT, in my opinion, is a very sweet, touching, and romantic film. I thought that Virgil (Val Kilmer) was a very sweet and kind man, even though he had been blind since childhood. To me, Amy (Mira Sorvino) was a very sweet, kind, and loving woman. I felt happy for her when she found Virgil. This was because she was looking for the right man. And her ex-husband, Duncan (Steven Weber), wasn't the one for her, although they still worked together at the same company. I couldn't believe they still worked together after they got a divorce. In my opinion, Virgil was the right man for Amy. Before I close, I want to say to all you people that are Val Kilmer or Mira Sorvino fans, I highly recommend this film. In conclusion, I think Val and Mira dazzle as a blind masseuse and a stressed-out architect. "},{"Title":"Yawn...","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so stupid. They try too hard to get you involved with the characters, and in the end I didn't even really care about them. Yes, some moments were heart warming, but I suggest to stay clear of this one.And what I don't understand is how Val Kilmer can go from such kick butt movies such as Top Gun and Batman to this piece of rubbish. He must be really desperate.Just my opinion... "},{"Title":"Music saves the thing","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was attracted by the info that Diana Krall appears (and sings!) in the film. It seems this remained the main advantage of the story. I liked the soundtrack (not only Diana, but some more oldtimers like Armstrong). Otherwise the film was very naive. Some dialogs even irritating. "},{"Title":"Keep Your Eyes Shut With This One","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are probably few people who are bigger fans of Mira Sorvino and Val Kilmer than I am. That is why At First Sight was such an utter disappointment. The film is somewhat based on a true story and deals with a blind man (Kilmer) who falls in love and learns about an experimental surgery that can cure his blindness. Of course he decides to have the surgery, but life proves to be more difficult for him as a seer than as a blind man. At First Sight is just not a very smart film. The screenplay is too simple at times and tries to do too many things at other times. Both performers just do not seem like themselves here and that is a real shame as they are both fine actors. 2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"one of the worst evenings","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an insult to spectators intelligence! It is pretentious, boring, stupid, very bad acted, truly nonsense, every scene can be taken for granted, etc.. Who gave an Oscar to M. Sorvino?  "},{"Title":"Actually underrated","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this movie might not be what you cal a masterpiece, everything in it can be considered pretty good A true, and also logical, touching story, realistic characters by good actors. If you compare this to a hyped movie like Lost in Translation, you notice maybe worse and less detailed directing, but a basic difference This movie has a PLOT. As I deem it terribly underrated, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Please Don't Compare This Poorly-Acted Clunker To 'Awakenings'","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For some reason, perhaps a review I read prior to watching this, I thought this might be an Awakenings-type story, so I was enthused about watching it. Well, it's not a tenth as good as Awakenings and shouldn't even be mentioned in the same breath as that fine film. If you read someone comparing the two films, don't believe it. One was intelligent and fascinating; one was stupid and boring.This is just awful. It's about a blind man who temporarily regains his sight, and then loses it again. That sounds interesting but the film, in a nutshell, turned out to be nothing but a long, soap opera with an extremely irritating female lead Mia Sorvino, as Amy Benic. Val Kilmer's character, Virg Anderson, might have lost his sight but Sorvino obviously had lost her brains. What a bimbo! It doesn't help she blurts out OMG every third sentence, which makes her sound even more stupid. Kilmer, meanwhile, should stick with crime movies or westerns. He's very good in those kind of films. He stinks at melodrama. This movie did not need to go over two hours, either.In the end, it's just not a memorable story and it should have been, as Awakenings certainly wound up. "}{"Title":"Blah!","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the late, late movie here tonight on an obscure channel. I'd hoped for something watchable, and with the names involved that's reasonable.I could only watch 25 minutes. There is nothing clever about the writing, the story, the whole enchilada. I reckon I saved myself a horrid unfolding of a predictable plot with a semi-artsy attempt at an unbelievable story.C'mon! The blind guy, a skater, and masseur/entrepreneur gets a new client ... a successful, beautiful, architect. Possible, but it's pushed things far enough that, She doesn't know I'm blind, and that she goes to bawling on her first visit fall flat. We assume her tears are due to his sublime touch.Save this one for a Lifetime extravaganza. "},{"Title":"The miracle worker's magnificent obsession.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although it is a true story -that's what the final lines tell us ,revealing us what would become of the two characters- the movie resembles a Douglas Sirk melodrama.Of course ,it has not the strength of the great director's magnificent weepies ,but it is ,all in all ,a good melodrama .Mia Sorvino and Val Kilmer give charming performances but the stand-out is for me Kelly McGillis who made the best of another of these supporting parts she's too often relegated to.She portrays a generous sister who sacrificed her life to her blind brother.When he returns to his native town,the reunion with her is probably the best moment of the film.The story has also some Capra accents,notably the scene with the homeless man on the sidewalk. "},{"Title":"At least it isn't just another TV-movie based on a true story","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even before watching it, I thought that I already knew what kind of movie this would be like. And I wasn't that far from the truth, even though it certainly wasn't as bad as I expected it to be. What I thought about this movie was that it would be some kind of tearjerker with a happy ending. You know, the typical TV-movie based on a true story stuff...Let's be honest, who wouldn't think that if he/she knew this story was about a man who is blind for the biggest part of his life and a seeing woman who wants to do everything to give him his sight back. Add to this a loving, but distrusting and worrying sister who has taken care of him since they were abandoned by their father and you know you aren't far from the kind of TV-movie drama's that only women seem to like (especially those who also love soap operas). But when I'm wrong, I will not hesitate to admit that, and in this case I'm wrong. It is actually not as bad and predictable as I thought it would be. Thanks to the chemistry between the two main characters (played by Mira Sorvino and Val Kilmer), this movie works. It's full of emotions, it jumps around from sadness to frustration, confusion, happiness... but is never unbelievable. The relationship between the two through the entire story is a good lead, but is never too corny and mellow. I know, I didn't expect it, but this wasn't as bad as I feared. I give it a 6.5 to 7/10. "},{"Title":"Fairly well-done movie with a very similar storyline to `Awakenings'...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched  1/18/2002 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Irwin Winkler) Fairly well-done movie with a very similar storyline to `Awakenings'(Guess what, it's written by the same person !!) and based on a true story as well. What makes this movie work is the acting done by Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino.  Kilmer deserved more attention than he has received for his work in this movie.  This was a difficult part of a blind person, who gets to see, and then goes blind again.  But it's also about his girlfriend and how she changes as he changes(Sorvino).  The love story is there but it's more about seeing life as it is and being content with your situation despite the imperfections of it.  Kelly McGillis also does a good job as the protective sister.  When the movie's over we understand her, and this shows us how well she portrays this character.  McGillis is under worked and this movie displays her talents in this supporting role well.  The only part that isn't explored very well is Kilmer's father figure.  We find out why he left the family to fend for Kilmer but it doesn't  seem genuine(where is the mother?).  Despite this small plot oversight, overall this is a well-done drama with good acting all around.  This  movie should have opened up things for Kilmer but this overlooked movie didn't do a whole lot for anyone's career(sadly).  "},{"Title":" You're god damn right you're blind...I'm right here to help you and you can't even see","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Val Kilmer is electrifying as Virgil in this heartwarming romance flick. The supporting cast is stunning. The costumes are sophisticated. One of the good farces in the genre, At First Sight will challenge the viewer to see with the heart and without the eyes. 7 out of 10. "}]