[{"Title":"Helen Mirren Teaches Acting","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't a dreadful film, merely insipid.  The plot is deeply flawed and implausible.  It tries to be a number of genres and fails at each.  It fails as a comedy, as a suspense thriller and as a horror movie.  It almost succeeds as science fiction.  The direction is uninspired and Katie Holmes, cute cherub face that she is, should be modeling teen clothing, not acting. The only thing that keeps this movie from being a 1 out of 10 is Helen Mirren.  Her performance is fabulously nefarious and is (almost) worth suffering through the rest of it.  Her ability to transmute from imperious to faux sympathetic to deviously manipulate and control her prey shows masterful range.  Other than Marissa Coughlin's delightful Exorcist rendition, Mirren is the only reason to see this movie.  A solid 3.0.  "},{"Title":"Playing with fire.","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" History teacher Mrs Tingle seems to have it in for student Leigh Ann Watson, who has her heart on achieving a writing school scholarship. She receives another low grade from Tingle, which doesn't help. When one of her classmates Luke steals the paper of the final history exams and pops it in her bag, Mrs. Tingle finds it sticking out. She threatens the three that she will go to the principal about it, but he's not available. So before she reports it the next morning. Leigh, her friend Jo Lynn and Scott head to her place that night and try to convince her not tell the principal. However due to Tingle's stubbornness, that find themselves reverting to drastic measures to stop this getting out.Wasn't fan of it when I first saw it, and after another viewing, I'm still not one. Writer Kevin Williamson was on a roll after penning the successful contemporary teen horror films; 'Scream (1996)', 'I Know What You did Last Summer (1997)', 'Scream 2 (1997)' and 'The Faculty (1998)'. He was riding the success (also not to forget the TV show 'Dawson's Creek), but this project would be the final bump. The difference there, compared with this entry was other then writing the screenplay, he was also making his debut in directing. The strange thing though, was that I found his direction to be competently done, but material he stormed up to flavourless and tired. It seemed to get caught in playing both a black comedy and straight-out thriller, without making it gel. The script is cluttered with quick-wit, on-going gags, trivial stretches and gimmicky references towards other films, but the problem is that it's too watered-down with so many contrived developments and sappy moral currents disrupting the flow. The fractured script had to be more strong and potent, since it's a small-scale production that feels like you're watching a stage show because of its mostly confined sets. It tries to play mind games with the characters, but these moments are there to only serve the story's poor progression into a puddle of stupidity and senselessness. The film's ending takes the cake. Williamson's polished direction is sound, but more so in a pedestrian way and therefore it lacks suspense and the pacing even with its taut surroundings can really plod on. You eventually feel it after the halfway mark, and it shows up how minor the story is. The performances are tolerable enough, although if it weren't for Helen Mirren's classy, icy portrayal of manipulative prowess as Mrs. Tingle and a buoyant Marisa Coughlan, we would have been stuck watching a vapid goody-to-shoes Katie Holmes. Barry Watson is modest in his slacker part and Molly Ringwald has a lesser role. The soundtrack packs enough energy, but I found it terribly overwrought and shapeless in its choices.Watchable, but mechanical all round. "},{"Title":"So, did they exactly teach Mrs. Tingle anything?","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Teaching Mrs. Tingle, this was the movie I saw multiple times on HBO when it was released in 1999 and I couldn't get enough of this movie. I absolutely loved it, I think because I was graduating Jr. high at the time, I actually expected high school to be like this. True, it was a bit far fetched at the time, but still it was a lot of fun to watch. Who didn't fantasize about treating a teacher like this in high school, the one who absolutely gives you a hard time for no reason and just won't lighten up on you? OK, granted I don't think we wanted to play Mistress of Pain by tying our teachers up, but still it was a fun idea and this is just a fun movie to watch.Leigh Ann is a high school student who wants to achieve top grades to become valedictorian. However, her grade in History class is threatened by her sadistic teacher, Mrs. Tingle. Mrs. Tingle has a special dislike for Leigh Ann and down-grades Leigh Ann's well-designed project. The teacher also stumbles upon Leigh Ann with the final exam, which had been stolen and planted in Leigh Ann's backpack without her knowing, and threatens to have her expelled for it. Leigh Ann and her two friends, Luke and Jo Lynn, head to Mrs. Tingle's house that night and try to convince the teacher that Leigh Ann is innocent. Mrs. Tingle, however, does not listen. They try to grab Mrs. Tingle and she is accidentally knocked unconscious. The students panic and tie Mrs. Tingle to her bed. Pretending to be Mrs. Tingle, Jo Lynn calls the school the next morning and feigns illness in order to buy themselves some time, but all are unsure of what they should do next. Mrs. Tingle eventually reveals that she hates Leigh Ann because Leigh Ann has the potential to leave their small town and experience life, but her honesty only furthers her captors' dislike of her. She also opines that Leigh Ann has not got the guts to do anything that will get her in trouble; you know that that's not a good thing to say to the goodie goodie who needs adventure.While the movie has a bit of an unbelievable plot, it's just a nice escape and a good movie. It was funny, witty and intelligent. I loved Helen Merrin in this movie, she was just awesome as Mrs. Tingle, couldn't have been a better villain and was someone that you just loved to hate. Katie Holmes actually held herself up well and had good chemistry with then hottie of the day Barry Watson. The cast all together had good chemistry. To be honest I'm surprised this movie didn't get much notice after it's release, who knows if it might be a cult classic somewhere down the line, but I think it's a fun movie and if you get the chance to watch it, I'd suggest you take advantage.7/10 "},{"Title":"A peach of a movie","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  In the UK, we're lucky enough to see Helen Mirren regularly on tv, especially as the lead in a crime drama series called Prime Suspect. In Teaching Mrs Tingle, she offers us a splendidly embittered bitch, teetering on the edge of caricature but always just - only just - on the stylish side of the thin line. The supporting cast of young actors, Barry Watson, Katie Holmes and Marisa Coughlan, are sexy and sassy - as the film is itself - and are good enough to suggest that in a few years time we'll all be watching this wondering why we didn't realise how good it was when it came out. The narrative's carefully managed by the writer (with none of the dreaded Dawson Creek verbal diahrroea), the photography and lighting are cleanly and sometime imaginatively done, and the dramatic thrills generate emotional excitement in a way that many so-called thrillers would like to emulate. Someone making this film was absolutely first rate at getting the best out of their team maybe not everyone involved is going to do better later, and maybe this will turn out to have been their finest hour - but if you want to see a really enjoyable comedy thriller, then try this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"nnngh...","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I hate it. And I hate it all the more because its meant to be light and inconsequential, and it is, but yet still provokes in me such nauseating and violent ire. Its a waste of my bile. But, it is so catastrophically stupid and badly written I just have to collect my thoughts.1. Why didn't the stupid male teen lummox admit fault as soon as Tingle took the stolen test out of stupid Holmes' bag?2. After agreeing to just tell the truth why did they send female teen actress B go to Tingle's door and proceed to just lie? Second obvious chance for male teen lummox to admit all wrongdoing goes abegging.3. Why do any of said lummoxes fail to listen to their own ideas?. Tingle is manipulative, don't listen to her, she's trying to promote disharmony within our group. Stop listening to her. Its a ruse. Don't let her get to you... Whats that Mrs Tingle?.... Really? 4. Why does being upset by Tingle (see 3) drive Holmes to have presumably unprotected sex with irredeemably guilty male teen lummox?5. Why does she even want to fornicate with said male teen lummox? To paraphrase... Holmes (to Lummox) - There's an unguarded innocent woman tied upstairs, we're probably all going to prison for a long time and its all your fault, you have no scruples or charisma, my accomplice and best friend who has (somehow) always been in love with you has now fled the crime scene in a jealous rage because she's been tricked (see 3) into thinking we've slept together. Lets sleep together, that's made me horny. 6. And why doesn't this firmly establish Holmes as a colossally stupid, horribly callous b**ch?7. Why does illegally changing not only HER grade, but unjustifiably sabotaging someone else's grade not only further reinforce Holmes as being a horrible callous b**ch? 8. Since Holmes is explicitly established as a horrible person, does that not make Tingle the protagonist by default? Where is the tension in the prospect of Holmes getting caught? 9. Mrs Tingle has escaped and is on the phone in the living room. Holmes sneaks into the MIDDLE of the SAME room and stands there. Has Tingle seen her? I think she's gotten away with it.... no, wait.10. One lummox screams RUN! when crossbow aimed at Mrs Tingle is found to be minus the arrow. Run? From a 60 year old woman? Run where? Run WHY? What does running solve? She's got my ankle! We're all going to die! scream the three healthy teens. (Clue - Tingle is a superhuman cannibal). 11. Tingle has been assaulted, threatened, kidnapped, blackmailed and tormented in her own home for numerous days. Don't call the police, this is a matter for the principal.12. Tingle's legally justified retaliation results in nobody getting hurt. The simple question of whats been going on here? is fortunately not raised by anyone ever again and thus all captors are absolved of all crimes. Holmes gets her fraudulent award, all betrayal between friends is never spoken of again and they all live happily ever after.These are only the larger and more thematic ones. Everything, every minute detail of this film is deeply and profoundly stupid, unjustified. illogical and unlikable. I thought this would be cathartic but i just feel empty inside. "},{"Title":"An OK movie with a great performance by Helen Mirren","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I will have to disagree with many comments on this movie saying that it was only a bomb. I thought this movie was quite interesting, surely not a great one, but good. The high point of this movie, in fact, is Helen Mirren. I was quite impressed with her inspiring performance - it kind of reminded me of Kathy Bates in Misery. It is quite rare to see such a great performance like Helen Mirren's in an horror/suspense movie and this is the main reason why I have decided to comment on Teaching Mrs. Tingle. "},{"Title":"The student's revenge","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Fred Williamson's directorial debut is a movie targeted for teen agers. This comedy, with black overtones, is not a total failure. The story line is not the best asset of the film, which presents us with a situation that doesn't go anywhere, as it brings a cruel side on the young people in the story that doesn't ring true.Mrs. Tingle, a tyrannical history professor, clearly dislikes most of the students in her senior class. Leigh Ann, an earnest young woman needs whatever help she can get from her teacher in order to get the scholarship she so desperately needs. It is clear Leigh Ann will never get any sympathy from Mrs. Tingle.The situation deteriorates when Luke, one of the guys in Mrs. Tingle's class gets hold of the final exam and shows it to Leigh Ann and Joe Lynn, her best friend who has a crush on the young man. Mrs. Tingle happens to walk on them and discovers it on Leigh Ann's bag. The chances for the scholarship, and the possible for an expulsion from school, are almost assured.Instead of confessing, Luke, doesn't even open his mouth. He lets Mrs. Tingle walk out vowing she'll do whatever to have them punished. Expusion is a possibility for the trio. So what do they do? They go to Mrs. Tingle's home wanting to make amends, but she is unmoved. One thing leads to another as they try to get her to change her mind about the theft of the exam, something she will never even consider.The best thing in the movie is Helen Mirren. She is perfect as the lonely teacher who loves to mock and ridicule the young people under her. She is a frustrated woman who has no life, but who loves to make fun of others because basically she doesn't tolerate the fact that some other people are happy.Katie Holmes, plays Leigh Ann. She is not as effective here as in some other films. Barry Watson and Marisa Caughlan are Leigh's friends. Jeffrey Tambor only has one scene in the film, but he makes the best out of it. Molly Ringwald, Miichael McKean and Vivica Fox are seen in supporting roles.Teaching Mrs. Tingle doesn't break new ground, but it keeps the viewer involved in it. "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Tingle is more interesting than teaching history!","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I have now watched this movie at least 30 times on the movie channels and decided that I like this movie more each time. Carefully watching these young actors portraying their characters, they have achieved their talents in making one believe they are not acting. It gets funnier each time and with each time, I realize what a cruel person Tingle might actually be. Just because Mirren is a superb actress doesn't make her a likable one in this film. She is however, a perfect teacher on how to be a spiteful, hateful, mean-spirited,jealous and power abusing menace to society if you need a teacher. It is that kind of callous hearted abuse and lack of self discipline in separating personal feelings and power that makes someone like her so dangerous and drives many otherwise decent human beings into desperate measures. Which is one of the keys to this films plot. It is, as Leigh Ann accuses, the teachers and role models to blame if the youth of today do not achieve skills to being better human beings and with Tingle as an example, what tools would a youngster faced with such a situation have learned to resolve any better? Tingles morally criminal behavior leads to actual criminal behavior of these minors trying to convince her to do the right thing from the start. Her position to do whatever she wants, right or wrong is what causes these teens to resort to desperate measures to protect themselves against such abuse which is not unlike many other positions adults force upon children. Playing by ear, with each plea for Tingle to cooperate and her refusal, these teens must plot to save whatever they can. It was Tingle who had malice from beginning to end, the kids just played the game changing the rules from plan A to B when all failed. If not for Jo Lynn and her adaptive humor, this film could have had controversial overtones. Jo Lynn was the tie that binds these characters together and her lighthearted, carefree humor was refreshing to the plot. She illuminated the meaning of a forgiving and loyal friend. Oddly, this was one of those feel good films for me. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I have seen in ages. Excellent cast, particularly Mirren as Mrs. Tingle. The supporting cast are not far behind. For some reason it did badly at the box office, possibly because of the subject area. However I would make it a must see movie. "},{"Title":"","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Although most critics taught this movie a lesson in film making by giving it horrible reviews, I found this flick rather interesting.  I thought all the actors and actresses did a wonderful job of keeping in mind that this situation is supposed to be reality and you can see the fear in their minds. This is most evident when they visit Mrs. Tingle at her house.  Once they make the fateful mistake, I personally could  put myself in their shoes because what if that did happen in real life.  What would you do?  How would you handle it?  Helen Mirren did a believable job as a wicked teacher and Molly Ringwald has a nice touch on the film in a cameo.  Marisa Coughlan and Barry Watson also did an outstanding job for their first big movie.  I would give this film a A- for somewhat originality and full believability.  At least I gave the movie a better grade then Leigh Ann received on her project!  "}{"Title":"Who the **** is the hero?","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" A cheap bizarre 80'-like Hughes-movie for the nineties without humor, heart and morals... Mirren and Marisa Coughlan (asuming she does her own voice-work, which I'm not quite certain of...) does some decent acting, but the rest of the cast is pure TV-soap... Steals ideas from all around. After the Mirren-character tells the Holmes-character that shes seen right through her, one hopes that the movie has the guts to follow through, but no - it cops out in ridiculous fashion with 3 fake endings and still manages to let the Holmes-character get out on top after having cheated everyone around her. Apparently it pays to be a (w)bitch in this movie... "},{"Title":"Loved Mrs. Tingle...Hated the rest of the film...","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This absurd movie was about a Goodie-two-shoe, teen-girl that really wanted to be Valedictorian but finds her obstacle in a teacher name Mrs. Tingle. Katie Holmes, who plays this goodie-two-shoe, is faced with the biggest dilemma of her teenage life when this classmate guy of hers comes along with the final exams sample that should help them nail Mrs. Tingle's test. Mrs. Tingle comes along, catches Holmes, the classmate guy and her best friend with the sample of her final exam. Convinced that the three of them planned on cheating on here exam, Mrs. Tingle enthuses on her opportunity to ruin Holmes once and for all with allegations that can take away any chance of Holmes passing her class. And the classmate guy, who apparently has his eye on Holmes, always wondered why she never gave him the time of day (he's an idiot)? Feeling desperate, Holmes and her friends visit Mrs. Tingle in the middle of the night to try to dissuade her in believing that Holmes was planning to cheat. It all backs fire somehow when the classmate guy points a bow and arrow at Mrs. Tingle, threatening her to make things right for Holmes. Mrs. Tingle fights back but ultimately ends up as Holmes and her friend's captive.During Mrs. Tingle captivity under Holmes, they do everything from tying her up and gagging her in her own bed to blackmailing her with false pictures that they took of the unconscious Coach in bed with Mrs. Tingle. I found myself cringing when the kids were making themselves at home in Mrs. Tingle's house, eating up her food and going though her private work. At one point, Holmes found Mrs. Tingle's grade book and purposely changes the grade in her favor, decreasing the grade of her challenge for valedictorian. The end played out like a childish attempt to bring back the comedy that was sparingly in the beginning of the film, resolving on pure irony, slapstick and absurdity.This has to be the most unlikable and wickedly evil character Holmes would ever play in her entire life. I wanted to help Mrs. Tingle get free to really dig a grave for Holmes. She was manipulative, selfish and conniving. She even slept with the classmate guy despite her best friend's overwhelming interest in him...and she didn't like him. From attempting to ruin her challengers grades by seizing Mrs. Tingle's grade book to taking her best friend's man, you would think that Holmes would get what she deserves in the end, right? Unfortunately, she obtains everything her heart desires, showing that being wicked, manipulative, selfish and whining can get you what you want.Mrs. Tingle was suppose to be the character you didn't like. They didn't bring me to that point once to believe that she was this woman that needed to be taught this lesson. She was like every other strict teacher who even gave valid reasons for her resentment of the next generation. Personally, I felt that her opinions about young people were validated with Holmes and her friend's actions every time. I kept hoping she could get free to call the police and nail Holmes. They kept her tied up in bed, ate up her food like a bunch of pigs, drank up the woman's wine, messed with her personal belongings and we're suppose to believe that she didn't deserve to take a bat to each of their heads? And the classmate guy has to be one of the most disliked characters in the history of film. Forget idiot, we need a new word for him that isn't in the Webster's dictionary. He brought the major trouble into Holme's life then made things worse when he came into Mrs.Tingle's house, uninvited behind Holmes, and corners Mrs. Tingle with a bow and arrow. I was thrilled every time Mrs. Tingle had a chance to slap fire out of him, or choke the wannabe actress best friend.If you're a teen out there and want to see when a teen's manipulation and wrong doing can get him or her the world, see this unfunny, caricature filled, unintentional film noir. "},{"Title":"Starts off ok, starts going downhill and then falls off a cliff","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the film expecting the worst film ever made after reading some of the comments here, but I was pleasantly surprised (at first).  In the beginning the film starts off ok and I was starting to enjoy it until the kidnapping of Mrs Tingle takes place.  From then on things start to go downhill until the end which is totally stupid.To get the most out of this film I think you'd have to be a fan of Katie Holmes's 'Joey' character off 'Dawson's Creek', since it's pretty clear that Holmes's 'Leigh Ann' is a direct rip-off of the aforementioned character (not really surprising since Kevin Williamson who wrote/directed this movie also created 'Dawson's Creek') - right down to the kind, friendly student who is smart but lacks the money to get out on her own and thus really needs those A's to get a scholarship for college.  Joey is my favourite character off 'Dawson's Creek' so I didn't mind this, but those who don't will probably be automatically annoyed throughout this film since the story makes such a big thing about this.The Plot - the film follows the story of Leigh Ann, a smart student who badly needs to get high marks to earn a scholarship which represents her only ticket out of town. Only problem is that her last assessment item due is for her History class, taught by Mrs Tingle who is regarded as the Devil Incarnate by all (including the principal) and who also has it in for poor Leigh Ann and makes a mockery of her assignment she's submitted.  To make matters worse later on Mrs Tingle catches Leign Ann and her 2 friends in the gym with a stolen exam paper (which had been stolen by Leigh Ann's 2 friends) and she's determined to get them expelled.  However the principal is unavailable until the next day and Leigh Ann and her friends have to try and find some way to 'reason' with Mrs Tingle before then.I won't post spoilers for those who have yet to see it but I will say that from the time Mrs Tingle is 'detained' the plot loses itself and by the end has descended into utter stupidity.  The biggest mistake IMHO was that the writers made Mrs Tingle such a nasty person without any redeemable features - she's a cruel person just because she feels like it and we're not given any real reasons to help us understand why she is the way she is (there are some hints given here and there but the film never attempts to follow these through) and as a result we're left feeling pretty unsympathetic with whatever happens to her.  In addition Leigh Ann and her friends continually make the stupidest of mistakes (like constantly leaving Mrs Tingle ungagged despite telling themselves repeatedly not to let her talk) and we're left with feeling a bit unconcerned on how things may turn out for them since all these actions are being obviously thrown in to create predictable problems later on.  There's also the running parallel of the films detainment of Mrs Tingle with 'The Exorcist' but these scenes seem totally unneccessary and seem to only function as filler to keep the running time at an acceptable length.All in all, it had potential but unfortunately it fails to add up to where it can deliver.  If the comments below concerning how a lot was cut out of the film are correct then I wouldn't mind seeing a version with some of those cuts put back in which would hopefully expand on some areas, but as it stands I would only recommend it to people who are fans of the main characters (especially Katie Holmes). "},{"Title":"Great Black Comedy!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Most people don't like this because of what happened at Columbine High. But Hello! This is just a movie! A Great Movie! Movies don't create psychos! This movie is Kevin Williamson's masterpiece, it's full of suspense and comedy. The dialogues are great written. And the actors are great as well, especially Helen Mirren and Katie Holmes. Kevin Williamson Rocks! "},{"Title":"Watchable.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle (1999) is a very weird movie. It was actually worse than I thought, but there are two hot chicks in it (Katie Holmes, Marisa Couglan) that made it heaps better.I have to say Teaching Mrs. Tingle (1999) went stupid at lots of points in the film and the actors (Holmes, Mirren, Watson) could of done lots better.Anyway, I'll get to the point! This film is about an overachieving student named Lee-Anne Watson (Holmes) who is accused of cheating on her history test! Lee-Anne doesn't like it when things don't go her way, and she wants revenge, so her two buddys (Coughlan, Watson) take a trip to see Mrs. Tingle (the dragon teacher who accused Lee-Anne of cheating) and pay her a lesson!This is not scary, its not that funny but it manages to get in the thriller combination.My Rating  7/10. "},{"Title":"SIMPLY GREAT","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, forget those ads where they make you think this is kind of a horror movie. This is one of the best comedies I've seen in a while. Those who thought that Kevin Williamson was dead were COMPLETELY wrong. This is one hell of a movie with a great and tremendously funny script and with a great cast. Marisa Coughlan should be nominated to the Oscar...her THE EXORCIST scene is a classic already. She steals the show although Helen Mirren is great in her bitchy role (you find yourself shouting to the screen KILL HER!!!) Rent it, you won´t be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A fine story spoiled...","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Could have been a good story except for the incredulously stupid ending that left me not only disappointed but angry.  The 'moral' of the story is that it is o.k. to be deceitful, to assault, verbally & physically, to hold hostage, to defame and to blackmail someone because you believe (rightly or wrongly) that you deserve an 'A' on a class project.Excuse me, but to mature, rational people, aren't these things normally considered criminal?The whole thing comes off as some sort of vendetta against a former teacher written by some inept student looking for someone on whom to blame their shortcomings.  Childish at best.Watch only if you believe you got 'D's in school because your teachers were out to get you personally.  Then see a good shrink. "},{"Title":"Excellent, a leap for Willamson as director","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Williamson has shown that he can direct his vision of a movie that he has written. I think this is somewhat suspenseful and articulate. Williamson's use of vocabulary as in his other works is still by far unbelievable. Also, his introduction of the antagonist as she is walking through the hallway as students dodge her path is proving her power as being evil. This movie is also very realistic because everyone has felt threatened by a teacher like Tingle. This movie was excellent and I believe that Kevin Williamson did a great job in his directorial debut.  "},{"Title":"Stupid Students Learn Nothing from the Great Ms. Mirren","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I was zapping until I saw Ms. Mirren's elegant face. Damn, this woman's hot! I think I missed about the first half hour but seeing the utter crap that this film is, I certainly haven't missed much. This is just another one of those trashy teen thrillers and the only good thing about it is (obviously) Helen Mirren. I loved the way she transforms from mean to vulnerable to manipulative. The character is not the best written character (then there's a whole lot wrong with the sloppy writing let alone inconsistency, plot holes and lack of characterization) but this woman pulls it off with brilliance. Katie Holmes is one of the most uninteresting actresses and she should just stick to that snoozefest soap 'Dawson's Creek' where she continues 'advising' her co-stars. Oh wait, that's been long cancelled, hasn't it? Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan are equally pathetic. I'm sure the director and the writer hated their teachers which is why they want to teach the kids of today that it's alright to kidnap your teacher and beat her up, no matter how mean she is in class because that will surely get you an A. "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Dreadful","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry for any spoilers that this contains.  But if you want to read on anyway I really wonder why so many people are so high on Kevin Williamson.  Let's just take a quick look at his work as a screenwriter, shall we?  There's Scream 1 and 2 (plus the story for the next one), which I think are pretty funny but very overrated.  Besides, by making Scream into a franchise, it ceased to become a parody of horror movies and simply became another one. Then there's I Know What You Did Last Summer, which is essentially the same movie again.  He co-wrote Halloween H20, but even he had the sense not to take credit for what he did on that monstrosity.  Then comes The Faculty, which I can only say was god-awful. (Lots of fun to make fun of, though). Don't even get me started on the ridiculous, soap-operatic Dawson's Creek, I could rail about how bad that is for hours.  So then we get to Teaching Mrs. Tingle.  First of all, there are tons of little implausibilities in this one.  For example in most high schools that I know of, the valedictorian is NOT the only one who gets to go to college!  This idea that Katie Holmes's character would never go anywhere unless she was valedictorian was absurd. Haven't you ever heard of financial assistance, damn it!?  Also, I don't think you get expelled from high school or don't get into college because of cheating on one test.  There are a bunch of other ones, but I'll skip to the big one now.  The ending really bothered me they committed a crime, but it was ok because the teacher was a bitch.  Great.  Do you know how many of my teachers I could kidnap based on that logic?  I'm sure the police never took any statements to find out the whole story, either.  That sure wouldn't be necessary.  Helen Mirren was good, she added some nice flair to a character who (as a previous commenter noted) had NO reason for anything she did.  And has anyone else noticed that Katie Holmes absolutely can't act?  Her self-righteousness became incredibly annoying.  You wanted me to fail. Blah blah blah. Her last two scenes with Mrs. Tingle were the worst.  The only reason I don't regret losing $8.25 on this disaster is because she got beaten up a bit.  No, wait, I do regret losing the money it wasn't real, and she survived.  Mr. Williamson, if you're reading this, you've made the same movie (some violence and/or scary stuff offset by wise-ass kids who make sarcastic jokes and references to other movies) just a FEW too many times now (I count 6 so for, not including Scream 3 and whatever follows it), and I would really appreciate it if you would stop.  Otherwise, I might just have to kidnap you and threaten YOU with a crossbow.  Ok? -) "}{"Title":"love Helen Mirren but kids unlikable","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes) is a high school senior in Grandsboro, California living with her divorced mother Faye (Lesley Ann Warren). She's trying to be valedictorian needing help to go to college. Her best friend Jo Lynn (Marisa Coughlan) likes Luke (Barry Watson) but he actually likes Leigh Ann. Her grades are threatened by her cruel strict teacher Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren). After a bad grade from Tingle on a presentation of the Salem witch trial, Leigh Ann is dropped down to second overall by a point. Luke steals the final exam and puts it in Leigh Ann's bag. Tingle finds it and aims to get her expelled. The kids try to talk Tingle out of it but end up taking her prisoner.Helen Mirren is terrific but the kids are not up to her level. Katie Holmes is too much of a goody two shoes and Luke is too much the other way. Both are annoying. It could be argued that the rooting interest is better with Helen Mirren. It would have been an interesting movie if Kevin Williamson had written it that way. However, he's trying very hard to make her seem cruel but she's not actually wrong. She found the stolen exam in Leigh Ann's bag. Any teacher would have expelled her and possibly the other two also. "},{"Title":"Teach Mrs. Tingle to Write a Superior Screenplay.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Teaching Mrs. Tingle (1999) Dir Kevin Williamson / Cast Helen Mirren, Katie Holmes, Barry Watson, Marisa Coughlan, Jeffrey Tambor Dreadful horror film meant to represent dislike for unpleasant teachers. What is really being taught here? That revenge and blackmail are humorous comebacks that pays off? Mrs. Tingle is a cruel minded teacher bent on failing students and how she caught the smartest girl in the class with a cheat paper, which was planted on her. Three students travel to her home in hopes of reasoning but it all ends with tingle being tied to a bed in a lame scene involving a crossbow. It is crude, vile and hopelessly dumb. Lame idea brought down by predictable and juvenile storytelling. The concept worked in Nine to Five where three office secretaries kidnap their boss, but that film had wit and characters to root for. Not so in this junk. Kevin Williamson directs as if spoofing from experience. Helen Mirren is much too talented to be playing a woman as unsympathetic as Mrs. Tingle. The roll is about as broad as most slasher film villains. Katie Holmes, Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan are despicable as the three students who give viewers no reason to believe that they should have ever left grade school let alone graduate. Jeffrey Tambor is a gifted comedian stranded in this cruddy garbage as Coach Richard. Message misfires thanks to complete idiocy. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Tingle","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies you hate to hate, and love to love. Teaching Mrs. Tingle was not the least bit original, but at the same time it was good.Mrs. Tingle is the teacher from hell, she hates her students and her students hate her. She is a nasty, nit-picky teacher who has been doing the same thing for 20 years, and that's destroying people's dreams!After catching Leigh Ann Watsoncheating off her social studies final (when she was just returning it after a friend stole it) she gives her an atomic F. Leigh Ann and her friends Jo Lynn and Luke go to other house to try and figure things out, but while there all hell breaks loose and it ends up in a hostage situation.I am a huge Kevin Williamson fan, but this movie is just something I can't say that I hate, or like. I give it 6/10 because it's first movie for gods sake, have you seen Scorsse's student films!? "},{"Title":"Entertaining thriller with a weak finale","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" It's not a very classy thing to say when you're trying to be some sort of movie aficionado (the kind that uses the word aficionado), but I quite enjoy the work of Kevin Williamson. I know he's a bit repetitive, I know he enjoys clichés and I know he wrote Cursed but hey, vague appreciation is blind. Teaching Mrs.Tingle is apparently the only shot he ever got at directing a movie, but I don't really get why. I mean sure, the movie's all over the place and constantly changes its tone, but it's definitely not boring. It's tightly paced and knows how to capture you in its limited plot, you actually care how all of this will end. Sadly, the last fifteen minutes are sort of a letdown. Williamson tries his best to give us the kind of twisty finale some of us know and love him for, but it really just comes of as watered-down Scream. The finale seems like Williamson just put a bunch of half ideas in a hat and played some bingo. I can't be mad at this movie though, it's too pretty and harmless for that. Experience it yourself.P.S One question though does Mrs. Tingle EVER need to use the bathroom? "},{"Title":"Better than you Might Expect...","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" TEACHING MRS. TINGLE was a surprisingly effective little black comedy that was more entertaining than I imagined something like this to be. Katie Holmes plays a straight-A high school student whose entire academic future is threatened when the cold blooded Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren) accuses her of stealing the answers to an upcoming exam. A desperate Homes, with the assistance of two friends(Barry Watson,Marisa Coughlan) ambush Mrs. Tingle at her home, tie her to her bed,and plan to keep her prisoner until she agrees to let Holmes off the hook. The premise is rather off the wall, but the story is mounted with tongue firmly planted in cheek and if viewed in that fashion, this movie can provide some goofy fun. Holmes has always been a dreadful actress IMO and this movie did nothing to change my mind about that but Oscar winner Mirren is marvelous in the title role, speaking with a near perfect American accent, Mirren is masterful,turning in a performance of almost Gothic quality. Marisa Coughlan also has her moments as the self-absorbed drama major who enjoys this game a little too much until she allows Tingle to manipulate her as well. Mention should also be made of Michael McKean as the school principal, Molly Ringwald as Miss Tingle's substitute (her take on Cleopatra is hilarious), and especially Jeffrey Tambor, hysterical in a memorable bit as a fellow faculty member who is having an affair with Tingle. But the script is rather clever, Mirren is wonderful and the ending with a twist is on the money. "},{"Title":"better than i thought, but not great...","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film overall was pretty random. I think they tried to put lots of twists in it, but they didn't really make enough sense within the story to actually make the film particularly interesting.I find Katie Holmes quite irritating as well. I don't really like the 'girl-next-door' type too much, and she's too much of one to be able to play anything else.***SPOILER*** The bit at the end where her friend suddenly decides to save her is pretty doesn't make any sense which i found annoying, although I ADORED the bit where she was doing her exorcist impression.  However, the film's using of The Exorcist as a point of reference would have been better if there had actually had been some logical reason for it.I also extremely dislike films that are set in high school that end in graduation, where everybody is going to live happily ever after, because it's not really that interesting to the audience, so why bother? "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Hate-Letter Gone Wrong","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  (*WARNING! MINOR SPOILERS!*) Better than you'd think...could've been better than it was. I'm glad I didn't choose that title for my comment because it's patheticly vague. You'd think that a movie which is essentially a hate letter to an old teacher would be the envy of any creative artists who got a lot of flack from school faculty members as kids. Unfortunately, they'd all have to settle for this one, with the comforting thought of knowing that worse movies in and about high school do exist.For the record, Eve Tingle *is* a bitch, whether she's right or wrong about a subject. Even some of the stuffiest teachers on screen(the Prof. Kingsfield's, Mr. Hand's and Mr. Feeny's) and in real-life actually want their pupils to benefit from their lessons. Not this lady. She honestly feels she's better than everyone(including her fellow faculty members) and wants them to stay at the bottom of the totem pole. I can't say I would've kidnapped a teacher over something as trivial as my grades if I were still in high school, but there are teachers I would've given some sort of retribution for their exploitation of youth. The kids in this movie are incredibly stupid! They should have known how easily Mrs. Tingle is at manipulating people in ways that we've seen so many times it's beneath cliche. You'd think that even the budding actress played by Marisa Coughlin would be able to detect Tingle's act, but she doesn't. She talks them into everything, even getting two of them to have a sexual tryst in order to distract them from keeping an eye on her. I would've seen her b.s. coming a mile away even if I were younger than those kids were supposed to be. Too bad they were too stupid to see this coming, but at least Katie Holmes and Barry Watson got to enjoy themselves.Then of course, there's Molly Ringwald who plays the secretary turned substitute teacher Miss Banks, a role mistakenly described by some as a cameo role. People who expected her to remain the John Hughes teen heroine had better brace themselves for a shock when they find out she plays a caring and responsible adult. And it's because she's such an adult that even though she hates Mrs. Tingle like everyone else, she knows something's up later on in the movie.One important point; nobody dies. Not the kids, not the teachers, not the cops and certainly not the villainess. The horror fans this movie is supposed to appeal to will be disappointed with that, but then again there's plenty of other elements that'd bring the same reaction. This may be an fairly interesting story, but that's the only positive thing you can expect from it. "},{"Title":"Teaching cliches","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle is another teen thriller from the writer of Scream and The Faculty. It has a good idea, okay characters, nice fast-paced action, interesting dialog and pretty good acting. It actually keeps you watching till the end.But it has 2 huge bad points the cliches and the plot holes.Williamson, the one responsable for this film, wrote Scream, an amazing satire about teen horror movies, a film that actually makes fun of horror movie cliches just by using them. I am amazed that the same guy wrote this full of cliches movie. The same chick-running-up-the-stairs-when-followed-by-armed-enemy situations, the same love plot surrounding the main characters, the same scenes when, one after the other, the characters get the chance to sit alone with the tied-up Mrs. Tingle. And the same final confrontation between good and bad (although this movie doesn't make a big difference between good and bad).(spoilers might come up) And then there are plot holes. Why did the love affair remain unfinished? Why didn't Mrs. Tingle press charges against the kids in the end? I mean for Heaven's sake, their fingerprints were all over the place... How did Mrs. Tingle do her normal humanly needs while she was tied up for many days? Why did the actress un-tied her in the first place? What did the sport teacher do after he woke up from being drunk? So many unaswered questions...All in all, a poor movie just because Williamson didn't pay too much attention to the plot details. It could've been much better.Vote 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the irony of it all","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot give an exact definition of the meaning of irony so here's an example. A teenage actress stars in a series of annoying teen films but the one time she's actually good the film she's in goes way past the point of annoying and becomes excruciating. That said, a truly remarkable performance by Marisa Coughlin. Back in the 30's she would have made Bette Davis cringe. What the 00's hold in store for her however is perhaps a small part in Scream 4. Isn't it ironic don't you think bah bah bah. "},{"Title":"Should be a classic. Where's the hell's the director's cut?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Teaching Mrs. Tingle should have been a classic, but it had so many things going against it that people don't seem to take into account when they trash it. First and foremost was the first of the high-school massacres which took place shortly before the film was released. Pressures from everyone after Columbine forced them to remove a lot from the film, which was probably what killed it. In losing these scenes, I'm sure much of the backstory and character development was lost. More than ten clips appear in the trailer on the DVD that were cut from the film, plus there was the alcoholic dog scene that appeared in the very first TV spot. The second big problem, in a way, goes back to the first. Obviously when they were making the film, they were going for an R rating. This is most evident in the Exorcist scene (which I'll come back to), where it's obvious that Jo Lynn's words weren't actually TAKE me! Editing the film to a PG-13 rating probably forced them to take more scenes out of the final version. The last big problem was the marketing campaign -- it wasn't marketed as the psychological dramedy that it is, it looked like just another teen slasher pic. Adults usually don't go for teenage films, and teenagers didn't go for it because it's a talky picture without an abundance of violence and gore. It's sad that this film will most probably be forgotten because it really could have been great. Poor writer/director Kevin Williamson took a major beating over this film, though I'm sure what finally emerged on screen was not his fault.Helen Mirren gives a wickedly delicious performance as Eve Tingle -- a character that I can only compare to Rocky Horror's Frankenfurter. Although she's the villain, she carries herself with such self-assured tenacity that you can't help but to like her. Tingle's sharp-tongue and jugular-slashing-wit have made her one of my favorite film characters ever. To contrast Tingle's mean-spirited bitchiness, the Jo Lynn character had a fun-spirited bitchiness, which thankfully came through in the final print. If Jo Lynn had been the heroine in the final print rather than Leigh Ann, perhaps the film would have fared better. Jo Lynn's Exorcist spoof seems totally out-of-place in this film (though many thought that was the highlight, I personally found it dumb), but I wonder if it would have been better placed in the version of the film that should have been. The Luke and Leigh Ann characters rarely emerge from 2-dimensional, but I'll bet a lot of that is because of their many scenes that wound up on the cutting-room floor. And poor Vivica Fox and Molly Ringwald may as well have been credited with cameos, due to their underexposure in their starring roles. I would guess that Fox had more than the one scene that's left (and in the trailer, her scene is totally different, taking place in an empty hallway).I'd like to know why the hell the DVD was released so cheaply. Instead of the abundance of extras that are standard on many Dimension DVDs, the only extra is the theatrical trailer. I would love to see Williamson's initial vision of the film, even if it was just in a low-quality Deleted Scenes section, but I suppose that was too much to ask for a film that flopped so badly. At the very least, he should have given a commentary to defend his film. Perhaps a director's cut will be released someday, but I'm not gonna hold my breath. . . "}{"Title":"pretty average, but Mirren is brilliant!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film last night on Sky, basically because there was nothing else on. What I can say is, the film was occasionally diverting. While there is not much to scream about in this film from Scream writer Kevin Williamson, the film does have some good performances and some tense moments towards the end. Helen Mirren a surprising sex symbol even now is excellent. I personally have never understood her appeal in that sense even in her younger days. Its probably something to do with the fact she spent a lot of her earlier movies walking around butt naked. Still in this film she is scary as the evil Mrs Tingle who seems to be taking liberties with her powerful position as school teacher.  The plot is no great, basically when Leigh played by Katie Holmes is accused of cheating she and two friends go round to confront Tingle who is seemingly aware of Leighs innocence but seems to have something against her. After an accident leaves Tingle Unconcsious the teens tie her up and attempt to try and persuade Tingle to leave Leigh alone. The film pans out with the three friends trying to devise ways to blackmail Tingle, keep her hidden and also a large part of the movie see's Ms Tingle toying with the three friends and constantly playing mind games with her. Its all pretty obvious but Mirrens perfromance helps this rise from mediocre and also the sexy Marisa Coughlan as one of the three friends is good as well with a show stopping Excorscist re-inactment. I would say a 6/10 with two of those points being bonuses for Mirren and Couglan's performances. "},{"Title":"A Great Black Comedy","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a prime example of the black comedy genre of cinema. The story is about three students who hold a much-hated teacher hostage over a period of about two days. Teaching Mrs. Tingle was written by Kevin Williamson, who also directed. Kudos to him for writing the hilariously witty and dark script! Kudos to him for his wonderfully fast-paced direction that keeps the film whirling like lightning!The story is simple¡Äa group of high school seniors hold an evil teacher hostage after shooting her with an arrow and tying her to her own bed. Well, maybe it¡Çs not so simple, but it certainly is a great deal of fun. Who cares if it¡Çs a bit, okay very, unrealistic? Isn¡Çt that what a black comedy is all about?The film starts when Leigh Ann Watson is just finishing a six month history project which chronicles a young girl during the Salem Witch Hunts. She is living in a small town, but is at the top of her class. However, Leigh Ann desperately needs to become Valedictorian in order to attend college and become her dream¡Äa writer. Only one thing stands in her way---the history teacher hates her. Later that day, a dirt bag classmate approaches her with a copy of Tingle¡Çs final exam so she can pass and become valedictorian. Having never cheated in her life, she refuses. He slips the exam in her bag any way. And can you just guess who walks in? Mrs. Tingle! As Leigh Ann, her friend Jo Lynn, and Luke, the boy who gave her the exam, walk out, Tingle grabs the exam from Leigh Ann¡Çs bag. ¡ÈThe smartest girl in school caught cheating,¡É snarls Tingle. ¡ÈIt¡Çll be scandalous!¡ÉLater that night, the three seniors go to Mrs. Tingle¡Çs home to try to explain. Both Jo Lynn and Luke are willing to be expelled as long as Leigh Ann can get out of the trouble. First, Jo Lynn, also an aspiring actress, goes and rings the bell. She gets a bit carried away in her performance, and Tingle doesn¡Çt buy it, shutting the door rudely in her face. Leigh Ann goes next to talk to her. She is permitted to enter the abode. The door is left a crack open, and Luke and Jo Lynn enter.After Jo Lynn accidentally shoots Mrs. Tingle with a student¡Çs project ¡Èmedieval crossbow,¡É she is knocked out cold. The three carry her up to her room and tie her to the bed. For the next two days, they try to reason with her, in a cynically hilarious manner. All this leads to a suspenseful conclusion.The entire cast gives knowing performances. Leigh Ann is played by Dawson¡Çs Creek star Katie Holmes. Barry Watson, of 7th Heaven, plays Luke, and Marisa Coughlan steals most of her scenes as the Marilyn Monroe wannabe Jo Lynn. Helen Mirren dominates the screen with her fiery and fierce portrayal of Mrs. Tingle, and when the four stars get together, the rapport amongst them is fantastic! Vivica A. Fox has a small role as a guidance councilor in the school, but Molly Ringwald has one of the funniest cameos as a substitute teacher. And how can anyone forget Liz Strauber, as suck up Trudie Tucker? What a cast!The problem too many people have with this film, and ones like it, is the fact that they take it too seriously. Obviously, it¡Çs a fantasy Kevin Williamson had in school, and art reflects life. I¡Çm not generally a fan of modern films, usually opting for the classics of the 30s, 40s, and 50s, but Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a welcomed exception. What a fantastic black comedy!  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This move isn't really as horrible as everyone is making it out to be. However, it isn't nearly as great as the Scream series and certainly not Williamson's best work. Nonetheless, it's a playful little lightweight comedy that really shouldn't be taken too seriously. Mirren did a wonderful job with her character as Mrs. Tingle and steals the show whenever on screen. The other characters are great (except sometimes Holmes overacts a little too much) and should keep someone occupied for an hour and a half. The only things that bothered me were Williamson's lack of attention to detail. For example, why doesn't Mrs. Tingle attempt to wake up the coach when he's passed out or why do Luke and Leigh Ann wait till 3 in the afternoon to pick up photos that they dropped off the night before? Usually when holding a hostage, there is a big time sensitivity issue involved. Aside from these problems, this movie is entertaining and fun to watch. On a scale of 1 to 10, I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Could've Been so Good","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle could've been a well executed black comedy but instead it falls flat on its face. The first half is well executed but as the film moves on it becomes an utter mess of a movie. Kevin Williamson had about 2 and a half good ideas in his body(Scream,Scream 2, and The Faculty). His other films are just plain generic and it's hard to believe that something like this was written by the guy who wrote scream.The premise is a nice set-up for a potential good comedy. Mrs.Tingle is the most hated teacher at school because she's, for a lack of a better word, a b#$ch. Katie Holmes plays a student who is trying desperately be valedectorian so she can get out of the town and history-a class taught by tingle, is the only thing standing in her way. When Tingle discovers a copy of the final exam in her back-pack she intends on telling the principal. when herself and her friends go to her house to try and reason with her, lets just say that get more than they bargained for.What I likedMarissa Coughlan is a good actress and her performnce is actually one of the saving graces of this film. She posseses a lot of spunk and energy. Her Exorcist scene, while unnecessary, is quite entertaining.Helen Mirren is suitably devilish as Mrs. Tingle. She brings experience to an other-wise mediocre movie.The first half of the film is actually pretty good. The class-room scene in the first half is really good. Too bad the rest of the film isn't all that great.What I Didn't LikeKatie Holmes was cute in this film and she gives a cute performance but i'm tired of seeing her talent given to drivel like this. Thank God she followed this up with Wonder Boys and The Gift.Barry watson is plain boring in his role and i found him to be completely uninteresting in his roleThe ending is jsut plain dumb. It ends on such a disappointing note. I wanted a better outcome and i got this garbage.The cheesy love scene between holmes and watson was so unnecessary. They lacked chemistry to evne make the scene sizzle.Good idea wasted in tepid film i expected better from williamson in his directorial debut but instead i get this. what a shame.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"What took place?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The American film industry has excelled for more than half a century spewing out braindead entertainment. This genrè is where U.S. film has it`s finest hour, but also it`s lows. Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a classic example of the latter.This high school kids-oriented thriller is technically just a showoff of worn-out storytelling and stupifying clichès. (E.g. The love scene; camera focuses on the couple up until the bra is about to come off, then switches to filming the newly lit fireplace. We`ve seen this before.) Katie Holmes is the go-getter heading for the best grades and a ticket out of small town America. She realizes her dream is crumbling after being caught cheating by the bitter Mrs. Tingle. (Played by Helen Mirren and the sole reason I sat through the entire film.)The rest of the movie is simply to see how far this girl and her friends are willing to go to save her dream; it turns out to be quite a distance, but this still doesn`t help the movie.The characters are incredibly dull, the story`s pathetic and the directing just plain uninteresting.Three points for Marisa Coughlan`s The Exorcist imitation. It doesn`t fit the movie at all, but it`s truly good. "},{"Title":"Ok-ish Movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs Tingle was without a doubt one of the most dissapointing horror movies I have seen. The fair acting makes up for the dismal plot, with predictable consequences. Some of the movie is good but most of it is rubbish and cliched. The reference to The Exorcist was ok but could have been done better, and Mirren could have been more evil. Kevin William could do better than this mess, after all he did make all three Scream movies.Most of the people in this movie are miscast and other people could do a better job. Here are some people who would suit perfectlyMrs Tingle Miranda Richardson who played Mrs Tweedy in Chicken Run Luke Mario Lopez  Leigh Ann Neve CampbellI think that if they were to do Teaching Mrs Tingle 2 then they should change the director and the cast.Overall a bad horror movie 4/10good points it lasts 90 minutes  bad points predictable ending, bad acting, poor script, barely a horror  "},{"Title":"It was...okay","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think I got my money's worth by renting this movie(I only paid 99 cents for it, but it was pretty good).  Helen Mirren was excellent as the evil History teacher, Mrs.Tingle.  I can't say that I admired Katie Holmes or Barry Watson.  They just weren't believable.  Marisa Coughlan was great as the drama queen.  I would like to see more of her in the future.  I thought the characters were basically likeable.  They weren't all very bright, but how could they have gotten into such trouble if they were?  The plot wasn't all that creative but the twists and turns kept it mildly suspenseful.  I am a romantic but I felt that the love story was awful.  I didn't see how it was based on anything at all.  Well maybe I missed the point.  When the movie first came out I had wanted to see it but never did.  I became reinterested when I found out that Molly Ringwald had a small part in it. So help me, I AM a fan of hers.  I would suggest this movie to anyone who liked Williamson's other works.The exorcist scene was great!! "},{"Title":"Made a good point about these bi***es they call teachers","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Williamson made a good movie that is full of messages about thefemale wenches at schools. And Mrs. Tingle is not too evil to be real.I'm proud of what these kids did in this movie. I'd to something likethat, but I wouldn't risk the consequences. Katie Holmes is the new NeveCampbell (and I loved her bad girl phase in Disturbing Behavior). HelenMirren shines as a villain, I thought she was fancy due to her Oscarnomination and "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson does it again","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  For a long time, Kevin Williamson, the writer of `Scream' and `The Faculty', has dreamt of directing his own films.  When he finally decided to go for it, he unearthed his very first script, which he kept back for himself.  This was `Mrs Tingle', the spicy story of an odious teacher.  `It is my most passionate story, the one which is most autobiographical.  I knew a Mrs Tingle.  She told me to abandon any idea of becoming a writer, and I believed her for 10 years.  Afterwards, that stimulated me.  At heart, I am grateful to her.'  And so are we! "},{"Title":"none of you know how to spot a good movie!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film was really well written and really good! I am really annoyed that it didn't go to the big screen as i would have liked two see  it! The story was far-fetched but at the beggining being put in the situation they were in they had no other choice but to do wat they did! The actors were ALL really good and barry watson was absoloutely gorgeous which helps! What the writer did was bring out things that occur in everyday life and exagerated it to put a picture across which is very cleverly done. The best thing about the film is that you could see how in love with leanne luke was and it was sooo sweet! I am big sucker for love storys and the way he would do anything to help her was so sweet! I think when people watch a film they should look into things and they might be so suprised! i do really reccomend this film to anyone who is thinking about watching it ! it also has you right on the edge of your seat at times. so thumbs up for his film! "}{"Title":"A good laugh","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  In England, Teaching Mrs. Tingle has gone directly to rental video - it did not get a cinema release over here, and I doubt it will come out on DVD either. This is a shame, as I for one think it is an enjoyably silly movie which was unfairly received by both critics and the general public.True, it is not as skilfully plotted as Kevin Williamson's Scream movies, but the concept of the 1980 comedy classic 9 to 5, starring Dolly Parton and Lily Tomlin, is so brilliant that it deserved to be used again in a movie.Helen Mirren is excellent as the cold, sneering, malevolent and ruthless Mrs. Eve Tingle - every single person who went to school has had a teacher like her! In my case, it was the terrifying Mrs. Woolhouse at my infant's school in London years ago - I know she and Mrs. Tingle would have been confidantes!A lot of people criticised Helen Mirren for taking a role in a teen horror movie, due to her acclaim in the Prime Suspect TV drama, and her Oscar-nominated turn in The Madness of King George. Well, perhaps Mirren was desperate to do something a little less dramatic - what better than a film like Teaching Mrs. Tingle?! And to her credit, she did a great job.Katie Holmes, who I have just seen in a brief but significant role in The Gift, is fairly likeable as the hapless Leigh Ann Watson, but it is the actress who plays Jo Lynn who steals the show. I forget her name, but she is hysterical - the scene where she acts out moments from The Exorcist to entertain a tied & gagged Mrs. Tingle is absolutely side-splitting stuff!Rather like Ferris Bueller himself, Matthew Broderick, playing a dedicated teacher in Election, it's amusing to see Breakfast Club/Pretty in Pink/Sixteen Candles star Molly Ringwald play a substitute teacher in this film - a good casting decision by Kevin Williamson. But why did Vivica A. Fox have such a small part?As well as humorous scenes, there are also moments of tenderness, particularly where Leigh Ann goes home to find her mother has fallen asleep in her bed, while the classic TV series Little House on the Prairie plays on Leigh Ann's television, featuring a sweet moment between Pa (Michael Landon) and Laura Ingalls (Melissa Gilbert).Teaching Mrs. Tingle is not a classic by any means, but I have watched it three times now and enjoyed it every single time. Give it a try! "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson's time may be up...","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Here in the UK, this movie has just been released direct-to-video. Ignoring it's less than favourable reviews, I decided that it was worth renting anyway. And while it was mildly enjoyable, it had some gaping flaws. Helen Mirren hams it up as Mrs. Tingle, held hostage by three students (Katie Holmes, Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan) who are fed up of her constantly berating students. So they go to her house and tie her to the bed to teach her a lesson or two.      Bright spots include a hilarious, if hardly essential to the plot, Exorcist spoof by Coughlan and a cameo by Molly Ringwald. Other than that it's a standard thriller with a mediocre script and none-too-great acting with a few scattered laughs. "},{"Title":"A great movie!!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good movie! It was fun and exciting. It had enough suspense to keep you on the edge of your seat..but not too much. Mrs. Tingle was so mean, you'll  just love to hate her.She manipulates everyone and plays on their insecurities. Helen Mirren did such a good job playing her that I wonder if she is really a mean person. The plot was quite unlikely, but its a fun movie. This is an awesome movie and I really recommend it to you if you want to see a different kind of movie than most. "},{"Title":"This could have been a good movie if ...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a good movie if K.W. would worked with the script little bit longer . I didn`t like the ending -too soft!!! I think that Kevin didn`t make the script good because he was too have about being able to direct a movie. With stronger HORROR violence and better characters + no deleting scenes this movie would have been even GOOD . But now only 5 from 10. "},{"Title":"Holy moly!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When I first thought of this movie, I thought it was going to be pretty bad, maybe a bit entertaining at some points, with no surprises in neither quality or what was going to happen. I was wrong. It was even worse than I thought! At least it surprised me, with being even worse than I first thought. I mean, it totally sucks! Nobody with their heads tightly screwed on to their bodies can say that this was entertaining or even watchable. Acting was terrible, Helen Mirren you ignore because you don't want to see an actress of her caliber stuck in a crap-movie like this and the acting crew besides of that, ugh. I cheered for Mrs. Tingle sometimes and Katie Holmes is still only watchable in Dawson's Creek. The script was typic-Williamson but still the dialogues were pathetic and he should never, ever has gone as far as being a director. This movie has had reviews saying decent and I expected it to be decent. But I was wrong. It was a bad movie. A really bad movie. If you actually like this, don't go tell other people about it, will you? Because it's just a sign of really bad taste. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Now this is entertainment!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Now I know most people will probably disagree in more ways then one but to me this movie was awesome! I thought it didn't lack one bit, I really thought it had the right amount of horror, suspense, comedy, and teenage drama that didn't make this one bit corny! Helen Mirren was wonderful as Mrs. Tingle, but I have to say I would have probably taught her too, if she was my teacher! Katie Holmes and Barry Watson were okay but they did need to shy away from there WB characters a little bit, when I saw this I kept thinking why is Joey Potter and Matt Camden in this I thought it was a totally different movie! Marisa Coughlan was the sensation of this film, she has a talent and I see an Emmy or an Oscar in her grasp in the near future, she is an actress to be reckoned with. I loved her little The Exorcist touch she threw in the movie. Kevin Williamson always makes a good script that challenges actors and the teenage viewers, he makes us think, Is this action right or wrong?, Did Mrs. Tingle deserve this or not?. He doesn't give us a preaching session over the morals of life, he just gives us a voice and I like that a lot! I definitely recommend you seeing this picture, it's a killer! "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is an odd movie that gives the idea that if you don't like a decision your teacher makes, you should tie her up and force her into submitting to your will.  And then you will be rewarded for it.  While Mirren does an admirable job of making Tingle evil, the other three main characters are left with inane dialogue and cliches to work with, the deadbeat guy, the over-acheiving girl, and the drama queen.  All this leaves the movie lacking in most aspects, but of course the worst part of this whole thing is the plot.  It is not comical or dramatic, it is just dumb.  Even though Mrs. Tingle does deserve a punch in the face, the plot rewards the teens illegal and dangerous behavior which is irresponsible and unbelievable.  Also look for former teen star Molly Ringwald in a small role as Mrs. Tingle's replacement.  "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  alot of comments here trash Teaching Mrs. Tingle but i thought it was good, not Kevin Williamson's best script but good enough, the acting was good, Katie Holmes and Barry Watson did good jobs but Marisa Coughlam stole the show for sure. this was the first movie Kevin Williamson directed and i feel he did a good job, this movie is based on a teacher Kevin Williamson had, she told him he would never make it has a writter and he has no talent well look at Mr. Williamson now. i give Teaching Mrs. Tingle 7/10 "},{"Title":"A c**p film","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  If this was supposed to be a comedy, then it failed, simply because it wasn't funny. If it was supposed to be a horror, it failed because it wasn't scary. Teaching Mrs. Tingle is merely a PG-13 horror movie for twelve year old who can't get into the R rated ones. The teen characters were so annoying and embarrassing, you'll be cheering on Mrs. Tingle, played so well by Helen Mirren. Kill the teenyboppers! 2.5/10. "},{"Title":"A Huge Disappointment.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I am an absolutely huge fan of Kevin Williamson, he always thinks up cool scripts, great ideas and memorable lines. However, this movie came as a huge disappointment. I thought this movie would be double everything else he has done, because he would be writing and directing. But, unfortunately, it was far worse than anything else he has ever done. The story is pretty lame and far-fetched and this film is never scary and hardly ever funny. Mostly it is only the acting skills from Katie Holmes, Barry Watson and newcomer Marisa Coughlan that are totally impressive.Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a movie I tried really, really hard to like but it is even harder not to dislike it.Rating 5 "}{"Title":"How would you handle almost being screwed by an evil teacher?","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I personally loved this movie!  It's all about dealing with an evil teacher like Mrs. Tingle.  The gang must figure out how to make Tingle change her mind about expelling all of them because they get caught with a copy of the final exam. The acting highlights of the movie was the blond girl doing an impersonation of someone experiencing an exorcism, and also doing an impersonation of Mrs. Tingle herself, complete with an accent. "},{"Title":"Helen Mirren is great but that is all that can be said for it.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie only because of Helen Mirren. I would have left the movie after five minutes except for her. Otherwise the movie was a disaster. Perhaps it was the contrast between Mirren and the other child actors that made them look so bad. But the plot is so absurd nothing could save this movie.  "},{"Title":"Helen Mirren is great but that is all that can be said for it.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie only because of Helen Mirren. I would have left the movie after five minutes except for her. Otherwise the movie was a disaster. Perhaps it was the contrast between Mirren and the other child actors that made them look so bad. But the plot is so absurd nothing could save this movie.  "},{"Title":"My comments are like the others","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is poorly written, but okay acted. Teaching Mrs. Tingle, I guess, was a horror movie, but it didn't make me jump. If it was going to be a comedy, it didn't make me laugh. So, she deserved an A, but her teacher didn't give her one, oh, wow, who cares. And what idiot breaks into Mrs. Tingles house, and ties her, then goes through an experience that changes what they think of each other. Complete boredom. The only parts that was worth watching, was Mrs. Tingles character, and Katie's move from Dawson's Creek to a horror (I think)flick. If you want to watch a BETTER flick, sorta like this movie, only better, watch Killing Mr. Griffin.Rating2.5 "},{"Title":"If only our substitute teachers were more like Molly Ringwald","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  If you like the high school genre based movie, and even if you don't, Mrs. Tingle tops many other movies. We know that the students in high school movies are usually actors in their twenties, but so what! High school antics are metaphors, or preliminary steps toward the antics that pass for adulthood.What makes Mrs. Tingle special is not only a stellar cast, led by Helen Mirren (The Cook The Thief His Wife...) as Mrs. Tingle, but an outstanding, for once, literate script. One of the elements of that script is the correct use of terms like irony and metaphor. There aren't many high school movies that get that esoteric.There are romance and sex, and cute actors and comedy, and plot twists, all well done. Barry Watson, Katie Holmes and Marisa Coughlan play the tudents (or antagonists) of Mrs. Tingle, as well as her kidnappers. They are vivacious, they are silly, they are moving and they are charming.In Mrs. Tingle I expected the usual high school romp, and the usual cliches, but I didn't expect the intelligence behind the making of this film. Tingle may not be as ambitious as the brilliant Wild Things which moves away from the high school milieu, for its exciting development. And so does Tingle though in a less flamboyant way. Tingle is more of a theatre piece, but not a wit less enthralling than Wild Things.Much of Teaching Mrs. Tingle takes place in Mrs. Tingle's elegant mansion, and in Mrs. Tingle's luxurious bedroom, in which a restrained Helen Mirren gives one of her not to be missed performances. And in which Marisa Coughlan gives one of her own splendid performances.When she's not the principal's receptionist, Molly Ringwald takes on the task of substitute teaching, and she delivers a 21st Century lesson on Napoleon and Josephine that is raunchy and hilarious. When I went to school, for some reason, we gave our substitute teachers a hard time. If they were more like Molly Ringwald, I think we wouldn't have.Mrs. Tingle is one in a long line of American high school movies, and one that joins my list of extraordinary ones like, Pump Up the Volume and Wild Things. And the sound track doesn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Teaching People in the film industry How not to make a film.....","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film gives the impression it is written by an 11 year old child. (Sorry thats an insult to most 11 year olds...) Is it meant to be a drama or a comedy?? As it turns out this movie is a complete mess...unfunny and non-sensical....how a actress of the calibre of Helen Mirren ever got involved in this total nonsense is bewildering. I fell asleep watching this trash and I only regret I did'nt sleep throughout the whole of this picture. It deserves an award for the worst writing and acting in any film ever made.   "},{"Title":"One of Williamson's best","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the 'Teaching Mrs Tingle' was a wonderful film. The script was entertaining and humorous- A big change from 'Dawson's Creek', because when I went to see it, I was sure that the dialogue would be snappy and big worded like it is on the popular series by Kevin.Katie Holmes was wonderful as Leigh Ann, the over achieving, straight A+ student. It was nice to see her in a role that reflected well on her, instead of being white trash (Disturbing Behaviour) she was a sweet, clean-cut and innocent(simplistic yes, but innocent all the same.)Marisa Coughlan's exorcist routine, although it had nothing to do with the actual movie, was great, and in my opinion one of the funniest parts in the film. She is obviously a very talented actor and I can't wait to see her in another movie.Barry Watson made a good move by accepting the part of Luke- it got him away from his goody-goody character in '7th Heaven'. While I think his acting was a bit on the bad side, I don't think the film would have been the same if Luke had been played by someone like Joshua Jackson or Josh Hartnett.All in all, I loved this movie. I'm a huge fan of Kevin Williamson, so maybe that makes me biased, but I really, truly enjoyed it. Its genre was a bit mixed up- comedy/horror/thriller, I'd say it's more comedy than anything else. A great movie- If you haven't seen it yet, rent it and watch it. Katie fans will love it. "},{"Title":"PERFECT SATURDAY NIGHT VIDEO DATE MOVIE","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Wicked Fun. Forget the people who are bent out of shape aboutthe plausiability -- It's just a movie. The plot = the secretdream of put-upon-students who tie up a bitch teacher and getthe goods on her. As for the teacher's motivation. In this dayand age, like the film Scream, people do the darnest things,like shoot other people over parking spaces, so how much moremotivation did the teacher need. The film explains it very well.She's an unhappy Witch. (There are people who will go out oftheir way to make things miserable for others) For me it was thetwists and turns in the plot, and the teacher's brilliantattempt at turning them against each other - flawless. It's nota great film, but for laughs with suspence on a Saturday night-- RENT IT.................... "},{"Title":"A B?  I think not!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this awful thing, I have no idea what it was supposed to be comedy, teen movie, satire?  Tied to a bed for three days, Helen Mirren has a bladder of infinite capacity and an unquenchable source of venom. This could have been a movie had the villain any motivation for her dislike of the protagonist.  Unfortunately there is nothing remotely resembling anything that would qualify for a plausible plot.  Give this movie a B? I think not! "},{"Title":"This movie sucked ass!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"    I'm a big fan of Kevin Williamson's and I expected a lot from this movie but I must say it sucked. It was so stupid how every one at school was afraid of Mrs Tingle including the other teachers and the principal who actually has the authority to fire her. But that's not all, just watch the ending, it was the worst part of the entire movie. And sometimes it seems as if the plot focused more on what the definition of ironic is than the plot itself. people know what ironic means, nobody wants to see some stupid people argueing over what the definitions of ironic is.The plot is not bad but Kevin Williamson turned it into a stinker. How could he make such a bad movie after making kick ass movies like The Faculty and Scream? I hope he realized how bad this movie sucked and improves a lot in his next movie(not counting scream 3) I guess that even though this movie sucked people should be a little comprehensive cause after all kevin williamson is a great writer.   "}{"Title":"A Disappointment At Best","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Williamson, a writer of which I am fond, really blew this  one.  The original idea sounded okay (students take revenge on a teacher who's out to get them) but as either a thriller, a sick comedy, or an act of revenge on one of Williamson's former teachers, it doesn't work.  Who knows, the failure might even have been caused by the strict censorship Miramax imposed before releasing it (the name alone, Killing Mrs. Tingle, isn't exactly politically correct in this post-Columbine era).  But no matter how many excuses I can come up with, I just can't see this movie being a hit. Students raid their unjust teacher's house, assault her, and hold her hostage for three days for.... an A?  If this is not an incitement to school violence I don't know what is.Besides the awful plot and horrible script (let alone directing), Katie Holmes is dry as ever.  At the so-called climax she has no emotion at all. She's no match for Helen Mirren's good representation of a horrible character (absolutely no motivation for hating all students and promoting a single one).  Marisa Coughlan's completely irrelevant Exorcist scene may be the unfortunate high-point of the movie.I do hope Williamson will continue to right such entertaining TV shows and movies as he already has, but lets hope that this was the odd one out and there wont be any more like it. "},{"Title":"This film could have been better.","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I am sorry. As much as I try I cannot like this movie. I saw it once and I am not going to forgive myself. This could have been something. A movie. I consider this a waste of money. The writing and the acting and the story was not the best, it wasn't even worth a second look. Please avoid this film at all costs. it will haunt you inside. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable rental","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Judging from the reviews of many others who have commented, you would think that this movie is one of worst of all times-but, it is far from that.  This movie is not trying to be a classic, it is just a simple, entertaining movie.  Good performances from the cast(especially Marisa Coughlin).  If I had paid eight dollars to watch this one at the movie theater, then I would probably be disappointed, but as a rental, it was good.  Give this one a 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Dumb and pointless","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Ms. Tingle is a movie that you really can't cheer for except when the acting is done well.  The plot is stupid, the characters are stupid, and the whole movie itself is rather pointless.  This movie is out there.  Ms. Tingle is a nightmare, but I really don't think anyone has really had a teacher so downright evil.  She would simply be fired for complaints by students and teachers.  Anyways, the only real action in this movie is the sex scene with Katie Holmes.  She is visually stunning, but the rest of the movie fails.  It just couldn't deliver where it needed to.  Better luck next time.   "},{"Title":"Masterful","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to understand the movie business these days. A rotten film like Shakespeare in Love hangs around theatres for years, while a superb effort like Teaching Mrs. Tingle seems to open and close in the same night.TMT is one of the best teen horror/drama films in a long, long time, even if the terror is more psychological than overt. All four lead characters are superb in their roles, and Helen Mirren has down pat the wicked teacher we all remember (though in my case she taught English, not history). Marisa Coughlan is outstanding as a ditzy teen struggling both with the horrible mess she and her friends have landed in, and a major crush on somebody else's boy.  By far the best performance of the night is Katie Holmes, who graduates from a rather ethereal showing in Go to a haunting performance here that should at least win her a Blockbuster Award, if not the Oscar she deserves (I mean, come on! If GWYNETH can win one...)  This is a fab film. Creepy teacher, adorable Katie, great soundtrack, plus the DELICIOUS Molly Ringwald who just gets better with the years. (Molly and Jamie Lee Curtis are the only actresses who are sexier now than when they began their careers.) RENT IT TODAY! "},{"Title":"Thank God For Katie Holmes","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs Tingle is a film just dying to be a drama, or at least lusting to become a horror flick in the Scream mould.Instead the producers have floundered about aimlessly chasing the teen prom- flick dollar and come up with something that won't appeal much to anyone.It's no good being half hearted with of all things a horror flick, even a comedy horror film. How could that work?Scream was penned by Kevin Williamson and directed by gore flick master Wes Craven, but Teaching Mrs Tingle was Williamson's first go at direction.Williamson can certainly write good, sometimes very good mock horror films. He wrote the two Scream movies, as well as Scream Three (due out in 2000), I Know What You Did Last Summer, Halloween H20 and The Faculty. But this effort was unsure.Just look at the plot. I would have thought that it would have been obvious that students holding a teacher hostage after she's caught them cheating wouldn't be very funny. Shooting her with a crossbow and then threatening blackmail is unlikely to be funny.(Well on reflection I suppose that even that could be very amusing in the right hands, but it just didn't work here.)	Hiring an excellent actress like Helen Mirren to play the teacher only compounded the problem. She like all intelligent actresses played the part straight, hoping that the script would engineer situations that would work.	But no such luck here. Mirren was left looking like the fish out of water she was, and a rather desperate, suffocating fish at that.	But all was not lost because Dawson's Creek's Katie Holmes was featured as one of the students. Her impressive feature film debut in Disturbing Behaviour wasn't a fluke, it never could have been. Here's an actress who's expressive face commands respect. 	Katie Holmes would make just about anything worth watching, even Teaching Mrs Tingle.  "},{"Title":"What a waste....","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Helen Mirren is the only redeeming quality in this movie.  I read the actual script when the title was still Killing Mrs. Tingle.  The original script was ten times better than Teaching Mrs. Tingle.  And that awful tacked on ending.  The original ending was excellent and fit the word irony.  The ending to this is so predictable its pathetic.  Waste of time.  I'll just read the script again and try to forget this version. "},{"Title":"boring danger, just like a horror movie","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think everyone likes the basic theme of the movie, an evil teacher gets what he deserves. However, this is a movie written by the author of Scream, and I had all problems with it that I also have with horror movies I was at the same time bored by the lack of interesting scenes and excited in an uncomfortable way because of the danger, i.e. at the same time I wanted to fall asleep and where totally nervous.And all the time my mind was constantly reporting all these typical faults of horror movies they talk too much, and far too intimately, with the teacher, as if it would be their friend and not their enemy, they behave often like sheeps in dangerous situations, and they run into danger as if they had not been warned before. If a fighter in a war would behave that stupid, he would run around singing loudly while he knows enemies are around him, with no ammunition in his weapons and far away from any cover. How surprising that he dies or get caught !!!Katie Holmes had real problems with her role, she had to be an intelligent girl which is skilled in writing and a stupid girl, which doesn't know what irony means, and a girl which is the best pupil of a school and a stupid girl, which sleeps with some boy for completely idiotic reasons, all at the same time ! That simply doesn't work. The acting of the other people in this movie where good, however.And the manipulations of the teacher on the pupils are so laughable. For the plural is simply wrong she only manipulates them all into one way. The way she did it was a little nifty, but it was completely obvious for the watcher. So better watch The Negotiator with Samuel L. Jackson if you want to see really excellent psychological manipulations.The end of the movie, however, was really good, it appeared suddenly and was very surprising and funny. There is also another really amusing scene where the lover of the teacher enters the house. The only problem was its unlikeliness; for example, the man hugs a boy in the dark and doesn't notice that this is not his beloved. Everyone knows women have the softer skin and some really soft organs in front of their hearts which men don't have ! So this was funny, but not at all realistic.In the sum, I've to state that I didn't liked this movie, which really was a disappointment because I thought it must be very good. But I think younger people (I'm 27) and pupils might enjoy it, because in younger age you don't know that much about how people behave in reality. "},{"Title":"Hey, it's not that bad!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why everyone has given this movie such harsh reviews. Sure, it's quite far fetched and unbelievable but who wants to watch something realistic? People go to the movies in the hope that they'll be entertained and this movie is certainly entertaining. It's true that Marisa Coughlan stole the show - her Exorcist routine was a true crack up. Other funny bits involve a drunken coach who mistakes Luke (Barry Watson) for his lover! The only other major highlights were the steamy love scene between Leigh Ann (Katie Holmes) and Luke and Mrs Tingle's (Helen Mirren) particularly nasty remarks. I really don't see that there's that much to complain about - if you don't like the storyline there's plenty of eye candy. Katie Holmes is pretty and Barry Watson is sexy. It also has a great soundtrack! I say, give it a chance! "},{"Title":"FUNNY yet not funny","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren) is a teacher who hates her students and will do what ever it takes to fail them. Leigh Ann (Katie Holmes) is a good student, she wants to be Validictorian of her class but Mrs. Tingle catches her with the copy of the final exam in her back pack, but Leigh Ann wasn't going to cheat, Luke (Barry Watson) who plays the school looser put it there and then Leigh ann and her friend and Luke go to mrs. tingles house and Mrs. Tingle attacks them so they knock her out and keep her hostage. The movie shows all the funny things that happen with Mrs. Tingle gone and Mrs. Banks (molly ringwald) takes over Mrs. Tingles History Class. But the movie takes a twist when the gym teacher shows up at Tingles house (its funny) and it gets very good when tingle gets loose and Leigh Ann has to face her. "}{"Title":"a little far-fetched,but still entertaining","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  i liked this movie. at first when i found out that this movie was gonna be PG-13 i thought i wouldn't like it. since all other kevin williamson movies are rated R. but as watched this movie i liked it. it was full of  entertaining stuff,and interesting characters. i liked katie holme's character the best. this movie could've been even better if it was rated R,but it still was good. it's not as good as scream,scream 2,and the faculty,but better than i know what you did last summer. all in all a  fun,entertaining movie. i give teaching mrs. tingle ***out of **** "},{"Title":"Typical Teen Movie with Slightly Better Acting","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING ONE SLIGHT SPOILERWhy pay $8 to watch a Kevin Williamson movie when you can watch Dawson's Creek for free every Wednesday at 8? There are very few differences between his movies and his show terrible dialogue, flavor-of-the-month stars with minimal talent, and a teen-angst theme reminiscent of John Hughes. However, there is something guiltily appealing. You want to know what will happen to the characters. Teaching Mrs. Tingle is no exception. The dialogue is awful, the end is predictable and the cast is a mosaic of WB prime-time shows (7th Heaven's Barry Watson and Dawsons' Katie Holmes).However, there are some excellent performances from Helen Mirren and Marisa Coughlan. Katie Holmes and Barry Watson, however, are flat. "},{"Title":"The Horror!!!  The Horror!!!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning contains spoilers*Devil Doll.  Manos, the Hands of Fate.  An American Werewolf in Paris.  To this top-notch company we can now add Teaching Mrs. Tingle, a movie so bad it makes you forget how extraordinary attractive Katie Holmes is.  There is not a SINGLE redeeming quality in this film aside from the acting of Helen Mirren.  The camerawork is non-existent.  The story?  Same thing!  In middle eastern countries they probably cut writer's hands off for creating something this horrible!Why is it so awful, you ask?  Well let's start at the beginning of the film. Leigh Ann Watson is another pretty girl who wants to go to college, but apparently has to be valevictorian(sp?) to get a scholarship to so much as the local state U.  She puts a lot of effort into a school project, but not a lot into actually acting opposite the actress that plays the mother. She ends up with a C+ on the afforementioned assignment, and so she manipulates her fellow talentless hottie and a guy who can't act to go the the evil teacher's house.  Whackiness ensues, and Tingle somehow ends up held hostage by (gasp!) a crossbow!!!  Where do they come up with this stuff!  Tingle spends the next hour manipulating the trio (which they never catch on to) until the boring, unrealistic climax.Katie Holmes manages to be better than her material, which doesn't say a whole lot.  Barry Watson should be shot with that crossbow.  Marissa Coughlan is going to find work in Hollywood very tough to come by once her abundant beauty fades.  And Kevin Williamson?  Can we say flavor of the month?  He needs to go back to high school if he thinks this is how kids really act. Nothing he creates has any tension or authentic emotion.There's two scenes that really stand out in this movie (though not for the right reasons).  First is Coughlan's re-enactment of The Exorcist.  It's so bad I had to lock my eyes firmly on the floor the whole time.  No nude scene has ever been so downright embarassing to watch as this fully clothed display of talent.  The other scene to stand out was when Katie is looking at the coach's wife reading her Bible.  Katie's reflection is projected unto a covered window.  However, it's so faint you can barely see it!  It's funny, Williamson inadvertently stumbled into a semi-artistic shot!There is nothing worth seeing in this film.  I don't even reccomend it to Holmes lovers.  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Extremely Boring (a bad quality for a teen film)","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Going into Teaching Mr. Tingle, I had high hopes for it.  For some reason I'm attracted to teen films.  I don't think I've ever missed one.  Well to put it nicely I wish I could have made this one the only one to miss.  The film never picked up.  About twenty five minutes into it, I was looking at my watch and struggling to sit still in my uncomfortable theatre seat.  The characters, with the exception of Mirren, were horribly bland.  Unfortunately I don't even know the name of the lead male actor, but you can tell I was bored stiff with him.  Just your typical long haired rebellious type.  I won't give it away, but then ending is absolutely terrible.  Teaching Mrs. Tingle struggles to find an identity.  When I first read about Killing Mrs. Tingle I assumed it was a horror film.  Then I watched an interview with Kevin Williamson and he said that it was a dark comedy.  Well, it was neither.  I didn't laugh once and I was never frightened.  I don't know what to make of this film!!  I don't care if Kevin Williamson wrote Scream.  These movies (especially his) are becoming bland and just plain dumb.  He needs to find a new genre.  I didn't mind The Faculty but I have to admit the dialogue was awful.  I think Scream 3 will be the final film of the Dimension Films teen series.  Thank God!!! "},{"Title":"not THAT bad (4.7?)","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this could have been better. It could have been much better. But there have been worse ones and not too long ago, Varsity Blues, for example. Mirren makes this one what it is and then some. We don't see enough of Ringwald, but what we see, especially as Mrs. Tingle's substitute, is quite good. Just about everyone does okay with what they have. It's just that the writer(s) could not make up their minds if they wanted it to be serious or not. I assume that they wanted a black comedy, but it got too preachy. Also, the love/sex scene between the two protagonists was about as erotic as watching some one slice tomatoes... "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Tingle was a lesson she didn't forget","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a lesson she'll never forget Teaching Mrs. Tingle was an excellent Movie. It was Thrilling and Chilling. And what good acting too. (Katie Holmes) was super and (Helen Mirren) I have too give all the credit too her. Because she did excellent acting in this movie. This was a great movie. I give it 10 stars **********! "},{"Title":"I KNOW THIS MOVIE ABOUT AN EVIL FACULTY MEMBER IS SO BAD, IT WILL MAKE YOU SCREAM SO LOUD IT CAN BE HEARD FROM DAWSON'S CREEK.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  OK. Let me start by saying that I'm not exactly president of Kevin Williamson's Fan Club.  I do see all his movies his name is attached to when they come out in theaters.  I was there for I KNOW WHAT LOIS DUNCAN NOVEL KEVIN WILLIAMSON BUTCHERED LAST SUMMER and the HALLOWEEN sequel that used the compound for water to make it bankable, and that BODY SNATCHERS RIPOFF featuring all those hot young stars that are somehow attached to the WB lineup next fall.  I also occasionally tune into the show he created about the film buff teenager with the really big head.  Here is a screenwriter that is getting all this hype and everytime he comes out with a new project, I try to look long and hard for the appeal of his works.  Now comes TEACHING MRS. TINGLE, a movie that he claims is his  best representation of himself as a screenwriter. When I first heard that, I thought,  Wow! This movie is a must-see!  Then, it came out. I saw it. I wanted to like it..I tried so hard to find one good element in it. There was one. And she's British. Anyway, but i walked out of the theater and felt and odd sort of depression and anger. Something I haven't felt since BATMAN AND ROBIN and I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. First of all, TEACHING MRS. TINGLE is a boring premise to begin with.  The story about a would-be valedictorian who despises a history teacher who catches her with the final exam and the girls struggle to get revenge on the history teacher isn't exactly a box-office magnet, even if Katie Holmes gets top billing. This is suppose to be a teen movie, but none of the teenagers in this movie are on the same level as teenagers today. There is a character named Luke Churner, played by Barry Watson from...surprise...a WB show. He plays the beer-drinking slacker of the school. If your a teenager today..you know that most of your best friends are beer-drinking slackers. Anyway, the only likable young character in the movie is Marisa Coughlan's portrayal of aspiring actress Jo Lynn. She is a cute presence and she makes up for the dialogue that is beyond corny. Helen Mirren is great in this movie..but the fact that she's in this movie is the problem. She's given so little to work with, it like Kevin Williamson just told her  Make those powerful facial expressions you did in PRIME SUSPECT.  As for the script, it doesn't know what it wants to be. TEACHING MRS. TINGLE is the most schizophrenic movie I ever saw. It wants to be a comedy..but  it isn't funny, it wants to be a suspense movie...but its got none, it wants to be a farce..but its slow moving and dull, and it wants to be a teen movie...but the only people that would identify with the characters are people like Dawson Leary, Joey, or Sidney Prescott. Mrs. Tingle is supposed to be this domineering, evil presence, but we get no background information about why she is what she is.  She could have had a traumatic experiece causing her diabolical personality, or maybe its just her time of the month.  If she is that evil, why didn't these smart-alecky kids have her fired a long time ago? The dialogue is wooden and the movie references take obvious to a whole new level. If this movie is Williamson's best representation of himself as a writer, why is the main character played by Katie Holmes???  Well, I'm still awaiting for the definitive Kevin Williamson movie. Maybe James Van Der Beek or Tia and Tamara Mowry from the WB sitcom SISTER SISTER can star. "},{"Title":"Someone teach Kevin Williamson how to make a good movie","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle is the first film directed by Kevin Williamson, creator of Scream and Dawson's Creek.   His vision is sort of a darker John Hughes. In fact, Molly Ringwald even appears in this film as a sort of homage to Hughes' Pretty in Pink. Tingle is a psychological thriller in which TV's Katie Holmes and two other high school kids hold their mean history teacher hostage, tied to a bed, for days. Helen Mirren plays the title character, and this fine English actress is more than up to the job. But her very competence only points up the insipid nature of the whole project.  "},{"Title":"Funny, suspenseful, worth the bucks.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The cast is wonderful, the story.. a great one. Great acting on all parties. Molly Ringwald is delightful, Vivica Fox should have had more of a role, however. From beginning to end, a great film that will make you laugh and push you to the edge of your seat.  "},{"Title":"Revenge may be late but it's still sweet","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Grade 9 History, Stanley Graves, the teacher from hell - he handed out impossible assignments; absolutely relished humiliating any student who dared ask a question; criticized everything you did and we were pretty sure he was a veteran - of the Civil War.  Who hasn't come across a Stanley in the course of their education?In Teaching Mrs. Tingle Helen Mirren (does she ever get a role where she gets to smile?) plays Eve Tingle, evil incarnate with a teaching degree- feared and despised by all.  When she finds Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes), the brightest girl in school, in possession of the upcoming history test, Tingle vows to destroy her and her little friends (Barry Watson and Melissa Coughlan).  The trio decides that they have to change her mind - by any means possible - and things quickly go wrong.Katie Holmes once again finds herself upstaged by one of her co-stars (Pollack in Go)- this time around it is Coughlan as her best friend Jo Lynn who steals the show.  Jo Lynn is vibrant, outrageous and just plain fun (as noted by a previous poster, it seems like she was doing improv for most of the film). Although Mirren's Tingle is over-the-top, anything less would have killed the whole premise of the movie.The plot is predictable, the characters are cartoonish, but so what?  It was cathartic and I enjoyed it.Tuesday for the teacher. "}{"Title":"Spiteful and BORING!!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Pact-With-the-Devil Williamson scores a zero with this, his first directorial effort.  Allegedly K.W. based this script on his own experience with a monstrous high school teacher who told him that he would not make a good writer.  Based on this effort he would have done well to have listened---Teaching Mrs.Tingle exhibits all the vices and none of the very meager virtues of Williamson's writing and the sloppy direction on top of it all makes it all that worse an experience; his smug, smart-alecky pop-cultural references, cardboard characters who speak in affected, overly self-conscious ironic overtones, and the trite, out-of-nowhere events of the plot are palatable in movies like scream where at least there's some gratuitous gore and violence to distract the audience.But there's nothing to latch onto here.  The plot's preposterous and illogical (the way Tingle catches Katie Holmes's character cheating stretches credibility way past the point of audience good will) but worst of all, the characters have no depth or dimension.  This would have been fun as a cat-and-mouse flick if Mrs.Tingle and her three captors were equally matched somehow; if the monstrous teacher and the teenagers could verbally and mentally spar on an equal playing field, there would have been some edge or tension for the audience and some uncertainty about how it would all end.  Instead, the teenaged characters are such nincompoops and shallow airheads that they neither inspire sympathy or confidence in holding their own with the dreaded Mrs.Tingle.  They're such dim, self-involved bulbs that you almost wish Mrs.Tingle could break free and wipe them out just to give the movie some juice and end their pathetic whining about how she's ruined their lives.Helen Mirren is a very talented actress and such a magnetic screen presence (PLEASE check out her work in the Prime Suspect series!!!) that she's fun to watch even in dreck like this.  But Williamson writes the character as such a one-dimensional gorgon and all-purpose witch that she's given nothing very interesting to do.  What Kevin Williamson seems to have forgotten (or maybe he never knew?) was that the most interesting villains have some humanity in them, that it's actually MORE horrific when the audience can identify with the villain a little bit and see that there's some depth and rationale to their behavior.  But Mrs.Tingle is really just annoyed that she is stuck being a teacher in a small town (an incredibly condescending view of small towns AND teachers!...this reveals more about the smug Hollywood mentality behind this script than about small-town history teachers). Mirren is stuck with being a mean old crone, spite in a vacuum.  There's no reason to care, nothing to chew on in this ostensibly psychological thriller.  Williamson should have just cast this role with a drag queen---he wrote the character with about that much credibility and realism.It's obvious that the writer/director had so much trouble seeing through his own anger and spite that he was trapped in this deterministic view of teenaged life---Teacher Bad, Teenagers Good.  There's no sense of discovery, no suspense for the audience.  This is fine for nonsense like Scream which is a cinematic excuse for a body count, but ...Mrs.Tingle is a poor excuse for psychological suspense because Williamson's bag of tricks doesn't hold up to scrutiny without the excess gore and smugness which infects his genre films.Kevin Williamson is one of the most successful and overpaid screenwriters in H'Wood and one of the few who can write his own ticket.  Based on this mess, can we say, The Emperor's New Clothes...?  Kevin, get over it!  No matter how insulting your teacher was, I'm sure your $millions$ keep you a little warmer at night... "},{"Title":"Didnt hit the mark.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this with an open mind because the advanced word on this movie was not good. I like Kevin Williamson's work. This movie either went through some reshoots or they couldn't decide  on the tone for the movie. One minute it was Black Comedy aka Heathers and then the next they were playing Rock and it was like a Teen comedy. Which one did they want.Seems like they couldn't decide. I would have loved the movie if it continued to Stay Dark but it didn't. It's like they wanted to appeal to different crowds.The best thing about the movie was Helen Mirren. Wow! What a great performance in a Bad movie. Too bad she didn't have better material but she did redeem the movie from being Really bad. "},{"Title":"OK movie, NOT a disaster","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews led me to believe this movie was horrendous.  It's no great shakes, but it's not that bad.  The plot is interesting (high school students tying up a mean old b**** of a teacher who's trying to ruin their lives), but writer/director Williamson doesn't let it go all out.  He seems to be afraid to exploit the idea for all it's worth.  Also there are HUGE gaps in logic (the teenagers unburden all their deep feelings to a teacher they have tied up and Mrs. Tingle is tied up for a day or two and never has to use the bathroom?) and the humor in the film doesn't really work.  What keeps the film watchable is that it moves VERY quickly (it's just under 90 minutes) and the cast is pretty good.  The best is Mirren as Mrs. Tingle.  She's always been a good actress (she managed to make it through Caligula with her dignity intact), and she is obviously enjoying herself immensely.  It's worth seeing just for her performance.  So no great shakes, but no disaster either. "},{"Title":"BIG disappointment","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Williamson Great writer of such credit as scream, i know what you did last summer, and TV's Dawsons creek. Not this time. I am a big fan of kevin williamson and when i heard he was not only writing another movie but directing it i was counting down the days. But i just got back and it really sucked. The plot had holes you wouldn't believe, the dialogue is not his usual sarcastic fest but shallow dialogue for even more shallow characters. If you have seen everything at the theater check this one out for a FEW laughs but that's all you'll get.  "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Tingle","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie today and it was the best. Barry Watson was really cute and he did a great job acting. and Katie was great also. i wish that i was her in the movies cause she gets to kiss Barry but that's not the point. the point is the movie rocked. 2 very enthusiastic thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Adult-napping the teacher from hell","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad, but I'm still not convinced that the Katie Holmes is headed for best actress.  She's hot, but acting classes in character dynamics are definitely in the cards.  Don't get me wrong she carries the part fairly well, but I was waiting for Dawson to come running in with a camera.  Nothing new there.On the other hand, who was the little red head.  A star in the making.  She does a weak Linda Blair, but watching her moan and hop around on the bed almost possessed my soul.  She is definitely a must see.The kid from 7th Heaven did o.k., also nothing new.  Except he did look like he needed a bath in this one.  Make-up=Maybe, Bad hygiene=More likely.Overall the film was well put together and the director did his job as usual.I gave it a 6 1/2. "},{"Title":"Should be called Teaching Mr. Williamson How To Direct","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This would have been a good movie if it had more twists and way better acting than what we were given here. In Williamson's first movie, it looks as if he only made each scene in one take and the movie was made in two weeks. The story is alittle dry and it seems as if the life of the movie was dragged on a bit to make it at least 90 mins. long. The cast is promising, and if they can get into better rolls, their true colors would shine through. The thing that this movie really needed was to be rated R and to actually be a horror movie, since thats what Williamson seems to be good at. Oh well, guess we'll have to wait until The Faculty part 2 comes out...  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A totally fun flick!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I really loved Teaching Mrs. Tingle! It was really fun, and I liked it a lot. Katie Holmes was really good as the school's valedictorian, and Barry Watson and Marisa Caughlin were equally good as the best friends. Helen Mirren was really great, and a little frightening as the evil Mrs. Tingle who wants her students to fail.Leigh Anne (Holmes) is the smartest girl in school, but is found with Mrs. Tingle's final. Tingle is happy to find this, because she wants all students to fail. Leigh Anne is actually innocent... But to persuade Tingle not to expel the three, they go to her house, and things get more fun and twisted from there.The best and funniest scene in this movie is Marisa doing an impersonation from the Exorcist. It made my eyes water!Overall, this movie is very suspenseful, a little scary and totally funny! This movie rocked!My rating 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I liked this movie.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was good, Helen Mirren's performance was really good as with Katie Holmes, Marissa Coughlan, and Barry Watson.Kevin Williamson is very good, but he did a really good job on this movie. This movie had something to it I liked, I think it was Helen Mirren's acting. And Marisa Coughlan. And everyone has had a teacher like that, and what happened in the house the first night was great. And the ending was good, and had a What? kind of ending. And I hated Mrs. Tingle at the end, so fake but the movie had comedy, thrill, and horror. Williamson's attempt at directing was good for a first try but could have been better but there is nothing to worry about. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle may not be one of the greatest movies to grace the big screen, but it is not the worst either.The movie is a fantasy revenge story at its core.  We've all had a person like Mrs. Tingle (teacher or not) that seemed like that their sole purpose in life was to make our lives miserable as possible.  This movie explores the option of what could happen if we took the opportunity to get back at that person.While this movie is not without its flaws, (acting got shallow at points, the pop-culture references that are becoming cliches of their own, etc) this film is quite enjoyable...that is if you are not looking for the best picture of the year.   "}{"Title":"Good But not Great","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle was an Ok movie. what do I mean by that? Well it didn't have as much action as I had expected and it isn't that funny. But the part when Jeffrey Tambor starts kissing Barry Watson is pretty funny. It kind of seemed flat and the scenes went on with no action.  "},{"Title":"Barry Watson and Helen Mirren deserve A's.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the  film was pretty entertaining.  It's never boring and the acting is quite good.   Helen Mirren's character is a little too cruel to be realistic, and her softer side was very undeveloped.   She was like a one dimensional intelligent bi#*h and the ending of the film with her performance seemed a little soft.  Katie Holmes was cute and Helen really got into the subconscious of the girls characters.  Marisa Coughlan was also quite amusing with her Monroe and Linda Blair impression,   even though her character was at some points a little slow and emotionally unstable. Barry Watson was very attractive and his performance does not really disappoint,  even though the film should have studied more into his psychological self.  The movie isn't really horror,  and it's more of a black comedy with some lessons of morality and self discovery. The film does have a few twists and its not nearly as bad as some critics are saying.   After watching the nauseating Blair Witch Project,  Teaching Mrs. Tingle was satisfying in more ways than one.      "},{"Title":"Not enough happening in this movie.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I remember when this movie first trailers came around. It looked like a fun movie but above all also a fast paced one with lots of action and thriller elements. However very little of this can be seen back into this movie. A really wasted opportunity, for it's premise was a good one and a rather interestingly original one as well.Maybe I expected too much, since Kevin Williamson, the man behind the Scream movies was at the helm of this movie. The movie turned out to be not quite good or tense enough for a thriller and too serious and weak for a fun comedy. Therefor I can't help regarding Teaching Mrs. Tingle as a failed movie, that misses its target.They could had done so much interesting with this movie its story but basically rarely anything tense or remarkable occurs. Mrs. Tingle spends about three quarters of the movie lying tied on bed. They could have let here character manipulate all of the students in a slick and bitchy way, to set them up against each other. The movie does this but it really doesn't go far enough in this. The movie remains pretty shallow because of this and it lacks some good tension and creativity. Not that it's boring but it isn't terrible interesting either.It's also a waste of Helen Mirren's talent. This is not a role we see her often in. She does provide the movie with some really excellent moments but the script offers her little really interesting to do.Nothing wrong with the rest of the cast either really. Katie Holmes really isn't bad in it and so isn't Barry Watson, who I think they tried to launch as the new Johnny Depp, who also started his career in a movie with a similar style as this one; A Nightmare on Elm Street but he never made it and he already is a forgotten actor. Jeffrey Tambor plays a fun role and so does Molly Ringwald, who's role is obviously referring to her image of queen of high-school movies.The movie could had really used some more pace, action and tension. It now instead is a rather shallow movie in which too little (interesting) is happening. It still is a somewhat fun movie to watch and obviously not one to take very serious but it all isn't quite enough to make this movie stand out.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"just not interesting","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I made it about halfway through this movie, and at that point realized that I absolutely didn't care how it ended. It is basically a bland teen comedy that I only watched because I like Helen Mirren, who is in fact very good as an impossibly cruel teacher.The basic idea of the movie (or let's say the first half of the movie, since I don't know - or care - how the second half goes) has been done before, most notably in 9 to 5, and a comparison between the two shows how thoroughly Tingle gets it wrong. You need to feel things are spiraling out of control in a way that makes you feel events are inevitable, and you need well-defined, interesting characters who you care about, and you don't have that. Not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it never grabbed me for a second. "},{"Title":"This was excellent!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"     ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I LOVE THIS MOVIE! It was sooo funny. This appeals to teenagers mostly because it is teaching a teacher a lesson thus some adults think they are perfect meaning all their bad reviews weren't really true because there weren't any teenagers or young adults judging. This reminded me of a few bad teachers I had. When Leigh Ann got a bad grade on a really good history project it reminded me of how my history teacher ALSO gave me an unfair grade on an awesome project too. It started getting funny as soon as they went to Mrs.Tingle's house late one night to plea for better grades. Leigh Ann,Luke and Jo Lynn end up inside her house and corner Mrs.T into a wall by threatening her w/ a bow and arrow. She ends up unconcious,and the house becomes destroyed(literally). The 3 friends end up tying her to her own bed and hold her captive a few days. She manipulates all three of their minds but in the end they pull through. The part w/ Spanky and the pictures was one of the best but I think the funniest was when they undid a few buttons on Mrs.T's shirt for the blackmail pic of her and spanky and they reveal a velour and leather,strapless bra for Spanky's pleasure. You never think about teachers personal lives until then really and then the humor sets in. Teachers are human beings too I guess-lol! This was a great laugh but some of the material is a little vulgar and exposing so it might be better for kids 11 and up probably. Watch it!!! This movie ROX!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  TEACHING MRS. TINGLE is a really dark comedy. It is so dark that at first I thought that it was directed by John Waters. I later found out that it wasn't directed by John Waters, but by Kevin Williamson. Kevin Williamson has written and directed a movie that is almost as dark and funny as a John Waters movie. The characters are strange and the plot is kind of confusing, but that is what I like about this movie. It's strange. It may be a little too strange for some people, but it was perfect for me. "},{"Title":"Pretty good story....one very good actress","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The one actress I'm talking about is Marisa Coughlan, who played Jo Lynn.  She is obviously a very talented actress and her whole exorcist scene (which had nothing to do with the movie at all, whatsoever) was awesome.  Other than that, the plot was kind of weak, but the characters were very likeable and it kept me interested.  It's a cute movie. "},{"Title":"It was all downhill or Williamson after Scream","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning  May contain some spoilers*I have just one question...WTF WAS WILLIAMSON THINKING?!?!?  After Scream came a long line off horrible movies on his part (I Know What You Did Last Summer and Halloween H20 just to name a few).  If this movie was supposed to be a comedy, it wasn't funny.  If it was supposed to be horror, nothing was scary with an exception of Katie Holmes's performance.  If it was supposed to be a thriller, I was not thrilled.The movie is basically about three high school seniors who are fed up with their history teacher's constant berating of students.  Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes) is the only daughter of a waitress and wants desperately to be named valedictorian and go off to college to escape her mother's nametag. Jo Lynn Jordan (Marissa Coughlan) is Leigh Ann's sidekick, who is hopelessly in love with Luke Churner (Barry Watson).  Luke gets the answers to some big test coming up in Mrs. Tingle's (Helen Mirren) class and puts in into Leigh Ann's backpack.  Mrs. Tingle finds it and threatens to expose it to that principal, which would get Leigh Ann kicked out of school.  So the kids decide to try to go to her house and explain what happened.  A lot of weird stuff happens and someone eventually ends up getting shot with a crossbow (which was so cleverly handy).  So now the teens must tie up Mrs. Tingle and try to resolve the problem w/o getting expelled.Katie Holmes's performance is horrible.  She is nothing but a pretty face. Barry Watson gives a performance much like Katie's... horrible.  They should both stick to the WB.  The only redeeming character in the movie is Marissa Coughlan.  She is wonderful, and brings spark to this otherwise dead movie. Her exorcist scene is the only thing from the movie that I remember. Helen Mirren was good considering what she had to work with.  She WAS tied to the bed for just about the whole movie.  I don't know anything about her but I believe she won an Oscar for one of her movies, and she is a very respectable actress.  I don't know why she wasted her time on this movie. She should stick to English movies.There are a few cameos in this movie.  Vivica A. Fox was in a whole one scene of this movie.  But, what was the meaning of even having her character in the movie.  All she does is tries to look like a `cool' guidance counselor by using a couple swear words and calling Mrs. Tingle and b***h. Then she gives her good old `you can do anything that you put you mind into because I believe in you' skit.  I found her character kind of pointless and that was good money that they could have given to the writer to try to write a better script.  Molly Ringwald also has a short, unmemorable part in this movie.  She is a receptionist at the desk and later becomes the substitute for Mrs. Tingle's class.  Why would they have a receptionist being a substitute?  Anyway.she gets to say skank, hoe, and slut, and then we don't see anymore of her.  Where they trying to lure teen-agers in by making adults cuss?  I guess so.. and well. it's just not working.Were Leigh Ann, Luke, and Jo Lynn supposed to be the good guys?  And Mrs. Tingle the bad?  Ok.so Leigh Ann, Luke, and Jo Lynn are about to cheat on a test.  Then they go to Mrs. Tingle's house to try to explain what happened, but just end up lying.  Then they shoot her with a bow, and tie her up to a bed, just because she's doing her job.  Then they try to set up a scandal, just so that they won't get caught.  They go mess with the school's grades, so that the Trudie gets a B when she deserved an A.  They give Leigh Ann and A.  And we're supposed to think of them as the good guys.  And the thing is.the teacher that never really did anything especially wrong gets fired, and the kids get off scott free!  After kidnapping, blackmail, assult, and conspiracy to cover up, they get off!  And Leigh Ann gets to be valedictorian after cheating her way to it!  I was personally rooting for Mrs. Tingle.Some of the things that were ridiculous to me.Why did they even talk to Mrs. Tingle?  She was obviously just playing mind games with them.  But they always listened to everything that she said and took it to heart!  Just gag her and go on doing you own thing!  You are holding her hostage for god's sakes.don't tell her your whole life story.They have just taken Mrs. Tingle hostage and Leigh Ann goes `Oh no!  I have to get home.  Mom likes to keep the cigarettes burning.  See you tomorrow'. Your mom is a grown woman.  You friend have just taken a woman hostage to get you off the hook and you're just gonna leave like nothing happened?Jo Lynn is up there about to be caught, and Leigh Ann and Luke are down there about to make out with each other.  Don't they even care if they get caught?  Why don't they try to help her out?The only reason I saw this movie was because my friend's said that it was so good.  I spent 4 bucks renting this from Blockbuster.  When I was done I wished that it had never happened.  I think that I am somehow dumber from watching this movie.  Never again will I listen to my friend's advice on movies.  Hopefully Helen and Coughlan go on to do MUCH better things (even though that doesn't say much).  As for Holmes and Watson.stick to 7th Heaven the the Creek.  I give it a 3.1 for Coughlan, 1 for Mirren, and 1 for that hysterical Exorcist scene.  "},{"Title":"Coulda been cool...  (SPOILERS)","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  You know, I'm getting really tired of all the generic music being used in these type of movies (see Jawbreaker, Disturbing Behavior, etc). Every scene of genuine tension here (and there is some) is immediately undercut with some cheesy pop tune, completely diluting the suspense.  Why do they do that?  To sell some soundtracks, of course, but in this case, mission unaccomplished - did anyone buy the CD?And yeah, Ms. Mirren attacks her role with zest and relish (with some cheez-wiz to add kick).  But what are Molly, Leslie and Vivica doing here? Their roles (they're so underused that I cannot use characters here) have no purpose in the storyline, so I can't figure out why three well-known actresses had been cast.Oh, and the ending is so unbelievably hackneyed and irresponsible.  The kids get off scot-free and act as if nothing happened - all smiles at graduation. They're criminals, people!  No consequences for their actions (kidnapping, assault, grade tampering) - nothing.Little things too - was Tingle's tale about her husband true?  What's with the crossbow?  Would the virginal Katie character loose her cherry on a whim like that? (Great message, guys.) Why did McKean go to her home?  How did Kate's academic nemesis walk through the door at that exact moment?  How do students even obtain teachers' home addresses?  WHAT'S WITH JEFFREY TAMBOR?? On what basis did McKean fire Tingle?  She's bloodied, battered and held hostage by students, fer cripe's sake!Oh well, I'm spending way more thought on the script than Mr. Williamson apparently did, so I'll stop here.3/10 "},{"Title":"To those who are harping on the pointless Exorcist routine","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film was actually quite enjoyable, well worth a rental. It is pretty much on the level of a good TV movie, with the exception of Helen Mirren, who is exceptional. The way she slowly gets into the minds of the kids, the way she knows exactly how to manipulate them and get them to mistrust one another is the creepy part of the film.The fact that the film does not fit easily into a specified genre is not, in itself, a bad thing. Many of us love entertainments like Buffy the Vampire Slayer for that very reason. This film is pretty successful in much the same way.I'm surprised by the many comments made here on how the Exorcist routine was pointless but well-done, as if the reference comes out of nowhere. Right after the kids tie up Mrs. Tingle, they comment on how she looks just like that girl in the Exorcist, you know, the one that vomits on everyone. This is a pretty funny insult to make. Funnier because Mrs. Tingle does resemble the possessed Regan (her face is all cut up; she's nice one second, evil the next; she has an uncanny ability to know each characters personal weakness). This is what causes the Jo Lynn character (a ham who is constantly trying to impress with her impersonations) to go into the Exorcist routine when she gets bored. I thought the setup and payoff was pretty obvious. It's pretty sad when Kevin Williamson jokes go over the audiences' head. "}{"Title":"It was over edited!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  For everyone who said that this movie sucked, I have to tell you. The unedited version was probably scarier. There are several scenes in the trailer that were cut out (probably to get a PG-13 rating) that would have made the film scarier. In one scene in the trailer, Mrs. Tingle tries to stab Leigh Ann, but misses and almost gets Luke. I think that if they released a Director's Cut, you would like the movie more. ***hint, hint***On the other hand, I liked the movie. It wasn't a good horror, but I thought it was funny as hell. It does have one part that made me jump out of my seat. It wasn't scary, it was just a shock. The story is well written, with the exception of the ending, and the actors did a great job of making the characters work. All in all I gave this movie an 8.If you want to see a funny movie with a good plot, and a few scares, Rent Teaching Mrs. Tingle. And if they ever have a director's cut, Rent that as well. It will be scarier than the original. "},{"Title":"Different than expected","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting this to be a Scream/I Know What you did Last Summer/Urban Legend clone, but it was surprisingly different.  Its not a masterpiece by any means, but it passes the time- probably mostly due to some very strong actors.  I thought Helen Mirren was magnificent as Mrs Tingle - the cruel/sadistic/cold history teacher.  There are some great one liners - but they are not as frequent or as amusing as the dialogue in Scream.  The film does not take itself too seriously which is a good thing.  Still Helen Mirren really carries the film with her strong performance, another actor in the role would just not have been as effective. "},{"Title":"Katie Holmes couldn't even save this one","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Katie Holmes is a great actress; I think she has proven herself through her roles in Dawson's Creek and Go.  However, she has a bad problem with picking loser scripts.  Look at Disturbing Behavior and this one, Teaching Mrs. Tingle.  I am not anti-Kevin Williamson or anything, but this one was HIS WORST WORK TO DATE.  The plot was confusing at times, especially at the end.  I really didn't understand what that climax was all about.  I never really figured out why the teacher was so mean (though I did enjoy her bitchy side).  I can't figure out why it was sometimes billed as a horror flick when there really was not a drop of blood spilt.  Maybe that would have saved the movie.  If Mrs. Tingle had went on a killing spree and knocked off a few of the lead characters, then maybe this one would have had a better plot.  Katie Holmes and all the cast members individually did good jobs on the film, but some things just cannot be saved.  I am looking forward to the day when someone will make a movie with a lead role for Katie that will be worthy of her.  Just skip this one and do yourself a favor.  Rent Go if you want to see Katie in a good role.  -) "},{"Title":"This can't be the only way to get into college!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This can't be the only way to get into college! says one of the characters in the film. Well, it isn't the only way, but it is one way.As a teacher, I am not supposed to approve of a film like this, but it is an enjoyable combination of SCREAM, Monty Python, THE EXORCIST, and HUSH, HUSH, SWEET CHARLOTTE. Mirren is great as the teacher from the center ring of Dante's INFERNO. The younger members of the cast are also worth watching.The film isn't anti-education or anti-teacher. It is anti-tyranny. Despite the controversy about a film like this coming out at a time of terrible school violence, I recommend it. It has very little violence, and none of it is really serious. "},{"Title":"This has two rather good looking young women in it.  And nothing else.","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The only reason I watched this movie a second time, was to learn the name of the second banana girl playing opposite Katie Holms. Her name is Marisa Coughlan. Never heard of her before. She is lovely. Captivating. With an animated face, and cute bod, she is highly watchable... She's got real, Poisenality... More than a passing vibe of Grace Kelly... with youthful exuberance. I think she is Irish in gene pool, (my favorite female DNA) so it makes some sense that she would resemble the most beautiful Irish American. The movie is unremarkable, Katie Holms is classic beauty in the flesh. But Marisa Coughlan is the one you follow with your eyes. In 1999 when this movie was made, she was around 25 years old, in her prime. This reminds me of another silly, worthless movie with the only redemption being the Pretty Girl in it. It was Career Opportunites with the first time I saw Jennifer Conoly. Or Grease II the first time I saw Michelle Pfeiffer. "},{"Title":"Who didn't have a teacher like this?","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so maybe I did not have a teacher quite this bad, but I can think of one or two with similar mind-sets to the one here. Before I saw Teaching Mrs. Tingle, I imagined it would be a very dark thriller, given it was initially named, Killing Mrs. Tingle. While it does have violent moments, I was surprised as I watched that it is more of a drama, while still retaining a decent amount of thrills and some comedy/dark humor.Helen Mirren is the vicious Mrs. Tingle, a high school history teacher who has contempt for all, particularly one of her students, Leigh Ann (Katie Holmes). Tingle accuses Leigh Ann of cheating, and while trying to clear her name, Leigh Ann and two of her friends (Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlin) end up holding Tingle captive in her own home! A great blend of comedy, drama and suspense ensue, leading to the showdown between Tingle and her captors. Kevin Williamson includes all the right touches here, from the locations and lighting to the fun score and soundtrack. Teaching Mrs. Tingle is different from most movies, as it has so many elements of different genres that it is hard to place in a single category, which is what makes it so interesting. "},{"Title":"Mirren sells out.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" It is such a shame when actors and actresses of high quality get involved with pure crap, probably because they were offered a great deal of money. Not one of Helen Mirren's better career moves. The acting of the teens is simply appalling, not helped by a script that is in parts simply inept.Most of Kevin Williamson's work is above average box office dross, but this is really below par. This is the sort of movie that you watch on TV when there is nothing better on and you have had half a bottle of wine to drink and are waiting for the Pizza to be delivered so you can drink the other half. "},{"Title":"SCREAM writer Kevin Williamson flunks at feature debut","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Teaching Mrs. Tingle (1999) Helen Mirren, Katie Holmes, Marisa Coughlan, Barry Watson, Vivica A. Fox, Michael McKean, Molly Ringwald, Liz Stauber, Jeffrey Tambor, Lesley Ann Warren, D Kevin Williamson. When falsely accused of cheating by a coldhearted history teacher, a straight-A student (Holmes) has her future plans and dreams sabotaged. Then while proving her innocence, Holmes and two friends accidentally knock her out, tie her up, and keep her hostage in her own house until she changes her ways. Good idea translates into this ludicrous premise that never accomplishes what it sets out to do, and with that never delivers real plot twists, just one tease after another. Mirren, the movie's most worthwhile feature, outshines the younger set with her hands literally tied behind her back. Disappointing film debut for SCREAM writer Williamson. Running Time 95 minutes and rated PG-13 for some language, violence, and sexual content. ** "},{"Title":"Really ridiculous!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ridiculous thriller in which a group of students kidnapped their bad and neurotic teacher (Mirren) just to prevent her action against them. Interesting premise could render a good movie but this one is just lame and far fetched. Boring with an ending embarassing, just to say the least. Mrs. Mirren tries to give some dignity to this misfire but even she - a good actress, no doubt about it - could save this garbage. I give this a 4 (four). "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I'm very surprised that this movie was as big a hit as it was. It was sending out the wrong messages all over the place. Am I as a teenager supposed to think that the only way I can get ahead is by breaking into a teacher's house and straping her to the bed? Instead of trying to reason with the principal, they attack a teacher. How were they planning on getting away with that? Katie Homes acting was terrible, she wasn't believable as a sweet innocent honor student at all. Leigh Ann didn't appricate her friend at all, and didn't deserve the recognition that she received. I couldn't relate to it at all and I'm ashamed that the writers think that we would swallow it. All I can do is pray a sequel is not made. "}{"Title":"Not SO bad","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just to spend a little while with friends. At moments, very obvious. For example, when the three students are in Mrs. Tingle's house, and she tries to set them up by lying, it is very obvious. Maybe it was meant to be that way, but it does not look good. There are very few funny things, and this movie was said to be hilarious. It's not. Katie Holmes can do so much better, but she keeps doing these stupid high school movies. The actress who played Mrs. Tingle should have kept her reputation and not participated in this rarely funny but very stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, despite some flaws","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this is not Scream, but it a hell of a lot better than Scream 3 or I Know what you did last summer. In fact this is pretty good entertainment. There are a few good jokes and Helen Mirren really puts on a great b..chy character. Not very gruesome though and too few drops of blood. Maybe the film should have remained Killing Mrs.Tingle and should have been more gruesome, but hey I didn't write this so who cares about my opinion? (You, actually if you are still reading!).A major flaw of this film is, that it is sometimes predictable and cheesy (the end), but it can also be surprising (also the end). Katie Holmes looked as good as ever. By the way, why are pretty young females always an ingredient in this type of film? Maybe because the film is aimed towards young males? No I don't think so (HELL YES! THAT'S WHY). But who cares she looks good and acts OK. Marisa Coughlan was better here though. Great copy performances from her. Plus she looks quite god too. Any reason for the fact that the students in those kind of movies are always on the pretty side? No I don't think so (&#133;. &#133;! (you can fill that in, it begins with hell and ends with yes).7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Senseless waste of talent","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't believe that this movie could continue to be so awful or I would have turned it off after 10 minutes. The characters are without any redeeming qualities, the script unbelievabale, and although Helen Mirren does a good job, we never learn of her motivation.  I kept waiting for her head to spin and green jello to pour from her mouth.  It can't be an age thing, my ten year old even thought it was stupid. "},{"Title":"Not at all as good as Pep Squad","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This adaptation of the Steve Balderson film is also very similar to 9 to 5, but lacks the warmth of that film and the stylish excitement of Pep Squad. They should have kept the title Killing Mrs. Tingle instead of changing it to Teaching... I think that was pretty weak. Overall, writing is fair, but the story is superficially shallow. Metaphors and real meaning needed to be here. "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson, you've done it again!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies I've ever seen!  I loved it!!!  Great acting by Mirren, Holmes, Coughlin, Stauber, and Ringwald.  Nice small roles by Vivica A. Fox and Michael McKean as well.  Awesome premise and great direction make this one a must see for anyone! "},{"Title":" Don't tell me I can't act!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Along with other teen comedies like Heathers and Jawbreaker, Teaching Mrs. Tingle entertains and shocks teens and young adults alike. No other movies on IMDB are going to be accepted without a little criticism, even greats like the Lord Of The Rings trilogy. So I believe IMDB users should give all movies a chance. This is one of the best teen movies out there. I know I shouldn't be comparing it to Lord Of The Rings but people simply enjoy that better. Katie Holmes is a good actress and very pretty at that. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, here are the basics The movie is wonderfully written.  The actors and actresses were great in this one!  It is a must see!  Other reviews stated that this movie was just a basic failure, but this movie is one of my favorite!  Helen Mirren did a great job at portraying the teacher, Mrs. Tingle.  I gave it 5/5 Stars!You must see it! "},{"Title":"Great performance from Mirren","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The movie had a really good scenario - three students kidnap their most hated teacher to try and raise their grades.  But it's sadly it's got a very poor script and the acting (APART FROM MIRREN WHO WAS AMAZING) was very poor,perhaps williamson should stick to writng movies instead of making them.Watchable for the brilliantly cold hearted performance by Helen Mirren but she deserved a better dialogue (she sounded like Anne Robinson from the weakest link) and better co-stars - who were admittedly gorgeous but should go back to acting school.A+ for story & Mirren's pefromance D- for excecution "},{"Title":"That's a big `F' on your report card, Kevin Williamson!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I heard this movie was bad&#133;They even warned me it was terrible, but for some reason (probably Katie Holmes) I still watched it when it came on national TV. Watching Kevin Williamson films means torturing! His scenarios aren't funny, definitely not scary and not the least bit creative. Teaching Mrs. Tingle breathes the same irritating atmosphere as his brainless series `Dawson's Creek' and it's probably meant for the same target group as well. Before the credits even started, 5 people already wanted a hug and they stated that eerie `I love you'-sentence. It doesn't get any better as the soundtrack is filled with annoying pop/rock and the storyline is ultra-thin. Three students on the verge of graduation get caught cheating by the wickedest teacher in school. Every high-school has a teacher like that, you know&#133; To save their skin, they try to convince Mrs. Tingle that it wasn't their intention to cheat but this attempt goes horrible wrong. The typical high-school humor is completely lost on me, the overdose of sentiment is pathetic and the acting (with the exception of Helen Mirren) is abominable. I'm sure Katie Holmes can act &#150; that's a fact proven by her role in `the Gift' &#150; but she urgently needs to stop accepting frumpish girl roles. As said before, the only positive comments goes out to the brilliant casting of Helen Mirren as the shrew. It's like Kathleen Turner in `Serial Mom'! The role suits her perfectly and you can't imagine anyone else playing her. Other than that, this is avoidable teenage nonsense. 	 "},{"Title":"This movie is worth watching!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Helen Mirren plays a villainous character very well in this film, teacher or not, but to root for her to win the battle in the end is insane. I've read several reviews for this film, most of which liked Helen Mirren's performance only, which is probably not the idea Kevin Williamson had in mind. Granted releasing it in theatres shortly after Columbine was not the best move, but maybe the target audience got the humor of it without taking it seriously. Now, did I enjoy the film? Yes. Would I own it? Definitely! In fact, I already do! The young actors do a nice job with their roles, and Helen Mirren as already stated is very easy to hate, but she chews up the screen with every scene she's in. It's one of the better comedies, imo) than some of the so-called gems they're putting out now, the re-make craze is getting old too, except for some of the horror and revenge flicks.The story centers around Leigh Ann Watson/Katie Holmes-who's concluding her senior year, but also wants to be her school's best student. But with her history teacher hating her, that goal could be very hard to achieve... Accused of cheating, unjustly, Leigh Ann and two other friends decide to try and reason with her, but their plan backfires, and things get out of control, quickly. Now, their goal was never murder, and it doesn't go that far either, let's just say, her cruelty finally comes back to haunt her in the end, watch it and you'll see. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie.","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Before watching this I wasn't expecting it to be as good as it was. Granted, it's not a work of art, but it's better than a lot of movies that are out there.The basic story revolves around Leigh Ann Watson getting caught by Mrs. Tingle with answers to an exam only less than a week away from graduation (and she has to get an A in Tingle's class to be valedictorian and get a scholarship). What Tingle doesn't realize is that her other student Luke was the one who made the copy of the answers and stuck it in there. So Leigh Ann, Luke, and Leigh Ann's best friend Jo Lynn go to Tingle's house to try to talk her into believing that it was not Leigh Ann that was cheating.Tingle thinks it will be scandalous and after a mishap involving an arrow almost killing Tingle, she is tied up and held hostage by the three teens for several days while they try to cover up their tracks and make sure that nobody finds out. Pretty much the next hour or so of the movie is in Tingle's house. She gets Jo Lynn and Leigh Ann to turn on each other by telling them fabricated stories from her past that revolve around both girls' attractions toward Luke.The ending was kind of corny, but most movie endings are anyway so I guess the writer(s) has my forgiveness for that.All in all, it was a pretty good watch. If you have a good hour and a half to kill, I would recommend this movie. It's not a bad movie, and even if you don't like the genre it does what a lot of movies can't do - entertain. It may not be the most believable movie ever, but overall I found it to be surprisingly good. "},{"Title":"Threats are a sign of weakness.....","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Leigh Ann Watson is a senior who is one point from being her class' valedictorian and from getting a scholarship to Harvard.That one thing in her way is her History teacher, Mrs. Tingle.Mrs. Tingle is the teacher of a cutthroat class, in which Leigh Ann is getting a C for. The school's outcast Luke snatches Tingle's upcoming test answers, and delivers it to Leigh Ann.Mrs. Tingle finds it in Leigh Ann's bag and reports it to the principal, who luckily isn't present.That night Leigh Ann, her friend Jo Lynn and Luke visit Mrs. Tingle's house to reason and confront her.The conversation ends in an accident. Leigh Ann and her friends clean up the place and carries Mrs. Tingles unconscious body to her bed and ties her up.She wakes up and the 3 students try and compromise.....TMT, or What Kevin did after Scream, is a brilliant comedy, come teen horror, come 'look, the Brit is the baddie again!!' that actually rarely loses it's step.Mirren though outclasses everybody who she shares screen time with, and although the rest of the cast are good, they are no match for he fair dame.The story is strong, and there are a few very funny moments, along with a few dark scenes.But the film does fall into Scream territory during the final act, chasing up stairs and people hiding behind doors, it ruins the feel of the overall product.The irony with Williamson is still there 'Molly Ringwald as a supply teacher? and her career is basically high school rom-cams? Sold!!!' is what he must have thought.I'm surprised that this did so badly, given the performance and the narrative.In one sense, it does feel a little like Woodsboro, and IKWYDLS, and thats probably why it failed back in 1999.But I urge you to see it, it's quite satisfying. "},{"Title":"Trivia Fact","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is a minor spoiler.I would have thought more highly of the film, but Mr. Williamson's mistake annoyed me. Witches weren't burned at Salem, they were hanged. Because of his ignorance, Leigh Ann wrote as if witches were burned there, which proved she hadn't done her research. Therefore, Mrs. Tingle actually had a genuine reason for downgrading Leigh Ann's history project. (Witch-burning did take place, but it was more a continental European atrocity.) Otherwise, the film was interesting. After all, haven't most of us known a person who abused his or her authority and been unjust? "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I don't know how this movie got such bad ratings, because this movie is one of the funniest teen movies ever and its script is nicely written. I mean, sure, this movie isn't a masterpiece. however, you will get a good laugh by the subtle and witty remarks the characters say, and how the situations change throughout the film. there are also come clever twists and surprises that'll make you go oh s***!! this movie is a classic horror comedy and it is really worth seeing it. rent it and see it with your friends. you guys will love it! oh and there is this one particular scene that you can't miss out on...im going to call it the exorcist scene...you'll know what im talking about if you see the film. it is HILARIOUS. "},{"Title":"Helen Mirren was excellent","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I've heard bad things about this movie, but I saw nothing truly terrible about it except the fear someone will try to copy what took place.It's just a fantasy! Many high school kids have dreamed of doing such a thing to their teachers. I was surprised, given the film's original title, that Mrs. Tingle didn't die right away when the kids first attacked her. But that would have made this an entirely different film.And we would have missed yet another outstanding performance by the great Helen Mirren. Okay, in my case, I'm not sure I ever saw her before this. But right from her very first lines, I knew Mrs. Tingle was going to be a villain I truly enjoyed watching. Not a campy villain, but someone who was a real pleasure to watch. Not someone to hate because you would normally be on the side of good, but a character to take pleasure in as she tortures or humiliates all around her. Michael Rosenbaum's Lex Luthor and Larry Hagman's J. R. Ewing come to mind.This woman showed no fear or vulnerability (except when she was faking being seriously hurt), even though those kids might have killed her at any time. But she apparently knew they weren't capable of such a thing. When she almost died, it was an accident. The one teen was threatening her, true, but somehow none of these kids seemed capable of doing such a thing.The actors playing the teens were pretty good too. Not in a league with their co-star, but not bad either. Jeffrey Tambor impressed as well with a campy appearance. So someone like this CAN have a boyfriend!The teens went through many the moral and ethical considerations. As the revised title suggests, they taught Mrs. Tingle a lesson (or did they?), and learned lessons themselves. They didn't just get away with it. Or did they? Some may be shocked at the ending. Although I know of one character we all wanted to see get what he/she deserved, and that did happen.It was a good film overall. "},{"Title":"light-hearted fun","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Those who are intent on criticising the quality of this movie are taking things far too seriously. The title itself, is an indication that Kevin Williamson wasn't trying to make an Academy Award Winner. If you lower your expectations, and accept this film for what it is; a light-hearted comedic thriller, you will enjoy it. Helen Mirren's sheer presence sets the tone and her performance is sharp. Katie Holmes is yet again the sweet and innocent swat, but give her credit- after years of experience as Joey in Dawson's Creek, she plays the part well. If you are not moved by this film, you should at least find fun in the fantasy of holding the most evil teacher hostage. "},{"Title":"A great, teacher vs. student conflict movie!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie showing the conflict between students who are just starting their lives and the teachers who are already up there, excercising all the power they've got.This movie shows exactly how the teachers today are excersing their powers un-ethically on the students. A great movie for all the students!My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Fun Treat","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Leigh Ann Watson(Katie Holmes) is a smart and determined student who would do anything to become a valedictorian, but there is one person who she has to get out of her way first. Mrs.Tingle(Helen Mirren) is the meanest teacher at school who is disliked by everybody. During an incident, Mrs. Tingle accuses Leigh Ann of cheating which of course threatens her future. Now with the help of Leigh Ann's best friend Jo Lynn(Marisa Coughlan) and the handsome bad ass Luke(Barry Watson) they will teach Mrs.Tingle a lesson she will never forget! I think this was a very fun movie, i can't really put it in a category because it's not really a comedy, nothing about this movie is really funny and it's not a thriller because just too many things were ridiculous. If you are looking to relax and have some fun, then i suggest you should see this movie. Anyways, i would give Teaching Mrs.Tingle 8/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, dark comedy","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This comedy is outrageous, far-fetched, and at times slightly scary.  When Katie Homes' charactor dosn't get the grade she was expecting in a history assignment, she and two friends kidnap their teacher with scandel in mind. That's when the fur flies and this becomes an outrageously funny dark comedy. Pure fun. 3 1/2 stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!!!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"     This is one of the best movies ever made.When I rented it I thought it was just another teen movie,but I was wrong.It was fantastic!The acting,the plot,everything about it was great.I'm very glad I saw this movie because I was very impressed.Mrs Tingle is sort of the villain in this movie,and it seems like she deserves what she gets.Throughout the whole movie you get really nervous,as you're afraid something will go wrong.I think what the movie tells you is the plan to teach Mrs Tingle a lesson was worth it after all the trouble they went through.With a couple of actors like Barry Watson and Michael Mckean,I think this movie was highly entertaining.I saw Sorority Boys and Barry was great in that as well.I watch 7th Heaven every now and then,too.This movie is absolutely a 10.                 Jacob Young "}{"Title":"What is wrong with this picture?","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Your assignment Compare and contrast the following lists. Then write a 2 page double spaced essay explaining what is wrong with this pictureActions of the Heroes in Teaching Mrs. Tingle1. Kidnapping2. Assault with a deadly weapon3. Blackmail4. Tampering with a legal document (the gradebook)Actions of the villain in Teaching Mrs. Tingle1. Attempting to bring to light what has every appearance of blatant cheating.2. Giving the main character a CPlease hand in your papers at the end of the period. Homework Write an essay on what was GOOD about the film, Teaching Mrs. Tingle. 100 extra credit points to anyone who can come up with ANYTHING besides Helen Mirren's acting and Katie Holmes ripping off her clothes. "},{"Title":"ATTENTION New Material Needed!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  TEACHING MRS. TINGLE was written by Kevin Williamson. The same guy who wrote the screenplay for SCREAM a few years back. After seeing this film, I will probably change my ratings for the SCREAM movies to 5's because this one sucked so badly. About five lines are lifted from previous movies that Kevin wrote. There is a line that Molly Ringwald says which reads Juliette was just a little slut bag whore who was leaving her panties all over town. This sounds an awful lot like a similar line that Skeet Ulrich said in SCREAM. A second example would be how Helen Mirren (playing Mrs. Tingle) kept on saying that 'history always repeats itself'. Now, this may very well be so, but it sounds identical to a line that Timothy Olyphant said in SCREAM 2. The plot twists are pretty predictable and the so-called 'humor' isn't humor. Who the hell ever thought that this film was a comedy? Who's idea was it to try and make an already bad film even worse by trying to make it funny? And, let me note that Kevin Williamson also wrote the screenplay for the half-way decent I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, which was based on the novel by Lois Duncan. Note to Kevin The next time you try to adapt a book, make sure you stick to the storyline. I had to do a book report on the book, but instead of reading the book, I viewed the film, which I found out later is much different from the book. So, I got a bad grade on my book report. So, here it is- the title TEACHING MRS. TINGLE that sounds vaguely similar to the title of the book and film KILLING MR. GRIFFIN. Bad move, Kevin. We caught you again. If you want a movie that is more accurately based on the Lois Duncan novel, see KILLING MR. GRIFFIN. It is far better.But, here we still have TEACHING MRS. TINGLE. What else to say about it? How about another note to Kevin Next time you write a screenplay, make sure you know what you want the film to be! This one can never seem to decide. Is it Thriller? In some ways. Horror? Maybe. Comedy? Certainly not. Drama? I doubt it. Action? It's possible. See it and decide for yourself. TEACHING MRS. TINGLE 3/5. "},{"Title":"Your typical Hollywood ripoff","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  You'd think there would be some sort of reference to the original by director Kevin Williamson when he made this adaptation, or as others may call it, ripoff, of a German made-for-tv movie, Raus aus der Haut (1997) (aka Changing Skins), directed by Andreas Dresen.How do I know this? Good looking, hard working students stuff up a test. Said students kidnap old miserable teacher and forge documents to make their grades better. Students panic and hold a gun to the teacher's head. Students blackmail teacher. Student goes back to school, and everything returns to normal. End of story. End of both stories, in fact. "},{"Title":"more fun than horror","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Helen Mirren and the cast of lusty teenagers have a fun filled S&M week at the teachers Victorian mansion on Maple Street. More cute than Horror, a touch of suspense and a bit of a kick of teen sex thrown together with a catty filled script designed to keep the humour flowing. I've seen it 4 times, by chance if not by force, and find it as fresh as the 1st viewing. Light diversion for a rainy Saturday morning. Attractive players. "},{"Title":"A Fun Black Comedy!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"                                      Teaching Mrs. Tingle was a very fun and entertaining black comedy about a girl Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes) who is determined to become Valedictorian to get her scholarship to Harvard University. But, when the menacing Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren) stands in her way and accuses her of cheating, Leigh Ann and her two friends Jo Lynn (Marisa Coughlan) and Luke (Barry Watson) kidnap Mrs. Tingle and tie her to a bed in her home to teach Mrs. Tingle a lesson. With lots of twists and turns,  the three friends learn a lot about themselves.With a great cast, and directed by Kevin Williamson (the director of From Dusk Till Dawn and The Faculty and the writer of Scream and Scream 2, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a great teen thriller that never bores you. I give Teaching Mrs. Tingle a 10 out of 10!!!  )            *NOTE* I also liked the part when Jo Lynn was acting as the girl in The Exorcist! That was hilarious!  "},{"Title":"A Very Stupid Film..Avoid This!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Mrs. Tingle, what a pathetic excuse for a Horror/Thriller movie,i wasnt expecting any better of Katie Holmes, as watching her is as dull as watching a stiff board. What really drawed me away from the film was the very stupid plot and immature acting, by the WHOLE cast.This film implements bad things especially for students and graduates (to be), i dont know what the writer was thinking,thats IF he WAS thinking,i also dont understand how over-rated the film is, it got a 5/10....Thats 2 and a half out of 5.The whole aspect of the film is MRS. TINGLE wanted Katie Holme's character to FAIL for graduation, thats it....Then they take over her home, while she's upstairs tied up on a bed, theyre cooking downstairs...WHAT? I think that the script for Teaching Mrs Tingle should have been written again, the whole thing was un-interesting and the entire cast was simply pathetic, i laughed at how bad the movie was...really, it was bad, this movie is a disgrace to its genre.ACTING Very bad, Katie Holmes wasnt very idealistic for her role, she should stick to Dawsons Creek and the dude should stick with 7th Heaven, but i guess they both deserved this lame script.ACTORS Sure there was Katie Holmes, dont hold your breath to find a good performance by her, you wont see it, the casting was fairly familiar,but definantley not A+ grade performers.SCRIPT Lame,lame,lame. It only gets worse and worse, especially the final 20 minutes, laughable....The Script was possibly what made the movie what it was....A COLD TURKEY!CINEMA Boring, nothing visually stunning, lack of effort in the Cinematography department, i couldnt point one good point from the whole 90 minutes of wasted time.THRILLS Kept at a minimal, and the so called Thrilling segments of the film, were so predictable, especially once you hear IS SHE DEAD? Bad effort.MUSIC Not much, i cant comment on this aspect as their barely was any, and i suppose it was fair, but nowhere near GOOD.OVERALL Teaching Mrs. Tingle has multiple things missing, in its script,dialogue,techniques character development and its basic plot, this leads to one thing, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a waste of monumental time and money, do yourself a favour...Skip it!* (One Star) "},{"Title":"Silly Film Of No Significance","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" A rather silly little flick about an evil teacher (Helen Mirren) who tries to make up for her own failures by ruining the future dreams of her students, who then take their revenge on her. Supposedly a suspense film, there's precious little suspense involved. The movie rehashes most of the plots of previous movies of similar genre.The part of Mrs. Tingle is performed well by Mirren. She is really the only truly bright spot in this movie. In the first half, we get a rather humorous view of Mrs. Tingle presented as a sort of Wicked Witch of the West figure. There are also a few chuckles that come from what we learn about Mrs. Tingle's relationship with Coach Wenchell (played by Jeffrey Tambor in a minor but very funny role.) Aside from that, however, there is very little to commend this movie. The three teen leads (Katie Holmes, Marisa Coughlan and Barry Watson) make very little impact, although the movie revolves around their actions. I thought this movie really broke down at the end, with a series of plot twists and turns that reminds a viewer of Witness For The Prosecution. The problem is this isn't Witness For The Prosecution, and the plot twists here just come across as rather silly.This movie's OK, but no better than that lukewarm endorsement. It would probably appeal to teens, and it will pass an hour and a half, but thankfully it's no longer than that. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Everything about this film just made me want to run far, far away from everything that Hollywood is pushing at teenagers. This is just a plain bad movie, one without any redeeming value whatsoever.It features utterly plain direction, an awful script that leaves all the actors looking for something to do with their parts and mainly seems to end up with them hamming it up, and a completely implausible story. When the plot hinges on something someone heard from two stories up through vents, you know something is wrong. Every plot twist the movie tries to make just seems boring and plotted.Nothing about this movie will leave you any better off than you were before. It hesitates to even entertain. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"It was all downhill or Williamson after Scream","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning  May contain some spoilers*I have just one question...WTF WAS WILLIAMSON THINKING?!?!?  After Scream came a long line off horrible movies on his part (I Know What You Did Last Summer and Halloween H20 just to name a few).  If this movie was supposed to be a comedy, it wasn't funny.  If it was supposed to be horror, nothing was scary with an exception of Katie Holmes's performance.  If it was supposed to be a thriller, I was not thrilled.The movie is basically about three high school seniors who are fed up with their history teacher's constant berating of students.  Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes) is the only daughter of a waitress and wants desperately to be named valedictorian and go off to college to escape her mother's nametag. Jo Lynn Jordan (Marissa Coughlan) is Leigh Ann's sidekick, who is hopelessly in love with Luke Churner (Barry Watson).  Luke gets the answers to some big test coming up in Mrs. Tingle's (Helen Mirren) class and puts in into Leigh Ann's backpack.  Mrs. Tingle finds it and threatens to expose it to that principal, which would get Leigh Ann kicked out of school.  So the kids decide to try to go to her house and explain what happened.  A lot of weird stuff happens and someone eventually ends up getting shot with a crossbow (which was so cleverly handy).  So now the teens must tie up Mrs. Tingle and try to resolve the problem w/o getting expelled.Katie Holmes's performance is horrible.  She is nothing but a pretty face. Barry Watson gives a performance much like Katie's... horrible.  They should both stick to the WB.  The only redeeming character in the movie is Marissa Coughlan.  She is wonderful, and brings spark to this otherwise dead movie. Her exorcist scene is the only thing from the movie that I remember. Helen Mirren was good considering what she had to work with.  She WAS tied to the bed for just about the whole movie.  I don't know anything about her but I believe she won an Oscar for one of her movies, and she is a very respectable actress.  I don't know why she wasted her time on this movie. She should stick to English movies.There are a few cameos in this movie.  Vivica A. Fox was in a whole one scene of this movie.  But, what was the meaning of even having her character in the movie.  All she does is tries to look like a `cool' guidance counselor by using a couple swear words and calling Mrs. Tingle and b***h. Then she gives her good old `you can do anything that you put you mind into because I believe in you' skit.  I found her character kind of pointless and that was good money that they could have given to the writer to try to write a better script.  Molly Ringwald also has a short, unmemorable part in this movie.  She is a receptionist at the desk and later becomes the substitute for Mrs. Tingle's class.  Why would they have a receptionist being a substitute?  Anyway.she gets to say skank, hoe, and slut, and then we don't see anymore of her.  Where they trying to lure teen-agers in by making adults cuss?  I guess so.. and well. it's just not working.Were Leigh Ann, Luke, and Jo Lynn supposed to be the good guys?  And Mrs. Tingle the bad?  Ok.so Leigh Ann, Luke, and Jo Lynn are about to cheat on a test.  Then they go to Mrs. Tingle's house to try to explain what happened, but just end up lying.  Then they shoot her with a bow, and tie her up to a bed, just because she's doing her job.  Then they try to set up a scandal, just so that they won't get caught.  They go mess with the school's grades, so that the Trudie gets a B when she deserved an A.  They give Leigh Ann and A.  And we're supposed to think of them as the good guys.  And the thing is.the teacher that never really did anything especially wrong gets fired, and the kids get off scott free!  After kidnapping, blackmail, assult, and conspiracy to cover up, they get off!  And Leigh Ann gets to be valedictorian after cheating her way to it!  I was personally rooting for Mrs. Tingle.Some of the things that were ridiculous to me.Why did they even talk to Mrs. Tingle?  She was obviously just playing mind games with them.  But they always listened to everything that she said and took it to heart!  Just gag her and go on doing you own thing!  You are holding her hostage for god's sakes.don't tell her your whole life story.They have just taken Mrs. Tingle hostage and Leigh Ann goes `Oh no!  I have to get home.  Mom likes to keep the cigarettes burning.  See you tomorrow'. Your mom is a grown woman.  You friend have just taken a woman hostage to get you off the hook and you're just gonna leave like nothing happened?Jo Lynn is up there about to be caught, and Leigh Ann and Luke are down there about to make out with each other.  Don't they even care if they get caught?  Why don't they try to help her out?The only reason I saw this movie was because my friend's said that it was so good.  I spent 4 bucks renting this from Blockbuster.  When I was done I wished that it had never happened.  I think that I am somehow dumber from watching this movie.  Never again will I listen to my friend's advice on movies.  Hopefully Helen and Coughlan go on to do MUCH better things (even though that doesn't say much).  As for Holmes and Watson.stick to 7th Heaven the the Creek.  I give it a 3.1 for Coughlan, 1 for Mirren, and 1 for that hysterical Exorcist scene.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  What a bad movie this really was. In what seems to be the demon child of 9 to 5 meets any of a variety of horrible teenage coming of age drama/comedies, Teaching Mrs. Tingle lacked anything worthy of making it a watchable movie. The plot was stupid, and didn't have the guts to go far enough to even qualify this film as horror. The humor was even worse. Don't lecture me on the brilliance of Marisa Coughlan's improvised Exorcist scene, it was as embarrassing and out of place as the rest of the humor in this so called dark-comedy. The only redeeming quality about this movie was Helen Mirren. How they got her to even play the part is an amazement, and it goes to show that truly great actors rise above the worst material. I applaud her performance, but question her choice of roles. I have to admit as well that while Katie Holmes is cute, and may have acting ability, this role is wrong for whoever tries to play it. What a wimpy, sappy, simply disgusting character, but then again, she fits right into this sad movie well. My advice to you, avoid this like the plague. "}{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  While i wouldn't say that this is the best film I've ever seen, I think it was much better than most reviews I've seen make it out to be.  Yes, there are some MAJOR plot problems, but unlike other movies that can't seem to decide whether they're comedy or horror (e.g., this summer's The Mummy) I was able to overlook them and just sit back and enjoy myself.Helen Mirren is wonderful as Mrs. Tingle, sometimes giving you small glimpses into her softer side only to turn right around and make you wonder what it was you saw.  She was also given what was, in my opinion, the best line in the movie Oh, my poor dear.  I hope you're a very good waitress (or something close to that) in reference to the acting ability of one of the teenagers.As for the teenagers, the only one who really stood out to me was Marisa Coughlin.  Her Linda Blair (from The Exorcist spoof is such fun, and I found myself wishing I were there for the filming of it, not only to watch her, but to watch Helen Mirren sitting on the bed with Marisa flailing at her feet.Katie Holmes and Barry Watson filled their roles fine, not especially memorably.  Basically, the roles could have been played by any young actors who might conceivably play high school students.The one other person I really enjoyed was Liz Stauber as Trudie, the brown-nosing stuck-up twit.  True, her character is a stereotype pulled from quite a few other films (and from real life).  But, in the scene where she loses self-control, I found myself wishing she had been allowed to take it further.Overall, I think this was a very fun film and worth a night out. "},{"Title":"a little far-fetched,but still entertaining","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  well i liked this movie. most people hate it. the movie is a little far-fetched,but it's still good. the writing for this movie is not as bad as a lot of people say. a few scenes were funny,but i wasn't looking for comedy going into this movie. i was looking for entertaining stuff with interesting characters,and that's what i got. ill admit i thought kevin williamson should've continued making R-rated movies,but teaching mrs. tingle is still entertaining. i first thought since it was PG-13 it wouldn't be as good as williamson's other stuff,but it was good. it wasn't as good as scream,scream 2,and the faculty,but better than i know what you did last summer. all in all a good movie. i give teaching mrs. tingle ***out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen!!!!!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Teaching Mrs. Tingle was an awesome movies with great actors. Katie Holmes played Leigh Ann Watson, a nice girl desperate to make her mother proud by receiving valedictorian. Barry Watson played the boy who hasn't been friends with Leigh Ann in the past- but is now helping her out because he doesn't care about his future. Also there is Leigh Ann's friend- and the 3 of them team up against the evil teacher- Eve Tingle.I give this movie a 10 out of 10Barry Watson and Katie Holmes won Best Kiss for this movieGreat movie!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Well Done, Kevin Williamson.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Williamson directs and writes this brilliant original teen movie. I'm a great fan of Williamson's work and he never fails in anything he does. What I liked about Teaching Mrs. Tingle, was that it wasn't your usual teen movie, about the guy getting the girl, or about a guy betting with his friends to see if he can get the girl. Well, you get the picture. Sure, the movie is set in a high-school, it involves a minor 'love story' but the main plot in the movie is very different and very good too.  Anyway, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is about Leanne, (Katie Holmes.) a good high school student, who does well is most of her classes. She needs to  be valedictorian in order to get her scholarship to Harvard. The only thing that is standing in her way, is her horrible history teacher, Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren.) who really doesn't like Leanne. When an attempt to get ahead in Mrs. Tingle's class goes badly wrong. Leanne and her two friends, Luke (Barry Watson.) and Jo Lynn (Marisa Coughlan.) make a plan to kidnap Mrs. Tingle and once they do, there friendship is tested to the limit and many exciting and funny things happen along the way. Katie Holmes, Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan are all really good in the movie but Helen Mirren is really quite bad. She was definitely miscast. If it was up to me, I would of cast someone like the brilliant Janeane Garofalo, to play the part. Now, she's a fantastic actress.Teaching Mrs. Tingle is the type of the film, which will leave you guessing the whole way through. The ending to the movie is good too.  The story on the whole is a bit strange but really good and that's why I rate the movie a 9-10/10. "},{"Title":"Good teenage THRILLER","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Is a good teenage thriller, but isn't a comedy as it is intended to be. Written and directed by Kevin Williamson, it has a very clever script and is generally well directed.  Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek) gives an excellent performance as Leigh Ann.   Marisa Coughlan and Barry Watson also give good performances.  Overall this film is good for a Saturday night but don't expect it to be the greatest film of all time. "},{"Title":"This movie reeks big time!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  O my God! What a stink bomb! I can't believe that somebody actually spends some money to produce such a lame, stupid and idiotic film. I cry on the eight bucks I spent in seeing this trash can... "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE!!!!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I have one simple piece of advice.  Do not see this movie. I actually went to this movie knowing that it was going to be stupid, so I told myself just to try and enjoy it, impossible, It had so many flaws that I couldnt even count them. PLEASE DONT WASTE SEVEN DOLLARS ON THIS TRASH!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I was bored!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie because I really liked the trailer. Unfortunately, the trailer was the whole movie. I laughed twice...that's about all I can say. It had great potential, but didn't go anywhere. The ONLY thing I liked was the ending. "},{"Title":"Being eaten alive is more fun than watching this!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Only Ed Wood's Glen or Glenda is worse than this. This is bad, very bad. Anyone who thinks this is good has something wrong with them or is Kevin Williams (or both). The movie is laughable in some places and just plain bad elewhere. The three teen leads are all terrible and Hellen Mirren isn't good either. The film takes an entirely unrealistic, improbable circumstance and tries to make a movie about. With all the evil things Mrs. Tingle has done why hasn't she been fired, or killed before these boobs kidnap her. (SPOILER) after all that happens, after they kidnap her, almost kill her, and make real idiots of themselves. The Exorcist scene is the WORST SCENE OF ALL TIME. 0 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Caught between its aims?","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" 3 students get more than they bargained for when a theft of a test results paper leads to a deadly battle of wills with their kidnapped teacher, Mrs. Tingle.It seems to me that director and writer, Kevin Wiliamson, got confused as to which direction the film should go in. At times it's jaunty when the scene appears to call for menace, and at others just plain boring if the scene was meant to be actually funny in that sarcastic, almost satirical way. The film could of worked at either being a comedy or a thriller, but the fusion of the two just doesn't work, and this failing has to fall at Williamson's door, it's as if Scream was all a fluke after all? The cast struggle with the meanderingly dull screenplay, only the stoic and sexy Helen Mirren salvaging any sort of dignity by realising early on that the core of the film calls for deft nastiness instead of outright villainy.Poor and practically unwatchable these days. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Well structured, but lacking focus and development. The Mrs. Tingle character is superior, though. **1/2 out of ****.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  TEACHING MRS. TINGLE (1999) **1/2Starring Katie Holmes, Helen Mirren, Marisa Coughlan, Barry Watson, Jeffrey Tambor, and Vivica A. Fox Written and directed by Kevin Williamson. Running time 96 minutes. Rated PG-13 (for violence, language, sexuality, and thematic elements)By Blake French	As rumor has it, Kevin Williamson, writer and director of the new comedy horror romp, Teaching Mrs. Tingle, had probable cause to create such a movie. I hear Williamson once had a teacher who told him he couldn't write well, and now, due to his enormous success as such, he is putting that educator in his or her place. Is Teaching Mrs. Tingle an extreme telling of his feelings for that individual? Was Mrs. Tingle really the name of his teacher? Will this film be a bad influence towards today's high school students who have a hellish teacher? The answers I do not know. Although Kevin Williamson has written some efficient work in his time, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is not the movie to prove to his old teacher that he is indeed a wonderful author. The screenplay shows signs of knowledgeable structure. It contains particularly effective character traits. However, the overall presentation demonstrates just how correct Kevin Williamson's teacher was when criticizing his skills. 	The film details the mishaps of three high school students, Luke, Jo Lynn, and the character in the spotlight here, Leigh Ann Watson. Luke is a slacker, caring little about his education or future. Jo Lynn is an average young woman with a crush on Luke. Leigh Ann, however, is almost a valedictorian on the verge of a college scholarship, hoping to dwell in a future of writing. The only thing standing in her way is her non-supportive, although loving, mother and the teacher known as the demon of her school by students and teachers, Mrs. Tingle. She is the person who is going to determine whether Leigh Ann receives the academic achievement award or not, because she is going to grade the history project that will be the final statement in her overall grade point average. The opening scene develops our hero, Leigh Ann, a with little profundity. We learn of her successful history with her schooling experiences through dialogue rather than actions. Although to some extent this method of character development works here, in order for the audience to care for such an important character, we require more than what is granted. The dialogue is smart and audacious throughout the film, but even such clever words fail to replace the important visualization of Leigh Ann's past. This is very hard material to accomplish with proficiency; only a screenwriter with a firm foundation can exceed with this material. Williamson proves to be not such with the direction of his own script. 	Mrs. Tingle's introduction is a completely different story. We experience through actions, motives, character reactions, and decisive dialogue how she is truly the teacher from hell. The audience loves to hate her cruel, devilish personality. This is delivered in an award worthy fashion by the great Helen Mirren, cast with perfect superiority and brings forth one of the most fun characters this year. Her character is played straight and, until the resolving but ridiculous conclusion, is never over the top. Mrs. Tingle is one of the most sought out characters seen in the movies in this year. 	The story makes up a near flawless structure. The first act proceeds appropriately as we meet the first plot point, which concludes when Mrs. Tingle accuses Leigh Ann of cheating on an important test. This incident swiftly moves us into act two when the three concerned students hijack Tingle in her own home and accidentally allow things to get out of hand. She ends up being tied to a bed, blackmailed, deceived, and is even shot with a crossbow.I think the audience needed more description of the side characters. In particular, the Jeffrey Tambor character, Coach  Wenchell, or as Tingle calls him, Spanky. He contributes an important part in the film, but is developed with such little significance, we really don't care that much about him. Obviously, the filmmakers intended to use him as a plot device; to fit the necessary requirements, once again proving that Kevin Williamson hit some major road bumps in his script. Teaching Mrs. Tingle was first scheduled to be titled Killing Mrs. Tingle, but Dimension obviously lost their nerve and tamed it down to something more appropriate. The film is not as bad as many are saying, and contains some very good material. But in the end, I feel Kevin Williamson needs to be taught a few lessons about screen writing. Whether it be by Mrs. Tingle, or his old teacher, as this film proves, he needs to go back to script school. Brought to you by Dimension Films.  "},{"Title":"Cracked Actor","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Leigh Ann Watson (Katie Holmes) has only days left before she finishes high school. She's a good student who wants to go to college, but she's having trouble getting approved for financial aid, which she desperately needs. If she can only finish her senior year as class valedictorian, she knows she can get a scholarship. Enter the source of conflict of the film, Mrs. Eve Tingle (Helen Mirren), history teacher. Mrs. Tingle doesn't seem to like Leigh Ann. In fact she doesn't seem to like anyone except Trudie Tucker (Liz Stauber), a trust fund kid on her way to Harvard regardless of her senior class standing. Leigh Ann needs Mrs. Tingle to give her an A+ to become valedictorian while giving Trudie a lesser grade. How far will Leigh Ann and her friends go to convince Mrs. Tingle? The premise of the film may sound a bit silly and unrealistic, and it is. But the focus of the film isn't the premise. This is not a plot-driven film in any traditional sense. It's an exploration of particular kinds of character dynamics for which the plot is merely an excuse to get to the necessary situations. As for realism, I don't require that in my films for any particular facts. On the other hand, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is incredibly realistic in terms of many of those character dynamics. So I don't subtract points just because something is realistic either. Realism is a consideration that writers and directors of fiction films are free to play with as they choose.Although marketed as a thriller, and it certainly has those aspects as well as other subtexts, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is much more a film about acting. If you analyze what acting is, you realize that it involves putting on some kind of false front, some kind of role-playing where the role isn't identical to your personal self-image and modes of behavior, and where you're feigning with the intent of selling others on the performance. In Teaching Mrs. Tingle, acting is explored in all its guises, from literal theatrical senses to public false fronts to attempts at deception for ulterior motives. So the film is really a study of how all people are actors with respect to each other in various ways, with very occasional moments of authenticity in personal dynamics inserted as contrast to underscore the idea. Writer/director Kevin Williamson weaves this exploration of acting at least through every non-technical element of the film--relationships, scenarios, dialogue and plot.Leigh Ann's friend Jo Lynn Jordan (Marisa Coughlan) literally wants to be an actor, so we see her performing as Marilyn Monroe early in the film and later doing a scene from The Exorcist (1973). She also has a chance to act as Mrs. Tingle and later, during a pivotal moment in the climax, as a character she's created on her own.Leigh Ann's history project is an instance of an object having a false front (as if the object itself is acting), and we see Leigh Ann putting on false public faces, mostly to appease those she loves (Jo Lynn and her mom, Faye (Lesley Ann Warren)). In one case, she is also acting to push away someone she loves (Luke Churner (Barry Watson)), and later to deceive someone she loves (Jo Lynn again) and does not want to hurt.Luke's instances of acting are similar to Leigh Ann's.Coach Wenchell (Jeffrey Tambor) is acting to deceive his wife, and we also see him go through some fairly literal role-playing. Later, he's also the victim of deceptive acting and another case of object acting, directed by others.Principal Potter (Michael McKean) and Miss Banks (Molly Ringwald) are classic examples of publicly putting on false fronts for more political reasons.And of course there's Mrs. Tingle. Mrs. Tingle is both the target and source of much of the acting in the film. She's frequently the victim of various levels of deceptions. Characters are constantly acting to show her that they're something they're not in an effort to crack through her armor. Her armor is an act. She gives many deceptive performances herself. And she also literally references acting many times throughout the film in her dialogue, seeming especially fond of Shakespeare.There are many more examples, but that gives you an idea of the focus and complexity of the film on a character level. As I mentioned earlier, occasionally the acting is contrasted with bouts of authenticity, the two most important ones being the later relationship between Leigh Ann and Luke, and Mrs. Tingle's monologue, during which she cleverly mixes authenticity and acting. Given the theme and the fact that we're watching a film, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is something of a postmodernist tour de force. The performers must show various levels of their characters acting while as they're also acting as actors in the film. The two required to play the most levels--Mirren and Coughlan--are the most overtly impressive, but everyone is excellent.From this review, it should be clear that Teaching Mrs. Tingle is more of a straight drama that's not just a silly teen flick. In overall structure, the film is a black comedy (but where comedy is more the traditional dramatic sense of the term). It is also sometimes comic in the modern popular sense (where you expect to laugh out loud)--Ringwald as Miss Banks actually steals this film on this level at one point--and as mentioned earlier, there are also thriller aspects, so that the film is sometimes suspenseful, although not usually in traditional or clichéd ways. A nice pop soundtrack also accompanies the film, if you enjoy that. "},{"Title":"teacher's day out","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Helen Mirren is usually known for roles like Queen Elizabeth, so her appearance as a nasty teacher held hostage by some students in Teaching Mrs. Tingle should be at least a little bit of a surprise. But she still pulls it off. My favorite scene was the Exorcist impersonation.One of the notable things about the movie is that they were originally going to call it Killing Mrs. Tingle but had to change the title after the Columbine shootings. No matter, it still comes out OK, although it's not the movie that I would recommend above all others.Also starring Michael McKean and Lesley Ann Warren. Director Kevin Williamson wrote the first two Scream movies. "},{"Title":"Just a very fun movie","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I was expecting to be entertained with Teaching Mrs. Tingle from the beginning, regardless of all the negative reception it receives. I really don't see why everybody is being so unfair on this movie after watching it, either. It was just an enjoyable and fun little film that people are criticizing way too harshly, because it was not that terrible and all it was meant for is to be an entertaining popcorn flick, and in the end, that's what it is; pure entertainment.The movie starts off very good, such as, I was sucked in from the very beginning because I tend to enjoy a lot of teen movies, and this certainly falls under that category. The characters are all really very likable too in their own ways, and none of them were really badly done or uninteresting. I especially loved how Mrs. Tingle was such a prude and how no matter what was thrown at her she always managed to contain that rough persona, because she was excellently portrayed by Helen Mirren. The only thing that really bothered me was the ending, because it was very unprofessionally done and it was just totally sudden and abrupt like they ran out of time and or ideas and rushed the whole thing, but otherwise, Teaching Mrs. Tingle is nothing but fun from beginning to end with enjoyable performances, an interesting concept and good entertainment value. It is definitely not as bad as everyone lets it on to be, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"My advice? Skip this one","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" After hearing nothing conclusive about this film, I borrowed it from a friend to see if it was good or not. I popped it in the DVD player, pushed play, and was immediately hit with a teeny-popper song... before the production company titles had even begun! I don't believe I've ever experienced a film digging its own grave before the first image or title appeared on-screen... why, I ask you, would a movie that is labeled a thriller start the opening credits with a song that only young teenagers(and mostly girls) could possibly enjoy? And I answer because it wants to make it absolutely clear that it's aimed entirely at the teen audience... and not the entire teen audience; only the part of it that enjoys sappy TV-series like Dawson's Creek and reality shows. I was immediately scared that this would indeed set the tone for the rest of the film... I shall stall no longer; it does. The plot is ridiculous. The main character gets grades just too low to get her into Harvard. So she kidnaps her teacher. Makes a lot of sense, right? No, I don't think so either. Well, believe it or not, it goes downhill from there... the pacing is horrendous. I don't think I watched for more than three minutes at a time during any point in the movie, before doing something more valuable with my time. The acting is really bad, only Helen Mirren gives a good performance. The characters are poorly written and clichéd. The suspense portions of the movie are not particularly good, and I felt more like doing something else, instead of pay attention to it. The film really didn't have too many positive points... the attempts at humor are tame and inspire boredom rather than laughter. Half of the gags were drawn out terribly, as well... a good example would be the one teenage girl acting out about five minutes of a scene from The Exorcist. OK, we get it, she's bored. All in all, the film doesn't really have anything to offer, apart from the occasional attractive teen girl. On a final note, Kevin Williamson really shouldn't direct... ever again. I recommend it only to teenagers and fans of movies aimed specifically at teenagers. Everyone else, skip this one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Stay in after school and write out 'I must not make staggeringly lame movies that waste some good performers' ten thousand times.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The directing debut of Kevin Williamson suggests he really should leave it to other directors to visualise the words and actions he puts on paper; if Teaching Mrs. Tingle was meant as a long-delayed act of revenge against his hated teacher I can relate (I've wanted to get back to some teachers in my time), but if this cack-handed mess was the best he could come up with, Teach probably felt very smug on seeing it.In addition to underusing the talents of Michael McKean, Jeffrey Tambor, Molly Ringwald, Vivica A. Fox and uncredited Lesley Ann Warren - as well as stranding Helen Mirren (who effortlessly swipes the movie) and Katie Holmes (who actually can act, but you'd never guess it from here) in roles that are basically cardboard - the movie can't decide whether it wants to be a black comedy, a hostage drama, or whatever; this lack of focus means the movie never registers on the emotional scale, with the tale never being truly funny and squandering any interesting aspects it has. The sub-Dawson's Creek song soundtrack doesn't help either.Admittedly the movie does have some diverting moments like the Exorcist scene, but ultimately fans of Williamson are better off with The Faculty and the first two Scream movies; Katie Holmes fans and Helen Mirren completists are the only ones who need apply (though the former may even find Disturbing Behavior better, and the latter may wonder what's up with Helen's accent). "},{"Title":"What the HELL are you all talking about?","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I hate how all of you comment on this movie, completely trashing it, pretending you're real film critics, and that you actually know what you're talking about!  The truth is, although it may not even compare to classics like Scream, it's a very enjoyable movie, especially if you're a teen like me!  I guess I liked it so much because I could relate to it.  I've had quite a few b***es like Mrs. Tingle, and I'm not even in high school yet!  However, I probably still would have liked it nonetheless, for a few reasonsFirst, although it wasn't very violent (it slacked off just like Scream 3 did), it was still able to offer that edge-of-your-seat suspense that all three Screams did.Second,the acting was even good.  Although Mirren and Coughlan stole the show, Katie and Barry's performances weren't too shabby either.  I also enjoyed Vivica A. Fox's cameo; i just wish she had a bigger part.Before I forget, I'd like to say props to Kevin Williamson for an original, entertaining script and a fine directorial debut!Granted, this film may be slightly far-fetched, but many times, that's what makes a movie so entertaining.  The fact that this movie bombed makes absolutely no sense to me.  People are always complaining how thrillers are all the same, but when something finally comes out that's different - VERY different - they refuse to accept it.  It's shocking to think that many people couldn't relate to this or at least find it as fun as I did.  Even if you're a mature adult, I recommend that you see this.  Maybe it'll make you start to remember YOUR high school teacher from hell!  Grade A-   "},{"Title":"What a mess!!!!!!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film can be summed up in one word horrible. It's kind of sad really, since the concept is actually really cool and could have turned into a really dark comedy. Since the fantastic Scream, Kevin Williamson's well of ideas has been steadily drying up and you can tell at various points in the film that he was struggling to try to come up with something interesting.The only redeeming factor i found in the film is the nice performance by the beautiful Katie Holmes. She's one of the best of actresses in their early twenties but she keeps winding up in stupid teen films such as this one. (and for Katie Holmes addicts, there is a bra shot of her that is quite nice.)a complete mess that avoids a 1 just because of the performances.rating3  "},{"Title":"What Did Helen Mirren Learn","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Certainly one of the most respected players in English speaking world is Helen Mirren. Previous to the Best Actress Oscar she got for last year playing Queen Elizabeth II she was probably best known for being Scotland Yard police inspector Jane Tennyson in Prime Suspect when those episodes reached the American side of the pond. But somewhere somehow, someone persuaded this woman to sign up for a role in American teen comedy Teaching Mrs. Tingle in the title role.Meryl Streep might have seen Helen Mirren in this part before she signed up for The Devil Wears Prada. Mirren is certainly the teacher from hell. I met a few like them, time serving drudges who were hardly inspirational figures for impressionable kids.Katie Holmes is one of those impressionable kids who's a grade grubber to put it mildly. We're to believe here that Mirren's less than A grade will ruin her entire future because she won't get a scholarship that will go to Liz Stauber her rival who's rich and doesn't need it anyway.A visit by Holmes and her two friends Barry Watson and Marisa Coughlan results in Mirren being kidnapped and tied to her bed. And then she plays the kids all off against each other.Yes, believe it or not this is a comedy. Jeffrey Tambor plays the physical education teacher with whom she's got a thing going and calls Spanky. Michael McKean and Vivica Fox and Molly Ringwald play the principal, guidance counselor, and school secretary all of whom have as low an opinion of Mirren as the kids do, but are afraid of her.I know this made a lot of money because of Watson and Holmes being on current television series 7th Heaven and Dawson's Creek at the time. Still you got to wonder whether they look back in horror at this one. Especially Holmes before she was half of TomKat. "},{"Title":"I give Teaching Mrs. Tingle a 100 stars out of 10!!!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Teaching Mrs. Tingle is a wonderful film... by far my most favorite comedy/drama film. It is a indie film (meaning it is not low budget but it is not sold in stores or not noticed or heard about much) but it is a wonderful and funny movie to watch. It has very good music and a very good story line. The artwork on the cover tells it all, the main cast members all black and white with a really red apple lol. I really suggest everyone to rent or buy this movie. Great Cast members Katie Holmes (Dawson's Creek, Batman begins) Barry Watson (7th Heaven) Marrisa Coughlan (Freddy Got Fingered) and Helen Mirren (The Queen, National Treasure 2) "}{"Title":"Bad movie but good for the controversy.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The film isn't very visually captivating - but the writing is good. Movies that are attempting to be films need more imagery. More stunning pictures to look at. By far, the script might look great on paper, but unless it's made into a novel, the only thing the audience sees in a theater are the images. And if the images suffer, so does the film. "},{"Title":"Maybe I`m Too Old For This","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed with TEACHING MRS TINGLE because as it was written and directed by Kevin Williamson I was expecting a smart post modernist black comedy deconstructing other movies with kidnapping as a theme but this doesn`t really happen , in short there`s little idiosyncratic style from the man who wrote the screenplays for the SCREAM movies , and am I alone in getting slightly fed up with Williamson having his protagonists in each and every of his screenplays  high school kids ?  "},{"Title":"Dull, clichéd mess","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Going into Teaching Mrs Tingle, all I wanted was a fun, enjoyable teen comedy that would entertain me for it's running time. Despite a rather good first half hour, the film quickly subsides into a dull, clichéd mess that's about as entertaining as pulling out your eyelashes with pliers. Rusty pliers, at that. 'Scream' writer Kevin Williamson wrote and directed this movie, and proved that Scream may well have been a fluke. Most of the elements of this movie have been seen a million times already in other films; and while it was OK for him to steal elements from other movies in Scream, due to the fact that it's meant as a slasher tribute; here, it just looks like he's completely ran out of ideas. The plot follows the cleverest girl in school, played by Katie Holmes. After being caught cheating along with two of her friends; the three decide to take the teacher that caught them hostage in her own home. However, this isn't just any teacher; it's Mrs Tingle, the meanest bitch in school. She isn't taking being tied to the bed lying down either, as she begins to play mind games to turn her captors against each other.The plot is very similar to the 1997 flick 'Suicide Kings', and a whole host of earlier films. It's actually not a bad idea for a movie, and if Williamson could have populated the film with interesting characters; it could have worked really well. The character of Mrs Tingle is the most interesting in the movie, but she's massively one dimensional, and like all the other characters in the film; is merely a caricature. The acting is largely diabolical, with the exception of Helen Mirren in the title role. She's suitably evil in the role, and while she doesn't have a lot to get her teeth into; she clearly enjoys herself playing the central figure. The teenage cast isn't worth mentioning, with only Katie Holmes standing out; and that's only really because of her star profile, not her acting talents. Williamson has draped nearly every scene in dull soft rock music, which would be really annoying if the film wasn't absolutely terrible anyway. Honestly, this movie does have a few moments that are rather good; but basically, if you want to see a good example of the teen comedy - this isn't the movie that you want to see. "},{"Title":"Teaching Mrs. Tingle, Killing the Audience","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The sooner Hollywood realizes that Kevin Williamson used all of his writing talent to put out Scream, the sooner America can be rid of films such as Teaching Mrs. Tingle. I Know What You Did Last Summer, The Faculty, Halloween H2O, and the confusingly popular and very annoying Dawson's Creek all look like masterpiece's of cinema and television compared to this dreadful attempt of a movie. It is truly so bad that one cannot help oneself from laughing out loud at certain times, when laughs were the exact opposite reaction the director was going for. At other times watching the movie evokes actual physical pain.The story revolves around Leigh Ann (Katie Holmes), who is the perfect, innocent student whose life ambition is to be a writer. Standing in her way of getting the scholarship she needs to attend college and pursue her dreams to the fullest is Mrs. Tingle (Helen Mirren), a almost Hitler like history teacher who, for some reason that is never truly explained, will do anything she can to ruin Leigh Ann's life. When the school loser Luke (Barry Watson), who is the love interest of both Leigh Ann and best friend Jo Lynn (Marisa Coughlan), steals the Tingle final exam and tries to get Leigh Ann in on it, the cat-like Mrs. Tingle is right there to spoil the plot and blame Leigh Ann for the crime. Venturing to Tingle's house after school to try and explain things, Luke, Jo Lynn and Leigh Ann turn trying to persuade the evil teacher to not accuse Leigh Ann of cheating into a full fledged hostage situation. The rest of the movie drones along at a painstaking pace, going down every predictable road in the book, and ending with a sickeningly obvious conclusion.Katie Holmes is the only saving grace in this film, and most of that is due to her painfully cute appearance. She plays the same character she has played in every role she has ever been given, the young, innocent, bright girl who has more morals than the Pope on Christmas. It would not have been a shock to see Dawson dash through the door of Tingle's house with an overly mature, long winded solution to the problem and then leave just as quickly. Helen Mirren makes the part of Mrs. Tingle very hard to relate to and is so over the top of her performance that you forget she is supposed to be just a history teacher and not some international terrorist being sought after in a Tom Clancy novel. Her ambivalance to the situation she is put in, the way she almost relishes being held captive by the three teens is so out of place that it borders on insulting.While Helen may have made Mrs. Tingle the most unrealistic character in the movie, the award for worst actress goes to, hands down, Marisa Coughlan. Her portrayal of the horny actress Jo Lynn is so bad I was hoping someone had brought a hungry, wet baby who already hated life just to take my mind off of her. Her scene where she imitates the wonderful film The Exorcist is so embarrassing that I had to look away from the screen until it was over. Even her beauty is not enough to overpower her terrible performance, and the fact that she is so bad seems to take away from her appearance. It is truly extraordinary, so bad that it almost becomes another entity in the movie, and leaves one wondering how, in a profession so many try and fail, how someone like that can squeak through the cracks. Oh, and one more note, Luke (Barry Watson) is the most inconsequential character I have ever seen in a movie and the fact that he is supposed to be the school loser is not helped by the fact that he speaks as if he were a literary student at Oxford.Overall, this movie is just terrible. It is so badly conceived, so badly acted, so badly directed, and so badly written that it offers no moments of levity at all. It is very rare to find a movie that possesses none of the qualities a good film has. Kevin Williamson proves, once again, that he is the most overrated writer on the planet and that his dialogue is the same for every character, for every situation. Note to Kevin; no high school students, and very few college students for that matter, talk as if they are Rhodes Scholars. Go watch American Pie to get a sense of the generation you always write about. Until then, leave the film making to people with a clue as to what they are doing.  "}]