[{"Title":"An excellent treatment of a familiar story","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"68 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course the story told by this film (aliens land in small Mid-West town and start taking over the humans) is very familiar but it is still a great story and this film tells it as well as any of the others (and better than most). There is a lot of humour, many very good action scenes, and some really nail-biting suspense. But what really makes this film special are the main characters a delightful group of funny and interesting students, who have to cope with the trials of high-school life as well as the demands of defending the Earth against an insidious alien invasion.If you know the other films of Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn) you will find another film which displays the same wit and assured lightness of touch that makes this director's work such a pleasure.Great Stuff! "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Breakfast Club Snatchers!!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Herrington High School in Ohio has the usual groups of disaffected youths &#150; the jock, the goth, the geek, the prom-queen, the drop out etc.  However they are not the only ones acting out of the ordinary &#150; the teaching staff all seem to be acting out of the ordinary &#150; drinking water, acting sinister.  Geeky Casey has the idea that the staff have been infected, taken over by aliens using their bodies as hosts.  Casey's theory spreads to a group of students who decide to take a stand.Oh my God &#150; an enjoyable and quite clever teen movie!  Something must be wrong!  The plot is basically a teen twist on The Invasion of the Body Snatchers, but is filled with clever references and jokes related to sci-fi.  This makes it stand out from other teen movies in that it cleverly plays with the usual stereotypes and makes them feel fresh.  The group itself is close to the usual group that learns to get along and accept each other (a la Breakfast Club) &#150; except here they get along through drugs and the battle against aliens!The director is better known for his big OTT action stuff but here he does a good job with a slow build up and a real feeling of paranoia.  Of course it's not as good as the actual Body Snatchers but it still has a real good feeling of fear and tension.  The effects are good but Rodriguez uses them sparingly for the most part helping the mood of uncertainty and fear.The cast are all good.  The teens play the stereotypes well but they are outshone by the adults who all get to ham it up in sinister roles.  Many of the adults are wasted in minor roles &#150; Hayek for one is barely in it, and MacDonald deserves more than a few minutes.  Patrick is very good considering that it could have easily been his T2 role again &#150; running in that distinctive way etc, but he is suitably sinister.  Janssen is also good &#150; transforming from a shy flower into her usual vamp.  Cameos from Usher, Summer Phoenix and a seemingly pointless role for Harry Knowles (he's been bought!) don't spoil this.Overall as a sci-fi horror it's pretty good if not great &#150; there are better films around.  But as a teen movie it is head and shoulders above the rest of this rather sorry genre and has enough tension, drama and references to be very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"positive review with caveats","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a Robert Rodriguez film. It's a Kevin Williamson screenplay. You already know that it's in the same vein as'Bodysnatchers,' etc. Anybody who *doesn't* know this but saw and enjoyed the Scream flicks or the I Know ... movies is likely to enjoy this.No, it doesn't really have the same underlying Red Scare theme of the original Bodysnatchers (or Arthur Miller's Crucible), although it *is* about what every modern high school movie seems to be about how much their presumed roles imposed on teens makes their lives painful, and how great it is to unleash those strictures. Sure, it's not Bergman, but who really expects haute couture from a sci-fi horror flick? Oh, and any 'homophobia' attributed to the movie (as opposed to some of its high school student characters, just as occurs in real life) is questionable at best.The Faculty is no more and no less than another entry in 'new geek cinema,' slightly more intelligent and self-referential than your standard SCI-FI Network fare. Appreciated on its own terms, or anything close to them, it's a lot of fun! "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"44 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pretty much the typical slasher, with just one twist. It's also helped by the fact that there's other things going on than just a bunch of killings; there are conflicts between the characters from the very beginning, before the killing starts. This is pretty unique for a slasher, and it definitely helps the film become more interesting. The plot is interesting, well, more interesting than slasher plots usually are. The acting is pretty much all very good, the actors nearly all give top-notch performances. The special effects are good, and mostly pretty convincing. I've heard a lot of people complain that this movie is a ripoff of the Carpenter classic The Thing. While that film is the better of the two, this is by no means a simple ripoff. The plot in this is not the same, there are just a few striking similarities. I would rather think of it as a reference, something to honor Carpenter's abilities - Rodriguez was inspired by Carpenter, after all. I would recommend this to pretty much anyone who enjoys slasher movies, sci-fi flicks, or crossovers of the two genres. It's very enjoyable; the only thing I hated was that they had casted Elijah babyface Wood in one of the leads... oh well. You can't always enjoy all aspects of a film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Campy, ridiculous, but entertaining high school version of Body Snatchers","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film fuses elements of the Breakfast Club with Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Robert Rodrigues makes entertaining films, and does so consistently. The Faculty is no exception, though the formula is radically different from his standard approach. In place of large guns, spectacular stunt choreography and a silly soundtrack, Rodrigues made The Faculty with a classy ensemble cast and some awesome special effects. The script is also very good, featuring strong characterization and interesting dialog. All of these elements make The Faculty a very watchable film, and make up for the completely unoriginal and not very coherent plot.The film begins as a paranoiac comedy about a typical high school where the students and faculty see each other as alien species. Ho hum. However, after about 20 minutes of set-up, the faculty really starts to become an alien species, as they are assimilated by water-loving parasites with very bad attitudes and a kind of group consciousness straight out of Invasion of The Body Snatchers and Star Trek's Borg. Six kids, very unlikely team-mates representing the archetypal teenage personalities of the postmodern world, team up to try to save the world, once they realize that the aliens can be driven off by, of all things, caffeine. Especially impressive are Elijah Wood, Piper Laurie, Robert Patrick, Josh Hartnett and Clea DuVall.Like most of Rodrigues' films, The Faculty never loses its sense of humor, and pulls off its own absurdity with artful visualization and a tight, driving pace. Unlike many of Rodrigues' films, however, The Faculty is disposable - it's not really meant to be viewed more than once. See it if you're a Rodrigues fan, or somebody who enjoys the obscure but growing genre of horror-comedy. "},{"Title":"Breakfast Club meets The Thing","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is a rough way of putting it. And never mind those Scream rip-offs or all those other cheap alien/creature-feature films from the 90's. This is a teen horror movie that gives you everything you'd want from a teen movie and everything you'd want from a creature feature, all in one. But what else is to be expected when you got Robert Rodriguez behind the lens? Any other director and this film would be tossed aside as just a teen body snatcher movie. But Robert Rodriguez shows here that he has the style to make it more than that.Now, I've read the script to this movie before I even saw it and I kept thinking to myself, there has to be another draft of this, no way this could really work and be taken seriously... or as serious as you can take a movie like this. Yet not only was I surprised to see how much of the original script Rodriguez kept in, but I was even more surprised to see how well things actually played out. Sometimes I really love being wrong.This film delivers, just as much as any other Rodriguez picture that calls back to the good old days of the Grindhouse and makes us forget that those movies weren't even close to par with these tribute films that somehow manage to surpass the movies they're tributing. You get everything you want and leave wishing you could spend more time in high school... or at least at this high school.This film, to me, is the second in Rodriguez's own unofficial Sci-fi Grindhouse trilogy. Starting with From Dusk Till Dawn and ending with Planet Terror. Want to treat yourself to some fun? Watch all three back to back to back. You won't be disappointed.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great take on the Body Snatchers story","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun and Interesting characters and cool visual effects are the key to this Sci-Fi Thriller, which is largely based on 'The Invasion of the Body Snatchers' I won't introduce the characters here, as the movie introduces (Clea DuVall, Laura Harris, Josh Hartnett, Shawn Hatosy, Jordana Brewster and Elijah Wood's characters) really well as the students at Herrington High, they each have their own individual personalities that evolve as events in the film unfold.The Faculty is littered with top names like Robert Patrick, Famke Janssen, Bebe Neuwirth and Salma Hayek who all begin to behave strangely, un-nerving the students.A small pocket of students begin to believe in a conspiracy among the teachers and it's up to them to save the world from invasion.Great performances from the cast (Josh Hartnett in particular), a fun script and a cleverly re-written story all conspire to make the Faculty a cracking 100 minutes of all out entertainment.7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting.....","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Finally after the appalling I Know what you did Last Summer franchise, writer Kevin Williamson comes back strong with this enjoyable slice of movie literate, sci-fi black comedy.Cult director Robert Rodriguez skilfully mixes shocks with laughs in this pseudo-remake of Body Snatcher movies. If you are willing to sit back and disconnect your brain for two hours, you could naturally do a lot worse than this.Recommended! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Today's lesson kicking alien ass.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originality is not The Faculty's strongest suit, the basic plot being a reworking of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers (with a touch of Night of the Creeps and The Thing chucked in for good measure), its characters your typical high-school movie stereotypes (The Jock, The Nerd, The Outcast, The Stoner, The Head Cheerleader, The Hard-ass Coach, The Tough Principal etcetera etcetera.) and even the movie poster displaying very little imagination.But although this kind of thing has been done many, many times before, the film still proves to be hugely entertaining thanks to a sharp script by Kevin Williamson, assured direction by Robert Rodriguez, great special effects (particularly the practical MUFX by KNB), and a cool cast including Bebe Neuwirth (40 and fabulous), Jordana Brewster, Salma Hayek, Elijah Wood, Robert Patrick, Clea DuVall, Famke Janssen (hubba, hubba), Usher, Laura Harris (naked!) and Piper Laurie. Hell, even Josh Hartnett and his bad hair didn't rankle me that much, which is a change.The movie opens brilliantly with an amazingly tense scene (Williamson having had prior experience in writing such scary openings with Scream and Scream 2), and the excitement continues unabated until the spectacular finale which features one hell of a cool monster, a Cthulu style alien with lots of gnarly teeth and thrashing tentacles. Along the way, Salma, Famke, and Bebe get all sexed up, Josh gets all macho with a makeshift machete, Elijah takes drugs, and Harry Knowles hoists his fat ass out of his armchair for a pointless cameo. It all adds up to a whole heap of fun. "},{"Title":"They Are Taking Over the World through the Back Door","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the Harrington High School in Ohio, the newcomer Marybeth Louise Hutchinson (Laura Harris) tries to befriend the outcast Stokely 'Stokes' Mitchell (Clea DuVall). The quarterback Stan Rosado (Shawn Hatosy) quits the football team and breaks off with his girlfriend Delilah Profitt (Jordana Brewster), who is the editor of the school newspaper and head cheerleader. Zeke Tyler (Josh Hartnett), who is repeating the senior year and sells drugs to the other students, has an argument with his teacher Elizabeth Burke (Famke Janssen). When the bullied Casey Connor (Elijah Wood) finds a weird being on the football field, he brings it to his Professor Edward Furlong (Jon Stewart) that finds that the unknown specimen lives in the water and has the ability of replicating. Later, Delilah brings Casey, who is the photographer of the newspaper and has a crush on her, to the faculty room to snoop around and find any evidence for a story, they need to hide in a closet when Coach Joe Willis (Robert Patrick) and the teacher Karen Olson (Piper Laurie) arrive. Delilah and Casey witness the coach and the teacher attacking Nurse Rosa Harper (Salma Hayek) and they stumble with the corpse of Mrs. Jessica Brummel (Susan Willis), who has recently died, in the closet. They call the police but are discredited by Principal Valerie Drake (Bebe Neuwirth). On the next morning, Casey discloses to Delilah, Stokely and Stan that he believes that aliens are taking over the planet through their high school. Zeke and Marybeth overhear the conversation and join the group. Further they discover that the aliens need water to survive and Zeke's drug is diuretic and kills them. But the problem is who can be trusted in the group?The Faculty is a great sci-fi with a tribute to the classic Invasion of the Body Snatchers. I saw this movie for the first time in the late 90's and yesterday I saw it again on DVD and it is impressive the cast joined by Robert Rodriguez in this film. The plot is mysterious, entertaining and well resolved and also supported by an excellent soundtrack. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Prova Final (Final Test) "}{"Title":"Likable Though Totally Unoriginal","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the problems of coming up with a story is coming up with an original story . In fact there's no such thing as an original story since long before my lifetime so the problem is trying to bring an unoriginal story to the table and developing in an entirely new way . What about a new spin on INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS ? How about setting it in an American high school and doing everything in a post modernist manner where the characters refer to all these alien infiltration movies ? If that isn't bad enough get Robert Rodriguez to direct it and you'll have a recipe for disaster I'm happy to report that years after THE FACULTY was produced it's far from a disaster but it suffers from two slight problems that it can't overcome . First of all the story is too overly familiar to be entirely successful . The 1978 remake of INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS really surpassed the original and the terrifying premise was developed to its full potential and isn't a film you'll forget in a hurray . Compared to that masterpiece anything else is going to be lacking in comparison . Secondly there was a whole slew of movies in the 1990s either written by or inspired by screenwriter Kevin Williamson like SCREAM where smart ass teenagers find themselves in the same situation as other cinematic teenagers have been and feel the need to reference this . This fad died out as quickly as it appeared which means there's a very dated quality in watching these type of films almost twenty years later Not to be totally negative it is one of Rodriguez better films and he resists the temptation to bring stupid humour and unneeded gore to the movie . In fact the lack of gore makes it a strangely likable film in an era where horror films revolve around torture porn . The likability extends to the characters where even the rebellious drug dealing bad kid is a good kid at heart and seizes the opportunity to save the day . Compare this to the anti-heroes of ATTACK THE BLOCK who are total and absolute scum throughout the entire narrative and you notice the world of difference . . One thing Rodriguez could have done a bit better is bring a sense of crushing fear that seems to be missing here . That said as a sci-fi horror movie there's been a lot worse before or since this one "},{"Title":"The Faculty Is A Lot of Fun!","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Teenagers thrive on science fiction and horror flicks because these renegade movies with their improbable pulp fiction plots appeal to youthful sentiments about alienation and the lack of power that juveniles wrestle with in an adult-dominated society. Not surprisingly, Desperado director Robert Rodriguez's clever but derivative creature feature The Faculty, starring Elijah Wood, Robert Patrick, Salma Hayek, and Famke Janssen, ridicules those traditional authority figures&#151;teachers, parents, and the police&#151;who curtail adolescent curiosity. As scripted by Scream scenarist Kevin Williamson, The Faculty amounts to an entertaining but irreverent hodgepodge of The Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers with a scene or two from The Thing grafted on for good measure. While adults may cringe at the messages that crop up, teens will revel in this spooky, sometimes scary spectacle. Inevitably, any movie celebrating a drug dealer as a hero is bound to arouse the wrath of either the PTA or the PTO.The teachers at Herrington High School in suburban Ohio have started acting a little weird. Weird enough so that several students suspect aliens may have turned their faculty into puppets and are using them to stage a hostile takeover of not only their campus but also their town and perhaps even planet Earth. Of course, students have always felt that their teachers come from another cosmos, and The Faculty winks mischievously at this premise. Initially, nobody believes that anything adverse is occurring, and The Faculty unfolds like a hip 1990s' update of The Blackboard Jungle where the kids ruled the campus and the instructors were the casualties of an apathetic school board. An early scene invites such a comparison when Principal Drake (Bebe Neuwirth of Jumanji) informs her burned-out faculty that only the football team will get any new funding. Everybody else will have to suffer. Forget those new computers for the classrooms; the drama teacher will have to recycle last year's sets, and kiss any field trips goodbye.Things take an X-Files turn for the worst when Casey (Elijah Wood of Deep Impact), a geeky, non-entity that bullies love to bash, discovers an egg-roll shaped critter on the football field and lets his biology teacher, Mr. Furlong (Jon Stewart of The Daily Show), analyze it. Like a gremlin, this squirmy thing mutates after they dunk it in an aquarium. When Mr. Furlong sticks his hand in the tank, the things sprouts teeth and rips a chunk out of him. What the students don't know yet is that the critter has already assailed their hotheaded football coach, Dick Willis (Robert Patrick of Terminator 2), and that he has attacked the Principal Drake. Furthermore, this parasite thrives on water, and eventually the entire faculty cannot seem to gulp enough water. Basically, this critter slips into your ears and takes over your body, a variation on Jack Sholder's The Hidden (1987), but The Faculty parasite adds recruits to its zombie-like ranks instead of skipping from one host to another like The Hidden. Insidiously enough, the alien parasite plans to use the popular Friday night grid-iron contest to boost its numbers.Scenarist Kevin (I Know What You Did Last Summer) Williamson populates The Faculty with a generic cross-section of high school types played by a talented young cast of fresh but little known faces. Shawn Hatosy brings humility to Stan, the star quarterback who quits the team in a fit of conscience to improve his grades. As his girlfriend Delilah, who heads the cheerleading squad and edits the school newspaper, Jordana Brewster of The Fast & The Furious) is appropriately catty and snobbish. Delilah dumps Stan because his newly found academic efforts clash with her need for prominence. Wearing more make-up than Elvira, Clea DuVall of Heroes impersonates Stokely, a moody misfit unfairly accused of being a lesbian. Although Stokely isn't really gay, she adopts the persona because she refuses to click with the cliques. Meanwhile, Zeke (Josh Hartnett of Halloween H20) pedals drugs and taboo videos out of the trunk of his GTO, but he conceals more brain cells than any druggie could, especially when he duels with his English teacher about poetry. According to the script, his irresponsible parents have abandoned him, so Zeke has the run of his house. Finally, as Mary Beth, the new babe on campus, Laura Harris deploys her designing Dixie charms to ingratiate herself with even the most dispossessed. No matter what she does, just about everybody shuns poor Mary Beth.Nothing is either as simple or as straight-faced as it first appears in Kevin Williamson's ingenious script. Although the kids have found a cure, they must solve the mystery of who was first infested so that they can kill the parasite and free everybody. Complicating matters is that the alien's army of zombies is multiplying like crazy, and the enemy has our heroes surrounded, outnumbered, and perhaps even infiltrated. Predictably, too, Zeke's stash of narcotics runs low, and the kids have to run a gauntlet of zombies to grab what little drugs remain to destroy it. Director Robert Rodriguez generates sustained suspense as our heroes struggle to outfox the elude the alien spawn and rarely lets the momentum flag.Bristling with atmosphere, issues, and surprises, The Faculty qualifies as a witty, rip-snorting, reptilian chiller that never takes itself seriously. Good paranoid thrillers that keep audiences guessing up to fade out are few and far between. Indeed, the characters get the short shrift, but action rather than characterization propels The Faculty to its nail-biting finale. Nevertheless, the filmmakers offset the lack of character development with cinematic and literary references to genre classics. Stokely and Casey engage in an illuminating colloquy about sci-fi literature and point out that Robert Heinlein's The Puppet Masters beats Jack Finney's Invasion of the Body Snatchers to the book racks. On the other hand, they reveal that Hollywood has exploited Finney more frequently than Heinlein. Even if you abhor horror movies, you might be able to tolerate this playful, well-paced hellraiser. "},{"Title":"just what you would expect","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mix together Invasion of the Body Snatchers, John Carpenter's The Thing, and The Hidden,  throw them into a high school full of stereotyped students and staff, and you get The Faculty.  Nothing in this movie is too surprising, but its well-made technically and delivers at its own loopy level. Bottom Line If you're at all interested in this type of film, you'll love it.  If you're skeptical, you best stay away.  If you're a Salma Hayek fan be aware that her role is very small and her charms were more amply displayed in From Dusk Till Dawn and Desparado. "},{"Title":"Fast-Paced, Shrewdly Presses All the Viewer's Buttons Takes You on Quite a Cinematic Ride!","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't you just hate those friends who belly laugh harder than anyone in the theater, and then, making conversation after the movie, you ask them, Wow, you really enjoyed that, didn't you? and they snap back, What, are you nuts? That was the worst flick I've seen in years! Well, that's definitely NOT me. Despite priding myself on usually disliking a lot of the JUNK churned out by Hollywood, after seeing the FACULTY, and looking into the depths of my soul, I must admit, begrudgingly, it is a rather entertaining movie! Fast-paced, shrewdly pressing all the viewer's buttons, in the right order, it does exactly what its producers want it to Take you on a cinematic ride! Still, I'd like to issue TWO Brief Warnings 1) If You're a Salma Hayek FAN.....Don't Blink! (You just might miss her altogether!) T.O.S.T. = About 4 or 5 minutes! 2) DON'T See IT a Second Time! It's like driving a car with no air in your tires! Believe me, I've tried it...Just doesn't work! ...Certainly, the first time, though, you should have some good fun! 6*...ENJOY/DISFRUUTELA! (Even if it's ONLY ONCE!) Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are most welcome! "},{"Title":"Solid stuff from action/horror director Robert Rodriguez","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young, talented cast and plenty of thrills highlight this interesting take on Invasion of the Body Snatchers combined with elements of The Thing. A High School in a small sports town is invaded by an alien parasite that can replicate the human body and blend in undetected. Sound familiar? So be it. Director, Rodriguez pulls off this one with style and humor. From its brutally violent opening to its exciting climax as misfit students battle the unseen extraterrestrials, and of course, parents and police don't believe them, and fall victim themselves until the whole town is taken over with the exception of a football jock, a geeky half-pint, a bitchy beauty, a tomboy and a resourceful druggie.At times, this seems like a metaphor for misunderstood teen angst and paranoia, but comes off pretty slick due to Rodriguez's direction and good pacing. Lots of great lead performances including Elijah Wood (before his 'Lord of the Rings' fame), gorgeous Jordana Brewster and a menacing Robert Patrick. Some pretty cheesy effects make this a fun throwback to 80's films, and a tight script brings life to the action. This is only dampened by an unneeded high school mean-spiritedness that makes some of the characters unsympathetic and withdrawn. Although, with that aside, this is pretty solid stuff from the director of the equally entertaining 'From Dusk Til Dawn'. All the action is finally wrapped up in a good, reinvigorating ending. Look for appearances by Salma Hayek, Piper Laurie and Usher Raymond. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lets get this out of the way; the acting in this movie is terrible. The plot is absurd, and the dialog is ridiculous. This movie is really entertaining to watch, however. I have no idea whether or not this movie is intentionally funny. I don't see it billed as a satire or a comedy, so I gave it 4 for being unintentionally (supposedly) funny. Josh Hartnett's face literally can't show emotion. I've seen like 7 of his movies, and I'm convinced now of this. Prepare for that dead-eyed look on his face the entire movie YET AGAIN.Elijah Wood is trying. But he just doesn't look his part. He looks like a dork but he doesn't play one that would rise to the occasion as much as his part calls for. Jon Stewart's goatee. Shooter McGavin is in this movie. Hyde is in this movie. Salma Hayek and Jordana Brewster are crazy hot and bad in this movie.If you're like me and enjoy well-known people in bad movies, this is your movie. If you want a competent horror or thriller movie, this is literally the worst choice you can make. "},{"Title":"good sci fi horror.","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember first seeing this movie when I was young and I really liked it. I watched it again last night and nothing has changed. The idea is a fresh new twist on a common story and it has a great cast. Probably the best cast of any sci-fi horror that comes to mind.Its entertaining but not that scary.This movie is about a group of students that attend high school. Everything goes along as normal until one day they start noticing their teachers acting very strange. After witnessing the teachers attack another teacher they reason the teachers have been taken over by aliens and the students are next.This movie was actually pretty good even the monster that looked pretty cheesy didn't take anything away from this. Definitely a fun movie and entertaining watch. "},{"Title":"it was nice seeing Jordana Brewster in a earlier role","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is an amazing film. Well-directed by Robert Rodriguez, this film will keep the viewer riveted to the screen. With a good, edgy story line laced with humor and with solid performances given by the stellar cast, the film will hit its mark with those who enjoy well made sci-fi films. Starring Clea DuVall, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster and Elijah Wood those actors make this movie both thrilling and hilarious. This movie brings together six kids from different high school cliques Casey the geek, Stockly the goth, Delilah the cheerleader, Marybeth the new girl, Zeek the juvenile, and Stan the jock. The plot of the movie is Some aliens take over all the faculty from a school and then try to start taking over the students as well. The queen alien was very scary looking. This film may not be Oscar worthy but it's definitely entertaining, This movie could of used a sequel. "},{"Title":"Sparkling '90s sci-fi/horror hybrid fun!","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robert Rodriguez's spirited sci-fi/horror hybrid is one for the books, even if solely for rekindling the 'alien invasion' genre during the '90s. Taken over by alien parasites, this time it's high school teachers who can't be trusted anymore with a small group of students &#x96; amongst them soon-to-be famous faces of Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood &#x96; discovering the terrifying truth. Kevin Williamson splendidly has his way with stereotypical teenagers in a clever script stuffed with titillating genre references. All performances are outstanding - particularly Robert Patrick eats up every scene he's in - and the K.N.B. Effects Group delivers some of their best work, mixing CGI with traditional monster mayhem. Even with its plot-twists revealed after a first time viewing, this one's worth revisiting. "},{"Title":"Faculty is to Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, as Scream is to Halloween","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films that you will love if you enjoy sci fi films. It is a satire of one of the best there is out there. Satires are only appreciated by a certain audience. If you didn't like Heathers, Scream or Shaun of the Dead, then don't bother watching this unless sci-fi comedies is your thing. This isn't just a comedy, it is shocking and has great twists and thrills along the ride. At times it is down right scary. Even sexy (nudity)! It is all around entertaining with some pretty good acting. My personal favorite is the couple that is always fighting, watch out for them! If you loved at least one of the FOUR film versions of Invasion of The Body Snatchers then you will truly enjoy the satire of this film, and how much it truly honors previous classics in the way that Scream did. Now some say this film is for Teenagers who don't know any better than to think this is a great sci-fi film, but the biggest fan of this film that I know is my 63 year old mother, and I am surely not a teenager anymore.This film is a classic, and yes, it does feature teenagers as the main cast (not the actors.) But the adult characters make a great performance, and even Jon Stewart is pretty entertaining as the science teacher.One film that you should stay for the cast credits just for Jon's appearance! "}{"Title":"There's a Monster in My Class","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Six stereotypically diverse Ohio high school students suspect their teachers are being replaced by an invasion of parasitical body-snatchers! Their assumption proves to be correct; and, soon, the high school is crawling with alien body-seeking creatures! The starring teenagers are nerdy geek Elijah Wood (as Casey), outcast lesbian Clea DuVall (as Stokely), sexy cheerleader Jordana Brewster (as Delilah), football jock Shawn Hotosy (as Stan), nubile newby Laura Harris (as Marybeth), and rebel stoner Josh Hartnett (as Zeke). Their mission becomes discovering, and destroying, the Queen of the ear-invading slugs.I saw this film shortly after its original release, and was able to enjoy it again, recently. Perhaps I wasn't paying a whole lot of attention, originally; because, I didn't experience the certainty of déjà vu until the scene where the six students are in Mr. Hartnett's home lab, wondering of one of them might be infected. This scene highlights the good characterizations, writing (Kevin Williamson), and direction (Robert Rodriguez) in The Faculty. The script has some wit, the cast is great, and the story moves; though, it doesn't really achieve the above ordinary status obviously intended -- it's no Scream.Of the adults, coach Robert Patrick is the main villain; he and the other adults play their roles with a good amount of creepy teacher edginess. Science professor Jon Stewart is a treat. Usher has a small, non-singing role. The kids don't look too, too old to pass for high school seniors; but, a college setting might have been more interesting, and believable. Neglected genius Hartnett, who is repeating the twelfth grade, and Ms. DuVall give the younger stand-out characterizations. DuVall's character is introduced as a lesbian, but, don't get your hopes up; she's only pretending (wtf?).****** The Faculty (1998) Robert Rodriguez ~ Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Clea DuVall "},{"Title":"Surprised Rodriguez Didn't Do Commentary","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by far...THE BEST 90'S MOVIE EVER MADE. I FREAKINGG LOVE THE FACULTY.Okay, so 6 kids, all different, one's a parasite infecting alien, and usher is randomly on the cover? now would you buy it?! HECK YES SON.I have seen the Faculty over 30 times(no joke), and i am telling you, every time I see the football scene, with Usher infecting the other team, and the refs not doing donkey about it, that is some creepy stuff, Just the first infection on the football field, im hiding my eyes because it really makes you think, like oh man, he just did the whole vein's and white eyes thing, man, maybe the ref's have them and when no one's looking they infect everyone, or maybe..etc. See this is why Rodriguez is one of my favorite directors, because he is so goddamn good at what he does, he literally makes you believe this is happening in wherever it's happening.Now , iam a little upset, because a few days ago I bought the DVD for 20 bucks, and when i popped it in my player, The only Bonus Features I got where Captions OH and My personal favorite, Recomendations WHAT THE HECK IS THIS. I wanted some rad commentary hearing Hartnett,Wood,DuVall,Brewster,Harris and that other Jock guy that just get's infected and no one really cares about him cause he's a pig..anyways, yeah, so now i hear? Whats that, A SPECIAL EDITION FACULTY, oh yes sir, that will be in my home, as soon as I see one. Anyways, The Faculty, better then Scream, But not quite as good as From Dusk Till'Dawn, check it out folks, you won't be let down. "},{"Title":"A tremendously exciting time","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty, a masterpiece brought to us by the amazing Robert Rodrgiguez, is an excellently written, skillfully displayed and enjoyable experience all around that I am glad to say is easily one of my favorite movies. The characters are absolutely brilliant and likable from the get-go, and they're outstandingly portrayed by the actors/actresses.Robert Rodriguez has brilliant direction and all the actors/actresses capture the essence and pizazz of the film perfectly to where you're loving every minute this story plays out and the characters interact. The characters are all likable and have their own different personalities to where we care for at least one. The dialogue is spectacular with tons of references to film industry legends and marvels that you're bound to find nifty.The opening chase scene pulled me in and then the rest of the script and acting was what kept my attention because of how admirably it's played out, as I have mentioned. I found myself loving the whole atmosphere, which was set up perfectly, and the story is fun and entertaining. The main alien, when you find out who it is, is not scary or even fresh, but they're intimidating and exciting because of how well the plot is revealed and how wonderful the characacter's work. Another venerable trait is how they are intimidating without the crew trying way too hard to make them seem like they're this cool, edgy alien that you should all be terrified of.The Faculty delivers, and it's an exhilarating ride from beginning to end loaded with humorous dialogue, great action and is brimming with virtuosity. Though some find it average and a bit overrated, I think it is deserving of much more appreciation and acclaim than it receives. Magnificent film, job very well done. "},{"Title":"Loved this Movie!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't know a lot about this movie when I taped it - I only knew that it was a thriller and it had Elijah Wood in it. Also, the title was vaguely familiar - hmmm, did it have a good rep but I had never seen it?So I taped it (it was on at 2 a.m. on a network station) and finally got around to watching it. Loved, loved, loved this movie! And that's coming from me, a hater of teen horror flicks. First, there's the distraction, when you don't know what film you are watching, of all the 'Oh, Bebe Neuwirth! Oh, Josh Hartnett! Oh, John Stewart! Oh, Usher! Oh, Salma Hayek!' etc., etc.' when you really aren't expecting much. Then there are no distractions as the movie zoomed along steadily, dropping clues, setting up conflicts only to have alliances shift and new conflicts reveal themselves.One reason I never watch teen horror flicks is the pace is too regular. It's as if the director and writer can't gamble letting 3 minutes go by without someone dying a gory death to some telegraphic music.There wasn't too much of that in this movie. I was surprised when Josh Hartnett's character took off with one of the aliens in the back seat. In a cheesier movie, there would be a cut to some other fast and furious slasher action to sort of bring up the intensity. There was just enough time in the wild car scene to keep your attention while you didn't have enough time to ponder how he was going to dump the alien. I liked the tired looking high school and the ordinary houses the kids lived in. None of that 'we're living in Ohio but the houses came from Sherman Oaks.'This movie did everything a movie is supposed to do - entertain. When I saw that it was a Robert Rodriguez film, there was an 'A HA!' moment because this is just what I thought his film 'El Mariachi' accomplished - it entertained. After the movie ended, you had that satisfied feeling that you had been amused and involved and sat on the edge of your seat sometimes.Good flick! That's high praise for this genre. "},{"Title":"Everyone's been acting really weird, especially the faculty.","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Invasion of the Body Snatchers comes to high school in this sci-fi horror flick directed by Robert Rodriguez with a script from Kevin Williamson. The faculty at an Ohio high school are taken over by aliens and it's up to a motley crew of subverted teenage stereotypes to stop them. The 'teenage' cast is great with Josh Hartnett a standout (despite his embarrassing haircut). The actors playing the faculty members are all good and seem to be having a fun time in every scene. Most of them are recognizable names like Famke Janssen and Robert Patrick but a lesser-known one that deserves some praise is character actor Daniel von Bargen, who sadly died earlier this year. In addition to Body Snatchers, we get homages and references to many other films, including The Breakfast Club, The Thing, and Terminator 2. Solid direction from Rodriguez and a funny, self-aware script from Williamson. Both men were in their creative prime here. Good soundtrack also helps. It's a fun movie that has only gotten better over time. "},{"Title":"Grades are In A+","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this were a term paper and I were part of the Faculty marking it A+ Nothing short of brilliant and still an enjoyable romp to this day, bringing an old premise into new territory (a talent of screenwriter Kevin Williamson, whom in my opinion is wasting the amount of awesome movies he could be writing on television shows I have no interest in).Robert Rodrigues' best work (to me), and I've never seen him rise above this gem in anything else he has done.The score by Marco Beltrami, the various artist's soundtrack, the actors and actresses, the colouring of the film, the dialogue, the characters, the twists, the turns...everything is like lightning in a bottle.Watched this in High School and it will go down as one of my all time favourites. "},{"Title":"High School Invasion","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The strange think about high school is despite everyone in close proximity with each other we don't really know the person we pass by because where never really ourselves.This film I feel is an under the radar gem, I may'be in the minority on this but this is one of my favorite alien invasion films and it's also one of my favorite films from the director Robert Rodregiez. This was one of the first times this director stepped out of his comfort zone to do something different and this to me is his only hit in that area.Yeah it's another horror film involving teens but what makes this different is that it's not a slasher; instead it's alien invasion. Which I think is a cool idea and a change of pace; instead of having the standard of having teens deal with some killer on the loose they have to deal with alien invasion and save the world which I think is awesome; it's pretty much The Breakfast Club mixed with Invasion of the Body Snatchers which I think is a great combo.I really like the high school atmosphere they create which doesn't feel like another positive stylized high school you'd see on any teen TV drama, but actually felt like a real high school as you see it's almost a cesspool of dysfunction. This I feel increases the realatablity factor because things like this do happen in high schools.The effects on the creatures are solid, it's a slight mix of both CGI and practical. The designs of the aliens are solid if not the greatest aliens, their pretty much nasty parasites or slugs that you just want to pour a big bottle of salt to.But to me it's not really the aliens that make the film it's more the characters and suspense that to me drive the film. I really like how the characters interact with one another, each of them at first are wearing psychological social masks to protect and hide themselves. But once crap goes down, they all take them off and be what they should be to win the war, themselves.Two of my favorites are Casey played well by Elijah Wood (TV's Over the Garden Wall) whom is an actor I really like. His character is great because he is a bit like myself. He's shy, a bit of a loner, ill confidant but not short of courage, but the guy is a real underdog. He doesn't have much luck with ladies, he's a target for bullies, doesn't have any friends or at least any we know about which is all the more reason we really route for this guy to win. Even like the chemistry he has with Deliah there's a bit of a Mary Jane and Peter Parker like vibe going on with both of them.Though my favorite is Stokely (Clea Duvall) whom I thought was kinda cute, she is a goth almost. She has a lot of attitude but what I love is that she is kinda a geek at heart since she's a big sci-fi fan as she reads lots of sci-fi books which makes her relatable since I'm also a fan of the genre and love to read the books in it. But also that deep down she is really possess a lot of warmth. I really like her interaction with Stan to me their the one couple in this film that stand out, I really like how both slowly open up and warm up to one another.I really like how there is a blend of both teen agust drama and the alien invasion suspense. And of course the film is light hearted fun as well, it doesn't take itself too seriously but has it's heart in the right place all the same.One of the dramatic moments that stand out is when Stan talks to Stokely about quiting athletics because he wants more and focus on academics to find himself. Which I though was a very humane moment and pertains to the theme of the film. Part of being a teen is about finding out who you are and figuring out what you can do, and sports careers aren't forever.It's true there not really much in action which is a bit of a first for Rob's films. But that's because this is more of a suspense thriller which I think is great and makes the protagonists and the actions they have to take more believable because their all just ordinary people; and the pacing is great there really isn't a slow moment or any time to really relax much. There is the sense of isolation but also at the same time community with the protagonists.One sequence which to me is one of my favorite one's of all time is seeing all of the character take the drug test which is reminiscent of the blood test scene in John Carpenter's The Thing. That scene was also really funny as we see afterward their all kinda tripping. And of course yes they use drugs as a weapon against the aliens which I like because their using a non cleche weapon.I really like how the film tackles the issues of alienation and isolation that teens go though. But I also think on the fear on being pressured to conform to certain standards and norms that are constantly imposed on us and how it will turn us into something we don't want to be. And the film I feel has a good message which is to simply be yourself, determine your own identity don't let anyone or any system do it for you, it's your life you decide.Overall, The Faculty gets a pass.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Really good science-fiction film from the 90's; it's more for teenagers that love these kind films.","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, i wasn't a teenager when i seen this film for the first time; i was actually about 10 years old, and i was always fascinated by these kind of films, so i decided to give it a bash. What do you know, i loved it, and was hooked on watching it over the course of maybe 3-4 weeks, talking about it, drawing pics, watching it over and over etc. The Faculty is a very good science-fiction film, and the cast are appropriate for the film, they're all great and they're just launching their careers as actors....at this point they're more aspiring than inspiring, but they've been inspired nonetheless, the actors; i just mean they're doing it themselves in their big hit role. I honestly love Elijah in it as Casey, he's great. Josh Hartnett as Zeke is great too, and this is his best film, i think. Each character is individually great, and i am glad no other people, well actors, were cast, because it's the perfect cast. The characters include Stokes, Casey, Stan, Delilah, Zeke, Mary-beth and a few more, and the whole film is about them trying their best to find out who the mother alien is after the high school starts to overtook by aliens; the teachers, at first, start loosing everything more or less, as they keep eerily staring, drink too, too much water and turn all veiny and hideously when they're attacking and passing this spread onto other teachers, one by one....rapidly. Also, Robert Patrick stars as the Coach of the high school football team and he is the first one in the film to actually become one of these alienated things......Who REALLY is the queen Alien? You'll find out if you watch this spectacular 90's science-fiction film, The Faculty. Fresh new actors, good plot, remarkably done alien at the end of the film (the queen alien) with the just starting to be perfected, special effects, and so much more.9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty good with some problems","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Six disparate teens must prevent an alien species from taking over their high school and probably the world. Jordana Brewster is the bitchy queen bee Delilah Profitt. Clea DuVall is the weird loner Stokes Mitchell. Laura Harris is the newcomer Marybeth Hutchinson. Josh Hartnett is the genius drug dealing Zeke Tyler. Shawn Hatosy is the star quarterback Stan Rosado. Elijah Wood is the geeky Casey Connor.Writer Kevin Williamson has written a knowing script of witty smart teens. Then director Robert Rodriguez adds his sense of action. Both of them have combine to create a smarter than average body snatching movie. Still I have a couple of problems.First they show their hand too early. The first section with the teachers is just unnecessary. It'd be better to have the audience question if there was an actual problem. Also it'd be better to start with the kids since they're the lead characters.Second the logic of the twist doesn't make sense. If the aliens can be wipe out by killing the queen, she should be much better protected. And the fact that we know neither Bebe Neuwirth nor Robert Patrick is the first alien. It makes those encounters less compelling because we know for sure they're not the queen.There is still much good here. It has many memorable elements that Kevin Williamson and Robert Rodriguez have piece together. They've got good actors playing all the different teen types. It's a horror from people who've watched a lot of horror. "},{"Title":"Unpretentious exploitation flick","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bad boy director Robert Rodriguez directs The Faculty, a shameless amalgamation of The Thing, The Stepford Wives, Aliens, Invaders from Mars and Invasion of The Body Snatchers.The plot a high school is slowly taken over by aliens who take over the bodies of humans. It's up to our band of heroes, led by Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood, to stop them.The film may be derivative, but like most of Rodriguez's films, it embraces its trashy nature. Unlike his friend Quinten Tarantino, Rodriguez doesn't try to elevate his junk, instead he shoots fast, goes for humour, revels in gore, nudity and keeps the pace frenetic.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"An Above Average Teenage Alien Horror","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is an undercurrent of The Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers in this edgy horror/sci fi monster thriller that incorporates teenage angst, particularly in the beginning half of the movie. The build is nice. There is even a decent attempt at emotional connectivity during the climax that is rarely accomplished. The movie seems to waiver on the dark humor aspects and isn't sure what direction to take the movie and probably missed an opportunity to incorporate the novelty of teenager comedy to balance off this movie or playing it real straight. Overall, this is horror movie with a good dose of relational insight along with a number of twists and turns that for the most part work. The movie, however, loses a bit of its hard edged freshness and descends somewhat into the traditional horror clichés towards the end without really crashing and instead ends with an acceptable ending. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Really good!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, you knew everyone in high school was just a little different everyone looked at you strangely, the teachers were freaky, and you never could find the right groove to fit into. What if it turned out that it was all because your school was inhabited by creepy aliens from outer space? That's the enjoyably cheesy B-premise for this fun and scary flick from the pen of Scream's Kevin Williamson, the master of the post-modern teen horror film. Directed by Robert Rodriguez (El Mariachi), it's The Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers, as six disparate students from Herrington High School band together when they discover that an alien life form is invading both the student and faculty bodies, with plans to take over the world. Each of the heroes represents a different high school type popular babe (Jordana Brewster), picked-on geek (Elijah Wood), goth girl (Clea DuVall), sensitive jock (Shawn Hatosy), new kid in town (Laura Harris), and bad-boy rebel (Josh Hartnett). The plot isn't much--a basic kill-or-be-killed premise spiked with a healthy shot of paranoia--but Willliamson and Rodriguez do a great job of building the tension slowly but surely. The suspense set pieces are genuinely frightening, and the film pokes fun at itself without deflating its scares; Williamson is a master at shifting gears from comedy to horror quickly and adroitly. The young cast doesn't have a weak link among them (with special kudos to Wood, DuVall and heartthrob-in-the-making Hartnett), and Rodriguez gets maximum mileage from the titular faculty, which includes Jon Stewart, Piper Laurie, Salma Hayek, Bebe Neuwirth, and Robert Patrick of Terminator 2. Go to the head of the class, Mr. Williamson. "},{"Title":"boe_dye sez  and we can we knew them when...","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies that jump started young careers. At the time it has a lot of unknown actors looking to break into the business, and you look at it ten years later going oh wow, i didn't know _______ was in this! It's really a well done film. Not too anything, and just right in all the right places.My wife and i happened across this the other day, and just couldn't believe for a moment that its already 10 years old. Still, it's a good film.Of course, it's not directly an original tale; aliens taking over human bodies to make the world a better place doesn't exactly scream originality. However, it does sort of have a breakfast club appeal to it. The dynamics of all the people who normally shouldn't hang out ultimately do and wind up saving the world.I even thought the criminal / closet hot teacher thing between Josh, and Famke was something of little boys dreams coming true.All and all, a good movie. Not campy, but doesn't take itself too seriously at the same time. "},{"Title":"neither director or writer's best work, but it's got a good riff on its repeated subject matter","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the get-go one can figure the Robert Rodriguez directed film of Kevin (Scream) Williamson's The Faculty is like Invasion of the Body Snatchers given a dose of full-blown 90s High School horror movie without it being too compromised. I can't compare to how it might hold up to die-hard fans of the original 50s film, but The Faculty earns its keep as a pretty decent thrill machine by putting up some good characters to sink into. What struck me more though than the characters- even through some notable turns from its main teen cast (Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Clea Duvall, Shawn Hatosy and Jordanna Brewster) and choice teacher bit parts (Jon Stewart, Salma Hayek, Christopher McDonald)- is Rodriguez's fun with the material. The first chase/action scene puts everything into context. And once the developments in the story become fairly familiar- albeit with some occasionally clever if a little easy- points made about the robotic, submissive nature of high school, the gears can kick in with the style. The premise itself could come in any form, even a Goosebumps book. But given a similar need to put some gore and violence and abandon with the context of the real action and suspense (including an extra creepy, twisty-as-Williamson-does last ten minutes) Rodriguez makes it a good attempt after his classic From Dusk Till Dawn. Exploitive, sure, and with some of the bits that aren't totally strong. Even a performance or two can become irksome. But it's a worthy enough B-movie in the guise of something much more in the Scream vein then one might expect. It's smart about what's its doing somehow, and it makes a fine, Dimension-movie style attempt to go into the sci-fi social consciousness that was originally begotten with Siegel's film. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure of a B-movie ...","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, it's obvious from the opening shot that this film isn't going to win any Academy Awards - the script is corny, the characters oh-so-stereotypical (particularly the students on whom the film focuses) and the dialogue veers between quite sharp and rather clunky, but this is still a fun, entertaining romp with some unexpected twists and plenty of excitement and even the odd dash of wit.Life at Herrington High is tough for both the teaching faculty (under-funded and under-appreciated) and the students - unless of course you're a cheerleader or member of the football team. At the top of the pecking order come star quarterback Stan (Shawn Hatosy) and his girlfriend Delilah (Jordana Brewster), head cheerleader and school newspaper editor. At the bottom is bullied geek Casey (Elijah Wood, before he became Lord of the Rings) and somewhere round the edges come school drug dealer Zeke (Josh Hartnett) mean and moody Goth Stokely (Clea DuVall) and new girl Marybeth Louise Hutchinson (Laura Harris). Marybeth's arrival coincides with Casey's discovery of what might be a new species of animal out on the football pitch and the very odd behaviour of several teaching staff, and it isn't long before Casey and company begin suspecting alien involvement ...The film takes a little while to get going, but once it does the thrills come thick and fast. Sadly the alien-possessed faculty get comparatively little screen time which would seem a waste of some true talent (including Salma Hayek and Famke Jassen) and only Robert Patrick gets a chance to ham it up as the sinister football coach (and does so in fine style). The characterisation amongst the teens is as aforementioned stereotypical, but everyone does their best - although Hartnett proves woefully inadequate as a bad boy and comes across more as someone pretending to be a bad boy. Elijah Wood is the only real standout, giving a glimpse of future star power, as he turns from shy victim to a guy who takes on an alien army single-handed over the course of the film (as well as pulling off some potentially terrible lines) - although I was left wistfully wondering what Clea DuVall might have done with a more fleshed-out role.Long story short a fun way to pass an evening without having to think too much. You could do much worse ... "},{"Title":"trust none","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" How many of us when at school have wished our teachers would change. This film takes this idea and goes one better,what if our teachers were possessed by aliens? In an average mid-American town and in an average middle-American school a group of nerds and jocks realise that their teachers and half of the pupils have changed and not for the better. School nerd Elijah Woood and lonely sci-fi obsessed Clea Duvall,join up with the captain of the football team,Shawn Hatosy,the school bad boy Josh Hartnett,the snooty Jordana Brewster and the new girl played brilliantly by Laura Harris and try to find the queen of the aliens.If they kill her then every one will return to normal as the alien drones possessing them will die with their queen. This may be a teen movie at heart but with two of the masters of today,Kevin Williamson and Robert Rodriguez joining forces to write the screenplay and direct,respectively, then you are going to get a film most certainly not just for teens. This film has it all.Violence ,suspicion, alien invasion and very brief nudity.I personally think this is one of the best alien invasion films ever. Elijah Wood,in his pre_hobbit days,shows signs of future greatness but he is well supported by a good young supporting cast. If you have never seen this film then you should. Just keep in mind what one of the characters said at the end,how can you be sure what you saw and remember,TRUST No one .10/10 "},{"Title":"All star cast provides great entertainment","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe the faculty was the birthplace of many actors. It greatly increased the recognition of several actors including Josh Hartnett, Elijah Wood and ???Usher???. It also degraded such personalities as ??Usher??, wait, you cant degrade someone who has never achieved. What a waste of acting space.With at least 6 known and soon to be even more well know actors this movie is one of the better earlier teen flicks that hadn't been influenced by the matrix and the such. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw SCREAM, I loved it and then all I ever wanted to see after it was horror movies. So, that's where I started my obsession with horror flicks, but on to another subject...I also enjoyed Kevin Williamson's I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and as you could probably tell, I was equally excited to see what this movie would be like. Well, purely, this is one of my favorite horror films.Movies like HALLOWEEN, DRACULA, and Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 PSYCHO are only held in such high regard as horror films because they were all novelties. Movies like those hadn't been made a thousand times over which is why most people are always calling them the scariest. Well, no they are not the scariest. But since they were some of the first of their kinds, they say that they are.Well, the plot of THE FACULTY has been done before. But not quite so well. While I didn't really think Kevin Williamson's TEACHING MRS. TINGLE was all that good, THE FACULTY is still one of his better works. Director Robert Rodriguez (FROM DUSK TILL DAWN..also a good movie) directs this hard-hitting sci-fi/horror/comedy/thriller/action movie. Literally, there is a little bit of everything here. The movie is not scary, but there is a small shock factor thrown in. All in all, most people should be able to find something fun out this movie. THE FACULTY 5/5. "},{"Title":"All according to the formula....","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie actually had some very interesting/imaginative ideas and kept my attention.  The creature found in the football field and the scene where it was put into the fish tank really got me ready for a good sci fi/horror flick.  Then, I started to see the pattern in this movie--suddenly the high school geek, the star quarterback, the disaffected/withdrawn girl, the local drug dealer and the new girl all fall in together to fight the aliens.  How often have we seen that kind of formula in a supposed high school group of kids?  Hmm, the Breakfast Club comes to mind for one similar kind of situation.  There were some outstanding actors in the movie--I think Bebe Neuwirth can't help but be the sexy, sultry gorgeous-legged creature that she played in this movie--problem is, she's more a temptress than a High School Principal.  The coach was downright creepy and Zeke had his charms.  Jon Stewart was largely forgettable, but Piper Laurie always plays a good character (remember her in Carrie?).  The ending was according to formula--the geek becomes the hero, kills the monster and they all lived happily ever after.  A notable twist in the plot is who turns out to be the alien Queen/leader.  Had it a better ending it might have been better than a 4 in my book.  They really needed to improve that set too-American High Schools may be a bit ragged around the edges, but that building looked like it had been unused for some years before the making of this movie. "},{"Title":"You've seen this one before","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An unfortunate mish-mash of old cliches and ideas. All the stock characters and plot points are here lethal alien life form is disguised as gorgeous girl (Species), ostracized nerd is victimized by jocks (Can't Hardly Wait), nerd ends up with sexy co-ed (Can't Buy Me Love), hunk ends up dating mousy girl (Sixteen Candles), football coach is evil but gets results (Varsity Blues). As you can see, there isn't a lot new here. The Faculty's only good points are that it offers one-stop shopping (it will save you watching all those other films) and a pretty good performance by Clea DuVall as a sexy weirdo. If you paid full price to watch The Faculty, you deserve flowers and a sympathy card.  "}{"Title":"Un-original and incredibly predictable","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The concept is old concepts combined into something new. The whole sci-fi angle (a la Aliens) meets a high school setting,thus hoping to cash in on the roving teenage market most of these films create. And we have to give credit because at least they didn't go the whole horror movie angle, although at times it borders on it. Good casting though. Although way too predictable (geek gets hot girl,freaky girl gets football player,timid new girl is not what she seem) The film does however score in the special effects department and the concept is believable (for a sci-fi film). My suggestion, see it if you're bored. And be on the lookout for shameless Tommy Hilfiger plugs!   "},{"Title":"Derivative & Gory, but Good Humor","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At several points in The Faculty, its derivation from Invasion of the Body Snatchers and Robert Heinlein's The Puppet Masters is openly acknowledged.  It differs from those earlier works in that  (1) there are a half dozen high-school-age protagonists, and (2) the aliens initially co-opt the bodies of teachers.The personalities of the teenagers are well-developed, particularly the Elijah Wood and Clea DuVall characters.  Although Wood is the star, Bebe Neuwirth gives a standout performance as the principal.  Although the last half of the film degenerates into a bloodfest, there is a surprising amount of humor for a horror flick.  Of that genre, The Faculty may be the best film of '98. "},{"Title":"A nice mix of horror and sci-fi clichés in high school","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is called The Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers mixed with everything you've ever seen on screen from high school to science fiction. Something has infected a small community in Texas where a parasite out of the skies hits a high school with students and teachers becoming victims with only a group of outcasts doing something about the situation. Josh Hartnett (Black Hawk Down) plays the druggie/secret genius who has a major affection for nerdy teacher (Famke Janssen); Elijah Wood (The Lord of the Rings) is the geek who gets his groin crunched by the flagpole who thinks that his alien paranoia has come to life; Clea Duvall (no relation to Robert Duvall) is a student who has people questioning if she's a lesbian; Laura Harris is the new student taking interest in Josh Hartnett; Shawn Hatosy is a jock who wants to concentrate on academics while Jordana Brewster (The Fast and the Furious) is the It girl. The film is directed by Robert Rodriguez while the screenplay is written by Kevin Williamson in which like Scream has big references to everything.Overall, a cool flick. "},{"Title":"the teacher is an alien!!!","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me just start off by saying that my English language is limited and I am sorry for any grammar mistakes The faculty was one of the first movies that I desperately wanted to give a second view. The thought of teachers turning their students into aliens gets many teenagers thinking that it is inevitable to prevent them from becoming one. I was glued to my seat every second of the movie and I can honestly say that I am a true fan of this movie. There is a student (played by elijah wood) who finds out that the teachers have been taken over by an extra-terrestrial force. Shocked and stunned by that fact, he tries to convince other people to give a last stand in hope for mankind. Nobody believes him at first but eventually he assembles a team to try and stop the alien-teachers from global domination.Based by the story invasion of the body-snatchers they try to do what the people in that story could not accomplish (I could be wrong about this though).It's actually an amazing movie according to me and one of the only movies in that time that deserved a second view. The characters are different from one another but find out that they have to put their problems aside and team up before they become one of them. Nobody trusts each other and nobody's secure about anyone telling the truth, and that's actually a great concept. They used it in the movie the thing in which people aren't sure who is an alien or not and also find a way to test everybody, exactly like in the faculty The movie is somewhat predictable at times but mostly recovers it with another action/suspense scene in which you don't want your favorite character to become one of the aliens. overall I think they did a good job on this movie and every time I get a chance to watch it on TV, i most certainly will I'm not saying that this movie is a classic among the other horror movies or thrillers but it is certainly not the worst movie in your local videostore. You should check it out if you don't have any other movie in mind worth seeing i give it an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club's Invasion of the Body Snatchers","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Kevin Williamson penned the script for Scream, he completely revitalised the flagging horror genre, by having the characters knowingly winking at the audience about the clichés while actually starring in a horror film. With The Faculty, Williamson has done the same thing for science-fiction, drawing upon such classic paranoia stories like Invasion of the Body Snatchers, given it a hip, teenage spin, and added a little self-referential irony for good measure.The actual plot of The Faculty is nothing groundbreaking or original, especially if you're a fan of Star Trek (it's almost a direct lift from the TNG episode Conspiracy), but the astute playing by the young cast and a creepy atmosphere from Robert Rodriguez makes The Faculty a very engaging tale indeed.Robert Rodriguez is a director not always known for subtlety (From Dusk Til Dawn). But with The Faculty, he manages to restrain himself, slowly building the menacing tension effectively, and it is really only at the end that Rodriguez succumbs to his need for special effects overkill.Set in an Ohio high school (not Chicago which is a nice change!), alien parasites have found their way into the school faculty and are spreading. There are quite a few good actors playing these parts, like Robert Patrick, Bebe Neuwirth, Salma Hayek, Piper Laurie, Famke Janssen, etc. Taking over their bodies, they start the slow process of converting the students too. To what end, who can say?Gradually some of the students start to catch on. Six in particular. All stereotypes of course. Delilah, the high school glamour queen. Stokes, (Clea DuVall, excellent) the high school misfit. Marybeth, the squeaky clean new girl. Zeke, the rebellious drug dealer. Stan, the high school jock. And Casey (Elijah Wood), the wimpy nerd.As our six heroes band together, it soon becomes a desperate struggle to remain one step ahead of the aliens. Rodriguez manages to create a very tangible feeling of paranoia. You can never be certain who's who. Or who can be trusted. There are some lovely touches throughout, such as the eerie image of three teachers standing watch outside Casey's home in the middle of the night. Or the teachers voices over the PA system telling students to report to the principal's office. Even simple things like the shadow of a person walking past a glazed window seems creepy. The highlights are endless.There is more than a few shades of The Breakfast Club to these kids, which is probably intentional. Stokes, for example, is a dead ringer for Ally Sheedy's Allison. They may be obvious stereotypes, but the characters are all sharply written, and given considerable buoyancy by the actors. Delilah's acidic bitchiness makes her very entertaining. Stokes is admirably feisty about being an outsider. Even Stan is more interested in his studies than playing football.It's just a shame the teachers aren't given the same exposure, especially with the eclectic list of actors playing them. They're not really used to their full potential, but when Robert Patrick or Bebe Neuwirth are on the scene, they make a huge impression.The structure of The Faculty is clever, because of the way it juxtaposes high school as a sinister place out to get kids. Which is actually a fear most teenagers go through. It's given weight and dimension by the inclusion of an alien invasion co-opting the teachers. The camera-work helps with the way it remains fixed on some of the schoolkids just staring at our six heroes, as if they're secretly talking about them behind their backs. Which of course, they are.Also like Scream, The Faculty is witty the way it playfully acknowledges the sources it's taken it's inspiration from. Casey is the first one to point out how like Invasion of the Body Snatchers all of this is, even quoting directors like Spielberg, Barry Sonnenfeld, and Roland Emmerich and all their associations with alien pictures.But the motives behind the alien invasion is kept in the dark for the most part, which was a bit frustrating. And as the special effects take over towards the end, The Faculty loses some of the atmospheric menace so well sustained throughout.But despite that, The Faculty is well above average. With some of Scream's brilliance from time to time, sharp characters, witty dialogue, and engaging design, there's hardly any room for complaints. Also, I love paranoia stories, and this ranks as one of the best.Marvellous. "},{"Title":"The aliens are amongst us but they are not who you think.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This showcases the talents of a young cast and some adult faces that are now better known for other films.The basic premise is straight from Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  In this case they invaders are parasites from a planet where they lived in water.  Initially, it is only the Faculty that are affected but then it spreads.  The FX are adequate.  This film is much along the lines of Scream, but for Sci-Fi.This is amusing enough and will pass the time pleasantly.  "},{"Title":"Rather bland and mediocre","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was hardly revolutionary, I mean its only saving grace was its ensemble cast. I think Famke Jansen is totally hot and Clea Duvall especially, she's just totally gorgeous. Not enough gore either. In, fact there's not much else to The Faculty. The cheap CGI effects were pretty crap and the post-Scream script by over-celebrated writer Kevin Williamson is too self-aware and modern to be effective. In a few years, this kind of thing is going to seem dated.I guess it was entertaining in a silly kind of way which it was supposed to be but it could have been a LOT better. Not the kind of film I would watch again. "},{"Title":"Decent, but not worth 8 dollars","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Overall The Faculty was okay but nowhere spectacular.  I found myself laughing at parts that were supposed to be scary (to the dismay of the people I was with) and raising my eyebrows at others.  How coincidental can it be that the little group consisted of one person from every crowd? (Jock, druggie, outcast, etc.)But don't get me wrong.....there were many faults throughout the film, but it was still entertaining.  From the beginning to the end, a teacher back from junior high school kept popping into my head.   That on its own made The Faculty worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Stupid but enjoyable","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Almost everything about this movie is stupid - a school full of kids who brawl in the corridors like wild animals and become angelic students in class who sit up and listen attentively to even the most boring teachers, a cheap mixture of drugs that can soak up several hundred times its own weight in water, a high school Biology teacher whose knowledge about marine organisms would match that of a world specialist, etc, etc, etc. And yet it manages to be compulsively watchable. The direction is actually very good, and the acting is at least passable. Fortunately it didn't take itself too seriously (at least I hope it didn't). I was particularly impressed by the way it pointed out that The Invasion of the Body Snatchers was a take-off of The Puppet Masters, and then shamelessly proceeded to rip off both of them. "},{"Title":"Stupid, and funny because of it","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was absolutely hilarious. The plot was inane, the movie knew it, and made use of it to make it funny. This movie does not have to work to make you laugh, its simply spontaneous. It's like the Scary Movie series in this respect. The fact that it stared many contemporary and future stars such as Elijah Wood and John Stewart makes the whole thing even funnier. Josh Hartnet manages an excellent portrayal of the character he is playing even if his later attempts have been less than stellar. Even the overdone special effects combine with the ridiculousness of the plot to make this movie a thoroughly entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. "}{"Title":"ten year old movie stereotypes and cheesy special effects don't work anymore.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure what i hated more about this movie, the fact that everything was stolen from somewhere else, or that the writers didn't even do that right.  The tagline The Breakfast Club meets The X-Files couldn't be further from the truth.  To even mention The Faculty in the same sentence with those two degrades them both.  The Faculty's plot is full of holes and scientific oversights that keep it from being a respectable science fiction film.  Also, it uses the same stereotypes for high school students that were beaten to death in the eighties.  There were several pitiful attempts to raise emotion in the viewer by portraying the poor high school student suffering some grave injustice at the hands of his elders.  Overall it was a poorly made film cashing in on the newly revived teenage market.On the other hand, it did have few cute girls. "},{"Title":"A fun tongue-in-cheek referential horror film from the writer of Scream...","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FACULTYA Film Review by John Ulmer (Copyright, 2004)The Faculty piggybacks a lot of great horror films, but also provides a great modern perspective of them all in this multi-remake. Its references range from Invasion of the Body Snatchers (the film's primary inspiration), to Pod People. But this is no surprise -- the film was penned by Kevin Williamson, the guy behind the self-aware horror hit Scream One and Two, as well as I Know What You Did Last Summer. (One of my least favorite horror films of all time, surprisingly.)This is one of his best efforts. It involves a pack of kids at a high school in Idaho who begin to suspect that their teachers are aliens from another planet. A comical idea, yes? That's what I thought. Then I started getting into the movie and realized that it was one of the most fun -- if silliest -- horror films in recent memory.John Hughes would love this film. We have The Nerd (Elijah Wood), The Criminal (Josh Hartnett), The Jock (Shawn Hatosy), The Princess (Jordanna Brewster), The New Hot Babe (Laura Harris), and The Basketcase (Clea DuVall).As I sit at my keyboard and recall the plot and characters, I realize just how routine and clichéd the film really is. But none of these clichés struck me as I viewed the film, which is a bit startling in retrospect.The Nerd, a pre-Lord of the Rings Elijah Wood, begins to suspect that his teachers are aliens after the football coach (Patrick Stewart, the T-1000 from Terminator 2) inserts a strange alien creature into another teacher's (Salma Hayek) ear. A moment later she is fine, and rejects the boy's claims that the coach assaulted her.Then the school begins to be taken over by the alien species, which thrive on H20 and seem intent on taking over the entire planet. Before they do, however, the pack of kids form together and try to stop the aliens. The Criminal (who is really smart but plays down his genius) creates caffeine-based drugs at his home that dehydrate the aliens and destroy them. So with drugs in hand, the kids march against the aliens in an effort to stop the queen alien. Since when did you become Sigourney Weaver? one of the kids asks another.Where, I wonder, are these kids' parents? As these events go on, they seem pretty careless. The Criminal has an entire drug factory in the basement of his house. Do his parents know this? Do they even care? The film doesn't provide a very large backdrop. It is so weak with character introductions, in fact, that it supplies us with freeze-frame name credits every time we see one of the kids' faces. (This is usually an early warning side of a bad movie -- check out Dude, Where's My Car? if you need more proof.)The cast is pretty impressive; along with all the other actors I mentioned above, there's also Christopher McDonald, Jon Stewart, Piper Laurie and Famke Janssen. Pretty impressive. I wondered what drew them to the project before I saw the movie. Then I understood.This is fun. People don't see the fun in this movie because they criticize the flaws too much. It's not meant to be taken seriously -- in case you haven't figured out by now, The Faculty is entirely referential and tongue-in-cheek. It's not a remake, as so many critics perceived after their screenings. It's a subtly funny parody.The film is directed by Robert Rodriguez, who is infamous for having strong style but weak plots. His film El Mariachi was the breakthrough, and it was followed by two sequels, Desperado and Once Upon a Time in Mexico, both starring Antonio Banderas and Salma Hayek. Hayek is in just about every single one of Rodriguez's films -- she was even in last year's Spy Kids 3-D Game Over. I wonder if his inspiration is John Hughes, who constantly cast Anthony Michael Hall, Ally Sheedy, Molly Ringwald and John Candy in his films.Here Hayek has a small part, and the film mostly belongs to the teenage characters. As I think over everything that happened in the movie, it's almost laughably bad -- the things that happen are ridiculous. Very clichéd.But yet I had a lot of fun watching The Faculty, and any movie that convinces me it isn't stupid when, in fact, it is, is worthy of a recommendation in my book. This is a well-done horror film. I wish they were all as fun and tongue-in-cheek as The Faculty. Then I wouldn't hate the genre as much as I do at the present.3.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I didn't expect to be impressed.......","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been waiting for a while to be able to see this movie.I finally got to watch it.Now, when the movie first came out, it looked REALLY good!Then, I started watching commercials for it on T.V. and it looked really disgusting and INCREDIBLY stupid!But, I decided to watch it anyway since I had been wanting to see it!I was impressed!Although, the script was not very good, the special effects and acting made up for it!It is all around good movie!And, thanks goes to the casting director for putting Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood in this movie(they rule)!I give The Faculty a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining horror movie that takes place in a high school setting","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" So this is a late 90's movie that is probably inspired by Body Snatchers and the Men in Black movie. Now I like these premises, where something mysterious starts to happen and a few group of people tries to figure out what is going on. And while doing so, paranoia and distrust starts to happen. That is why I am thoroughly entertained when watching movies like The Thing. The setting takes place in a high school with a group of high school students trying to figure things out when the teachers start to act very strange. To be honest, if I saw this movie when it first came out and rented it on VHS when that was still relevant. I would have been glued to the screen from start to finish. Watching it now, the teen interactions and relationship between one another is very typical and kind of boring. They did bring different personalities and categories of teens that applies in high school. Such as the nerd, the hottie, the druggy, the goth and the jock. However when they start to band together it actually starts to get a bit entertaining to watch. Especially when the paranoia and distrust goes off, it's actually executed quite cleverly. This is a fun Robert Rodriguez movie that is a alright watch especially with a group of friends while doing some guessing among each other. It's not as violent, gruesome and crazy as I thought it would be, especially for a Robert Rodriquez film. I was expecting more of a exploitation film with lots of gruesome violence, nudity and craziness. It leans more towards the humor, teen interactions and entertainment. Plus when it comes to who's body is going to get taken over next, it's not all that predictable. Overall this is a film with a decent build up with a entertaining second half when things get real. It's worth one watch, would have thoroughly enjoyed it if I saw it the year it came out.7.6/10 "},{"Title":"The Faculty Will Hate This.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty (1998) Dir Robert Rodriguez / Cast Elijah Wood, Jordana Brewster, Josh Hartnett, Laura Harris, Clea DuVall Suppose to represent false identities where aliens poise as teachers for no real reason other than these films love picking on teenagers. It feels like an attack on teachers and authority with the students retaliating at these aliens poised as teachers. Why don't the aliens just stick to the old fashion stealing of the lunch money? These aliens constantly drink water as their source of life. Somebody needs to get them drunk. That ought to screw with their world domination plan. Elijah Wood plays a wiz kid who senses that something is wrong. Laura Harris plays a sunny girl who tries desperately to fit in. Josh Hartnett sells illegal items. Jordana Brewster rounds out the cast discovering a body in an office closet. Lame plot followed by routine hack fest where teenagers become cafeteria food to aliens. It is as juvenile as a horror film can get and contains as much stupidity as the screenwriter can pack in. Directed by Robert Rodriguez who applies the same graphic action that ran rampant throughout his From Dusk Till Dawn, with fine visual effects but acting is bad. For a superior recommendation I recommend the 1978 version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, which was much more fun and inventive. Pointless blood and guts should be avoided by everyone, including aliens. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"A thoroughly horrendous horror film","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really, really hated this film. No, I didn't just hate it. I utterly despised it. It has a promising start but it turned out to be beyond dreadful. The script by Kevin Williamson is abominable. The film is essentially an incredibly poor rehash of the 1956 and 1978 versions of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing (1982). I will say that it is not shy about acknowledging its debt to these earlier and infinitely better films or the literary works on which they were based. I freely admit that it has never bothered me when a film is not entirely original or even downright derivative if it uses the relevant plot devices in a clever way, something which this manages to avoid doing in practically every scene. It's actually more than a little impressive that way.Generally speaking, it is not a good idea to remind the audience of good films when they are watching your very bad one. I imagine that it was supposed to be a satire of the aforementioned films and other alien invasion stories but it completely failed on that score as well so at least it is consistent in its awfulness. On the bright side, Robert Rodriquez's direction, while not exactly stellar, is better than the writing, though it could hardly be much worse. There are also some nice visuals but so bloody what? What annoyed me about the film more than almost anything was that it could have been an excellent film as the idea of aliens taking over schoolteachers has such potential. I think there was at least one teacher at every school that the students joked was an alien so the satire on school life could - I stress could - have been very effective. Instead, we get what is essentially an awful feature length episode of Goosebumps or Are You Afraid of the Dark? with drug use and the occasional use of the f word thrown in for good measure. Yay. Speaking of which, the scene in which the characters use the drugs to determine who is an alien, based on the classic blood test scene from The Thing (1982), is probably the worst scene. It was just awful, hysterical nonsense. I just wanted them all to shut up, frankly. It was a microcosm of the entire film in that respect.One of the few things that I actually liked about the film was some of the acting, particularly from Elijah Wood, Jordana Brewster, Bebe Neuwirth, Famke Janssen, Piper Laurie and Robert Patrick who steals the show even though he has very little screen time. Laura Harris is as bad as I expected her to be from having watched her in the hilariously awful early 1990s Canadian teen drama Fifteen in which she was by far the worst of a generally very bad bunch of actors. The other actors are pretty much forgettable.Overall, this is a thoroughly horrendous horror film. Discounting The Room which was so bad, it's good, Carry On Emmannuelle is the only film that I watched in 2015 that I thought was worse than this catastrophe. From now on, I would not be surprised if I flinched whenever I heard or read the word faculty. I only finished it because I promised myself a few months ago that I would always watch films all the way through, irrespective of how bad they were. Christ, I love writing scathing reviews. "},{"Title":"the movie just blows your mind; it's great.","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although the movie walks on a well treaded path that of an alien parasite which controls humans and infects them one by one the movie still manages to be very enjoyable. One of the things I liked most is that it starts with several stereotypes and during the development it is shown the real person behind those. There are a lot of surprises although you know some of the persons that are infected from the start. Some may say that the idea was copied partially from an outer limits episodes and it does have some elements in common but the fact that it develops on those ideas makes it a movie on its own and not a copycat.All and all this is a movie full of comedy that in the same time keeps you tense until the final moment. I really recommend to anyone that wants a horror that will pleasantly surprised by it. The only fault I can find is the main villains monologue. But It is not such a big deal and will give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Crappy Snatchers","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Word of advice for writers, if your story idea is unoriginal then referencing that fact can give your story more credibility. However referencing how unoriginal your idea is repeatedly will only hammer home the point that we, the audience, should be watching better films.That brings us to the oddity that is The Faculty. This film is entirely a product of its time. You tell right away this film was conceived in an office somewhere to be popular with the MTV generation. The soundtrack is a hodgepodge of what you'd hear on the radio at the time. The setting the film up as a high school version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, or rather The Puppet Masters as the film is oh so willing to remind us, feels like shameless pandering. You can even see the jock vs outcast sentiment echoing through American youth at the time, the same sort of cultural sentiment which only a year later escalated into the Columbine Massacre. The film's saving grace was the fact it occurred at a time in which R rated films could be marketed to youths, because let's face it the film wouldn't have worked without the gore and the monster effects.The casting is really off here. Sure there are some great actors. There's also a rare on screen appearance by Jon Stewart. But all in all the casting choices give the film a lack of cohesion, like they just threw a bunch of random people in a movie.There are some great moments in the movie. It's probably worth a watch for the curious, but I wouldn't expect much going into it. It's basically a high school version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers where drugs are used to save the day (it sounds more interesting that it is). There is a plot twist near the end that is is predictable only because of how stupid of a twist it is. You'll be saying to yourself, I bet... No wait, there's no set up for it.... That's too stupid. The film could have been saved a little more if it played up it's campy elements more, played more to the underlying humor of the concept. There are moments where it does this, for instance the football game where the team has signs with kill and the coach is moving with such cartoonishly gleeful gestures. Moments like this are great. Sadly they are few and far between. It's hard to believe Robert Rodriguez directed this. "},{"Title":"Very Much 1990s","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Students suspect that their teachers are aliens after bizarre occurrences.This is very much a film of the 1990s, especially the second half. That same teen horror subgenre that Scream mastered and Disturbing Behavior did well. Get a mix of teen idols, add a soundtrack, and boom, you have a film. This is no exception, with some of the biggest names of the time on the screen (now, about fifteen years later, it is interesting to see who is big and who is forgotten).As far as being a body snatcher movie, it is pretty good. It is obviously aware of its past, as it overtly makes reference. But it also tries to steer clear of being a copy. Some references to past films are over the top, such as naming a character Edward Furlong. Really? Although not one of Robert Rodriguez's best films, it is still a nice trip down nostalgia lane. And it is probably not his worst (it may be time to stop with the Spy Kids and Machete sequels). "},{"Title":"And YOU thought you hated YOUR teachers...","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" An unlikely group of high school students must band together when they become convinced that the staff at their school have become alien slaves. They each fit a common stereotype The Loser (Elijah Wood), The Outcast (Clea DuVall), The Stoner (Josh Hartnett), The Jock (Shawn Hatosy), The Cheerleader (Jordana Brewster), etc.As could be expected with a Robert Rodriguez venture, there was clearly some fun had with the casting choices. How would YOU like to have Santanico Pandemonium (a.k.a. Salma Hayek) as your nurse, The T-1000 (a.k.a. Robert Patrick) as your coach, Lillith Sternin Crane (a.k.a. Bebe Neuwirth) as your principal, and Margaret White (a.k.a. Piper Laurie) as one of the teachers?The script is by Scream creator Kevin Williamson, based on a story by David Wechter and Bruce Kimmel, and that can be either a selling point or a turnoff for the prospective viewer. Not surprisingly, the script gets annoyingly self-referential, with sci-fi stories like The Puppet Masters and Invasion of the Body Snatchers getting a shout out. Rodriguez is a John Carpenter fan, and that's evident in the way that The Faculty plays out, as it hits a number of the same beats as Carpenters' The Thing - including a pivotal testing sequence and a severed head gag. This is all just a little too self-consciously hip for its own good, right down to the soundtrack.The effects are a combination of some practical work and a fair amount of CGI, a lot of it rather ropey. Still, the monster design is pretty fun.The attractive young cast inhabit their roles reasonably well, and are supported by a superb bunch of veterans - also among them are Christopher McDonald are Woods' father, and Daniel von Bargen. Jon Stewart plays the science teacher! In small roles are Danny Masterson, Harry Jay Knowles, and Duane Martin.As youth-oriented genre fare in the post-Scream era goes, this is fairly entertaining stuff.One could take a drink of water every time a reference is made to water in this movie, but you'd probably have to go to the bathroom before long.Six out of 10. "}{"Title":"Buckets of gore, buckets of fun, a genre winner","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robert Rodriguez's The Faculty is a spectacularly funny gross out horror trash fest that has been a bit forgotten these days. It's a fun, lighthearted yet dangerous piece that plays like Dazed And Confused meets the Body Snatchers. In sleepy Midwest America, a deadly alien parasite attaches itself to the brain stem of a high school teacher, with the sole purpose of converting every human in town into a soulless vessel for these extraterrestrial hosts. The sassy, usually diverse bunch of high school jocks, nerds, weirdos, bimbos and social rejects are tasked with assassinating their whole faculty who has become infected. The effects are appropriately slimy, the performances are knowingly cunning, and the script, penned by Scream's Kevin Williamson, is a deftly comic 'scream' heh heh. Josh Hartnett makes a likeably sleazy lead as the local dealer who figures out the aliens weakness (I won't spoil the hilarious surprise). Clea Duvall, Shawn Hatosy, Jordana Brewster, Usher and a twitchy Elijah Wood are great as the students. Robert Patrick has a ball as the short tempered football coach moron, Bebe Neurith makes a silky, nasty villainess, and Jon Stewart, Salma Hayek, Piper Laurie, Daniel Von Bargen and shooter mcgavin himself all show up in memorable supporting turns. The film has knows how violent and nasty it should be to get that bite, but at the same time knows how to have fun, and be a unique, highly entertaining entry into the 'sarcastic teens vs. otherworldly monsters with a glib, self parodying script' subgenre. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the High School Body Snatchers","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a decent high school horror with a mix of up and coming actors and established stars. From the writer of Scream and the director of From Dusk Til Dawn, while not quite the classic this film had a lot to recommend it and is worth a watch.Aliens or parasites or alien parasites, it doesn't really matter are trying to take over the world one school at a time. In Herrington High School Josh Harnett (sporting a left over Jim Carey haircut from Dumb and Dumber) leads a plucky band of misfits (featuring hobbits, girl-racers and that guy from that thing) on a quest to rid their school of water obsessed body snatchers.Featured on Episode 64 of The Emerald Reprobates Podcast. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Entertaining,Underrated SCI-FI/Horror-Thriller From Robert Rodriguez.","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is an excellent,entertaining and underrated SCI-FI-Horror-Thriller that combines great direction,a wonderful cast,a sharp script,fine special effects and a memorable score and soundtrack. All of those elements make The Faculty solid entertainment that's Robert Rodriguez at his best.Set in Ohio,The Faculty tells the story of High School teenagers Casey(Eiljah Wood),Zeke(Josh Hartnett),Delilah(Jordana Brewster),Stokely(Clea DuVall),Stan(Shawn Hatosy)and Marybeth(Laura Harris)who find out that their teachers and fellow students have been taken over and possessed by Aliens. With nowhere to run or hide,the teens decide to fight back against the Aliens and survive.After the critical and Box Office success of Wes Craven's Horror classic Scream in 1996 there was a trend and wave of hip and clever Teen Horror films that were released in theaters during the late 1990s and early 2000s(which also included I Know What You Did Last Summer in 1997 and Urban Legend in 1998)and one of the best Teen Horror films and one of my favorites during this time was director Robert Rodriguez and screenwriter Kevin Williamson collaboration The Faculty,a movie that that was a modest success at the Box Office and is a film that combines Rodriguez's special effects driven style with Williamson's dialog and is Horror movie that's truly underrated and very overlooked. The Faculty is a terrific and memorable SCI-FI-Horror-Thriller that would be described as The Breakfast Club meets Invasion Of The Body Snatchers with a dash of John Carpenter's The Thing and is a movie that gives viewers a fun and interesting take on the Alien invasion genre with High School and with teenagers dealing with adults even though the movie isn't serious. The storyline in The Faculty may not be original or creative but the movie is a non-stop thrill ride from beginning to end giving viewers everything but the kitchen sink with tons of thrills,excitement and suspense that is done in a over the top style that just works. While The Faculty is a SCI-FI-Horror movie it's not a scary one to make you keep your lights on at night,but there are moments in the film that are suspenseful and intense and will gives some viewers jolts and surprises. As for Blood and Gore there isn't much of it in this film but there is bits and pieces that show up in the movie. The screenplay by Kevin Williamson is terrific and memorable,with Williamson's dialog being clever and witty basically bringing the same type of dialog and style he brought to his Scream screenplay which makes The Faculty funny and humorous at times thanks to some of the back and forth dialog with the characters. While the characters and the dialog make reference to other SCI-FI-Horror movies The Faculty isn't as self aware or ironic as Scream was. The main teen characters are a direct homage to the John Hughes Teen/High School classic The Breakfast Club with all of the main characters pretty much representing some of the main stereotypes you would see in other Teen movies(geek,jock,criminal etc)but all of them are well-developed and interesting becoming more and more likable and heroic as the film goes on and we root for them as things become dangerous and chaotic. The ending of The Faculty is amazing,thrilling and filled with excitement,surprises that will leave viewers satisfied. A great ending.The cast is great. Elijah Wood is wonderful as Casey,a nerd. Jordana Brewster is terrific as Delilah,a popular girl Casey has a crush on. Clea DuVall is fantastic as Stoakley,a loner. Shawn Hatosy is great as Stan,a Football jock that's Delilah's boyfriend. Josh Hartnett is amazing as Zeke,a genius who makes drugs. Laura Harris is great as Marybeth,a new girl at school. Famke Janssen(Ms. Burke),Robert Patrick(Coach Willis),Salma Hayak(Nurse Harper),Piper Laurie(Mrs. Olson),Bebe Neuwirth(Principal Drake),Jon Stewart(Professor Furlong),Daniel Van Bargen(Mr. Tate),Christopher McDonald(Mr. Connor),Libby Villari(Mrs. Connor),Usher Raymond(Gabe),Jon Abrahams(Boy),Summer Phoenix(Girl)Danny Masterson(Messed Up Kid),Wiley Wiggins(Messed Up Kid),Duane Martin(Police Officer),Katherine Willis(Police Officer)and Susan Willis(Mrs. Brummel)give good performances as well.The direction by Robert Rodriguez is amazing and stylish,with Rodriquez keeping the camera moving also using freeze frames,slow motion and giving the film a nice style and atmosphere. Fantastic direction,Rodriguez.The score by Marco Beltrami is impressive,suspenseful and intense and matches the tone of the movie. Nice score,Beltrami. There is also a wonderful Pop/Rock soundtrack that includes a great cover of the Pink Floyd song Another Brick In The Wall by the group Class Of 99.The Special and Practical Effects by K.N.B. Efx Group are terrific and effective mixing together practical effects with CGI very well. Great job once again,K.N.B.In final word,if you love Horror films,SCI-FI or Robert Rodriguez,I highly suggest you see The Faculty,an excellent,entertaining and underrated SCI-FI-Horror film that well worth your time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Got some special memories of this one because I rented this movie, probably around 1999, and I didn't rent movies that often when I was little, so it was a big deal for me. I rented The Faculty and Dark City, because I was babysitting. I had seen a review of the Faculty, or some sort of news about it on the TV. I live in Norway, and there wasn't that much talk about horror movies in the media/on television, so it definitely got my attention.The Faculty is just plain awesome. It's a straight up classic. I rented it not knowing much about it, and I loved it. The plot is pretty simple, you know the drill, but it is so well made. Great cast! Several of the actors became house hold names. Josh Hartnett and Elijah Woods being the biggest ones. But several of the other cast members also pop up in movies and series from time to time.A lot of big names in this one. Salma Hayek, Famke Janssen, Jordanna Brewser, Usher, Jon Steward, Oh, and of course, T1000 himself - Robert Patrick is in it, and he is awesome. The effects are really good, it has some serious suspense, a couple of scares, it's kind of over the top and goes pretty crazy. But what I like maybe the most is the general atmosphere. I've always been fascinated with American schools, (probably from seeing so much of it in movies and stuff) and I just love seeing movies that take place in high school and college.The movie is just overall cool and comes very close to a 10 from me. Maybe after another viewing it will be! "},{"Title":"It borrows from past films but alters itself","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every high school has its issues. Whether it is misbehaved youth, poor budgeting management, inadequate staff or out of date supplies, there's always something that needs work. Interestingly enough, most students would likely say that it's their teachers that make their time feel like a waste. Sometimes this is true, while other times teachers are used as scapegoats for another person's problems. But what if the teachers were the problem and their intent was much more serious than one would expect? This is what happens when a random cluster of students at an ordinary high school discover that their teachers aren't what they appear to be.Directing this movie is Robert Rodriguez who has a story in the genre of horror for the second time - before that was From Dusk Till Dawn (1996). Accompanying Rodriguez is writer Kevin Williamson who also wrote for Scream (1996) and the rest of its later sequels. The strange thing is, much of the material Williamson uses is blatantly taken from other movies. Yet he does it in a way that at least credits them and somewhat morphs it into his own without coming off as complete copy. For example, there are some conversations that discuss the previous Invasion of the Body Snatcher films. The leads even come up with a test to determine who is real and who isn't, just like John Carpenter's The Thing (1982). Again, it's not new, but it at least aims to entertain with a slightly different angle.The cast contains various new and old actors. Some of which the new actors would become highly regarded in the current day. Playing some of the faculty, you have Robert Patrick, Salma Hayek, Famke Janssen and even Jon Stewart. The young actors include Jordana Brewster as the uptight prissy girl, Clea DuVall as antisocial introvert, Laura Harris as the newcomer to the school, Josh Hartnett as the stayback senior, Shawn Hatosy as the Jock, Usher as his best jock friend and Elijah Wood as the bookworm. All of them portray their characters accurately considering they all look like highschoolers. Perhaps the most interesting character is Shawn Hatosy for playing a jock that decides that grades are more important than sports. That's rare for an athlete. Other than that, these characters are fun to watch but none of them stand out enough to be truly memorable.The creature itself in this movie isn't memorable either. However, in spite of that, its presence is still not to be missed. To explain it, it basically is like trying to explain what John Carpenter's The Thing (1982) looked like; you can't. It's a thing. Considering this movie partially exists in the horror genre the gore is respectable. Some of the gore moments are a little unpredictable but most are cliché because of them being taken from other films. For the most part, the CGI is convincing enough to get by even though there are some moments where it looks dated too. Helping to enhance the experience of horror is composer Marco Beltrami's score and unfortunately, it's not his best work. His music can be heard when it comes to the scares, but he missed a lot of emotional cues that could've been used. Oh well, it's still fun though.Its concept is not new but it has moments that make it different from past films with a decent cast and special effects. Its music could've been a little better though. "},{"Title":"Post-Modern Irony at Herrington High","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is often said that the British and the Americans are two peoples divided by a common language, and I certainly learned a new word from The Faculty. In British educational usage, a faculty is a university department (Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of History, etc.). In America, however, it would appear that the word is used as a collective noun referring to the body of teachers at any given school, what we in Britain would call the staff. There can be few schoolchildren who have not, at one time or another, suspected that their teachers are alien beings from another planet, and The Faculty is about a group of students who discover that their teachers are, quite literally, exactly that. Herrington High School, Ohio, is your typical All-American high school as seen by Hollywood. You can tell it is typical because the pupils include representatives of all Hollywood's major social stereotypes of American teenagers- the handsome, musclebound (but dim) star athlete, the attractive but bitchy star cheerleader (who is inevitably the star athlete's girlfriend), the gloomy, unsociable Goth girl, the nerdish academic and the rebellious intellectual outsider. The racial make-up of the school is 100% Caucasian, apart from one token black kid and one token hobbit. (Actually, I don't think he's supposed to be a hobbit- he and his family live in a normal house, not a hole in the ground- but ever since Lord of the Rings I have been unable to think of Elijah Wood as anything else). The plot is hardly original, being that old science fiction/horror standby about alien parasites trying to take over the world by controlling people's minds and bodies, in this case starting with the pupils and staff (sorry, faculty) of Herrington High School. If that sounds like a rip-off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, it is. Moreover, the scriptwriters are quite shameless about having ripped off the earlier film, which they refer to several times, although they justify their creative theft by having one of the characters point out that Invasion.... was itself a rip-off of a Robert Heinlein story. I think this sort of thing is known as post-modern irony. Only a small group of students realise what is going on; their suspicions are first aroused when the notice that a few of the teachers have begun to act oddly. Yet again there seems to be an element of irony involved, because some of the supposedly suspicious changes actually seem for the better; the head football coach suddenly becomes a normal, rational, human being, rather than the foul-tempered, tyrannical disciplinarian he has always been. (That seems to be a common view of sports coaches; the one at my school rejoiced in the well-deserved nickname of Hitler). One of the female teachers, previously a frumpy and prissy young woman (even though she is played by the gorgeous Bond Girl Famke Janssen) suddenly becomes a sexy vamp. When I first saw this film, not long after it came out in 1998, I disliked it, seeing it as just a dull, derivative mass of Hollywood teen movie and horror movie clichés. Having recently watched it again, I dislike it rather less than I once did. It may make use of stereotypes but it also subverts them. Musclebound jocks in films of this type are generally arrogant show-offs with no life outside sport, but Stan, the school's star football player, is actually quite a likable guy who even quits the team to concentrate on his academic studies. The anti-social bad-boy outsider, Zeke, proves to be a hero when the illicit drug he has been peddling turns out to be a key weapon in the fight against the aliens. Casey, the nerdish academic, proves to have more physical courage than anyone. And so on. Yes, The Faculty is clichéd, but it is all very tongue-in-cheek and makes use of traditional film clichés in order to have some fun with them. I think that also qualifies as a sort of post-modern irony. It will never be ranked as a great classic, but it makes for enjoyable late-night watching. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Elementary High-School Sci-Fi","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this Movie was not Directed by the Usually Inspired Robert Rodriguez it wouldn't be such a Mediocre Disappointment. The too cool for school Auteur is let down here by way of an Overrated Screenwriter who is nothing more than a Low-Rent Tarantino Wannabee.The Pop and Literary References here are not Hip, they are Elementary Explanations. The Movie starts out OK and has a Creepy (yes that Invasion of the Body Snatchers/Puppet Master Thing is still unsettling to this Day) Set-up, but by the Time the Invaders turn into CGI Octopi all Tension gives way to Ho-Humness.The Film has a good Cast of Adults and Teens Spouting the usual Stuff that these B-Movie Adults and Teens Spout with all the Comfortable Clichés, but in the End with a very Forced and Facile Script, the Movie just sort of Lies there Gawking with Self-Referential Sadness.Slightly better than Average as these Things go, but considering the Talent Involved it can't help but be a Fizzle that Never seems to be Amped Up on its Own Stimulants. "},{"Title":"How would high school students handle the faculty being replaced by aliens?","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Odd goings-on at Herrington High in Ohio, featuring an all-star cast.First the faculty, then most of the students, get taken over by alien parasites.A small band of outsiders among the students manage to evade the parasites.The local pusher discovers that one common drug kills the infested humans.Next job, taking out the faculty, and finding the 'queen' of the parasites.It all goes right down to the wire.-----Scores-----Cinematography 10/10 Quite good.Sound 10/10 No problems.Acting 6/10 Mostly fine, with a few exceptions Laura Harris, and Usher Raymond come to mind. On the other hand, most of the acting was competent or better. I enjoyed Elijah Wood, Famke Janssen, Bebe Neuwirth, Piper Laurie, Clea Duval, Robert Patrick, Jordana Brewster, and Josh Hartnett.Screenplay 8/10 Story hangs together nicely; it's well worth watching. Some years ago, I saw this on commercial television; that version had only VHS quality and about 200 lines of dialog replaced. I found that version annoying, and would have rated it around 5/10. With better picture quality, zero commercials, and the original lines in place, the film is much better. "},{"Title":"Teenage movies are forever","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I think back to when I was a kid, and we went to the second run movie theaters, we saw such forgettable gems as The Giant Claw, Monolith Monsters, The Monster Than Challenged the World, The Angry Red Planet, and...I could go on and on. Some real classics came out of the same era Day the Earth Stood Still, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Them, and a few others, but we're not talking about classic Sci-Fi here, this is cheap teen movies.The Faculty is clearly a remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Puppet Masters. Stokely even has a line that almost matches a Dana Wynter line from ..Body Snatchers, calling out to the other aliens, He's here! Of course, these days a movie has to have at least brief nudity and lots of censurable language in order to get the coveted R rating, but if it were edited for network TV, it would have the same charm, I think, as the old teen movies that were actually TV-Ready. Scary stuff to make your girlfriend cling. Happy ending for the attractive cast members.So there you have it. Nostalgia, gore, and a decent music soundtrack (you can't go wrong with a Pink Floyd tune). Too bad I was so many years past teenager when this came out. The movie is full of future minor stars and other recognizable actors. Of course, as any movie centered around high school football needs to be, it was shot in Texas Austin, Lockhart, and San Marcos. "},{"Title":"hot teachers","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jordana Brewster, Salma Hayek , and Fammke Jannsen , what's not to like about this movie, the scene is a high school somewhere in America , where just like everyday students go their to learn and flirt with the opposite sex, and teachers, do what they do teach and drink lot's of coffee, except for this little school there is something just slightly well let's say amiss... the teachers.. are aliens.. yeah you heard it.. imagine going to a school like that and finding out that you're teachers aren't from this world.. this is a very funny movie,, lot's of laughs, great music. i find that's it held up very well since it came out.. i never knew at first that this was directed by Robert Rodriguez which i am a huge fan of. overall i would recommend this to anyone , lot's of great creepy stuff, and costume design,, with a little bit of a plot . "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty The most awkward aspect of attending high school as an alien is showering with your mono-penised classmates after gym.Fortunately, only the administrators in this horror movie appear to be aliens.When Casey (Elijah Wood) uncovers a strange creature at school, he takes it to his science teacher, Mr. Furlong (Jon Stewart).Eventually, like other faculty members (Famke Janssen, Salma Hayek, Bebe Neuwirth, Robert Patrick), Furlong hosts a species dependant on Earth's water.To prevent a town-wide assimilation, Casey and his classmates (Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Shawn Hatosy, Usher) must use a homemade narcotic to overthrow their alien oppressors, and return their teachers to normal.An archetypal teen horror movie from the late-1990s, the only thing separating The Faculty from the era's other slasher schlock is its done to death secret invasion premise.On the bright side, with their numerous appendages, alien educators are well equipped for today's overcrowded classrooms.Yellow Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"90's Teen Horror Done Right!","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" While in high school did you ever think your teachers were aliens from a different planet? That's the premise behind Robert Rodriguez's 1998 film The Faculty. Piggy backing off the massive success of the Scream movies, teen horror in the late 90s was the hottest thing going. The Faculty has a great ensemble cast featuring Josh Hartnett, Elijah Wood, Selma Hayek, Usher and many others. Also in a bit of strange casting John Stewart in his pre Daily Show days plays a science teacher named Edward Furlong who played John Connor in Terminator 2.We are introduced to the students of Harrington High School in proper stereo typical form. There is the smart, drug dealing Zeke (Hartnett) who is repeating his senior year. The bullied and tormented Casey (Wood), the tough goth like rebel girl Stokley (Clea Duval), then of course the cutesy blonde haired new girl with sexy southern accent, Mary Beth. Rather then being a terrifying and gory horror film, it is more a fun and entertaining blast of nostalgia. Taking hints from movies like Invasion of the Body Snatchers and 50s style monster movies. These movie are also brought up by the characters and follows the formula of Scream in being self referential.Starting with the insanely intense football coach the entire faculty becomes infected by a shrimp like creature that goes in through your ear and wraps it tentacles around your brain to control you like a robot. The aliens need a great deal of water to survive and the water cooler becomes a popular hangout in the teachers lounge.Casey finds a small pod like thing on the football field and brings it to Mr. Furlong who finds that it jumps to life when introduced to water. Casey and the editor of the school paper Delilah (Jordana Brewster) start to investigate things and then witness the turning of the school nurse Rosa (Hayek). Just thing about that for moment the school nurse is Salma Hayek, needless to say that office must be constantly overflowing. Anyway, Zeke the cool kid deals this white powder stuff that's made up mostly of caffeine pills that he puts in clear pen tubes. They find out that this powder kills the aliens when they stab Mr. Furlong in the eye when he turns on them. Then the sh** starts to get real. The group of students hideout in Zeke's garage where they need to prove they are not aliens by taking a hit off the powder. A scene similar to the one in John Carpenter's The Thing. They figure out that to end this they need to find and kill the lead alien. Eventually one by one they get infected until Casey in one his own and has to save the day.The Faculty is a very familiar story, but it knows what it is. I saw this way back when it was in theaters and really liked it then and still do. As with all teen movies it does tend to date itself and lose a little something in the process. So if your feeling nostalgic for the 90s take a look at Robert Rodriguez's The Faculty. Also look for its bastard step child Disturbing Behavior in my next review. "},{"Title":"Take Me To Your Teacher!","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Clea DuVall, Shawn Hatosy and Jordana Brewster star in Robert Rodriguez's 1998 sci-fi/horror film. This takes place in Ohio where Casey (Wood), Zeke (Hartnett), Stokely (DuVall), Stan (Hatosy) and Delilah (Brewster) are Herrington high school teens who begin noticing that their teachers and classmates are acting strangely different. Soon, they discover that aliens are using them as hosts trying to take over their school and town. Casey and his friends begin not trusting anyone and each other while searching for the leader and fighting infection. Robert Patrick (Terminator 2), Salma Hayek (Desperado), Jon Stewart (Big Daddy), Bebe Neuwirth (Cheers), Piper Laurie (Carrie) and Famke Janssen (Goldeneye) co-star as the faculty. Christopher McDonald (Happy Gilmore) is also featured as Casey's father. This pays homage to the book, My Teacher is an Alien and films, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, John Carpenter's The Thing & The Breakfast Club. I recommend this good sci-fi/horror flick. "},{"Title":"Body Snatchers was just a made up story.......","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herrington High School, just your everyday place of learning. That is until the teachers start behaving strangely. It seems there is an alien plot to take over world and only a rag-tag group of students can save us.When you pair Robert Rodriguez director and Kevin Williamson writer what sort of movie do you really think you are going to get? Well the answer is The Faculty, which in all honesty holds absolutely no surprises for anyone familiar with the guys who gave us From Dusk Till Dawn & Scream respectively. That's not to say that The Faculty isn't a fun horror/sci-fi film, because it is, it's just should be noted that The Faculty is all that it can be as regards the makers and the nature of the beast.The film has rightly been tagged as a cross between Invasion Of The Body Snatchers and any teen led Highschool movie you can add Invaders From Mars in the mix too. This is intentional, something that's apparent as our intrepid students discuss Snatchers amongst other movie references, and one of them, Stokely Clea Duval, is a sci-fi aficionado . As things progress it's also evident that the makers here are movie fans making a movie for movie fans, all be it one aimed solely at the teenage demographic. There's much satire around and cliché's are widely embraced, but again it works because there is no hidden agenda. There's gore and hugely effective scenes involving blood, slugs, heads and an eyeball, whilst slasher fans are catered for in a couple of, if seemingly pointless as regards the alien's intentions, memorable scenes.The youngsters in the cast, all playing total stereotypes, all do what is required, with Josh Hartnett, Duval & Elijah Wood particularly shining. But it's with the adult actors that The Faculty really gains its tongue in cheek momentum. Robert Patrick, Famke Jansen, Salma Hayek, Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth and even Jon Stewart all file in for a bit of alien parasitical fun. Come the end of the mania, with the staple alien queen reveal and showdown, there's the overriding feeling that the film could have been so much more. Certainly it's guilty of being a touch too derivative, a little focus lost in the self referential and knowing in-jokery genre winks. But it's a groovy ride is this one, not in the least bit serious, and one to clip open a tin of beer with and embrace it for what it certainly is. Entertainment. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Silly Movie with a great cast!","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's that time of year again, the horror movie season and the elections have arrived. I can say that the latter is usually more frightening than the horror movies. I love watching horror movies around Halloween. The commercials in between are usually more frightening than the actual movies. Maybe because they are political commercials. Well in this film is a take-off of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers in a small town high school with a first rate cast like Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth, and even Jon Stewart is probably doing his finest acting moments as a professor/scientist. When only a few of the students have not been converted to aliens and know about the plot, they seek to understand what is going on at their school. Thank God, the kid from the Lord of the Rings movies is there to help save the say. I always mix him up with Tobey Maguire. Anyway, it's nothing more than entertainment and surprisingly good one at that. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable alien invasion movie","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a lot of high-school kids who look upon their teachers (some of them, at least) as monsters. But in this high school, the faculty are turning into real monsters, as their bodies are taken over, one by one, by a strange alien parasite. Six students, who have nothing in common and don't even like one another, must bond together to defeat the alien menace and save the planet.The first time I viewed this movie (I have seen it several times since), I didn't quite know what to expect. I was pleasantly surprised by how entertaining, and how well done, the film turned out to be. When I saw the closing credits (I'm one of those who reads them to the last word) and realized that Robert Rodriguez was the director and that Kevin Williamson wrote the screenplay, it all fell into place. A first-rate script, a first-rate director, a first-rate cast. The perfect recipe for a first-rate movie.I cannot praise the acting highly enough. Robert Patrick practically steals the show as The Coach, managing to be menacing and hilariously funny at the same time. Bebe Neuwirth, Piper Laurie, Famke Janssen, and Jon Stewart (yes, that Jon Stewart) also put in excellent performances. The actors playing the students, particularly Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood, also prove fully up to the task. Although this is not a comedy, everything is done with tongue firmly in cheek, and there's little doubt that all will come out right in the end. There are some terrific set pieces, my favorite being the Friday night football game, where the opposing players are turned into aliens as they're tackled, with the cheering crowd completely oblivious to what is really happening.I had a lot of fun watching this movie and will undoubtedly check it out again next time it shows up on cable. "},{"Title":"A hoot","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is a hoot from start to finish.Never serious for an instant, it delivers a B movie sci-fi/horror story, played absolutely straight, but with a knowing wink.The cast - a mixture of up-and-coming youngsters near the starts of their careers and tried and tested veterans - all do very well. Elijah Wood continues to impress, but he isn't the only one.The story is fast paced. While there are no great surprises for anyone who has visited this genre before, it keeps you engaged throughout.The effects are absolutely fine.This movie is FUN with a capital F U N. Too many movies of this type forget that they are supposed to be fun, but The Faculty enjoys being what it is - a fun-filled romp. And I enjoyed it, too. "},{"Title":"I Love It!!","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great film... but i don't recommend it to everyone unless you like them sort of movies. I like most kinds of movies! Apart from the crap ones. Ha-ha! Great actors include Elijar Wood and Josh Hartnett and many other great actors. This is great to see what happens in the end! Does the cool guy get with the dork? Does the cool girl get with the dork? Does the dork save the world? And does the teacher get what she deserves?! Who knows? I loved to watch this film. I think its a film that you can watch a couple of times but thats it, unlike me who loves it and can watch it again and again. Its great to find out what happens. I enjoyed watching this film. I recommend anyone to watch it at least once! ) "},{"Title":"They're here! The faculty...","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not one for aliens taking over the Earth. My forte is Sci-Fi, but aliens never seemed all that believable when portrayed in movies. This one is, of course, an exception.Robert Rodriguez salutes classic horror movies, throws sci-fi in the mix, and adds a touch of teen drama to it all. Together, you get The Faculty.Casting was exceptional. Not one actor in this movie was bad. I speak the truth. I liked it that Mr. Rodriguez used relatively young actors to portraythe teens in this movie. Each actor embraced their role, and became it. Even the adult cast was sensational! My only complaint (may others forgive me for saying it) was that Usher's role was played up quite a bit, despite the fact that his role is a little more than a cameo. Forgive me for saying so, Mr. Raymond. Credit must be given to Mr. Hartnett, Mr. Hatosy, Mr. Wood, Miss DuVall, Miss Harris, Miss Brewster, and the many other cast members who really made this film believable.The alien portrayals were excellent! They were far from what was to be expected from a '90s film. Credit to the design team and director for that. The teen drama (and the imagery of typical high school life) were dead-on. Overall, this film is definitely one for the sci-fi/horror collection.8/10 alien parasites. Great work, Mr. Rodriguez! PARENTS NOTE This movie is rated R. It contains frightening images, some drug use, gore/blood, strong language, and scenes of nudity. Discretion is advised if allowing your young children to see it. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun....  Better then I had expected","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gave this a 7/10This film was far better then I had expected it to be. One of the key reasons I forked out the money some $25 when it first came out on DVD and bought myself a copy.One of the few films that stands up to repeat viewing. It doesn't take itself seriously, nor does it claim to be anything other then what it is. It's a fun film with a mix of action, sci-fi, and some horror thtown in for good measure.I liked the actors in this too Clea Duvall was wonderful as the goth girl Stokely and Elijah Wood as the nerd of the group, but neither overdo their part, nor do they unplay it. It just works and the whole ensemble of young actors are fun to watch.I'd say give this movie a try. It's fun "}{"Title":"Through the back door Fun!","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Towards the end of the film one of the characters comments that the aliens are walking in through the back door and let me tell you this film crept up upon me in the same way! What i was expecting from the pen of Kevin Williamson (Scream, Scream 2) was perhaps self induced teen horror with no sense at all. I knew with his previous two credits he could crack the horror genre but could he crack the sci-fi? The answer is a clear and distinctive YES.What you also might be surprised about when watching this film is that it is a Robert Rodriguez film, it's a film where he was tied down by the studio but never the less he makes a great effort all the way through and his direction is clear and crisp and brings the teen spirit of the nineties quite comfortably to the screen.There are some great actors in this movie, Jordana Brewster, Robert Patrick, Josh Hartnett and Jon Stewart to name a select few. Each brings a unique quality to their role and never really takes themselves seriously, rather portraying the overblown, over the top qualities we might expect. However Elijah Wood must be given special credit for his portrayal in the film. If anyone is believable in this film it's him playing his role with good direction via Rodriguez. I felt strongly and was rooting for this character right the way through the film.The film is well paced and Rodriguez shows his talent as director/editor with his ability to pace the film. The fun build takes us to an hour in while the final fifty minutes are pure action/sci-fi glory.I believe that this film is a great effort and a true effort at bringing a bored and out of tune genre back into fashion, while the film does share those characteristics of its Scream predecessors, such as the characters referencing every sci-fi film possible (even using Invasion of the Body Snatchers to help win the day!) it is a great film to sit down with on a Saturday night and settle back into the couch and forget about life.It's time to remember the days when you thought old Mrs. Neckingbottom was an evil alien from mars or Mr. Sideward is the king alien from Zuton, either way its a great memory filler and a great great ride and much better than a lot of trash being released this summer! Overall a great film, special effects dating but never the less the great characters make for a cool and positive experience! ******* out of ********** "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie. I thought it was a very cool premise and the characters were all very likable. Didn't have a ton of scares but had some very neat scenes in it. It has a killer cast in it also and is directed by one of the best directors out there. It may not be a typical Robert ROdriguez movie, but he puts his own touch to it. It tells the story about a high school that is getting invaded by aliens. First the teachers become aliens and then slowly the whole city and school becomes aliens. A bunch of students that come from different social circles figure this out and band together to stop this and use their knowledge of science fiction movies to figure out what to do. NOt everyone's cup of tea but still very cool "},{"Title":"Surprisingly A Good Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are six stereotypical students Delilah Profitt (the pretty girl), Stokely 'Stokes' Mitchell (the Gothic/loner), Zeke Tyler (the stoner), Stan Rosado (the jock), Marybeth Louise Hutchinson (the new girl), and Casey Connor (the geek). They all find out that their teachers are really aliens after bizarre occurrences.When I checked out this film, I thought it was a slasher horror flick but I did some research to see it's an alien film. So then I thought it was a slasher/sci-fi film. When I watched the film, it's not a slasher at all but I wasn't disappointed. I liked this film.This film takes its time establishing character personalities from different characters and the first few minutes of the movie has its suspense and it maintains throughout the film. The acting by many people were good but some were bad like Josh Hartnett.I watched this film on TV so I was really annoyed by the editing and seeing not many violent scenes but still, it doesn't matter about the blood or gore (not much in the film). There are some surprises here and there which keeps your attention, although some of the special effects aren't good.If you're expecting a slasher flick, you would be disappointed. If you like those classic alien movies in which characters gets into situations and has some intriguing characters and some plot twists, you'll find this movie quite a surprise. "},{"Title":"The Faculty","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched the film on DVD today and i thought that it was brilliant. My friend liked Josh Hartnett he took a brilliant part as Zeke Tyler. I didn't know this person but he was great. I also reconised simmular faces. Piper Laurie she played Mrs Karen Olson. I have seen her in other films as well.The films that I've seen her in is Tim,Carrie,Return to Oz, Trauma and this one. But i didn't see her in many parts really but she did well. I also reconised a singer Usher Raymonds. He was great too. The beginning was strange because Robert Pactric who played the coach. One minute he was doing something, he turned around and he was talking to somebody. He said what do u want? Then the alien had got him. And i noticed something about it. I didn't see Mrs Olson get turned into an alien then i saw the rest of them get turned. I thought that it was strange but i thought that when the pupils were saying about shot the ringleader and i thought that Mrs Olson was the ringleader but she wasn't it was a blonde bimbo. And i was puzzled after that. But i thought that it was a fantastic film. I like all of the scenes. When two pupils ran into the Faculty office. They hid in the cupboard and they saw the coach and Mrs Olson and another teacher having a glass of water and second minuter i knew they were turning her into an alien and that was a twist. Then Mrs Olson saw somebody in the cupboard and the coach had opened the door and one pupil had something in his hand and smacked the coach. Then the lass shoved Mrs Olson on the floor and that what made me think that she was the ringleader but my friend and i were wrong. The film had so much action and i will definitely watch that film again. I was surprised that Piper wasn't in many scenes but she was great and she will always be a great actress.I didn't know many actors from the film. The film had many special effects what was great. I cant see any criticisms in that film and also i thought that the film was scary because they was a woman who had died. There was a man who just in the shower and then he heard footsteps. He thought that it was his friend messing about but when he had opened his eyes a woman had ran to him. Her face was awful. She had warned him that they are after everybody in the school. Mrs Olson said that she had cancer and thats what she had died of. At the beginning of the film they were gang of teachers sat near table talking. Mrs Olson acted really friendly and that. She had to go and second minute she saw the coach and he was chasing her and Mrs Olson knocked on the door. She said that she had forgotten something and the teacher was begging for her to open the door quick and second minute i knew. Mrs Olson had killed her. I liked Mrs Olsons glasses that she had on. She looked funny in them. i thought that the film was interesting and it was easy to get into. All of the actors were brilliant and i hope that i see Piper Laurie in more films. I thought that it was a change to see something about Aliens because I've seen Piper in films like Carrie. She had to act like a religious freak who hated Carrie. And i thought that it was a change to see a film whats different. Gail "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Body Snatchers, High School Style.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is a fun little sci-fi horror flick that was spawned in 1998 from the guy who brought us Scream. Herrington High school is your average high school, full of a bunch of diverse teenagers who have just began the school season again. But something's a little weird this year, and the staff begin to act strange, one by one, their attitudes and personalities randomly disappearing, leaving lifeless, robotic-like teachers. Things get really weird when Casey, a nerdy student discovers a strange species on the football field. When taken to the biology lab, they discover that is revived by water, and it begins to multiply in a fish tank. Only a small group of the teens at the school seem to notice the strange phenomena, and they uncover that some alien life-force is overtaking the staff, and slowly consuming the students. It turns out that the only thing toxic to these deadly aliens is the ingredients in some drugs that Zeke, a low-life student sells to his peers at school. Now it's a battle for survival between some teenagers armed with drugs, and an alien force with intent on taking over the world.The film has some very integrated characters, although none of them are really friends to begin with, but they all band together to try and fight against the aliens that are taking over the school. The film features an all-star cast, I'm sure you'll recognize dozens of the actors in this film, and they all give good performances. The cast features Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Jon Stewart, Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth, Salma Hayek, Famke Janssen, and many more. I'm sure most movie goers have seen a film featuring at least one of them, this is a fairly impressive line up of actors. The plot for the movie may seem a little bit cheesy, movies about aliens in this day and age may seem a little bit far fetched, which they are. I'm not even a sci-fi fan, in fact it's one of my least favorite genres. But this film was entertaining enough and held my attention the whole way through.Bottom line - The Faculty isn't a serious movie, and it can't really be taken seriously. The likeliness of aliens taking over your high school are very slim, but most stories are a little far fetched in their own ways, not everything can be dead serious and completely realistic. It's fun, tongue-in-cheek terror blended with science fiction, spawning a surprisingly decent movie that keeps you amused the entire way through. 7/10. "},{"Title":"decent but not that great","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a group of high school students discover that their school in being overrun by nasty little parasitic aliens, they unite and attempt to stop the spread of these aliens by finding the 'queen.' Thats the basic plot of The Faculty, a more mainstream film than what director Robert Rodriguez has usually made (Desperado, El Mariachi). Unfortunately, while The Faculty is very entertaining it is woefully short of any original ideas that really set it apart.With a good group of promising young stars (Elijah Wood, Johs Hartnett, Jordanna Brewster) and a good group of older stars playing the teachers (Robert Patrick, Selma Hayek) the film has a good base for its story to sit on. However, that story has been lifted from a film that is regularly mentioned by the characters in this film, Invasion Of The Bodysnatchers. You can also draw comparisons with The Thing and The Puppet Masters, which is a problem for this film. It has a very recycled feel to it, although Rodriguez does get a lot of wattage out of his younger stars. Josh Hartnett displays promise as outsider Zeke, and he is ably supported by Wood's lovable loser nerd. Jordanna Brewster is suitably bitchy as the cheerleader who hates everyone that isn't thin and attractive, although her role has been better countless times before. Robert Patrick, playing the first teacher to become inhabited by the aliens, seems to be sleepwalking through his role. Otherwise, Clea Duvall adds nothing as the supposed 'butch lesbian', although her romance with Shawn Hatosy's jock seems very contrived.Effects wise, there is nothing to write home about. The aliens themselves are too small to really be considered, although the alien queen that appears at the end is as cheesy and poorly realised as any B-Movie effect you've ever seen. This particular plot device is needlessly added on, as Elijah Wood battles the Queen by running away and hiding, and then squashing it in the stand inside the school sports hall.One major point that needs raising is the continued use of Zeke's mind altering drug. It seems that this is the only weapon that will work against the aliens, and we regularly see it used to defeat those people who have been 'taken over'. However, the constant use of the drug by the students is continually overdone, and in todays society we don't really need to see a bunch of teens using a mind altering drug on such a regular basis.There are of course plot holes. if new girl Marybeth is the queen, why does shy happily kill the school head-teacher, a woman who is already possessed by one of the aliens? Why doesn't she just turn into the giant monster thing when Zeke takes her and the others to his house. She could have simply 'turned' them all there and then. If Jordanna Brewster is an alien, why doesn't she just turn Elijah Wood when they are alone in the toilets together? How do the students even know that there is a queen anyway? There is a strong need for people to watch this movie and leave their minds in neutral. Viewed as cheesy Friday evening cinema this hits all of the right notes. if you're looking for grown up and intelligent sci-fi then you've come to the wrong place.Rent, but don't buy if you have any serious love for your film collection. "},{"Title":"The Faculty","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is about several high school students who are each different from each other who eventually get together after noticing some weird things about their teachers. The students finally realize that the faculty and now even some of the students are being taken over by aliens and it is up to them to stop them and now they don't know who is an alien or if they can even trust each other. The Faculty has good direction, a good script, good performances by the cast and good film editing. While the film does borrow some ideas and some scenes are very familiar to those of other science fiction/horror films this is still a very entertaining film. I liked the amount of energy and action that was in this film because it was always interesting and never got boring. The characters I thought were also well written and each of them interesting and unique in their own way. The film has a stylish look that I liked as well as good performances by the cast, some sharp writing and just being an action packed entertaining film. The Faculty works as a science fiction film, horror, action and even a black comedy in some ways. These categories were successfully blended together to make a good film that should be a hit with the teenage crowd and adult horror and science fiction fans should enjoy the energy and wit of the film as well. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is some really great and light-hearted movie. The story is not that strong, but the main thing in this movie is comedy. The essence of comedy is so good, that you can't stop watching it. Elijiah Wood is great. He really knows how to act. Josh Hartnett and Robert Patrick have done great jobs. Some sequences are so extravagant that you die laughing. The hilarious expressions of the actors at the most tense moments are something that Robert Rodriguez does best. The scene when the students have grass to check if anyone of them is an alien is not to be missed. Don't go for the sci-fi details....its a fun movie, so, just enjoy. "},{"Title":"Storyline a bit short, but good for a horror sci-fi  film","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not exactly a hardcore fan of horror films, but I liked this film. The special effects in it were old, not too corny. The film is quite Goosebumps-like.The only real disappointment in this film is that I think a bit more could have happened. Basically, aliens start to infest Herrington High School starting with the faculty, and then spreading into the students. Casey and everyone start to notice the weird behaviour, and realise that a species of alien has infested the school. The unaffected people in alien invasion stick together and set out to kill the 'queen' alien I quite liked the films' typical lighthearted and goofy humour. The film is also basically cover of some films, including the ones referenced (The Puppet Masters and Invasion Of The Body Snatchers).But it's also like The Breakfast Club, because the students left over are the most unlikely mix off characters who don't normally get along at all (A druggie-intellect-waster, a nerd, a goth loner, a jock star-quarterback, a new girl, and the school newsletter chief-editor b****).It's not a special horror film, but a good teen/horror/sci-fi film. I'd rent this film first to see what you think because this isn't a film for everyone. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is of an alien invasion which infects a high school. This summary makes it sound like a teen movie and to some degree it is but they don't stretch it as some movies do - Such as in Without A Paddle. Overall I like the movie and found it well worth watching. The movie is nothing awesome but still enjoyable. The movie is marked as a comedy but I would definitely not consider it to be in the comedy genre. For a '98 movie and a low budget the effects are not bad at all. As for the acting I didn't notice any corny parts. I thought the faculty did a nice job acting for most of the movie. The ending was well done with the twist and I was delighted to see everyone living happily ever after for a change. The plot is a nice balance and makes it simple to follow and yet deep enough to enjoy. I have seen many movies lately that get rated a 7+ and you are left sitting there wondering what happen because the movie was either incredibly complex or cuts off without explaining anything. This movie was a nice break from such movies. Simple and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"What the hell is going on here?","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, there are GAPING plot holes in this s***-for-brains film, and second of all, what a waste of good acting. Yes, it is well-acted, I will give it that -- Elijah Wood, Salma Hayek... But as for the plot. Plot? Yes, there is apparently a plot. It does borrow from the Body Snatchers but gives it credit within the film. It's almost like a tribute to the story. The fact that what is possessing the teachers is something alien is not well depicted. It's just sort of assumed, because nobody knows what these creatures are. It isn't really an alien movie at all -- there is no proof that these things are aliens. They're just weird monsters. And the ending is so cheesy. How the hell does killing the queen kill the rest of the monsters? They had all proved to be independently spreading themselves to new victims, so why would killing their leader make them all magically just die. Also, how much coke did the main characters do throughout this film just to keep proving to each other that they weren't aliens? PS overdose? They'd be dead by the end of it after doing that much cocaine. This movie makes no sense. It's slightly enjoyable if you watch it just for pure fun and ridiculousness. Oh yea, the special effects are a little cheesy but it was an interesting effort....Elijah Wood's character is just so damn adorable as well. Watch it, at the very least, for him. "},{"Title":"A shining gem","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On the outside The Faculty may appear to be your average teen horror/sci-fi film with a few self-referential references thrown in. But I promise you this is not the crap I Know What You Did Last Summer, Urban Legends, Scream 2 & 3 are made of. This is what the Invasion of the Body Snatchers and Scream is made of. The film is suprisingly intelligent and makes use of it's talented young cast. Robert Rodriguez is a big part of why this film is so good, because of his innovations in technique and style that set this apart from most teen oriented films. He also assembled an all star cast including Elijah Wood, Robert Patrick, Shawn Hatosy, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Jon Stewart, Famke Janessen, Piper Lauire, Bebe Nuewirth, Christopher MacDonald, and guess what? Usher Raymond doesn't take anything away from the film. He doesn't add anything but he's not a detriment to it. Wood, Patrick, Nuewirth, DuVall, and surprisingly Hartnett are the standouts. Don't get me wrong, the whole cast is great but those five are the cream of the very talented crop. If you're a sci-fi fan like I am, you'll love the references and you'll love how this film does not insult it's audience's intelligence level. Granted there's a few throw-away lines such as Wood's final Guaranteed to jack you up that we could do with out but pretty much every movie in the sci-fi, horror, action, adventure genres are going to have those. The special effects are top notch and puts a great juxtaposition between the hum-drum Ohio high school environment and the alien creatures that are beginning to strangle this small town. All in all, this is one of the best sci-fi films of the 1990s and along with Starship Troopers, deserves to be put on an all-time list as well. "},{"Title":"Whoever said that the film is rubbish needs their head examining!, a truly stunning teen horror film!!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The faculty, is one of those, (if you like the kind of film), you could watch over and over again. It's a typical HIGH SCHOOL HORROR film, which I love. Josh Hartnett produces some stunning acting as a youngster!The film was a big hit here in the UK. From the opening scene to the end, your gripped to it. The part in the movie where they're all in the car together is great. It's a adventure against the alien population! It sounds like another gorry sci fi horror flick (which r normally rubbish) but this is outstanding. All the actors play their roles superbly. Casey is the nerd that nobody likes, there's a new girl from somewhere, a school news reporter, and a lesbian (!) or is she?They all suspect that their teachers are aliens, and one day when 2 of the students go into the faculty, they are shocked to see what happens.I highly recommend, that you go hire this movie NOW!!!!!!!9/10Typical teen horror movie! ******** "},{"Title":"Modern day Breakfast Club?!?","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can see the similarities between this and the Breakfast Club (another favourite of mine!) but I think this is still a good film on its own. The different characters and their relationships are quite well developed (with the exception of Mary Beth, but without trying to spoil the film for anyone who hasnt seen it, this was probably intentional) and the action moves quite quickly once the film moves into the second day.  Lots of action, funny lines, gore, all in all a very good film. "},{"Title":"Potential . . . but no","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's been a long time since I've seen a film do freeze frames to flash the characters names on the screen.  It has something of a &#150; oh, I dunno &#150; Road Runner vs Wiley Coyote quirkiness.  Or maybe even one of those educational/inspirational videos you see in elementary school.  That's like a bad omen in a horror flick.  But wait!  The director is the same guy who did From Dusk Till Dawn, which is Tarantino material, which is weird and quirky but enjoyable!  The Faculty is the weird and the quirkiness of From Dusk Till Dawn minus the enjoyment.  It wants to be clever.  It wants to be witty, and it wants to work . . . and I really wanted it to work so I could enjoy this movie.  After all, I like Robert Rodriguez, Clea DuVall, and Robert Patrick, and I don't have anything against Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Femke Jensen, and Marco Beltrami.Unfortunately, the Faculty is a soulless film with a parasitic death grip on the average middle/high schooler's fantasy (or nightmare).  In fact, the film's premise and a little imagination on the audiences part tells more than the entirety of the film, itself (hence why the 2 minute trailer is more effective).The film's biggest sin, like a lot of films, is in its advertising - `from the creator of Scream.'  I think it's pathetic that I have to check out the credits to find out what exactly said individual did for the film.  `Someone get Bruckheimer to read the script!  Maybe we can put *his* name on it too!'  Oy . . .The next sin it commits is the cliché factor.  Let's not only stereotype high school students, let's assemble a small unlikely band of stereotyped high school students (brought together by unlikely circumstance) so that everyone can sympathize with someone.  Is it just me or is the unlikely pretty likely to happen in these films?  Despite the Faculty's attempt to grab the interest of the entire high school culture, it failed to grab my interest and failed to give me a character I really cared to sympathize with.  I mean, everyone in the film is a caricature of some type of broad range of students or a caricature of a school faculty member.  You know, the common images everyone has?  I never got the impression anyone on the cast knew a high school student or teacher and simply keyed off the popular opinion.  As a result, I wasn't watching `people' . . . just vague representations of people like a bad puppet show.  Frankly, I couldn't care less about any of them.  Following one lone character or one group of friends would have worked much better and much more believably than a bunch of misfits who barely knew one another before hand.  For one, you'd eliminate a large degree of cliché gimmicks (assuming they don't just swap those ideas out for other clichés) and for two, you'd get a deeper exploration of the main players . . . then I might care about the people in the Faculty.As it stands, I think they needed the freeze-frame character names at the beginning.  Otherwise, I wouldn't have cared enough to learn anyone's name.  With the people involved on this project, this could have been much much better . . . . "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally people can come up good horror teen movie. The movie is much better than expected; at least I don't feel cheated after I got the movie.It is really entertaining from the start till the end, and it seem that you won't get tired of watching it again and again. The casting and the acting of the young talented Elijah, Josh Hartnett, and the other are simply just too good compare to the other teen movie.They sure won't disappoint you. The action sequels are stable and entertaining. Really recommended for the people who love to watch good teen horror movie for a change.Overview You Won't Feel Cheated Even If You Get The DVD.Max 7.5/10 (Grade B)Please Rate My Review After Reading (Yes/No), Thanks! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  FACULTY, THE (1998) *** (D Robert Rodriguez) Surprisingly effective update of the BODY SNATCHERS theme, set in a high school where alien parasites take control over teachers and other authority figures. Not a new idea by any means, but seems fresh and interesting with a good cast and minimal 90s silliness to make the difference - and no setup for a sequel! "},{"Title":"NOT BAD","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a big a hit out of all teen horrors, it was intriguing, suspenseful, and was full of action. The cast was great, it had a good plot, and I can't think of anything else to say about this movie, I really enjoyed it, especially when the football players powerbombed the opponents. Class dismissed! 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A fine mix of comedy and horror","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie greatly. It has an interesting setting that sets it apart from most movies in it's class. It uses teens, which isn't all that uncommon, but the teens they use are. The enemy is hilarious in an ironic sort of way. A great movie and a must see. "},{"Title":"Great stuff.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robert Rodriguez....well, at least he made this before going back to that godawful Desperado rubbish! This film has an actual storyline (!), which is a bit silly, but still fun. Elijah Wood and Clea DuVall both make their characters exceptionally attractive , (in all senses of the word). If you're like me, and a bit of a geek, you should love it. If not, then watch it anyway, out of simple decent respect. "}{"Title":"Lame; Yes. Bad; Probably. Lovable Regardless; For Sure!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Honestly, this was a horrible movie. And I would probably bad mouth the hell out of it if I hadn't had so much fun watching it. Whether it was written in the spirit of a parody or just a fun-time sleepover movie, or as a serious film with hopes to be the next Disturbing Behavior, it's still cool.First of all; nobody can deny that all the boys are cute. Josh Hartnett; Duh. Elijah Wood; My personal Favorite, and undeniably cuter as a button. Shawn Hatosy; Jock-ish but still yummy. Then there's the girls, which everyone identifies with. Delilah (Jordana Brewster); The bitch in all of us. Stokley (Clea Duvall); The depression in all of us. Mary Beth (Laura Harris); The shy girl and/or the homicidal alien in all of us.Then, there's the script. Granted, not one bit of it is original. It's like The Breakfast Club meets The Puppetmasters. So, we end up with big names like Christopher McDonald and Salma Hayek wanting to be a part of it because it'll be a blast to film. I mean, why would Famke Janssen give up the chance to have her head crawl across a parking lot, or to threaten to shove her foot up Josh Hartnett's ass? I sure wouldn't. So yeah, the writing sucks and the plot and dialouge are predictable, but hey. It's cool anyway.And of course, the graphics. They were mediocre, about 5 years behind the times. It has the vauge appearance of a B-movie, but that just adds to it in my opinion. I especially enjoyed hiding under my blanket while plastic slugs crawled out of Elijah Wood's face, and I really want to know if that was as much fun for him to film as it was for me to watch. Bloopers are consistant... I've seen as many as 14, but they also add to the movie. It's a fun movie, no matter what.The cover, at least in the U.S., bears the thought of a critic claiming it's Hip and Scary. Now, I wouldn't say it's 'hip', nor is it particularly scary, (with the exception of Robert Patrick who will always terrify me to the depths of my soul) so all in all I'd say its Probably the worst and best movie in creation. I love it! (And Elijah... hehe) "},{"Title":"Alien alert!","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me tell you something, boys & girls - I have seen this film for about eight or ten times, and I'm proud to state that I'm not going to stop at that. The Faculty is an excellent slice of pure unashamed cinephiliac pleasure, that's for sure! Robert Rodrigues, clearly a huge horror movie buff himself, works from a smart tongue in cheek script by Kevin Williamson, and with the help of inspired cast of actors both young & experienced he does a great job with the film. It's clear that everyone involved with this film had so much fun making it - and I see absolutely no reason why viewers should not have just as much fun watching it. My biggest thanks to Robert Rodrigues for making this film, and for everyone else who played in it, especially Robert Patrick, who was excellent as Coach Willis, and Clea DuVall, who's just perfect. My heart, however, goes to another person. Famke Janssen, I L-O-V-E You! You are absolutely and completely gorgeous!  "},{"Title":"Likeable horror movie.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoiler half a dozen teenagers get terrorized, like the Elm Street and Scream movies. This is one of those movies that is a likeable, entertaining thriller that doesn't really scare us as much. It's got a pretty pleasant atmosphere with plenty of laughs. Like a spoof to the 50's movies. Josh Hartnett...Zeke is the lead of the six outcasts, and is retaking his senior year, and is the most popular of the six. For he drives a sweet car, and has the man on campus attitude. Elijah Wood..Casey Connor, is the most unpopular, as a sort of sweet 17-year-old nerd, who constantly gets bullied and is obsessed with science, nature and living things. There's also a girl with a southern accent that I can remember. Aliens begin taking over the students bodies and even start talking like other people, and the aliens manipulate their minds. THe entire faculty even starts getting taken over by aliens .This movies graphicaly gory and exciting, I love chilling thrillers where kids kick but! The movie is especially pleasent when it has a good ending when the entire faculty is back to normal after the aliens are killed ,and the parents do find out. Rated R for graphic violence and profanity, over 50 F-words. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I was honestly expecting something along the lines of a cheap teen-alien, cheap horror movie. But that's not what I got. I got a good, solid, alien movie.It was almost like a whodunit type movie, that had me guessing who the queen alien was. The last person I expected to be the alien, was the alien.Yes, there were a few plot holes, but they were soon overlooked. The special effects were very well done as well. But it was not just plot, and special effects that made this movie come together. It was the acting. Every character connected with one another in one way or another. Good acting played a major role in what made this movie so great.This is one of the best alien movies I've seen. I give it a 8 or 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Teen movie sci-fi!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i first saw this film i just loved it, it's so, what is the right word here... hum.. cool! The main characther is just so raad. He's style is so, criminal-cool-good-looking-dude-that-does-whatever-you-should-not.Sure it's a teen movie, so i guess you have to like that kind of movies if your gonna like this one. But unlike other teen movies, this one is not all about good looking guy not wanting the hot but nerdy girl, but then ending up loving her, blablabla. This one has a plot, it has some action... This is a good teen movie. Some retro stuff, you probartly gonna think of some old classic sci-fi movies like the thing. So check this one out, if u like teen movies, but want something a little diffrent, like a teen movie sci-fi =) "},{"Title":"Good solid movie","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like many people, I was not expecting much from The Faculty. In fact, I didn't see it until it came on the Sci-Fi channel a couple of weekends ago. What a surprise. While it certainly wasn't the world's most original plot, what the actors did with it made it one of the best horror-type films put out in quite some time, I think. And even though the movie had good special effects, it still relied more on the actors to deliver a good solid movie than it did the special effects. Even things I thought were holes in the plot line -- and I remember thinking at times, oh that could never happen like that because... -- were quickly forgotten, and this is coming from someone who really has to work to get that suspension of disbelief going where I can just overlook obvious holes.  "},{"Title":"A Hip And Fast Moving School","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has many positive things going for it. A fast moving action and horror film that keeps you on the edge of your seats. Interesting teachers that bring a hard edge to school. Teenagers that experience many different and usual interests. Lastly, aliens that can be gruesome and funny. There are constant reminders of the classic 1950's flick, Invasion of the Body Snatchers but this film more closely follows the remake of the film, The Thing. A creature that reaches out literally to anyone and everyone. A thing that inhibits a body host but can not be cut out of the human host because it will multiply itself. Water thirsty creatures on the move. You will enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"better than I thought","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really impressed by the faculty, i had not expected it will be so good i thought i will be just another horror flick. But i was wrong, sure the story isn't very original but the cast is great, especially Elijah and Josh are very credible, may be stokely was a little boring sometimes. It had very excitingly moments like at the beginning with the coach. The music was also good, offspring was a perfect choice for the beginning. The final was a little irritating and could be more original. But still if you want to have fun for 104 minutes the Faculty is a good choice. "},{"Title":"I can't really fault it!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am not ashamed to admit that I LOVE THIS FILM!  Sure it's not ground-breaking, nor is it going to go down in cinema history!  However, it is one of these great films, that you can just sit back, watch and enjoy... without having to give that much thought to it!  All of us need to 'switch off our brains' at times, and watching a 'teen horror' flick, like The Faculty is one of the best ways of doing that!  I don't mean to imply that it's mind-numbing, because it's certainly not that... it's just a film you can watch without having to overwork your brain trying to understand it!As far as 'teen flicks' go, I think it can rank as one of the best from recent times, and it's one of my favourite films!I love watching it, and it's probably one of my most watched DVDs, but that might have something to do with Josh Hartnett!!!I'd give it 9/10... perhaps if some of the acting had been a little better (I'm naming no names), it might have got the full 10/10!!!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful edge-of-your-seat movie!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was yes...quite like any other scary movie out there.  But that does not make you want to turn off the television and just stop the tape. Within 5 seconds into the movie, suspence has taken control of the viewers. The actors are not your usual adult predators either.  They are young, good-looking teens who lead you into thier world and how they really view school.  The movie makes you really think throughout the WHOLE time...who is alien and who's not.  You'll be surprised...gaurenteed. "}{"Title":"Fun movie to watch, but has a few moral problems...SPOILERS","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cringe thinking back to the mid-late 90's, when I was dragged by various people to see every new teen slasher flick that was released.  Horror is not my favorite genre and after seeing all the Scream's and I Know... movies, amongst others, I was happy the trend faded.  Somehow, The Faculty managed to slip by unnoticed, and thanks to Elijah Wood's involvement, I rented this the other day and popped it in.  Unlike other films of its kind, I wasn't totally turned off and I actually watched it more than once.  Three times to be exact.  I'll start with the goods first.First off, the acting was what really made this movie enjoyable.  The main teenaged characters pretty much represented every type of kid you'd encounter in a high school the jock, the nerd, the prissy cheerleader, etc.  Instead of being driven by the obvious stereotypes that go along with each type, the characters bonded in a way that only fear and isolation can promote.  All of them were likable in different ways.  The overdose of big name actors in the adult roles didn't kill the mood, as it did with the dreadful Mars Attacks!  Honestly, The Faculty isn't much different than the other slasher flicks of the 90's.  There's crazy stuff going on that's being witnessed by a group of trash-talking teens, whose job is to figure out who the culprit is.  Various twists and turns try to confuse you, but after seeing enough of these films, you might have the know-how to figure it out yourself.  What's nice about The Faculty is that it doesn't take itself seriously, allowing you to laugh at stupid moments without ruining the whole thing.  I laughed several times, especially at this hilarious montage of the faculty members drinking water like a bunch of camels.  It just looked so dumb.  But the story itself is rather enjoyable and I was thrilled that my favorite character turned out to be the hero.  Totally unexpected, but definitely a treat.Onto the gripes.  Some of them are more regional, though, since the movie takes place in my homestate of Ohio.  It was only natural that I observe everything to see if it matched up.  My first gripe is that the students were not Ohio kids.  I was in high school in the mid-90's.  The extensive gutter talk and constant cursing and fighting was so extreme, I was laughing in disbelief.  Good  Lord.  The realism went down the drain right there.  I didn't see any palm trees, though, so thumbs up for that.This brings me to my biggest movie pet peeve gratuitous swearing.  My ears were practically bleeding with the F word being flung from all directions, not to mention the horde of other obscenities.  Not to say I never swear, I do, but excessive swearing comes off as very unnatural and gratuitous in a film.  And what was the deal with Summer Phoenix getting a special recognition in the credits?  Was saying f*** and pu*** 40 times in her 30-seconds of screentime that honorable?  I smell nepotism and it reeks.  I take back what I wrote about Ghost World now.My last complaint is probably obvious, the heavy reliance on snuffing drugs as an alien detector and killer.  How many hits does it take to weed out a possible alien?  At least 8 or so throughout the film.  It was ridiculous, but I know many people my age got a kick out of it.  The drug use is handled lightly, but almost too lightly, as we never see the after effects of it.  Although, the dust did quite a number on the aliens.  There is also a brief scene with a naked woman, but I barely even noticed it.Even with all my gripes, The Faculty was a fun movie to watch and I wouldn't hesitate to say it's my favorite of all slasher flicks.  Certain story elements that seemed lame were comparable to the ones in past alien flicks, like the ones mentioned by Stokely in the movie, making it a bit nostalgic.  It's humorous in many ways, both intentionally and unintentionally.  The amount of gore pales in comparison to the amount of cursing, so if you hate bloody moments, there are very few.  I would recommend this film to anyone looking for a good scare and on a scale of 1-10, I'd give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"A stupid and boring teen movie.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  those producers of Teen horror movies were at it agian. They made another stupid movie with bad acting and a rotten script. The only good thing about this movie were the monster effects. They were great.  But, The rest of this trash is no more than really bad actors swearing and doing stupid and useless things. Inept in almost every way.  "},{"Title":"Scary, Funny and fun","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not even big into horror movies, but I've always loved this movie.It's not that often that so many genres are combined Horror, Sci-fi, Comedy... even a touch of romance.Not only does Jon Stewart grace the screen as the comic relief Biology teacher, but Elijah Wood plays the geeky but pivotal hero. The whole cast, actually, is quite good.  Some of the acting isn't even particularly good but for some reason it still satisfies. I think it is because the overall style of the film is excellent. Even though   includes some cheesy roll-your-eyes type gimicks, it really maintains suspense and even has moments when your both startled and laughing at the same time. I own this one and have watched it several times and I never get sick of it.I think almost anyone (save the very, very faint of heart) would at least get a bit of entertainment from this movie- even if it's just a few laughs. I'm not going to give a rating, however I will highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"V. Funny!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just rented this movie a few days ago and I couldn't stop laughing! I know that the movie was marketed as a horror/sci-fi flic, but I found the entire movie more entertaining in a comical sort of way than by any real scariness that was supposed to shock the audience. I was kind of thrilled at the somewhat grim accuracy of the average High School environment, and I thought the characters were extremely well played. The story itself was interesting in a b-movie kind of way. It's a good Renter and I gave it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seen this flick twice now. Okay, so its not original but its fun and solidly entertaining. Borrows heavily from 'The Thing' and 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' among others. Good teen cast, proficient director, excitement, frights...this film is strong all round, and better than most teen movies of recent years. The adult members of the cast including Famke Janssen and Robert Patrick definately seem to be enjoying themselves, while Elijah Wood and Josh Hartnett have gone on to bigger (though not necessarily better) things. Recommended for the 'Scream'/'I Know what you Did' crowd.Rating 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  movie is great watch it anytime .josh artnett and elijah wood were great. a fun 1998 sci-fi its not really scary expect maybe when the princibal gets a pen stick through her hand.well i encoarge any body who likes  action typed horror movies rodireigz does great dierecting. watch it anyime great alien efects that makes it even more great ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"What a crappy piece of thievery!!!  Awful.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know a film is bad when the previews pander shamelessly to teens by featuring the alternative musical flavor of the week underscoring a cast of 20 somethings passing themselves off as 15 year old high schoolers without a zit or set of braces in the crowd.Even worse the script and direction are bad.  There is abolutely no suspenseful build up to any of the scenes and the characters spend half the movie telling each other to f*** off and referring to other films.  There was once a time in Hollywood when the writers were actually clever, witty and often original.  This early generation of writers were not weened on television and didn't need to make constant inside references to other films to advance a plot.This is no homage to The Thing or Invasion of the Body Snatchers or Invaders From Mars which while limited by their respective budgets managed to achieve something on screen that this film utterly fails to do.  This is plain theft with little or no reverence for its source material.I only wish the aliens had gotten to all the cast members earlier in the proceedings.  That's 90 minutes of my life that I'm never getting back. "},{"Title":"What a crappy piece of thievery!!!  Awful.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know a film is bad when the previews pander shamelessly to teens by featuring the alternative musical flavor of the week underscoring a cast of 20 somethings passing themselves off as 15 year old high schoolers without a zit or set of braces in the crowd.Even worse the script and direction are bad.  There is abolutely no suspenseful build up to any of the scenes and the characters spend half the movie telling each other to f*** off and referring to other films.  There was once a time in Hollywood when the writers were actually clever, witty and often original.  This early generation of writers were not weened on television and didn't need to make constant inside references to other films to advance a plot.This is no homage to The Thing or Invasion of the Body Snatchers or Invaders From Mars which while limited by their respective budgets managed to achieve something on screen that this film utterly fails to do.  This is plain theft with little or no reverence for its source material.I only wish the aliens had gotten to all the cast members earlier in the proceedings.  That's 90 minutes of my life that I'm never getting back. "},{"Title":"Average Teen Sci-fi Horror","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Average Teen Sci-fi Horror popcorn movie that will satisfy any fan of the genre.Nothing spectacular and lacks originality.A sort of BREAKFAST CLUB/INVATION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS combo.Just a notch above TV movie production.Will make good TV movie for Halloween.Could have used better Cinematography,Directing and Script/Screenplay.The CGI effects though was quite good and as a matter of fact,there should have been more of it.Big fans of the lead actors here might want to check this out as well......    "},{"Title":"no complaints 9/10","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really dig this movie!you all know the story,aliens-...hell body snatchers invade at an Ohio high school by taking the bodies of The Facultywhere as first kid to find out(casey)(Elijah Wood) accidently discovers with fellow student (Delilah)(who he likes) hide out in the closet and witnesses the take over of the nurse(SALMAHayek).All the other students begin to find out also,the classic school drug dealer?The new student,the jock,the goth,and of course those whom found out first, the geek,and the bipolar prom queen.I found the movie promptly interesting it wasn't boring i was scared at the beginning and at the end is when i got the willies,another reason why i like it is because Josh Hartnett is hot and so is Shawn Hatosy, and Elijah Wood is soo cute.But this was  one of my very favorite teen sci-fi thrillers,comedy was in the right place the movie fit what it was i guess supposed to be.I have never ever seen Invasion of the Body snatchers i don't really want to, i was surprised at the end not a big shock but still cool.I give the flick  A 9/10  "}{"Title":"Does anyone ever wanted to kill his teacher?","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wanted to see it because I was curious what Williamson/Rodriguez connection can come up with. I have to say I was very curious.Kevin Williamson has gained popularity as a writer who has opened a new chapter in theory of fear - a teen horror. He portrays a generation X - cynical teenagers brought up in a pop culture where chilling stories are no longer mysterious (everybody knows what happens next). But he shows that stereotypes can also be fun - if they are properly mixed up.The movie cleverly bases on assumption that most of us thought once that some of teachers are weird, least to be said. The tagline says What if your teachers really were from another planet?.Literally.Williamson delightfully juggles with references to classic movies ,almost in every point you find something familiar, even if you're not a movie lover. A group of main characters is version of Breakfast Club band- at the beginning they barely know each other, but they are forced to stick together. So there is a rebel, a beauty, a newcomer ,etc. The thing which unites them is their alienation, and common danger- everybody around is an enemy...I liked the cast, especially Laura Harris and Shawn Hatosy. Josh Hartnett is a version of Kurt Russell from The Thing. There are also some cheesy supporting parts, like Famke Janssen or Robert Patrick (remember T-1000).As for Robert Rodiguez he did what we like him for- a piece of entertaining slaughtery, where viewer asks for more meat (thanks for Salma Hayek anyway). And my compliments for a special effects staff. Really nice job.To sum up good horror sci-fi ride with a couple of chilly moments. So If you're planning a saturday night-horror-feast with your friends don't forget to rent this one.P.S. And don't forget to listen to Another Brick in the Wall  "},{"Title":"Nice.......","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although this film came out along with other typical,teenage suspense/horror flicks,this definately steers clear of the 'masked-killer-who-slashes-their-way-through-the-whole-cast' type films.It's a fresh,storyline that keeps you glued to the movie.The selection of fine actors doesn't go amiss either!It's the story of a certain group of very different people in Herrington High-Zeke-the high school bad boy,Casey-the typical geek,Stokley-the lonely goth,Delilah-the popular cheerleader,Stan-the star quarterback and Mary-beth-the new girl who start to notice that their teachers are acting very different to their normal selves.Soon,the whole school starts acting wierd and this group of people who havn't been affected start to think that aliens are taking over the school.This 'alien' took over the school in a day and a half,its now a race against the clock before it takes over the whole town.How will they do it?Who's the master alien?Will they do it in time?This is one teenage flick you wouldn't want to miss!The cast includes the fine-Elijah Wood,Josh Hartnett,Salma Hayek,Robert Patrick and Famke Janssen.A suspending storyline with superb acting! "},{"Title":"Really cool!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie! Its a teen horror with pretty much no point. It has an excellent cast of people. New girl, goth, Miss.Popular, Jock, Outsider, and Bad-boy. I love Josh Hartnett in this movie, and I've grown a liking to Elijah Wood! It was an all around good movie that kept my attention! Next chance i get, i'm gonna buy it on dvd! "},{"Title":"The best unreal film that I have ever seen","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is just great !!!!, I love this cool movieis so unreal but good adapted....and I think is the best of the genre ... haha, I can see it over and over again  and I won't get tired never and talking about the soundtrack, is even more coolreally, if  u r reading this and you are a fanatic of movies like this....see this one !!!!!!!! don't lose your time in others ok? "},{"Title":"A rip-snorting hunk of giddy, self-aware genre trash!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  High school students notice that teachers and classmates are behaving oddly! Sounds juvenile but it works to an extent.This is an adolescent variation on invasion of the Body Snatchers, done with immense energy and a little wit. It isn't the least bit scary or particularly involving, but that seems to be the point. And when you add a cool, and pretty cast (Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster and Elijah Wood) it becomes even more watchable.Mark 6/10 "},{"Title":"How can you not like this flick?","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I mean, here's a flick where the school dopers are the heroes, saving the day (and the world) with their home-brewed recreational drugs.... where those blasted spring water bottles you now see everywhere are a sign of hidden evil....  where a gratuitous nude scene (and a very nice one) is absolutely crucial to the plot and to the heroes saving the day! "},{"Title":"Good horror","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is a smashing slaser film for teenagers. It has a good story line and good cast. This film is far better than the crappy Cherry Falls and Ginger Snaps. The cast has Josh Hartnet(Pearl Harbour) And Eljer wood (lord of the rings) Amongest them and they do very well in this film. "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was great i loved it. I saw this film in the movies 5 times i loved it so much. The cast and crew did great and the story and plot were great also. This film was non stop scary and weird at some parts but it still is very good. On a scale of 1 out of 10 i give this film a 9. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci-fi horror","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is simple. Aliens are taking over a high school in the same way as The Invasion of the Body Snatchers.The cast is recognizable Robert Patrick(X-files), Elijah Wood(Lord of the rings) and Famke Janssen(X-men).The special effects are good and don't like cartoons unlike some Sci-fi films.If you enjoy Scream and I know you will enjoy this.This is a brilliant Sci-fi teen movie I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great simple fun","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tired of teenage movies TRYING to be smart? TRYING to be deep?The faculty was underrated by my cousin who recommended it to me. It goes back to the Indiana Jones day although with more women, swearing and violence which are all ticks in my book. Though predictable if you really want it to be the faculty is also pretty suspenseful with characters that are surprisingly engaging and pretty neat special effects.  for what it is it gets a 9 out 10 "}{"Title":"Exceptionally good.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film says Scifi Channel and Stephen King with a new level of horror. With Williamson and Rodriguez you know it is going to be real horrifying. With some virtual unknowns who've become stars and seasoned veteran actors & actresses makes it even better. The film has many twists and turns and they improve the film even more.  "},{"Title":"great popcorn flick","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have wanted to see this movie for a very long time. The only reason was because of Famke Janssen...I wasn't really sure what the movie was all about. Well I finally caught it on TV and I was very excited. I enjoyed it, it was very entertaining, and of course I loved Janssen's character. I've always said she plays the perfect evil character. But I also liked watching her play a shy, kind of scared-of-her-own-students character. Well, as for the rest of the cast, I was surprised. I was never a fan of Josh Hartnett, but he does a pretty good job in this film. One thing I didn't like about this film is there were too many corny lines. But it was funny to see how they edited the film for TV. I say this is a good film to watch with your friends when you have nothing better to do. It's not much on plot, if you've seen a lot of these types of movies, you'd probably already know the ending.The same day I saw it for the first time, they aired it a second time later in the afternoon. It was interesting to see all these hints they drop as to what will happen later on in the movie. I give it 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit when i saw the trailer for this film, i didn't think much of it. I thought it was just one of those typical horror films and i must admit it looked a bit rubbish as well. But then at school about a week later after i had seen the trailer my friend at school asked me if i had ever seen the film and i told that i hadn't, and he suggested that i watch it. So about two day's later the Faculty was on T.V. So i decided to watch it, and i fell in love with it. It was one of the best horror films i had seen in ages, i was a little disappointed when i found out that they had cut a few scenes (which looked good). But overall this film was good. So what if people say that this is a copy of the Bodysnatchers. At least it's a decent copy. "},{"Title":"not bad for what it is","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mildly entertaining teen horror film is at least smart enough to come up with a good (if blatantly derivative) story, rather than resorting to senseless slasher violence. A group of at odds high school students live in a dreary, monotonous little Ohio town where nothing interesting ever seems to happen. They begin to notice peculiar behavior among their teachers and faculty members, but that's only the beginning as they soon realize that their town has fallen victim to an alien invasion. Well-directed, with a first-rate cast, good special effects, and some exciting moments, it's only brought down by thin, stereotypical characters and an excess of crummy dialogue. **½ "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, pretty entertaining","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its a fairly hard movie to rate, because it doesnt take itself very seriously, and it doesnt only rip off a lot of classics, it flaunts the fact that it does, it brings out the big guns and parade it around on screen wearing a pink tutu. Anyone who has ever seen The Thing will be having a field day remembering scenes. The Faculty has dialogue, scenes, images and designs stripped directly from Carpenter's vision, and proves that modern cgi has a long way to go to better what old bearded men with mirrors, rubber, scrap metal and pulleys did 20 years ago. The tentacle head scene springs to mind; This effect looks cheap compared to the original.The faculty tries to replicate a bit of the paranoid tension from The Thing, but mostly fails on account of its hackneyed dialogue. Characters that initially seem well developed turn into mindless action movie robots devoid of personality. How they turn from sensible typical highschool teenagers into rampant bladewielding head-shooting killers and then back again is beyond me, and i suspect this is more due to Rodriguez' comic book style direction than the script. Rodriguez likes things that go boom, and if possible, also bang and Zzap. He makes movies where characters invariably shout lets go! before vacating an area, and the good guy always gets the girl, no matter what a superficial bitch of a monstrous slutty whore she is. Its uncanny. The faculty's version of the Thing's blood test scene was actually potentially great, as they all have to do drugs to see who's who, with one girl severely allergic. You see characters cracking up madly while there's still tension as to who is human. The problem however, is that there is no underlying hint that one of them actually isnt human, you start off thinking they're all normal, which destroys about 50% of the hypothetical paranoia, and when the test actually reveals an alien, the effect is undramatic in the extreme. The character sneezes! Generally speaking however, The Faculty is actually quite good entertainment, with a lot more creativity than your average slasher. The biggest problem for me was the whole if we kill the mother alien everyone will turn normal theory, which absolutely makes no sense whatsoever, and i couldnt see why there would be any connection between the slugs whatsoever. They seemed pretty self sufficient to me. Whats the point of a self replicating species capable of taking over people quite easily if all it takes to destroy a civilisation, no matter how big, is to wack one of them. What kind of obscenely illogical species would that be? I take it on the alien homeworld there was just one original alien that never died of age or anything at all while all its offspring went off selfreplicating infinitely with no regard for lack of breathin space. Its quite odd how little regard is paid to logics, but then again this *is* a b-movie monster flick. I just wish it didnt try to be smart so often. Another thing i dont understand is the beginning where the movie freezes on certain characters and puts their name onscreen. I take it this is to familiarize viewers with the characters and make them more compelling somehow, sort of how The Warriors begins with introducing all the gang members personalities. However the faculty names characters that are of little or no consequence to the film, a couple of whom you basically never see again.If you want cheap thrills, decent effects work, some great evil bad guys and a fairly good monster battle, have a look-see. If you want something brainy, dont bother. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It has everything a Teen Horror Movie needs","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a hip, fresh cast and pumping sound track this teen horror film is up there with Scream and final Destination. It has all the conventions of a horror film and the air heads from high school. This movie will set your blood pumping and your heart racing. It's Great! "},{"Title":"lots of good looking dudes!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay,so it's a sci-fi flickaliens and teens,teachers turning into weird wormy things(alright!definitely worth a watch!).but the best part is,(well to me,anyway)there are a lot of good looking guys in this movie!well,teen hearthrobs anyway..but man,what an eye candy!girls,watch thsi,you're definitely gonna fall for Josh Hartnett! =P "},{"Title":"derivative teen horror flick","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like most of Robert Rodriguez' work, (except for Spy Kids, ugh!). I just now got around to seeing this one. Not bad, but nothing special. Decent acting, (especially Robert Patrick as your typical ***hole football coach) but some pretty cheesy, TV grade special effects, especially when compared to the films it rips off. This movie was obviously targeted at teenagers, with each of your stereotypical highschoolers represented. Some of the high school humor and angst was actually entertaining. **SPOILERS **After seeing this, I had to ask myself is this an homage to or just a blatant rip-off of Carpenter's The Thing, and Invasion Of The Body Snatchers? The whole who's really a human and subsequent testing scene are a complete rip-off of The Thing, without any of the dread and tension of that masterpiece. Not to mention the crawling head scene, which is a perfect example of why cheap CGI effects are still not as effective as good old fashioned animatronics.I have to give them credit for having the audacity to use crank(homemade speed) as the method of saving mankind, I was laughing and shaking my head in disbelief! ******If you are a teenager I'm sure you'll love this movie. But if you want to see a REALLY scary movie, rent John Carpenter's The Thing. "},{"Title":"Body Snatcher Movie","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This genre movie (they've been making movies like this for 50 years now, in fact at one point one of the characters reminds the lead that Invasion of the body snatchers was based on Heinlein's The Puppet Masters) about an alien life form invading an average town. However, there is a huge cast of known actors (Bebe Neuwirth Cheers, Piper Laurie Carrie, Robert Patrick Terminator 2, The X-Files, Salma Hayek From Dusk Til Dawn, comedian Jon Stewart, Famke Janssen, Usher... I guess for some reason they all wanted to be part of an Invasion Of The Body Snatchers vehicle.The movie does have a lot of (high school) atmosphere, but of course all the time struggles against the cliches that it started out with.Average.  "},{"Title":"What happened to Robert Rodriguez?","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wonder what the hell happened to Robert Rodriguez? He used to be so bloody good before The Faculty. He made such a strong impression on me with his outstanding and beloved debut, stylish low-budget cult classic El Mariachi and I also loved the fabulous remake Desperado starring Antonio Banderas very much. I can't get tired of his greatest work From dusk till dawn. It was extremely breathtaking, truly hilarious, amazingly wild and highly ultra-violent splatter masterpiece he created with Quentin Tarantino and it was magnificent in every way. It's the kind of a movie that just simply lefts you speechless.He also directed one segment to the outstanding hotel comedy Four rooms. But then suddenly for some foolish reason he wanted to take part in this unsatisfying teenage horror trend that I guess Scream started in the 90's and chosen to direct The Faculty. Of course it's a solid Rodriguez picture, he's such a talented bloke I believe he's unable to make a bad movie but why in the world he wanted to do a stupid film like this? What was he thinking? Just when his career seemed to be so very promising. Recently he directed Spy Kids - something for even smaller audience. I haven't seen it and if I'm lucky I never will. My point is he's wasting his fantastic skills in the idiotic projects like these. Luckily as far as I understand his next film will be a sequel to Desperado so I guess he still has a chance to do something right. If we take a closer look at the story of The Faculty at least I can say that I rarely see a film with such a positive approach to using dope. This film is like a junkie's dream it doesn't only make drugs acceptable but it actually suggests than they're the only weapon against alien invasion. Nice idea, I must say... There are couple of decent actors in the cast. Robert Patrick is great in his own artless way. I always see him as T-1000 from Terminator 2 Judgment day and he replaced David Duchovny quite nicely in The X Files but it's still always pleasant to observe him in the different roles that are not so important. I also caught Bond-girl Famke Janssen and Bebe Neuwirth who plays so irresistibly Lilith in my favorite sitcom-series Frasier. And of course there's Elijah Wood who's right now a bigger name than ever before and Josh Hartnett who still after Pearl Harbor isn't a huge superstar. If you seriously think Scream -trilogy is the best horror entertainment there possibly is then I'm pretty sure you'll love The Faculty but if you don't (like you shouldn't) then the movie is only watchable for the sake of Rodriguez's older works. "}{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gotta tell ya, this movie really topped the frosting off my cake.  When I first seen this movie, I could not go to sleep, just thinking about the aliens.  I really did not see any input into that.  But, on the other hand, I liked all of the characters.  Robert Patrick really played into his role, and I liked that.  I would reccoment this movie to anybody.  Expecially teachers. "},{"Title":"A good horror, but also warm and fuzzy. You will have to watch it to fully comprehend that!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILER*This is one of those films which you can initially watch twenty times in as many days, and then never see again for a year.It would never have had Oscar-winning potential, but it is an extremely enjoyable experience nonetheless. It has an intelligent, and quite scary, plot, (albeit unoriginal) a witty script, aesthetically pleasing actors, (who can also ACT) and a well-concluded ending, complete with shock. (It actually surprised me, and I am usually quite perceptive when it comes to whodunnits.)It also has a warm, fuzzy feel to it, as despite being a horror/sci-fi, it has a happy ending, and reminds me of the time of year when I initially saw it. (Warm summer evening) Had I viewed it on a, let's say, depressing winter's afternoon, I may rate this film entirely differently.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good film to watching even though it doesnt have the best plot. I'm not a big fan of the whole alien taking over the world thing but this movie managed to entertain me. The biggest attraction and the only reason I picked it up was because of Elijah Wood as Casey. He was the stand out actor of this movie. But even the other characters were good and the movie was cute. My favorite line was of course, 'Guaranteed to jack you up.'Casey- 'God, you can be such a f..'Delilah- 'what did you say?'Casey- 'I said you could be a pretty cool human being when your not being a first class grade A bitch'Delilah- 'Are you hitting on me?'  "},{"Title":"Entertaining...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say about The Faculty? It's not worth paying money for. Really, most of the actors do their best, but the writing just isn'tup to par. But it is a nice thing to watch on T.V., *especially* if they edit out the curses. Hearing Fooey! after a plot twist sendsyou into giggles. Elijah Wood and Josh Hartnett do extremely well in their roles; as always, they're a pleasure to watch. Don't rent this movie, unless you've seen it before. Don't see it in a theatre; use those five bucks for something else. But if you'rechannel surfing and find it's on? Check it out! It's just fun to watch and mock.  "},{"Title":"Derivative (of course!) But Fun","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is one of the new breed of movies that not only references its sources, but cites them--in this case, by title AND author, and it gets extra points for mentioning the original written versions rather than film adaptations.  For what it is, it is very well done.  The screenplay is lively, the direction snazzy, the young actors are attractive, and the older ones seem to be having a good time playing both dysfunctional teachers and suddenly self-realized pod-people.  Now, if only the film had credited the film from which it borrowed the let's-see-who's-an-alien scene  John Carpenter's The Thing, also the source of the tentacled head.  But you have to forgive Williamson and Rodriguez, especially when they provide their confession in the text  So this is where you borrow your supplies?  I prefer to think of it as stealing. "},{"Title":"Clever dark satire of teen horror movies.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of those movies I passed by in the video store a number of times, picked up the box, and set it back down.  It finally came on TV.  So I watched it.The movie (or at least the edited-for-TV version of it) was either brilliant or asinine.  I'm still trying to figure out which.If you watch it as a satire of teen slash flicks, it's got its clever moments.  At least, that's what I tell myself to justify the two hours of time it absorbed on a Monday night.  It contained the strange combination of decent acting, decent script-writing, and a plot that was so sublimely ridiculous and cliché as to be beyond redemption.  We're talking on the order of 1950's Sci-Fi horror flicks, complete with 3-D glasses!  I can only hope that this was the intent of the movie.  Otherwise I've been taken for a ride!With a heavy dose of willing suspension of disbelief, and a tolerance for gooey monster slime, it's entertaining. "},{"Title":"Easily the best movie i have ever seen!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Firstly to put it simply THE FACULTY was excellent. I thought the cast of relatively unknowns (Shaun Hatosy, Clea DuVall, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster to name a few) gave really good performances. The characters were really well developed. There was the sensitive jock (Hatosy), the superficial cheerleader (Brewster), the school geek (Elijah Wood), the new girl (Laura Harris), the outsider (DuVall) and of course the intelligent rebel (Hartnett.)Finally I thought the story line was very original and the dialogue was witty and clever! For those of you who haven't seen it, rent it, actually no buy it, because it is an extremely entertaining movie!! 10/10!!  "},{"Title":"A lovely film!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a typical American teenage-film. It claimes to be a horrormovie, but I don't think so. Still; I love it! Though the story is a bit unrealistic, it's kind of cute. It's soft, entertaining, funny, cute..! The actors make a FANTASTIC job, it's really impressive. Elijah is wonderful as usual, and the way he runs when he's being chased, made me laugh 'til I almost choked. I can recommend this film to anybody, who likes movies that are not this overstrained Hollywood productions. This film contains a few small faults, but they only make it more lovely. You can see this film one thousand times, and never get tired of it. See it. "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was very impressive. It was kind of scary also. It was funny and most of all, the dialogue was very good. It was well thought out. The good acting goes well with the impressive dialogue.  I recommend this movie to anybody who is a fan of writer Kevin Williamson. "},{"Title":"Faced-paced, funny, and entertaining.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here's a question that far too many critics forget the answer to What is the point of watching a movie?  The answer is, of course, To Be Entertained. With this philosophy, I must say that The Faculty is one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen.The story, which is openly and happily silly, is about alien slugs that reproduce and enter humans bodies, making them slaves.  These aliens first infest the teachers of a normal suburban high school, then move onto the students.  The eventual plan is, of course, to take over the world, but six lucky students soon realize what's going on and try to put an end to the invasion.I'm really getting tired of annoying critics who say that this is a blatant ripoff of Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  I have two things to say to that 1) Every Romantic Comedy in existence is a ripoff of each other (how many times have you seen that I'll take her out as a bet but then I start to fall in love with her but then she finds out about the bet... or We meet once and then five years later I realize she's my true love and have to find her!...) ...so start complaining about that, and 2) They ADMIT within the very movie that it's a blatant ripoff of Invasion of the Body Snatchers! (And, of course, that the Body Snatchers were also a blatant ripoff of The Puppetmasters!)  So who cares?The cast is great.  All of the teenagers in the movie are likeable - especially Zeke, the incredible-slacker-yet-really-smart kid (Josh Hartnett, Pearl Harbor, O) and Elijah Wood (soon to star in the Lord of the Rings) as the dreamy nerd.  And expect to see Jordana Brewster, the popular girl, in many more movies to come.  Another great plus is that most of the adults are famous too - Robert Patrick (T2, X-Files) is the football coach, and Famke Janssen (X-Men, Rounders), Salma Hayek, and Jon Stewart also appear.Teenagers, who are obviously this movie's target audience, will love this movie.  For one thing, it's like a list of stuff that parents don't want kids to watch Plenty of language, some gore, and get this the teens in the movie figure out tht the only way to find out who's an alien is to sniff drugs up their nose.  And, for those horny guys, there's even a bit of nudity near the end.However, that aside, I think it's the very core idea of the movie that makes it so appealling six normal (and very likable) teenagers (A geek, a jock, a druggie, etc) are throw together by chance to save the world.  Forget about the parallels to Body Snatchers and the Breakfast Club.  Just sit back, relax, and enjoy this thrill ride of a movie.  Citizen Kane it ain't (thank goodness!).  I had more fun watching The Faculty than probably any movie in the past year. "}{"Title":"This is not a movie what the hell are you talking about?!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a GRAT movie! Sure there was some nudity total violence but if there wasn't HOW THE HELL DOSE IT MAKE IT A HORROR MOVIE? Actualy it's not so much horror it's basicly a movie about teatchers being aliens and it was proboly going for my Scfie action then horror cause the scenes arn't like murder jumps out of a window, Candyman apears out of no where, Ben Willus being the light from above and hoping out no it's more SCFI and anyways it's not intended to be funny it's supposed troubled relashionship, guy selling stuff, Hot guy quites the team, a geek that get's ramed into the pole and is screwed, Mrs.Poupler look at me, my makeup, my tatoo, lastest fashion, and of course A gay girl that is TOOO happy and a girl that's spunky and doesn't allow other people to p*** her off. GREAT MOVIE RECOMEND TO YOUR FRIENDS YOU HAVE MY WORD FOR IT! "},{"Title":"alien  teachers can be funny","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie recently, and found it absolutely hilarious!  At first, I had my doubts; I thought it might be too corny to be funny.  But I soon found out that through blatant over-acting, absurd shots at horror movie stereotypes, and great taglines it could get through its campiness.  Fortunately, it doesn't take itself seriously.  I loved the goofy teen rejects and their fun dialogue.  For a fun night full of campy, comedic thriller fun and laughter, I recommend The Faculty  (especially over other goofy horror flicks like the mummy and other alien movies like Independence Day). "},{"Title":"A very entertaining, funny and thrilling film.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FACULTY (1998) Rating 8/10This is a great film. I'm a fan of Kevin Williamson and I even like lesser efforts of his like Teaching Mrs. Tingle (6/10). Anyway, before this film came out his last film was Scream 2 (8/10) which I enjoyed almost as much as Scream (9/10) so I had high expectations for this flick when I saw it in theaters and I was not disappointed at all! The setting of the film was excellent. It showed high school almost exactly like it really is. A daily nightmare of obnoxious popular kids, the freaky outsiders and the screaming abuse found in the corridors (the F*** You couple were prime examples of this!). At least my high school was similar to that.The young cast was excellent -- all relatively unknown, they excelled in their roles. Elijah Wood was great as the shy, geeky kid in one of his better roles (I feel). Josh Hartnett was also great as the intelligent rebel Zeke. And I actually enjoyed Clea DuVall's memorable performance as the outsider. The teachers formed a brilliant and very creepy ensemble cast. Jon Stewert made the most of his comic talent and Robert Patrick was plain ol' evil as the robotic-esque type coach almost mirroring his performance in T2. And who could forget Piper Laurie when she starred you down, she's so damn creepy.Robert Rodriguez's directing and editing is also fantastic but it is Kevin Williamson's sharp script that steals the show. I hate when people say it's biting off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing among other titles...but that's one reason why I like Kevin Williamson's writing. I like the pop culture references he throws in there because it gives the film the right amount of humor.While The Faculty is no Scream, it is still a very, very entertaining, funny and thrilling film that's worth watching more than once! "},{"Title":"Cute film and great cast","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing Pearl Harbor I decided to check out another Josh Hartnett film, and eventually I decided on the Faculty. When I first heard about it I already knew that this wasn't going to be an Oscar Quality Movie, but, who cares? I mean I already knew it was going to be full of cliches and was a Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Bodysnatchers film but that did not keep me from enjoying it. Actually, it turned out better than I expected it to be. The cast was great and all the actors were really talented, especially Josh Hartnett and Clea DuVall who I really hope will become famous (though I don't think we have to worry about Josh since I think he's pretty famous after Pearl Harbor =) The script was funny and clever, the actors were great, and the story was good too (but that might be because I haven't seen Breakfast Club nor Invasion of the Bodysnatchers).I give this movie 8 out of 10 (u rule Josh!) "},{"Title":"A Flawless piece of work.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aliens taking over the school, it does not sound possible. However, this movie is a well done piece of work. Even though the idea seems to be laughable, it is almost flawless. The idea is crazy, but the acting and the story line is not.One thing, if an alien wants to take over, by killing the queen should not be able to stop the entire alien race, and let all the humans came back to normal again. Overall, I gave it a 8.   "},{"Title":"This movie rocks","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This flick was great. I liked the style in the beginning. The main characters get introduced to you when they walk by the screen freezes and you see their names. I was hooked from that point. The actors are pretty good, but Josh Hartnett (Zeke) and Clea DuVall (Stokely) are the best. I never heard from both and was surprised by their acting skills.Clea DuVall is gonna be a big star in future (I hope) and Josh Hartnett probably already is (Pearl Harbor) Go and see The Faculty if you can! "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I dreaded seeing this movie, because I expected the typical teenage horror film, which is short on substance and long on cleavage.  Thankfully, this movie actually had a decent plot, decent script, and decent acting.  It was more like a regular action film that included some teenagers than a teenage film that included some action.  It wasn't without flaws, but it was much better than I expected. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this film!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is my favourite film of all time, I love it! It's clever in the way it's 6 main characters are all different and yet share one thing - they all feel as if they are alone.My favourite character has to be Zeke (for obvious reasons!), but the characters are all realistic and like normal people.I would recommend this film - so if you haven't seen it... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? It definitely gets 11 stars out of 10! "},{"Title":"A Chilling, Action Packed, Sci-Fi/Horror Film!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I watched The Faculty last night, and I have to say that I liked the movie a lot. I loved this film! This is the best science fiction films ever made. This movie is very creepy, and the setting and story is brillaint. I loved the whole cast! This is a very creepy movie, and I enjoyed it. I give it a 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"I liked it, A LOT.","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"                   *****SPOILERS******The Faculty is a great sci-fi film with a good story and a good cast including, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Laura Harris, Shawn Hatosy and Elijah Wood. Josh Hartnett is perfect AND gorgeous as the mystery hunk Zeke and Elijah Wood is great as the geeky Casey. Laura Harris was quite convincing as the sweet little innocent new girl Mary-Beth. Who would of thought she would of turned out to be the evil queen of aliens. (I guess it was on the cards.) The film is directed by Robert Rodriguez who made the film even more brilliant. It would be cool if they would make a sequel but I don't think that will happen any time soon. (Maybe, one day?.) Anyway, The Faculty is a great film and I'm going to give it a 10/10.  "}{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie. Im a fan of Robert Rodriguez movies and how he makes his movies sort-of comical, like the style of the movie is ripped out of a comic book or graphic novel. Nonstop thrills from beginning to end. If your looking for complex story, good acting, etc. dont watch this, but if you love mindless running and thrills or some way to pass time, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"90-minute commercial...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So...it's good to think for yourself, and be independent...as long as you wear Tommy Hilfiger clothing.  That's pretty much what I took away from the movie.  I know the guy financed the thing, but still...I was half expecting a big alien mothership to show up with a big red/white/blue logo painted onto the side, booming We come to take over your bodies...and STEAL YOUR REALLY FLY TOMMY BRAND-NAME SHIRTS!!!   "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Breakfast Club Snatchers","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The usually outstanding Robert Rodriguez has chosen himself a bit of a turkey to helm this time with THE FACULTY, or as it should be called Invasion of the Breakfast Club Snatchers. The film deals with an overly stereotyped group of students from Herrington high, which does contain a jock, a prom queen and a drug peddling waster who are starting to realise that something strange is going on with their teachers.You can see why Americans found 'Buffalo 66' challenging when you watch this junk as THE FACULTY is supposed to be all knowing asides to other horror films, blatantly stealing whole scenes from Cronenberg's classic remake of THE THING with an ensemble cast of Scooby Doo idiots like the dork, the jock, the Goth chick, the prom queen and a slacker drug dealer selling something called scat...SCAT?The group find themselves as sole representatives for saving mankind from the threat of parasitic squid like creatures, battling them from the very halls of their school. Director Rodriguez has chosen to concentrate on the stupid teen idols instead of bringing his usual amount of enjoyable flair as previously seen in El Mariachi and Desperado.I expected more than another series of self reverential segues and pop culture parodies from Rodriguez but the Hollywood desire to appeal to a broad audience demographic means that every character and plotline must be developed to the point of impotent sterility by a committee so you feel like you've watched this a thousand times before! Sadly a director like Rodriguez's who was once seen as being outside the Hollywood system are quickly absorbed into the moneyed mulch of the industry...'Anyone fancy a tale about five kids... ones a brain box, ones brawny, a gawky girl and a glamour queen and another one a shape shifting hundred foot hermaphrodite made of pig iron and candle wax.'THE FACULTY'S version of American High school group rivalries is not half as scary as the real thing but probably more entertaining, just.  "},{"Title":"The Faculty- Kevin Williamson delivers again!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Witty, clever, smart and entertaining would be best to describe The Faculty. From beginning to end this film is great. Well acted by it's great cast and well directed by Robert Rodriguez.10/10. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie to buy or rent and watch at home.  It's worth $8.00 at the movies, too.  I'm surprised that I even remotely like this film, because it's written by Kevin Williamson, who's other movies i hate completely (except for Halloween H20).  The script is great, but doesn't allow character development because there are so many.  The casting is almost flawless, except for Shawn Hatosy, who is probably one of the worst joices for Stan.  At first I thought Elija Wood was awful, but when I remembered that he was the pathetic geek in this film, he was perfect, since you're supposed to hate a character like that.  Josh Hartnett and Clea Duvall give the best performances.  Hartnett is the perfect choice for the rebellious Zeke, and Clea Duvall is just as impressive in her portrayal as Stokely, the hapless outcast of the student body.  I hope these two talented performers move into starring roles in the future.  The scripted characters are too reminiscent of The Breakfast Club, except that they don't bond.  The direction is the best part, and Robert Rodriguez puts in a great effort.8/10 "},{"Title":"it's good","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw The Faculty yesterday and enjoyed it. In fact, I was quite surprised at the beginning as I expected some sort violent Scream-like movie, which this film is not at all. But while The Faculty is absolutely not frightening, it's still very entertaining.  Sure, the whole plot is not very original and each of the main character corresponds to a classic teen movie stereotype. Yet, there's still enough action and rhythm on the screen to make you want to watch the movie until the end. Overall, I would say that The Faculty is a cool movie, with a good cast.My vote 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Mind Blowing...","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"       The Faculty is one of my favourite movies of all time.  The plot, I accept, is not original, however the director makes it standout from the rest.  Firstly the acting is really realistic and the many twists and turns in the plot is so great.  The action scenes are also absolutley amazing.         If you have not seen it, then see it now!!!! "},{"Title":"school's out","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the faculty is a fun science fiction film that follows scream in the idea that it takes it's plot from past sources...in this case, attack of the body snatchers.Kevin Williamson writes a fresh script that incorporates classic ideas of individuality with modern day characters with modern day problems.  Sure the characters represent stereotypes, the jock, the loser, the rebel etc...but they are played out to perfection.the diolouge is smart and the action constant.  This is a fun movie for all who feel repressed by the societal norms that wreck havoc on our culture...huray for the loser who becomes the hero and huray for the freak who can be loved. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admire Robert Rodriguez. One of the best directors around. I like aliens movies. I even like the overused My teacher is an alien plot. But what was that?It wasn't exciting. It wasn't interesting. Some characters could have been extremely more developed. The misunderstood genius, the suspicious new student, the geek, the weird girl, the head cheerleader and the quarterback. It's not even looked at as parody, because a parody would laugh at the stereotype to the end, but no, at the finish line its a freaking disney movie. I'm not gonna talk about the end, go rent it for yourself, but from my distorted point of view its a step down for the director. I didn't even know it was a Rodriguez until way later, and it surprised the *insert some four-letter word here* out of me.But if you're into teen movies, stop reading critics from people without valuable opinions and go see it. "},{"Title":"Don't be afraid to go to school","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Heartbreak High meets Invasion of the Bodysnatchers.Despite the predictable plotline and unremarkable setting in an American high school, the film scores for its action, suspense and movement, and some favourable special effects.It borrows heavily from John Carpenter's The Thing, and even from Ridley Scott's Alien;as such it might be viewed as a tribute movie to the genre rather than a rip-off of any predecessor's work.Guaranteed to make you look at dysfunctional classmates in a different light. "}{"Title":"How Do You Make A Good 1990's Horror Film? Go Back To The Past, Of Course...!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of  ****I never thought I could give a modern horror film like this one such a good recommendation, but here it is. This succeeds simply because it borrows from the past - INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, to be precise.I could have seen this movie made around 1957, it's so much like a good, old-fashioned fifties flick. It's a potent update of SNATCHERS, as alien parasites invade the bodies of teachers in a high school. Not a new idea, but it somehow feels fresh and interesting, with a good cast and minimal 1990's silliness to make the difference. AND NO SET-UP FOR A SEQUEL!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the better Post-Scream teen horror/comedies.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was one of the better movies to come along featuring a teen cast after Scream.  The movie features some proven actors and talented fresh faces. Clea Duvall would later turn in an effective, polished performance in the outstanding movie Girl, Interrupted and Josh Hartnett has a lot of potential.  I loved seeing Famke Jenssen as one of the teachers.  I think she is a great actress in need of a good role. Kind of a gothic Julia Roberts.     The plot basically consists of the clique leaders of a typical American high school going against aliens invading members of the faculty. This sounds like a pretty tired plot,and in all honesty it is, but it works because of the fact talent actually exists in this cast.     This is definitely a watchable film and it has some fun moments.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson back on form","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FACULTY does for the body snatcher movies what SCREAM did for stalk and slash, pays homage to them while at the same time bringing them bang up to date. Suspend all belief, sit back and enjoy the thrills and spills. The story (although a little ridiculous) and characters are pretty good, all the  young leads perform well but the teachers are especially excellent, mainly Robert Patrick as &#145;coach' reprising a role not too distant from the T-1000 he played in TERMINATOR 2  "},{"Title":"Teen flick with a twist","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another teen flick, but at least this one has some intelligence in it. A school about to be overrun by alien teachers, who want to turn the entire town into aliens, starting with the school. Only a group of students can stop them, but the aliens might already be among them as well, and the only way to ferret them out was by the way of illegal drug which one of students happen to be selling. While I didn't really like the premise that illegal mind-changing drugs was the only way to detect aliens, it was an interesting concept. The show builds up its rhythm towards the climactic end quite quickly, and before you know it, the show's over. You don't even notice how long you've been watching it, but maybe that's because the show isn't that long in the first place.  "},{"Title":"Much better than expected!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I borrowed this movie and didn't really expect much.  I mean, after you've seen an endless waterfall of scream-wannabes like disturbing behavior, and urban legend, you wouldn't really expect much from this. It turned out to be much better than I'd thought.  Sure, it wasn't as good as some of the 'classics', but its humor and the cast really made up for it.  Josh Hartnett especially shined as Zeke.If you've got some spare time, and not very high expectations about teen movies, rent 'the faculty'.  It may surprise you, just as it did for me. "},{"Title":"Pretty nice","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I don't really feel the need to explain that The Faculty was just another film trying to draw the Scream-audience into the theatres (although it is from the same studio that brought us Scream). But contrary to Urban Legend or I still know... The Faculty is quite a nice attempt.The Faculty is not really a horror film, it is a fairly entertaining film about teenagers with just a few elements of the horror genre that should be called a thriller-comedy rather than a horror film. It is therefore nowhere as suspenseful or scary as Scream. It is evident that Kevin Williamson wrote the screenplay because the film shows us many allusions to other horror-films like Body Snatchers or The Thing, though, again, not in such a clever way as Scream did.Probably the most interesting thing about this movie is the cast. Young people of the new generation of actors (e.g. Josh Hartnett, Elijah Wood) were combined with already well-known people (e.g. Robert Patrick, Famke Janssen, Salma Hayek). It was fun to see these two generations fight each other in the movie.While the film is not very predictable the whodunit-question is not very effective in this movie and so the main interest does not lie within this point. But if you are young this film might entertain you anyway.A harmless but entertaining, nice little film that won't totally disappoint you.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"A marketing ploy","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First  No, Kevin Williamson did not write this script.  He transformed the story, which was written by David Wechter and Bruce Kimmel(by all means, check it out and see for yourself) into a screenplay.With that said, the only reason I saw this film was because I admire and respect Kevin Williamson as a writer.  But because they proclaimed everywhere From the writer of Scream & I Know What You Did Last Summer I figured it couldn't be that bad, right?  I rented it, going into the film open minded and unbiased despite the fact everyone told me how bad it was. And for once, a movie lived up to their word, and I wasn't happy to read who wrote the real story.  Faculty was bad . . .The story was very lame, predictable, trite, and ultimately, laughable. Nothing in the movie will scare you; especially the horror buffs.  The shocker isn't all that shocking since every genre has been using this gimmick for over forty years, paint a character to be sweet and innocent then make them the villain.  Maybe newcomers to the movies will be genuinely surprised.  Elijah Wood isn't quite able to act his fears (the poor writing doesn't help that), but I've seen worse . . . too bad, he was pretty good in Deep Impact.  Finally, Rodriguez . . . simply put, he's never impressed me.On the plus side, it has Robert Patrick's presence, who always makes a good villain.  Josh Hartnett proves he can actually handle acting, and not just recite lines like a zombie onscreen, it's a big step up from his performance in H20.This film receives one star from me.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, not even die hard Williamson fans.  No matter how he worked the dialogue, and calls in the script, Williamson ended up playing secretary and adding his own personal touches here and there.  But no facelift can cure the fact that script was ugly through and through, it would've been best to scrap it and start from scratch.  The whole From the author of Scream was nothing more than a marketting ploy to try and keep this film afloat and aparently, it won something just having Williamson's name on it . . . don't you just love how Hollywood works? "},{"Title":"Women are bad and drugs are good!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the movie that proves once and for all that the hot girls are bad and drugs are good.  Just watch the movie and you'll see.  The drugs save the day.  But there are so many twists and turns this comment didn't ruin the movie for you, honest, so watch it and see that I'm telling the truth. "},{"Title":"Good sci-fi flick","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"      The Faculty is a well written and directed science fiction movie. The acting is well done as well. Since the movie Scream came out movie studio's have done what they could to find the next Scream and all those studio's have failed. However Dimension Films (which also made the Scream movies) find original ideas and make the movie as good as they can and The Faculty is a fine example of that.  "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Might be plotspoiler*This might be the best movie ever! Okay, I'll have to admit, it does look a bit like 'bodysnatchers' but I think it's supposed to look like it or else the movie wouldn't have a meaning. But the special-effects are SO good! The acting is perfect. And I like the idea of mixing old well-known actors and new, not so well-known actors, in one movie. I also think it's good that the aliens doesn't turn into ugly green monsters (then the movie would be lame) I've seen this movie three or four times know and it just gets better and better. I hope that all the young actors will keep on acting for many years to come, especially Shawn Hatosy, Josh Hartnett, Clea DuVall and Elijah wood (I know he will 'cause he's been in so many movies already).  "}{"Title":"The best teen horror flick of the late 90's.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An alien virus begins to take over the faculty and students at a small high school and the few remaining people must discover a way to elimnate the alien before it takes over the world. A very well thought out script; witty and exciting, great direction, and one heck of a cast filled with many popular faces of the past and present. The visual effects are great to. In a decade where Scream and I Know What You Did........ ruled, this emerges as the best of the teen horror genre. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but entertaining","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a predictable but fun sci-fi/horror movie written by Scream writer Kevin Williamson (from a story written by two other guys). The Faculty is not in the same league as Scream, but I had a good time watching this movie. It's about six high schoolers who find out that there's some odd behavior among their teachers. They begin to suspect that they've become aliens and are planning to conquer the world. The six teens team up and try to stop them. The special effects are just so-so, but the thing I liked best about The Faculty are the performances by both the young actors and the older actors. Elijah Wood, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Laura Harris, Josh Hartnett, and Shawn Hatosy are all very good and they're alot of fun to watch. I'm sure you'll be seeing these six actors in years to come. As for the veteran actors, they steal their scenes whenever they're on screen. You couldn't ask for a better group of actors to play the faculty than Salma Hayek, Famke Janssen, Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth, Robert Patrick, and Jon Stewart. The Faculty may not be original, but since the movie is so much fun, I didn't care. It's cheesy, but entertaining.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"big disappointment for me","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** WARNING - SPOILER AHEAD ***I rented The Faculty today and I must say I had high expectations after reading the description on the rental box.  But the movie turned out to be a big disappointment.  The whole idea of alien teachers getting after their students was good IMO but that was about it.  The acting was poor mediocre, even bad in some moments and the way they came up with the idea that there is a Queen alien is ridiculous.  In that other movie (Body Snatchers) killing the Queen would lead to destroying all alien beings and they say hey... it must be the same here.  I didn't buy that once.For some scary entertainment I would recommend Scream 1 & 2 or I know what you did last summer & I still know what you did last summer.  Those movies were a lot better and had a much nicer plot twist and acting.  If you like the alien stuff more than the horror then I would recommend Men In Black which is also a lot better than The Faculty.I rated the movie 3/10.  If it wasn't for this beautiful brunette's appearance it would even be 1/10. "},{"Title":"Better than Scream?","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of the director Robert Rodriguez, and I have noticed that one of the main appeals of his films are that they have great scripts.  'El Mariachi' and 'Desperado' were both written by Rodriguez himself, and they show he has talent in the writing department.  'From Dusk Till Dawn' was written by the excellent Quentin Tarantino, and there wasn't a single flaw in it.  Then there is this, 'The Faculty', written by none other than Kevin Williamson (of Scream 1 & 2 and Dawsons Creek fame).  The witty and smart script of Williamson combined with Rodriguez's stylish direction make for top-quality entertainment.  The acting is brilliant.  Josh Hartnett plays the supercool character Zeke, Elijah Wood is the nerdy Casey, Famke Janssen plays one of the teachers, Robert Patrick is the football team coach and Rodriguez regular Salma Hayek plays the school nurse.A respectable 9/10.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films ever...","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Certainly my favorite fright film.I am 17 years old.  Perhaps that is why I enjoyed 'The Faculty' so much, while some complain that it is unoriginal.  Ol' Kevin Williamson's ploy with Scream was to reflect on every other scary movie and satire them and in so doing make the best scary movie ever, one that assured the audience that it was aware of everything it did.  Williamson pulled a similar trick with 'The Faculty', but still I've read comments saying how it was a rip off of 'The Body Snatchers'.  Well, the way I see it, is that whether or not you were familiar with Halloween and Friday the Thirteenth type stuff, Scream made a lot of sense.  On the other hand, 'The Faculty' was dependent on seeming original.  I am 17 years old.  I've never seen 'The Body Snatchers'.  I didn't even know it was a movie.  All I knew was what Williamson let me know, that it was science fiction.  So, therefore, after much deliberation, I find this film to be original.Oh, and I thought that the acting was superb.  Zeke is a great character, and the football coach is hilarious.  I've only seen the guy in T2, but the similarities and the contrasts to that character are great.  Jon Stewart is also hilarious.  Particularly during the credits.I think the trick to this movie is probably not to expect too much from it, and definitely to not go in looking to find fault with it.  I barely knew what it was about when I first saw it, and it was awesome.  Much better than Scream, in my opinion, particularly for rewatching value.  Watching Scream more than once is a waste of time, but I watched this 3 times when I rented it.And lastly, I must mention the similarities to another movie I've seen, unfortunately I never caught the name.  Its worth a look though, it stars Katie Holmes and some nobodies, and is basically about the dissolvement of the high school class system through, well, science fiction.  So see it. Its not as good as 'The Faculty', but its good contrast.  Almost looks like an early member of the high school-fright film evolution.The Faculty, 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good harmless fun, with a slightly deeper meaning","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  It's basically a pretty light-hearted affair (despite a few moments of more extreme gore), but it does have a slightly deeper meaning where it starts to expose the culture clash in high schools between jocks/freaks whatever.  Out of all the young actors and actresses in this flick, I think that Josh Hartnett as the wannabe drug pusher Zeke, and Clea DuVall as the outcasted Stokely shine above the others.If you enjoy being scared, but don't like the reality of the Scream and Halloween's then I'd definitely recommend The Faculty, it'll make you jump but won't emotionally scar you for life or anything.I also liked the suspense in this film as you never really know who is an alien and who isn't.  Some people may claim that it's startingly obvious but I wouldn't say it was particulary.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Actually it is not as bad as I would think...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible spelling mistakes below**                              I thought that ''The Faculty'' was gonna be one of those ''Scream''-follw-ups that                               we've have to see,in pain, the latest years.                              I was very suprised, I mean this was actually pretty good. The actors are good,                               even though the characters are a bit predictible and it is actually very, very                               exciting. Even though the stupid openingscene and the slow start this is not really                               that much as ''Scream'', ''I know...'' and ''I Still know''. It is DEFENITLY NOT                               as predictible as these films. This is simply the best you can get with this concept.                               And over my expectations!  "},{"Title":"great sci-fi flick","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is very original. If you like Scream, and I know what you did last summer you will like this movie. I liked this movie cause it was creepy. It kept me in suspense, who was an alien and who wasn't. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes sci-fi/ horror movies and who ever thinks their teacher is an ALIEN. "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club meets Body Snatchers","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Over the past several years Hollywood has released a slew of campy horror flicks with great dialogue beautiful people.  I looked forward to finally watching The Faculty as this story seemed intriguing and those angst ridden kids seemed saucy enough to carry this film.  The Faculty is the story of a group of high school kids in rural Ohio who find out that their teachers are not just mean, they are nasty aliens hell bent on taking over the world.  We are introduced to six different kids, all from different parts of the clique chain, who accidently come together when they witness their teachers doing some horrific things. Bebe Neuwirth is killed in a horrifying opening by a nasty gym teacher and a timid (or so we think) Piper Laurie.  And from there the film takes off into an Invasion of the Body Snatchers direction, with kids who are forced to work together despite their natural dislike for each other. Now I like my horror movies to be bad, and I like it better when the film is able to admit its own shortcomings.  The brilliance of recent films like Scream was in the fact that they didn't take themselves too seriously.  The Faculty doesn't take itself too seriously, and it clearly pays homage to several great horror flicks of days past.  One would get the feeling that the producers of this film enjoyed the fact that they were ripping off some of their favorite films.  The only trouble is, that in all of their enjoyment, they forgot about the audience. The Faculty delivers on many levels.  The effects are interesting.  The kids are cute and some of the dialogue (but certainly not all of it) is OK.  I enjoyed films like Invasion of the Body Snatchers and Carrie, so this was, to some extent, a welcome treat.  On the other hand, the flaws in this effort are so big that they are hard to overlook.  These kids find out awfully fast what the aliens are made of.  These kids should be doing AIDS research, not fighting squishy monsters. As well, the film stopped being scary early on in the story.  In Invasion of the Body Snatchers (any version) I was horrified by the mere idea of some pod critter taking over my body.  Watching this film, I thought, 'What the hell?  When they call me to the nurse's office for my ear exam, I'm going.'And then there was that whole vampire logic, which I will not get into because it would be a spoiler, but suffice it to say, was a easy way out of this 'already crumby' plot.  "},{"Title":"an excellent film","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent horror movie, 1 of my favorites. Aliens take over a high school & many others. There could have shown more of the faculty but it didn't. The music gives us a sense of fear like when the students attack a particular teacher in a classroom. The ending was cool 2. an excellent soundtrack 2 an excellent movie. this is a must have 4 horror fans. Please report to the principal's office.  "}{"Title":"Very over rated by my friends, who after watching it a second time, decided that it was not that good after all.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that the faculty was the most over-rated film of the century.  It had good special effects and stuff like that but it lacked SO much depth.  The message of yeah, everyone says drugs are bad but actually they save the world Is the biggest load of TOSH !!!  Utter Nonsence!  What a great message to be sending out!  If you take drugs you will be immune to alien attack !!!!   Hahahahahahaha, what a JOKE! It is the kind of film that If I saw it late at night at the age of 12 I would think, Cool.  Other than that I have nothing good to say about this film, except the performance from Wood was a slight savior. Sorry but for me it was a total let down and I defy anyone who says that this film is any good at all. "},{"Title":"Simply funny and entertaining","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robert Rodriquez shows, with this really cool movie,  that he also can make films, that has all the things a teenage-science fiction movie should have.  It is the second time in film-history, that a director uses some good tv-actors (the other director was Wes Craven), and it looks like they had fun, making the movie. The special effects are brilliant, and the story is simply funny. Kevin Williamson wrote two horror-masterpieces, Scream and Scream 2. Now it looks like, he has done it again. Not that The Faculty is a masterpiece in science fiction, but it is great entertaining. * * * * (out of 5) "},{"Title":"Schools out.....of their minds!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is your run of the mill alien movie , which has nothing new or different in it. The story is about a bunch of kids who realise that the school is being taken over by a bunch of Squid like aliens masqarading as teachers and pupils. While quite entertaining The Faculty is hardly memorable. 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"a decent variation on the 'body snatchers' type plot","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i rented this movie and I Still Know What You Did Last Summer in the same evening and after how horrible that movie was i was hesitant to pop in The Faculty.fortunately, this isn't a bad little movie. it's basically a high school variation on the whole 'body snatchers' theme and up until the last 15 minutes is pretty solid and well done.the movie is well written and acted and the whole high school setting allows writer kevin williamson to put some unique spins on the student/teacher interaction.the special effects are also restrained up until the last 15 or so minutes when the movie goes out of control and completely loses it's focus. the acting is good and i liked  Salma Hayek's cameo as the school nurse (boy what i would of done to have a school nurse as hot as she is when i was in high school!)  better that i was expecting. Not great, but pretty well done.rating7  "},{"Title":"Just brilliant!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great film. As a devoted fan of Kevin Williamson, I had high expectations and I was not disapointed as all! The setting of the film was excellent. It showed school for what it really is. A daily nightmare of obnoxious popular kids, the freaky outsiders and the screaming abuse found in the corridors.The young cast were excellent - all relatively un-known they excelled in their roles. Elijah Wood was perfect as the shy geeky kid and one of his best roles in years I feel and Josh Harnett is was also great as the intelligent rebel Zeke. The teachers formed a brilliant and quite unusual ensemble cast. Jon Stewert made the most of his comic talent and Robert Patrick was simply evil as the robotic coach mirroring his performance in T2.Robert Rodriguez's directing and editing is also fantastic but it is Kevin Williamson's sharp script that steals the show. While The Faculty is no Scream, it is still a very, very entertaining film and worth watching more than once! "},{"Title":"Just brilliant!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great film. As a devoted fan of Kevin Williamson, i had high expectations and i was not disappointed at all! The setting of the film was excellent. It showed school for what it really is. A daily nightmare of obnoxious popular kids, the freaky outsiders and the screaming abuse found in the corridors (the F@*$ you couple were great examples of this!)The young cast were excellent - all relatively un-known they excelled in their roles. Elijah Wood was perfect as the shy geeky kid and one of his best roles in years i feel and Josh Harnett  was also great as the intelligent rebel Zeke. The teachers formed a brilliant and quite unusual ensemble cast. Jon Stewert made the most of his comic talent and Robert Patrick was simply evil as the robotic coach mirroring his performance in T2.Robert Rodriguez's directing and editing is also fantastic but it is Kevin Williamson's sharp script that steals the show. While The Faculty is no Scream, it is still a very, very entertaining film and worth watching more than once! "},{"Title":"A great horror fantasy with humour and a fascinating monster!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a great example of the way horror films are made these days. It's well-written and well-directed, but it aims at giving you laughs and entertainment rather than scariness. The ending may be predictable, but it's such fun getting there!Aliens are infesting humans, beginning with the faculty of a high school. The film opens at a normal high school. Kids are bashing each other, teachers are bellowing at the students, students are threatening the teachers, students are throwing things, and the smaller, weaker students are cowering in the toilets, terrified. Everything normal, right?But a small group of students, who are all named in the opening of the film, begin to notice some really odd behaviour of several of the teachers. The teachers are being polite, agreeable, even peaceful! The first student to think that they're being taken over by aliens is scoffed at by the others, but it isn't long before the others get a clear demonstration, as the aliens don't stay completely within their respective human bodies.They reach out with tentacles, replicate, and crawl into human's ears, in order to take over control of their brains and bodies, in much the same way as they did in The Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The students soon work out that the aliens will die and things will return to normal if only they can work out which one the queen is, and kill her. But which one is she? And how do they kill her?The queen doesn't need to infest a body, she can disguise herself as a human body. She's only got one disguise, but it's a good one!When she does reveal herself, and switches back to her alien body, she's one of the most awesome, amazing monsters you've ever seen in a movie. She's really horrible looking, but in a fascinating way! She'd be worth seeing the whole movie for, just on her own, but the rest of the movie is such great fun as well!Two very fine actors are worth mentioning. Salma Hayek plays the nurse. She normally plays in movies of great depth, so it's interesting to see her in a light-hearted romp like this one. And Robert Patrick, who was so brilliant as the new improved terminator in Terminator II (1991) does a splendid job in this one as well.Will our group of heroes be able to find the queen, kill her, and save the planet from alien infestation? Will they be able to get the school back to its normal chaos, fighting, and trembling in terror? Who will win, a mere handful of students, or the rapidly multiplying thousands of alien body snatchers? I'm not going to tell you, but it's not because it would be a spoiler. It's because you already know, don't you! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was a great movie. I loved the dialogue through out the whole movie. The plot was excellent and the acting was great. Maybe every school kids dream, the teachers are from another planet. Directed by Robert Rodrigueuz annd screenplay by Kevin Williamson you know what to expect a great movie. A especially liked Josh Harnett's performance as Zeke, his cool approach, his little business in the back of the car 5 buck a popFaculty is a must see, it has action, plot, great dialogue, my only protest is that the alien died a little to easily for my liking, it was like they were just trying to end it quickly. But other than that is was an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie in a similar vein","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was sort of a surprise to me since I never thought it'd be this good.  Director Robert Rodriguez puts some nifty surprises.  You can't get scared anymore with movies like these, but the adventure the teens go through was fun to watch.  The movie is aware that it has its inspirations from Puppetmasters and Invasion of the Body Snatchers (I like the scene where they discuss about it).  Movie enthusiasts who frequent the internet may recognize Harry Knowles.  Robert Patrick (T2) as the coach was maniacal.  I didn't recognize Famke Jannsen until the closing credits.About the only thing that disturbs me is that the enemy is defeated by drug use.  Oh boy, You know it's bad for you, but you gotta do it.The verdict 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Standard, but fun B-movie fare","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"        This movie was made in my hometown, Austin, Texas even though it's set in a fictional Ohio town. Donna Casey, who has a bit part in the role of Tina in the films begining, is the daughter of my mother's former roommate. She is currently studying acting in NYC. Look for her to be a possible future star. Oh, I'm not the Jon Stewart in the credits. Well, besides all that, the movie paid great homage to Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Carrie, Evil Dead, etc. Any fan of those movies should love this one. "}{"Title":"You know what's weird?","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually liked this movie. I mean, really liked it! Which I find strange, since I don't really dig the highschool movies of the late 90s. Not like the more superior ones in the early 80s, anyway.But this is an exception. A contradiction, Zeke might say. The premise of this movie is really cheesy, like INVASION OF THE BREAKFAST CLUB SNATCHERS, but don't let that keep you from checking this out. I'm not a big fan of the SCREAM movies, so if you're not you will probably enjoy this more, it doesn't even feel like Kevin Williamson wrote it.The best thing about this movie, without a doubt, is the cast. No one has a weak part, the students don't overshadow the teachers, in fact the faculty has the most fun, I think. Robert Patrick is sooooo perfect as a football coach, he barks and curses and flips over benches full of Gatorade kegs. Bebe Neuwirth (Lilith on CHEERS & FRASIER) fits perfectly as the principal (and so amazingly sexy!!). Oh and speaking of sexy, Famke Janssen and Salma Hayek also appear in showy roles. Jon Stewart was fun to watch (he had the best lines), and don't miss a quick cameo of internet critic Harry Knowles (if you can even recognize him) and Piper Laurie, queen of the crazy religious mothers!One refreshing thing about the cast of students is none of the actors are from the WB! And they can act too. Not too many movies can successfully have an ensemble of interesting characters, but this movie gets away with it. Zeke, a small-time dealer who's smarter than his grades is played with a slacker smirk by Josh Harret. Stan, the reluctant football character who's sick of the popularity contests of highschool is played by the handsome Shawn Hatosy. Casey, the dweeb who cowers like a turtle from virtually everyone is played by Elijah Wood (remember him? TAKE THAT Macauly Culkin!) Stokely, the pseudo-lesbian outcast who shields herself with black anything is played by Clea Duvall, who is strangley charismatic and beautiful under the raccoon eyeliner. Finally, Delilah is played by Jordanna Brewster, so convincingly bitchy you want to smack the t.v. for a while.If you are a big fan of Robert Rodriguez, you would have to wonder if he really made this movie, there's no cartoonish action sequences or zany camera action. The only hints of him behind the camera is the presence of Salma Hayek and the highschool, which looks like it's in the middle of the desert. Though the kinetic editing is a dead giveaway!I'm not going to lie to you. This is a B-movie, but a very enjoyable one. So don't expect a science fiction masterpiece, but don't pass it up as I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, either.Kudos to Mary Vernieu and Anne McCarthy for their great choices of casting! "},{"Title":"awesome parody of alien takeover movies","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Semi-Spoilers ahead! This film is great. No question. Kevin Williamson has done it again.  Just as he made a great parody of slasher movies, while creating an awesome one himself (Scream), and just as he did the same for sequels to slasher movies (Scream 2), he now creates the ultimate alien- parasite-takeover-paranoid-who's-infected? movie in The Faculty.This movie combines all the elements from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Alien, John Carpenter's The Thing, The Puppet Masters, and all of those aliens-take-over-the-town movies, and creates a masterpiece.  While giving homage to all of those above-mentioned classics, this movie creates its own new story and gimmicks. The classic Kevin Williamson touches are here, including the guess-who-the-bad-guy-is story line ( times two)!!  The acting is impeccable, the story line with the typical high-school stereoptypes is fun, and the alien sequences are truly horrifying!  WHAT A GREAT MONSTER! Anybody who goes to see this movie has to be a fan of horror movies, and this is destined to be a classic. There is nothing wrong with this movie!Note the parallels between the you do the drug now scene, and the similar blood-testing scene in The Thing. And the climax..you can't get closer to being infected by an alien, and still have a happy ending! We have a new genius among us..let's here it for Kevin Williamson! GO SEE THIS MOVIE NOW, if you haven't already.  The best horror movie in the last 5 years! "},{"Title":"Actually it is not as bad as I would think...","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **Possible spelling mistakes below**I thought that ''The Faculty'' was gonna be one of those ''Scream''-follw-ups that we've have to see,in pain, the latest years.I was very suprised, I mean this was actually pretty good. The actors are good, even though the characters are a bit predictible and it is actually very, very exciting.  Even though the stupid openingscene and the slow start this is not really that much as ''Scream'', ''I know...'' and ''I Still know''. It is DEFENITLY NOT as predictible as these films. This is simply the best you can get with this concept. And over my expectations!  "},{"Title":"A surprisingly Brilliant film","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I bought this one on DVD, I was expecting to be disappointed, the ideal was so hockey (alien teachers attempt to take over a school). But this film is excellent, with some wonderful acting from the generally new cast members.Josh Hartnett, Elisha Wood, Clea Duvall all put in magnificent performances and it was nice to see a strong show for Piper Laurie and Bebe Neuwirth.The story isn't fantastic, but it never tries to be, it certainly has enough scares and shocks to enjoy.You won't be disappointed by this movie. (10) "},{"Title":"Is your teacher an alien?","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a really god SCI-FI/Horror Flick. I really like this movie and I saw it about seven times. I never saw it in the movie theater but I did see it on video at my house. This movie is about aliens that take over a California High School. It stars Josh Harnett as Zeke. He also stared in Halloween H20 as Keri Tate\Laurie Strodes son. The cast was good and a couple of parts were scary.  "},{"Title":"Aliens take over a high school!!!Have fun with this movie!!!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie deals with aliens slowing taking over a midwestrn high school(Ohio). The students do not know what is going on , but they suspect the schoool's faculty is not quite human. Gradually the aliens take over the school and the city. There are 6 students left who have not taken over by the aliens. They are of the usually cliches in school(jock,loser,gothic, etc). These six students must find a way to save the school and each other. Nobody is who they appear to be. Eventually , the students find a way to defeat the aliens.This movie has some decent special effects and great teen cast!!The Faculty was one of my favorites movies from last Christmas!!This movie is awesome,suspenseful and fun!!!Have some fun from the writer of the Scream movies!!!I love this movie !!It 's fun and short for those with short attention spans!!!So have a great time with this alien invasion of a high school!! "},{"Title":"More garbage from the Kevin Williamson machine","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are like me, and you find the so-called hip and witty products of Kevin Williamson to be thoroughly nauseating, then you too probably will not have a high opinion of his latest stinkbomb.  In The Faculty, he takes the groundbreaking genre of High School Movies, with its Popular Kids and Misunderstood Losers, and throws some aliens into the mix.  Woo hoo.  I guess my major complaint is the way the characters talk - there is just something about Williamson dialogue that makes me cringe.  I was dismayed to see such unsung talent as Jon Stewart and Bebe Neuworth (Frasier's ex-wife Lillith) lowering themselves to such a movie, playing alongside teen actors who may or may not have a career next week.  And the remake of Pink Floyd's Another Brick in the Wall?  Don't even get me started.  I guess if you're a fan of the whole witty-teen-horror flick thing, then you'll enjoy it, but I'd rather stick a pen in my eye then sit through it again. "},{"Title":"Bottom line NOT for the squeamish!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw previews of The Faculty and decided to rent it. However, I was quite disappointed in the long run. Twice, as I was watching, I thought I should just hit Stop and not bother with the rest because it can get very gory at times, but decided to watch it all the way through so my remarks could be based on seeing 100% and not less of the film. In my opinion, films that feature themes like students vs faculty, drug use, alien invasions, conspiracy theories and the like, especially if they appear in combination as is the case here, have truly been done to death and more creative efforts could be made for science fiction and horror films (anyone ever see Roger Corman's early 1960s version of The Pit and the Pendulum? very classy horror flick without all the blood and gore). All I can say is, bottom line, this film is NOT for you if you are squeamish! If you have seen movies like the Scream and I know what you Did Last Summer series, just add alien conspiracy stuff to it and you'll know what I mean. If that's your speed, you'll love this film. If those films turn you off ... The Faculty will look worthless to you.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is an excellent creepy movie starring H20's Josh Hartnett, Deep Impact's Elijah Wood, and Summer Of Sam's Bebe Nuewrith. Aliens start taking over the faculty at Herrington High School and then move on to the students, by the next day there are only 6 students left that aren't aliens and they have to find away to stop the aliens by killing the head alien and they have to find who the head alien is. Its a very creepy movie but unlike Kevin Williamsons Scream this one ends on a good note. Rent it its wonderful! "},{"Title":"Teens love this movie for its action and suspense","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	The Faculty was a good movie in that it was a exciting sci-fi and action film. For it was riveting and it caught the viewers eyes. 	This movie had a lot of action scenes that were very good. In the beginning he coach of the football team was welcomed by something, that night the coach went to the principals office and stabbed her in the hand while trying to get away the principal gets caught in a dead end. She finally gets out and then is axed in the head. This is riveting and scary for you feel the action and its like your there. Zeke, a druggy played by Josh Harnett, sold drugs and later they find that that substance will help them with their problem. Later in the movie the four kids, a cheerleader, a jocky, a druggy, and a new student had to take the drug... but what you don't know will suprise you. One of the students ended up being a servant alien. Then a chase begins. This was action filled for you wonder what's going to happen and you can feel the horror.  	The Faculty had good acting. The acting was realistic for there was not that many special effects.Also you felt as you were a a part of the movie. Near the end of the film Zeke is face to face with the monster and everyone in the town is against him. He is faced with a problem for the principal follows Zeke and her head comes off and wonders to find the body, Zeke does get what he needs though. The was a lot of running and fire in his scene. Zeke goes into the gym and makes the Queen Alien follow him and he leads her to the bleachers. Will the aliens die or take over the town then go to the White House.  	Realism in this movie is a key point for it wasn't too dramatic but it wasn't boring. If you watch this movie you may or may not feel as though you can taste the terror or be there but you may like the movie. I highly recommend this movie.   "}{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie. It's a simple plot of aliens invading a small Ohio town called Herrington and plans to take over the world. But these group of kids are somewhat chosen to stay human, even though they are probably the only ones in the entire town. You have the basic jock Stan(Shawn Hatosy), the head cheerleader Delilah(Jordana Brewster), the school geek Casey(Elijah Wood), the weirdo Stokely, i actually think thats a cool name, (Clea DuVall), the school druggie Zeke(Josh Hartnett), and the new girl Marybeth(I forgot her name), also a special appearance by Usher Raymond as the new captain of the football team Gabe. Anyways, they find out that the aliens are nothing but little squid looking things that can only live on water, since humans bodies mainly consist of H20 i guess they decided Earthlings, anything else destroys them. Also, a drug that Zeke has called scat not really coke but something that makes you messed up, it consists of caffeine pills and smothered household pills stuff. It's a Friday night and the only big thing in the small town of Herrington is the football games of the Herrington Hornets, the whole town goes to all the home games. In theory, Stokely says that all the aliens are the same, they're connected in some way and if you kill the queen alien everyone else returns to normal. So, they figure that the principal is, the very sexy Bebe Neuwirth, grrr! But they were wrong, so now there are only 2 of the 6 are left, and now it's up to Casey to kill the queen. It totally suprised me who the queen was, i don't pay attention the first time but after a few times i start noticing the little things. Anyway, if ur in the mood for a sci-fi/horror/comedy rent The Faculty. "},{"Title":"Excellent Kevin Williamson movie (again)","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the success of Scream, Scream 2, and I Know What You Did Last Summer, which are all movies that I really liked, I really wanted to go out and see The Faculty.  I expected it to be just as good, if not better, than the previous Kevin Williamson scripted films I had seen before.  Thankfully, he did not disappoint.This film tells the tale of six totally different high school kids, the new student, the football quarterback and the cheerleader, the class geek, the school druggy, and the school loner.  However, this six students come together after realizing that the Faculty have become extra-terrestrial and are taking over the student body.This film had an excellent teenage cast Josh Hartnett (HalloweenH20), Elijah Wood (Deep Impact which was bad), Shawn Hatosey (Outside Providence), Clea DuVall (Can't Hardly Wait), Jordana Brewster (The 60's TV miniseries), and with the star likes of Selma Hayak, Jon Stewert, and Piper Laurie, you couldn't go wrong with this movie.  The film was scripted by the now infamous Kevin Williamson (Scream, Scream 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer, TV's Dawson's Creek) and directed by Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, From Dusk Til Dawn).  With such a great cast and crew as that, how could you go wrong?Everybody, do yourself a favor and go out and see this movie.  It's not serious or Oscar-worthy, but for purely entertaining purposes, this deserves an Academy Award.  Rent it or buy it.  My grade A- "},{"Title":"Good Viewing","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Excellent show, good performances by all the cast. Effects were great too.Very similiar story line to The Thing. Nice suspense and fantastic finish to the show with the showing of the Mother Alien.Very nice and refreshing camera work. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you don't want to think to hard.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I got this video as a present, and while all the critics seemed to absolutely hate this film, I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It isn't the most intelligent film around, but one of those films that you can go to and not think to hard about any deep meanings, but just enjoy it for what it is a sci-fi/action adventure.It benefits from a great cast (Robert Patrick is great in a post-Terminator 2 sci-fi bad guy role), although I don't see why Elijah Wood isn't billed first; he really is the star of this film.  Famke Janssen is great as the nerdy-teacher-turned-hot-babe, and John Stewert plays a great science teacher.  However, I have to say that, although I don't particularly care about his music, I was disappointed that Usher had such a small part(Don't blink or you'll miss him!) after the ads made such a big deal over him. But that wasn't a huge loss.My only complaint about this film is that it doesn't make you think at the end.  They make such a big deal about sci-fi-alien-takeover-cliffhangers in books and movies that you wonder if they will stay true to that.  Robert Rodriguez and Kevin Williamson together make a great team, and I hope that they team up more times in the future. "},{"Title":"Pure Fun!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great, another one from Robert Rodriguez, adrenaline, suspense, action, laughs, this is really great and ... Salma is in the movie too. But... I didn't understand that line about Portugal ...  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fresh, inventive, funny, scary, gory, exciting and enjoyable.  Kevin Williamson's script and Robert Rodriguez's direction gel perfectly.Also, this film has the power to make you suspicious of everyone else you meet for about six hours afterwards....A modern classic. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So another film only to be seen by young people I thought when I saw the intro the first time. I really didn't plan to go see it before one of my friends asked me to go see it with him. I must say that it was a very positive surprise. The Faculty is both fun and thrilling, and how much more can you expect? It is true though  - that the story may not Shakespeare and the acting may not be Bogart, but you just can't get around the fact that it is VERY entertaining! Voted 8/10 "},{"Title":"Some cool tricks, but nothing new or impressive","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey, we've seen everything in this movie in different movies.  Sure, Director Robert Rodriguez puts all of these elements together in a slick, easy-to-watch manner but it's nothing new or impressive.  We've all seen the aliens taking over something before (town, city, etc.) where the good guys know something's amiss and have witnessed just enough to fear for their lives but noone will believe them, so they have to save the city, town, world, by themselves.  It doesn't hurt to have a hip cast (sultry Bebe Neuwirth, Robert Patrick, Salma Hayek and Harry Knowles in a cameo - ain't it cool!), and although some of the scenes misfire and don't seem to fit in with the formula at work (for instance, the scene where the good guys test themselves to ensure that none of them are aliens is straight out of The Thing), most of the picture is enjoyable.  Cliched and predictable to the max, but hey, it's enjoyable if you put your critcism on the back burner. "},{"Title":"This is the best alien flick ever!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was fantastic.  I rate it an 11 on a scale from 1 to 10.  I recommend this movie to anyone.  You have to see it.  The Faculty rules.  You will suspect everything and trust no one after seeing this movie.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"decent Scream-ish horror movie","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is the first movie I have seen with our new DVD player, so I'll try not to be biased about this movie just 'cause the picture and sound were cooler, OK?To be honest, I liked Scream a little better, but this isn't a bad one at all.  It was interesting to see how Elijah Wood looks as a teenager from his cute-kid Radio Flyer and Forever Young days.  I could barely reconize him.  Sharp script, too.One question What nitwit choose to have this released on Christmas? Wouldn't this have been a better summer slasher?   "}{"Title":"truly, truly disappointed","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  in recent years i've become a fan of the new crop of teen horror movies, and for the most part have enjoyed them. even the truly awful, such as disturbing behavior, were amusing at least. i found the faculty to be amusing as well, but certainly didn't live up to my expectations, particularly because it was written by kevin williamson. he's made some pretty amazing movies, and thought this would be at least unpredictable. unfortunately, i knew the ending at the very beginning, hoping against hope there would be a twist in the plot somewhere that i couldn't foresee. However, there was none, and i was left with a bad taste in my mouth for three reasons 1. i predicted the ending. that's just bad. and 2. i enjoy movies with a sense of mystery about the ending -- will there be a sequel? there was none here. and, lastly 3. i like bittersweet endings. for example, in scream several people were very much dead by the end of the movie, while in this one only 2, count 'em 2, characters die. gag. and they were all so damn happy. it ruined the rest of the movie for me.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The faculty is a great,entertaining and unpredictable film.the lead roles were wonderful and I especially enjoyed Stokely(played by Clea Duvall) and Zeke(Josh Harnett) If you liked scream you'll love this.I read and loved body snatchers and as a teen I can relate to alot of these teens situations(not with the aliens) especially with stokely.I had no idea who the leader of the aliens was and The coach definitely had me fooled.I think the best part about the movie was that it is'nt a typical horror film.theirs no blond bombshells in this running upstairs when they should've been out the door awhile ago.just kids you would find in any school.clever lines and a talented cast make for a great movie!! Keep it up Rodriguez!!  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, of course, this film owes, well, itself, to Invasion of the Body Snatchers, but the point is that it's done in a new, cool way.  Kevin Williamson takes basic alienation between teachers and students and makes it real, and he does a damn good job of it.  The horror parts really are scary, the action is set up incredibly well, the dialogue is real and can be extremely funny, and the paranoia stretches right to the end.  If you're a sci-fi or horror freak with a good sense of humor, I suggest you rent this immediately. "},{"Title":"A Popcorn Two-Bagger!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is great fun.  So what if it is derivative?  So what if it isn't a classic?  With clever, funny dialogue, the film has no phony surprise scares or cheap shots. The entire cast, known and unknowns, is all quite fine; the story, direction, and editing are tight and with good continuity and forward thrust.            Get your two bags of popcorn with this one and enjoy.  (A large, single bag is OK). This is what renting videos is all about, pure entertainment.     "},{"Title":"Technically proficient sci-fi movie is still an appalling letdown...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FACULTY may be a stylish, imaginative B-movie, but it lacks vitality. Considering the talents of both director Robert Rodriguez (who made the ultraviolent but slick film FROM DUSK TILL DAWN) and screenwriter Kevin Williamson (who penned SCREAM and SCREAM 2) involved in this project, I thought that it was somewhat of a disappointment.  THE FACULTY  starts off well, with a creepy, suspenseful intro.  Then, everything falls apart...At Herrington High School, the teachers have been behaving very strangely. They love to mold new minds.  These teachers have a nasty habit of disciplining their students.  Let's meet them.  Mrs. Olson (Piper Laurie) is one of the many teachers with a friendly facade...but a ghastly personality. Principal Drake (Bebe Neuwirth) may seem demure at first, but do not cross her.  Coach Willis  (Robert Patrick) will do anything to keep the school spirit held up high especially during the football season.  Ms. Burke (Famke Janssen) may be seductive and foxy, but she's one wicked lady! Then, there's Mr. Furlong  (Jon Stewart), the biology teacher who likes to experiment on more than just zygote...  Also, there is Nurse Harper (Salma Hayek).  To them, cruel and unusual punishment is meaningless...There is a hideous conspiracy amongst the teachers themselves.  What's going on here and why have these once loving instructors gone berserk?It's up to a group of brave but foolhardy students to unravel the mysteries behind the teachers' weird personalities.  These students are an interesting bunch.  They include Casey (Elijah Wood), an awkward and bullied teen. Zeke (Josh Hartnett) is a rambunctious, smart-mouthed rebel.  Stokely (Clea DuVall) is an alienated outcast who has a liking for science-fiction works. There's Gabe (Usher Raymond), a conceited football player, and Marybeth (Laura Harris), a Southerner who happens to be the new kid.  Delilah (Jordana Brewster) is the head cheerleader who thinks she is all that! Last, but not least, is Stan (Shawn Hatosy), a star athlete but troubled student.An all out war between the students and the faculty inevitably ensues. Who will survive the impending bloodshed?  Who will fall?  Will mankind prevail, or is invasion imminent?THE FACULTY has shown so much promise just within the first fifteen minutes. With high-octane suspense and crisp direction, the viewer is at first engrossed with the film's interesting story.  The viewer is drawn into the unpredictable madness.  Although the viewer will indeed probably keep watching, this rather derivative premise does not keep the person enthralled...  THE FACULTY starts off rather well, but it loses its intensity by the end as it descends into clichés.In actuality though, THE FACULTY is decent trash aimed for audiences of camp movies.  This film includes superior production values and the wide array of inventive personalities help make this film less painful.  The aliens themselves are a lot more fun to watch then the stolid characters. These mean aliens, a hybrid of an insect and the octopus look awesome. The gruesome FX also accompany this motion picture.  There are adequate plot twists here and there and the irascible suspense is guaranteed to make you jump.  Lots of great performances too.  Robert Patrick especially tears up the screen as a raging, pugnacious physical education teacher who is out of control!So why am I left with a feeling of dissatisfaction after watching this film? Well, this movie is just not enjoyable!  Technically, THE FACULTY  is above average, but on an enjoyment scale, it just does not cut it.  The problem with this movie is its pompousness.  The people behind and in front of the camera try to impress the audience, but they only do so occasionally.  The teenage cast tries to act hip, but they are the usual high school caricatures.  The crew tries to display all of the wild effects possible, but it's been done before and before.  Also, this movie tries to riff on the alien parasites take over human bodies sub-genre, but it lacks the sharp, witty references that could have made this film even more fun.  Finally, my biggest complaint is the film's leaden pace.  THE FACULTY  is not exciting. The action sequences lack the clever direction that one would expect from Robert Rodriguez.  This film tries to be enlivening but there are just too many gaps between this movie's perilous moments.  Listless chases fill up most of the screen-time while lengthy conversations virtually bring this film to a halt at many spots...I will affirm that THE FACULTY is a nice homage to the science-fiction alien invasion genre of the 1950s.  The movie in-jokes, especially the references to MEN IN BLACK and E.T.   are sometimes hysterical and impeccable.  This is INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS made as an episode of The Wonder Years.  Plenty of comic quips lighten the film's tone. However, considering the fact that this screenplay was written by Kevin Williamson, it lacks the sardonic, mordant edge of most of his other works. Williamson's screenplay attempts to be satirical, but it is quite dull.Ultimately, THE FACULTY is a mildly entertaining and forbearing venture, but not much more than that.  Splatter-happy fans of over-the-top, chaotic features will probably enjoy this one, even if it is only for cheap thrills. Teenagers will love it too, but true horror fans will not get their bang for the buck.  A less than polished pace, a trite plot, and weakly executed action debilitate what could have been a cheesy classic.  THE FACULTY is overall, an adequate thriller.  The soundtrack is great too.In conclusion, I was left discontented by this film's denouncement.  I just wanted to see more action, more special FX...and more excitement.RATING ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good, as far as teen movies go","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood stood out as good actors, and Josh is so hot!  The movie was very scary ( I had no idea who the mother alien was).  It also included some morals and life lessons (don't judge a book by it's cover, etc.)  I liked the cameo role by Usher, but it would have been bette if he was in the movie longer.  All in all, a good movie.  Gross at some points, but a nice ending.  I would give it an eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"don't stand so close to me","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was actually pretty good.  A lot of what I liked about it was because of what it wasn't.  It wasn't terribly full of pop culture coolness like many young films like this are.  It wasn't full of sickeningly likeable characters - they all had flaws (one sold fake drugs and porn, one was mean to her boyfriend, one hated everybody, etc.).  That was a nice difference.  I also thought the story was relatively interesting and told in a nice, fun-to-watch way.  The effects were appropriately creepy and quite good.  My rating was brought down a point by the stupid, tacked-on, One Month Later scene at the very end.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw advertisments for this movie it didn't look that great. Probably because I was thinking what kind of people have a movie like that open on Christmas? But when I finally rented it, I found out it was pretty cool. The computer graphics were okay and so was the acting. What made me mad was that Elijah Wood was about the 12th person listed in the cast. And he should be the main character since he does all of the cool stuff. Overall 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining & Original","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is one of those movies that one cannot take seriously, yet are still enjoyable because of their original writing and direction. Highly suggested for home viewing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty works in the way Scream did.  It has smart characters who do the smart thing instead of making mistakes we are so familiar with.  I wish more teenage horror movies would do that.  THE FACULTY knows we're fed up with the constant cliches and addresses them and avoids most of them wherever they can.  I especially love the opening sequence which was smart and unpredictable.  Kevin Williamson hit the jackpot with this, creating interesting characters.  They all seemed equally important.  The film also has a good Whodunit aspect.  Overall, an extremely clever movie with simple and effective special effects. "}{"Title":"another teen film thats boring us out of our mind","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this film is abolutley stupid. that about sums it up. Plus ive seen this idea so many times, that recycling it for the teens isnt gonna work unless they havent seen it.  Plus piper laurie, doesnt even look like piper laurie, makeup does that. Even though this film is very boring, they try to push in f words so that can keep us entertained, that doesnt work either, the cursing comes at no point to curse,pointless. This movie is just an allout bore fest with recycled ideas, Scream was like what if a sensless bloodbath happened faculty what if invasion of the body snaters happened please NEW IDEAS. At least Phantoms had new ideas. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not go see this movie at the theater for the simple fact I thought it would not be very good at all.  Then I decided to rent it when it hit video with one thought in mind 'gee how dumb will this be'.  The only reason I rented it was because a few friends of mine liked the movie and told me to see it.  My only regret about seeing The Faculty was that I did not see it in the movie theater.  The movie was well made.  The actors playing the students was decently acted, exceptionally well done from Elijah Wood, the acting done by the faculty was very good.  Piper Laurie had me fooled as the queen alien through a lot of the movie, which half the fun was guessing the alien, although guessing the hero was quite easy.  Many have complained how this movie stole concepts from other movies, but who really cares? They even quote a couple of the movies in the movie, so what is the problem.  As long as it is entertaining, that is what matters, after all film is a form of entertainment, right?  The only thing I could live without was the story book ending.  Other than that, I say go see the movie it will entertain you but probably will not scare.  GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"A great Sci-Fi flick!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you enjoyed Scream and I Know..., you'll probably love this thrilling teen sci-fi flick. With a cast of mostly unknowns, sans Elijah Wood, they do a pretty good job. The most recognizable cast members include the faculty themselves, like Jon Stewart, Famke Janssen, and Bebe Neuwirth, and they do a great job portraying aliens. Some plot points don't make that much sense, but live with it, it's a fun movie that is very easy to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"I liked it better when it was called THE THING","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I keep seeing a lot of comparisons to The Body Snatchers. This movie was really more like The THING. The scene where they are all fighting over who is an alien. Carpenter's was twice as horrifying. The scene where the head sprouts legs is directly stolen from The Thing....cool to see the effects though. I loved the characters and the dialogue. I was totally entertained. Well acted. I enjoyed it a lot more than Scream or Disturbing Behavior of any of the other Teen Scream flicks that have been out lately. I cared about all the kids. Nice film. 8/10 I rate movies by their genre rather than an overall rating.   "},{"Title":"not bad....","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fairly good movie, I wasn't expecting too much of it so saw it mainly for fun.Got one or two scares out of it, beast at the end wasn't really that frightening tho! I do like the little beasts, they looked pretty cool, actually better than the Mama bug.Idea of a nerd saving the day isn't new, but I liked the way you had to really figure out who the bad mama bug really was. Acting was pretty good! Heaps better than the droll we get here - ever see 'Shortland Street'? Now that's crap acting.Its not bad, good to see on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not bad at all. I wanted to see this in the theater, but my husband wouldn't go with me, since I'd dragged him to the putrid 'Urban Legend' the month before (I regretted it too). I really wish now I'd seen it in the theater, I still liked it on video but it's one of those 'popcorn' movies. I took stars away for it's shamelessly ripping off The Thing, one of the ten best horror films ever made (in my opinion that is) and one I've seen over a dozen times. The take-the-test-to-make-sure-the monster-isn't-you scene and the severed head spouting legs and running around, spider-like, are right out of that movie (and so is the character's 'what the f---?' line when he sees it). But if you're going to steal, steal from the best. I also am not the biggest Kevin Williamson fan in the world, maybe because I'm not in my 20's anymore and I find his aren't-I-clever pop-culture references painful. But those are minor points. I've seen most of the stuff he scripted and this is his best--much more unpredictable. Unfortunately I figured out who the Queen alien was before it happened, because I read a semi-spoiler. But in the scene (the one ripped off from the thing) where all the characters are alone in a room and one-by-one are tested to see if they have the monster in them, the last one I expected turned out to be the monster. I'm pretty good at guessing plot twists, so I liked that. Also, I don't think this movie would have been as fun or enjoyable without Robert Rocket Rodriguez directing. He just kicks ass. The scenes with the fireworks going off at the football game were beautifully shot, and the monster scenes were also fantastic, especially the shot in the locker room where the monster barrels after the kid and whole banks of lockers go flying through the air. The swimming pool scene was also pretty impressive. Also, maybe it wasn't original compared to, say, older horror films such as Re-Animator and The Thing, but compared to most of the teen horror film s--t that has been put out recently that has been so trendy, this is much more original. For instance, the fact that drugs are used as a weapon against the aliens (I think this is what really p***ed off so many of the parents who rant about banning the movie) was great and refreshingly un-PC. The cast was also good, especially most of the Faculty members/aliens such as BeBe Neuwirth and Piper Laurie. The kids were all pretty good actors. The effects were mind-blowing, and I'm glad they mixed animatronics with CGI. (I'm noticing less and less animatronics in horror films and more CGI as the years go by, and that kind of disturbs me...I can imagine that years from now, movies will be put out that feature not only CGI effects but CGI actors. OK, I'm scaring myself) Also, the fact that if the Queen alien is killed, that the rest of the infected aliens will turn back into the humans they were annoyed me at first, but when I thought back on it was original. Also, it doesn't have one of those lame the end...or is it? type endings that leaves room for a sequel. Gotta admire that. Definitely worth a rental...don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"Goppy and gooey","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that this would just be a horror film; I didn't realize it would be a goppy, gooey, disgusting horror film.  Not believable enough to be scary.  It affected me more as a gross-out than anything else.  Acting was adequate.  I note that it was filmed in Austin; might have been more enjoyable if some local Texas color were thrown in. "},{"Title":"Yet another teenage firm but....","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There have been teenage thriller films in the past and in the present were the kids take the situation quite cool,were you have to figure out the bad guy and which reminds you of how much you miss school if you are out of school and working. What makes The faculty most unique is the fact that each character is very distinct from others and the fact that you really don't have to start working out mysteries. The film has a good story line,a great bunch of characters and of cause thanks to Tommy Hilfiger for adding color to the show but of cause it has a few flaws;the acting was not all that except from cassey's performance,the bad guy here is way too unrealistic(people fear more realistic things) and we never knew the root of the alien invation,we just found out that there were aliens in a high school in Ohio. It's a great film to watch and it's definitely worth renting or buying but not for those who want to see a more serious thriller "},{"Title":"It's was a great movie but. . .","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot.  It was scary, funny, gross, and well acted.  And I probably would consider it one of my favorite horror movies except for the fact that the ending was very predictable.  I was thrown off at one point for maybe a second, but other than that, it was pretty easy to figure it out.  You may think that something like this would make me hate the film, but I can't.  It was really enjoyable even if it was predictable. It was just like watching a film you'd seen before, but still loved it.I also want to add that if you're looking for a grade A film, don't expect to find it here.  This movie is supposed to be fun, which it is!!!  And those of you who don't like films that aren't very serious and/or Oscar worthy, then steer clear of this film.  But for those who are looking for a fun film to watch with friends or just by yourself, see this film.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie Great Cast","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was one of the better movies that Dimension has released in the Scream Genre. Still making reference to the old movies of that genre.  But adding the twists to keep you going.  I never suspected the climax. "}{"Title":"THE BODY SNATCHERS - release 98","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good movie, but an up-to-date version of The Body Snatchers. It's scary sometimes but not so much. The actors are acting well, specially Elija Wood.  "},{"Title":"guaranteed to jack you up","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is guaranteed to jack you up. Brilliantly written by Kevin Williamson and exuberantly directed by Robert Rodriguez, The Faculty is a kick ass, explosive, edge-of-your-seat thriller that has an explosive climax and remarkable special effects work. What Scream did for the horror genre, this will do the same for sci-fi. "},{"Title":"An underrated film","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw the previews for The Faculty, I was eager to see the film. Being preceding by more quality (Scream, Scream 2, H20) flicks than bad (IKWYDLS 1 and 2, Urban Legend) ones, I felt The Faculty could be a good film.  Kevin Williamson has a way of portraying teenagers in both a realistic and satiric spotlight.After I saw the film, I left feeling fulfilled.  I was thoroughly entertained and had a good time.  I did not understand why people panned the film.  What do they expect?  This isn't Shakespeare, it's the horror genre. Not every horror movie needs to be serious (The Exorcist) or absolutely terrifying (Silence of the Lambs) to be good.  This film had intelligent and appealing characters.  that alone is a feat in this genre.Most notable in the cast is Elijah Wood.  He has showcased his acting abilites over the past ten years and he is making a smooth transition from child to teenager.  Wood, like the rest of the cast, makes the viewer care about each character, rather than having a bunch of dolts running around being killed.  These characters make smart decisions and fight back in every situation.  If you want to see a dumb blond take a shower or fall down while running so the killer can catch her, The Faculty is not your movie.Robert Rodriguez directs a film that is equally appealing on a visual level. That includes the school set, the wardrobe of the actors (Tommy clothes), and the overall look of the film.  Most notable is the scene early in the film that showcases the typical events before school begins.  Rarely has a film ever showcased a true high school moment as when Rodriguez's camera pans across the schoolyard and the viewer sees Elijah Wood being poled. Let me tell you, that brought back some good memories from high school. It is these moments that make this film, and Williamson's scripts, enjoyable. No, they may not enhance our intellect, but doesn't anyone know how to have fun anymore?   "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a sci-fi buff, yet I am a horror buff. I loved each and every film that Kevin Williamson has worked on, from Scream to Halloween H20. He has once again given a masterpiece film. The cast, all-around is great. Even Elijah Wood, who, to be honest, doesn't really fit this type of film. Stokely and Zeke got my most attention. They gave witty dialogue throughout. Also, I cared for most the characters, and they each had something about them hidden by their exterior. As a teen, I feel that's a truth. For example, Zeke is a slacker, druggy, yet has true intelligence. Stokely is a loner who seems odd, and actually has a crush on the big football jock. It's that type of thing that brings all of Williamson's characters to life. The direction was pretty darn good, except it seemed odd on a few closeups. Also, the film has Selma Hayek, Lilith of Cheers, and Piper Laurie, the freaky mom from Carrie. I mean come on. With thrills ( the pool scene ) good direction, good acting, good characters, and good dialogue. This film is fantastic. June 15th rent it, or buy it on DVD. It definitely should be part of your collection. "},{"Title":"Well, it was AWFUL!!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is so much I could say about The Faculty, the first thing I want to point out is that it was like a fairy-story, but not a good one at that!!It will easily please the people who require light and easy 'entertainment' but for the people who enjoy a good movie, I would advise you to stay well clear!!What a shoddy ending, there was no fun in this movie at all and it was highly predictable!!Please don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"This is not a summary!","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the story of this movie seems to be rather primitive and unrealistic it succeeded Roberto Rodriguez to make an excellent movie.He is a very clever director because he makes from an easy story a great movie....and there are not many directors that they could do the same! And also the actress are a very good selection! I don´t want to make here an summary of this movie because I think you should go to the cinema and see it!You won´t be disappointed! "},{"Title":"pure fun to watch","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is about a bunch of students who suspect that their school is going through a body snatchers kind of thing. The story is well written and lots of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A great film...if you're under 25.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was dragged to see this film by a friend unsure what to expect. I hadn't heard any publicity on it, except a very negative review in the paper...but it was definitely unjustified. I really enjoyed it! It wasn't meant to be taken seriously.. aliens taking over a high school ain't exactly academy award material! It's just meant to be fun! So ignore the hype, WATCH IT and make up your own mind. P.S COOL SOUND TRACK! "},{"Title":"A mixture of horror and sci fi","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A brilliant mixture of Science Fiction and Horror makes this a perfectly watchable teenage film containing a perfectly watchable cast including Elijah Wood(deep impact),Jordana Brewster(all my children),Shawn Hatosy(the postman),Josh Hartnett(halloween H2O),Clea Duvall(she's all that)and Laura Harris(just the ticket).Its suceeds in creating an atmosphere filled with your typical high school nightmares but failed to deliver on the scary alien which,at the end of the day,wouldn't scare a twelve year old.Having said this,The Faculty is unmissable for people aged between 15 and 25. RATING=3/5  "},{"Title":"Really entertaining and thrilling!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie because I haven't been in the theater for some months and wanted to go again. I chose this movie because it sounded funny. And it was no mistake!I really enjoyed this film because it was not only funny, but also surprisingly well done in terms of suspense and plot-twists. Talented young actors showed us a Horror scenario in a everyday world, and I was really hooked and cared a lot for the characters. Beautiful Jordana Brewster is a sweet actress we hopefully will see again in further projects...Though the film often relied on too many too cheap shock effects, and used the usual College film archetypes (the cool guy, the quarterback, the prom queen, the freak, the outsider and the new girl in town), it worked very well as a whole and has earned my thumbs up. Watch it if you like Science Fiction College Comedy Shocker Trash Horror movies...  "}{"Title":"Edge of the seat film with a hint of comedy","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a very edgy film as you really didn't figure out who the leader was untill very near the end . I think there was a hint of comedy in this film and it could get alittle jumpy at times . The film was very well written as all the way through it they are talking about how the books we read are there so we will not believe it when it really does happen. "},{"Title":"Positive review.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in a long time. I found it more funny then scary, but it does have certain points that make you jump, and certain points that make you just want to not look. The person who is the alien, is the last person that I suspected, whilst watching the film both my friend and I went through all the people that we suspected, and did not once think of this person. Obviously written by Kevin Williamson, because of the content, the theme, and the brilliant script. A must see. "},{"Title":"A combination of the best of Williamson and Rodriguez","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is fun, intelligent and very witty. All the acting is good as are fx(although they could have made it scarier.) Rodriguez flair for action is equal to Desperado and FDTD and the script is just short of Scream. "},{"Title":"Understanding, but somewhat harse.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just this minute walked through the door from watching, this film. I have to say it was not really any good, the plot was obvious and the outcome dreary.  If you haven't worked out what's going to happen and who is the queen alien within the first ten minutes, I'm sorry but you can't call yourself a movie buff.  To scrape up some praise, I have to say the sfx are top-notch, even though you will see some stolen scenes and ideas from such films as The Thing.My Overall rating  ** (wait till it comes out onto video) "},{"Title":"Great teen Sci-Fi film","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Willamson has done it again with The Faculty. It was one hell of a ride from beginning to end. Kevin Willamson has conquered the slasher genre and the sci-fi genre. He is a great writer and i hope he supplies us with more great films. This film has a great soundtrack and an excellent score to backup every scene.The acting is top notch. Josh Hartnet plays character of Zeke very well. he knows how to play the rebel without a cause. Elijah Wood shows some acting talent and Jordana Brewster, who is very hot plays the role of the stuck up cheerleader very well. Robert Patrick(of Terminator 2 fame) brings the same fierceness to this movie as he did in T2. All and all a great film directed by a great director Robert Rodriguez. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Half and half","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do you expect when you visit a flick by the two guys who revived the whole horror genre almost on their own ?A fantastic soundtrack ? OK, you'll get it.Wonderful camera effects and cuts ? Just look at the football game Supported by Robert Patrick's out-of-this-world acting, the atmosphere is really stunning.Cool acting, nice jokes, Who-is-the-bad-guy storyline, movie references and stuff ? Yep, yep, yep.But WHAT ABOUT THE ENDING !? The showdown after the football match is nothing but disappointing and clumsy ! It even beats the ridiculous effects of Desperado's showdown.Didn't anyone see the huge amount of visible microphones !? Is it on purpose, as a parody of all the B movies ? This would explain why the digital effects keep on being quite cool, while the camera sometimes is much too high (you can't even see the talking people's mouths) and the screen size changes.In the beginning, my high expectations were completely satisfied, but I'm more than puzzled about what might have happened to the crew at the showdown... I couldn't enjoy it at all.Anyway, I hope that Williamson and Rodriguez will continue to work together and maybe even compensate the ending by producing a sequel or something. "},{"Title":"Superb!!!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A superb film that shows that not only the older of the new generation of stars can act. Elijah Wood as Casey had a very good impression at me, as I saw the movie. Great acting from all of the younger generation and a huge plus for Elijah. I´m glad to see that a sci-fi movie once again can bee seen in the theaters, since it was a while back. The movie with it´s school scenery and the young actors/actresses gives us maybee a deja-vu for recent films as Scream I & II and I know what you did last summer I & II, but I can honestly say that I liked The Faculty more, and I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"One of the most well-acted horror movies of the 90's!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a sci-fi/horror version of the Breakfast Club. It's not as good as the Breakfast Club, but it's one of the most well-acted horror movies of the 90's! It's even better acted than Scream, and Scream 2, but it's not as good as Scream 2, but it's maybe as good as Scream. The Faculty is a movie about every teacher in school turning into aliens, and trying to turn the students into aliens as well. It's up to a group of stereotypical high school students to find out what's causing the teachers, and other students to turn into aliens, and put a stop to it. If they know how, or run for their lives. The stereotypical students include a drug dealer, a geek, an outcast, a stuck-up cheerleader, a jock, and a new student. It's a very fun, and cool movie. It's sometimes funny and it's entertaining. There's a lot of talk about science-fiction movies in this movie. In Scream there was a lot of talk about horror movies. Kevin Williamson knows how to entertain people by his cool writing. He's no John Hughes, but he's maybe the best teen writer since John Hughes. I can't wait to see this movie again whenever it comes out on video. I give The Faculty *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Classic Rodriguez","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Making no comparisons between this film and any body snatchers films is impossible, but unlike the recent remake, this is an enjoyable piece of film making by the genius Robert Rodriguez.  Okay, it's cheesy, but that's it's most endearing feature, you can't help loving it, just little touches like the ever increasing amount of water being taken into the school, and the f*** you boy and girl, who scream at each other throughout the film until they get transformed, and then they walk down the hall, hand in hand. Rodriguez is not a subtle film maker, but if he was, films like this and the wonderful El Mariachi would never have been made, and there would be a great void in our lives (well, mine anyway).  Another great thing about this film is the fact that Kevin Williams's hands are all over it, his distinctive in jokes and knowledge of pop culture flow through it without ruining it like Scream 2 was ruined (plus the fact that that movie sucked anyway).  "},{"Title":"REGARDLESS OF WHAT PEOPLE HAVE SAID...","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" .....THIS FILM WAS BLOODY BREATHTAKING!!! I was really hoping this film would be good but it made my eyes pop with surprise (there's an image?!) I was practically climbing over the back of my seat so to hid from the scarey scenes. It had me sitting on the cinema seat with my knees tucked under my chin and making these weird noises I'VE never heard before, it was so damned cool.The actors were rightly chosen and all were amazing playing their parts. The special effects were real cool and the soundtrack (yes, i went straight out and brought it!) is SOOOOOOOOOO COOOOOOOOOOOOOL I CANT STOP USING THAT WORD BUT THAT'S BECAUSE I'VE LOST MY THESAURUS AND CAN'T FIND A BETTER WORD TO DESCRIBE WHAT THIS FILM MAKES YOU FEEL.if you are a horror fan or even if you aint this is a very recommended film....i say that because it's not like blood and guts, it's just, like, it makes you sit there and scream at the characters to get away from whatever is happening.everyone has been saying it is a rip-off of other films but how do you reckon writers actually come up with new stories and plots....so what if it might be a mixture of The Breakfast Club meets The Invasion Of The Bodysnatchers...JUST SIT BACK WITH YOUR POPCORN AND RELAX AND ENJOY THE FILM...YOU'LL FIND IT'S QUITE GOOD (if not damned good) AND IS FUNNY TOO.oh and by the way....get the soundtrack it kicks ass! "}{"Title":"The Faculty is the best movie ever made!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, Rodriguez, my personal favourite director, has made another fantastic film, which is hardly surprising being as he is a master film maker.  Anyone who is familiar with his other work, 'El Mariachi', 'Roadracers', 'Desperado', 'Four Rooms (The Misbehavers) and 'From Dusk Till Dawn', and appreciates the style and energy Rodriguez brings to his films will surely appreciate 'The Faculty' as much as I did.The film is a classic tale straight from the 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' and 'Puppet Master' pictures, which are both mentioned in the film, thanks to Kevin Williamson's script.  People think Yea right, It's a complete rip-off so it's no good!, but duh - it's meant to be a B-movie, and not to be taken seriously.  That being the fact only brings more joy to watching the comic book antics of Zeke and his high school buddies as they do battle with the evil teachers who have suddenly become aliens.  My opinion is go see the movie and make up your own mind about it.  But keep an open mind!  I saw it four times and it just gets better and better. The film making is fantastic with Rodriguez trademarks flying think and fast - jump cuts, dissolves on action and cool tracking shots etc, and the dialogue is fantastic and at times hilarious - These are Estee Lauder lips that take 72 minutes to apply says Delilah to boyfriend Stan as he goes to kiss her.With Rodriguez's direction and use of in-jokes, film buffs and film makers are sure to enjoy the film as a piece of superb film making and not just a wild ride science fiction movie.  He is an inspiration and from him and his films I have gained a lot of knowledge and motivation in making my own films.And finally a short message to Robert Rodriguez - keep up the good work and hopefully one day I can show you some of my films as I am sure, from reading your books, you will be interested in seeing them. "},{"Title":"A new trend of a scary movie!","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this movie a couple of times and I can take my eyes of it! This is a new trend of a scary movie, scary movies doesn't always mean blood, gore or killings, scary also means tension, and suspense. In this movie I can relate myself to Casey (Elijah Wood's Character). He's somehow a geek, a weakling but he's quick, clever and smart and somehow he gets the girl in the end which is kinda nice especially when Jordana Brewster is your leading lady. I'm also wondering was Josh Harnett's character infected by the alien parasite because I saw him lay down and Elijah tries to wake him up, I wish someone would answer my question. I think he deserves not to be infected also because he has a strong, tough character. Congratulations to the cast and crew of this film. Since I'm also a frustrated scriptwriter I'm inspired to write a movie also, I hope you could release the video...Right Now! "},{"Title":"Under-rated brilliant film","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has to be one of the best films that have been released so far this year. I don't know why this was not a bigger hit than it was because it has everything that made Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer great and the comedy in this film is better than anything that Scream and its sequel offered.The casting is really good especially for the members of the faculty. Piper Laurie gives one of the funniest, chilling performances I've seen for a long while.This film is absolutely brilliant and is a great way to spend a few hours. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that this film was really great, I thought the occasional scary bits were great, The plot was good and the slight touch of romance was very creative.  I did think however that it was a bit of a let down seeing as it was the creation of such masters of horror the director of scream and writer of from dusk till dawn. I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good horror but be prepared to find it a little bit predictable. I advise that you watch scream and dusk till dawn first and you will see how they relate. "},{"Title":"One very cool movie","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a Kevin Williamson penned script and Robert Rodriguez directing this is one of the funniest films this year.  Very witty and original it showcases high school life as it is (i.e. lots of outcasts and pressures) - it also confirms the thought that one's teachers are actually from another planet.With an excellent cast, lots of action and laughs this is a most enjoyable film to see. "},{"Title":"Oh dear....","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cliched American garbage which does very little for the psuedo-Scream-wannabes out there.  The ending is awful, the gore is laughable and as for the script.....Please only see this if you really, really don't mind a bad film done badly. Scream and I Know What Yoy Did Last Summer  has done this all before, except they did it with style.   "},{"Title":"I felt jumpy and nervous","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The element in this movie which raises it from an average horror flick is the music/sound fx. It's great, it's loud, scary, so I felt nervous and tense thru the whole movie and this is exactly what I expected. The action is exciting, fast paced. You don't really know what's going to happen. The movie depicts how people would really act if all this was happening in reality. They don't know they're just actors, like in the shameful failure I still know what you did last summer. So watch it, it's great. Even without hallucinogenic drugs. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi, Horror","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a modern version of the bodysnatchers theme as teenagers in a rebellious high school are forced to come together to stop an alien invasion that threatens to wipe out their teachers, friends, community and potentially the world.From the creative pen of Kevin Williamson comes a movie with a plot that doesn't have a bit of originality to its name. It has no shame in ripping off its inspirations, most notably, John Carpenter's The Thing and Abel Ferrera's Body Snatchers. Having said that, the overall movie is better than the sum of its parts. For anyone who complains it's too much like Invasion of the Body Snatchers, they should at least give thanks for it putting a new spin on the story rather than making yet another remake.It's not Williamson's best work, but in terms of placing in the new wave horror boom, it far out does the likes of Wishmaster and the Psycho remake, but then, what doesn't?It's well worth seeing. You may argue it's not inventive, but you can't say it's not one of the best sci fi movies ever. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film serves up a decent horror flick. It's a good one to see with a group of friends. The premise is a tad 50's and is really a modern invasion of the body snatchers, but that's not a minus point.It builds up the tension and paranoia brilliantly and really does leave you guessing for quite a while towards the outcome. As for being scary, it's not full of jumping out of your seats moments, but it does have its fair share of them.The only criticism I have is how the group suddenly decide that aliens have taken over, although there hasn't been any UFO's or abductions or anything. This does seem a bit out of place,( As is Usher, who despite being in all the trailers and posters etc, is only in the film for about 5 minutes.) but forget that and it's an enjoyable generation y flick. Not bad at all. "},{"Title":"Ok rip-off of the Body Snatchers","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Actually I never intended to see THE FACULTY we wanted to see TAXI DRIVER in the Film-museum, but more people had that idea, so it was sold out. The only two films in a theatre within walking distance neither of us had seen were THE FACULTY or SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE. When you are in a TAXI DRIVER state of mind SIL doesn't seem like a very good film, so it became THE FACULTY by Robert Rodriguez. No opening credits bad start. I like big James Bond style opening credits, with a music that sets the atmosphere. But the film turned out to be ok. Not because of the story. Kevin Williamson this time did not sample elements from several SF films, he just copied THE BODYSNATCHERS. Of course he makes a joke about it, something like This is just like The Bodysnatchers. Maybe the same thing happened at Jack Finney's (the writer of the Bodysnatchers) high school and did he write the book as a warning. and The Bodysnatchers is a rip off of a book by Robert Heinlein, The Puppetmaster. Seems like Williamson was afraid he might be accused of plagiarism... The main characters are stolen from THE BREAKFAST CLUB and one scene is an exact copy of a scene from John Carpenter's THE THING (which bears less resemblance to the original than THE FACULTY does to THE BODYSNATCHERS). I haven't seen the original BODYSNATCHERS, but both the version with Donald Sutherland and the one by Abel Ferrara create a frightening atmosphere of paranoia. Rodriguez and Williamsom frightening atmosphere? No way. They do make some half-hearted attempts, but it is never convincing. What actually saves THE FACULTY, and is meanwhile one of the reasons the film fails in creating the right atmosphere, are Rodriguez' qualities as a director of over the top action comedy. The people taken over by the aliens in THE FACULTY have more in common with the Martians from MARS ATTACKS! than with the emotionless robots from BODYSNATCHERS. Especially Robert Patrick and Famke Janssen do some nice unsubtle bad guy acting. The action scenes are good, but Rodriguez is at his best again (just like in DESPERADO and FROM DUSK TILL DAWN) when he can combine John Woo style camerawork action scenes with bad taste humor. There is a big football match scene which is in the same league as the scene in FROM DUSK TILL DAWN were they enter the bar and the shootout in DESPERADO with the men with the rocket launcher in the guitar cases. So just like in those films Rodriguez makes an ok film with some great scenes in it. Oh, and about the atmosphere one time it is there. Someone had the great idea to have Layne Staley sing Pink Floyd's Another Brick In The Wall (in my impression slightly slower than the original). That does create atmosphere (and gave us a new hobby trying to sing as depressing as possible We don't need no education, we don't need no thought control. No dark sarcasm in the classroom. Teacher leave those kids alone.) "}{"Title":"Almost better than Scream","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this on the day it came out, and there were only about 20 people in the cinema. It started off like Dawson's Creek and I was starting to wish I hadn't come. But then when the aliens took over, I loved every minute till the end. Definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Kick Ass movie","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK. The plot has ripped off so many movies from the past, I cannot list them here.  But it did remind me of the The Thing,  (1982), which starred Kurt Russell.So you want a good night out see The Faculty. You won't be disappointed. This Movie Kicks Ass every time.  "},{"Title":"The Brat Pack lives......or does it?","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this film because my friend wanted to.  Don't get me wrong, there's nothing I like more than going to watch a good slasher in the cinema but this one hadn't really taken my fancy.  I was however very pleasantly surprised.I grew up with Brat Pack movies and still think that they are the best type ever.  This one goes a long way to imitating the 80s wonders.  Star for star you can find the equivalent in the Breakfast Club played in the Faculty. The rebel Judd Nelson for Zeke, the Jock Emilio Estevez for Stan, the weirdo, Ally Sheedy for Stokely, the geek, Anthony Michael Hall for Casey etc etc.There is one big difference though, the Breakfast Club did not involve the teachers trying to eat their students!  This film is good fun and can be watched by all sorts.  I can imagine that a lot of twentysomethings like me would love it  because it reminds them of their film viewing heyday (usually on video then I might add).Go and watch it, it's fun, funny and the effects, although not fantastic, are still good.  Oh and for the men out there who don't want to go and see a teenage film, it's got Salma Hayek in it!I could go into details about the plot but I wouldn't want to spoil it and it doesn't take Einstein to guess.  I could also go on about about Robert Rodriguez who with previous films such as From Dusk 'til Dawn could be accused of going soft.  I don't think so, the George Clooney film is fantastic, dark and extremely bloody.  This on the other hand is lighthearted and despite the slashings that go on, much easier on the eye. He's good and did a brilliant job of both films.  Surely the reason why people watch a film is for enjoyment and if that is the case then they should go and see The Faculty.Can't wait 'til it comes out on video.Bring on I Still Know What...........  "},{"Title":"The best teen horror thriller since... well, nothing.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is it! This is the most scary movie I've seen since Scream. I just don't understand why it didn't do well in the theaters. It was VERY well written. It's the funniest horror movie I've ever seen. Funnier than Scream even. It's also the movie I had the most fun at last Christmas. Me and my friend were jumping constantly. This is just a terrific thrill ride of a movie. It's got cool F/X and the acting is pretty good for a horror/sci-fi. By all means, go see this if you haven't. If you have, go see it again. If you didn't like it, than what's your problem? Are you an alien or something? Unlike Scream, which tries to be like Halloween, this tries to be as original as it can. One last word this should have been nominated for Best Screenplay. The Faculty A  "},{"Title":"a fun time at the movies","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I went to see this movie at the theatre, I was expecting it to be good, but not this good.  This movie was one of the best times I had at the theatre, way better than the mod squad.  All of the characters were good, except for Josh Harnett's bed-head drug dealer.  It was funny and exciting.  I was glad that Elijah Wood was the hero and not that kid with the bad hairdo.  "},{"Title":"School's out forever!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw the trailer of The Faculty I couldn't wait to watch it. A friend of mine went to the States and saw it and when he came back he told me it was the best movie ever. I just saw yesterday and I must say he's right.This movie proved that teens can act as well as grown-ups. They all acted very well. The Faculty puts one to think, what if there are aliens on Earth and they've been living secretly among us for years?The Faculty is one of the best movies of the year. The only scary movies that are balanced with The Faculty are Scream and  I still know what you did last summer. And what do they all have in common?They're all written by Kevin Williamson. The best writer of scary movies for sure. I also like Robert Rodrigues, too. He's directed Desperado and From Dusk till Dawn. Also the soundtrack of The Faculty rules.If you haven't seen The Faculty go to watch it. I saw it yesterday and I'm already planning to go to watch it next week again. "},{"Title":"This is great entertainment","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film while on a visit to the USA and found it to be great entertainment as I personally like horror and si-fi. I thought the acting was great in most cases and in particular young Elijah Wood (who should go far). The makeup was done very well although not convincing in some scenes but overall I enjoyed the film and when it comes to London I shall no doubt go and see it again. Well done. "},{"Title":"A BRILLIANT MIX OF SCIENCE FICTION AND TEEN HORROR","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the best sci-fi films of the last decade. In a recent trip to the U.S. I had the pleasure of viewing this film(seven times) and loved every minute of it. It is a perfect example of both Kevin Williamson's and Robert Rodriguez's talent. It has a silly-sounding story, aliens taking over a school disguised as teachers, but you don't think about that as you are blown away by brilliant special effects, fast-paced action, smart-worded script and brilliant acting from both the teachers and the students. There is also the sexy Famke Janssen, Jordana Brewster and Laura Harris, and for the girls there's Josh Hartnett(I suppose). As for who the queen alien is, it will be easy for some people to guess, but surprising for others. For those who don't like horror there's the science fiction factor, including a brilliant shot of the alien in the school gym at the end. And for those who don't like science fiction, there's quite a lot of horror(or horrible scenes) like fingers running around on their own, a head crawling around on octopus-like legs, while its body searches for it in the background, and teacher being stabbed in the eye with drugs that affect it, it then begins to splurt white stuff, similar to that of the androids blood in ALIENS But it does take a teens perspective and is aimed at a younger audience(although not that young) and is so not that gory. So there's something for everybody, you should go and see it as soon as you can.  "},{"Title":"A TEEN SCI-FI HIT!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason The Faculty has not gotten the attention and profits it deserves is because some stupid marketing guy figured it would be a GOOD idea to open it on CHRISTMAS weekend against JULIA ROBERTS, JOHN TRAVOLTA, and ROBIN WILLIAMS!!!  Sorry, but this film didn't have a chance with that kind of star power pushing against it!Nonetheless, this was an outstanding blend of comedy and sci-fi suspense with an incredible, young cast and a concept so utterly corny that it's brilliant.  Elijah Wood (the next Tom Hanks, in my opinion), Josh Hartnett, Shawn Hatosy, Clea DuVall, Laura Harris, and Jordana Brewster prove that they have more than just a little acting talent as they juggle this silly/scary material (which was, of course, provided by THE Kevin Williamson).  Also worth mentioning among the cast, Robert Patrick and Jon Stewart gave their characters a certain menace and charm that fit perfectly in this vehicle.I'd like to close by saying that a lot of people contend this film isn't good because it isn't another Scream.  Problem is, those same people would be complaining if the film had been a carbon copy of the infamous 1996 sleeper hit that started this new teen revolution.  Guys, don't hope for this to be ANOTHER Scream.  Instead, look at it as being the movie that does to the sci-fi genre what Scream did to the horror genre.  The SAME effect, but a different (and equally excellent) product!NOTE TO USHER FANS  He's hardly in the movie!  The two scenes you see in the trailer are NOT present in the final cut of the film!  Don't go just to see him or you'll be sorely disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Go into the theatre with low expectations and you will enjoy this movie","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forget for one moment that this movie is a rip-off of countless other movies, forget all the overdone stereotypes and instead enjoy it as a separate entity.The 90's for me has been a time for cheesy, mass-marketed horror movies that try to appeal to the mass majority, a la Scream2, I know what you did last Summer. As such they have seriously annoyed me. The few exceptions have been Scream, which mocks the whole horror movie scene, and as such was hilarious, Halloween H20 which continued where the original left off, and now I can add the Faculty to that list.First impressions when I entered the picture theatre to see this movie was I had made a mistake. You see the cinema was crowded with teeny-boopers, who could not kept still or be quiet and I thought, god-damn it another mass marketed bomb. Imagine my surprise then when the movie started and the screams and thats gross issued from these teeny-boppers (oh joyous, I dare say a few of them will have nightmares).This movie whilst not the best horror movie ever made by all means still appealed to me because it appeared to scoop all of the cliche's together and still have a reasonable storyline. As for those who say this movie was predictable, then I think they can see the future.Go on see it, apart from the very annoying ending, it is enjoyable if not amusing "}{"Title":"The best teen horror movie since Scream!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved The Faculty. Plain and simple. I LOVED this movie. The six leads are excellent in their roles, and have great chemistry together, even though the characters hate each other. ) Going in, I'd only heard of Elijah Wood and Josh Hartnett (Halloween H20), but the other four performances of the young leads (Clea DuVall, Jordana Brewster, Shawn Hatosy, and Laura Harris) amazed and delighted me.Each of these six actors takes a stereotypical role and makes it their own, giving it just the right original touches to keep it fresh. Of course, credit should also go to Kevin Williamson, who should add yet another success to his growing list. And I was happy to see that Robert Rodriguez directed the film; it manages to be gross and gory, without going too over the top, like in From Dusk Till Dawn.The adults in the film (Bebe Neuwirth, Famke Janssen, Robert Patrick, Jon Stewart, and others) also turn in small but excellent performances. My only complaint about the film was that, for the amount of time he was actually on-screen and the impact his character made, Usher was given way too much credit.  "},{"Title":"one of the best i have seen probably ever","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is one of the best sci-fi films or body snatching films i ever seen forget Body Snatchers which so boring actually in comparsion this beats it.  this is a movie that never let up for me it was fast N shocking and funny at the same time this is very under rated film every bit as clever as Scream was just in a different setting and round about kind-of way. very enjoyable Robert is a favourite director of mine despite what they say about Disturbing Behavior i will see that too although i am concerned about the short running time but darn it i adore Katie Holmes. i saw the trailer for it and looks incredible and is different from her '12 year old smart-girl-ish act in D.C. i take critical reviews about as seriously as i take talking M&M's on holiday on a business junket so i try not read into what they say they are looking for faults I am not I just want a good time at the movies for my money what they call good films - I just don't at least not usually.so The Faculty pleased me immensely A-  "},{"Title":"It will jack you up.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everything about this movie kicks butt.  The script is well written.  It is well directed and well acted.  The effects are top notch also.  Kevin Williamson and Robert Rodriguez did an excellent job.  This is one kick butt movie.  "},{"Title":"It was a refreshing horror film than the usual slasher ones.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was witty, humorous, and scary.  It was a refreshing approach to a horror movie than the usual slasher films.  The casting was great and Elijah Wood did a fantastic job. He showed great acting ability. I would recommend this film to anyone who felt like their teachers were from another planet.  "},{"Title":"Clever, fun & downright creepy","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People have been saying that The Faculty is a combination of Invasion of The Body Snatchers & The Breakfast Club...they're right. You've got the geek (Elijah Wood), the outcast (Clea DuVall), the popular girl (Jordana Brewster), the genius/drug dealer (Josh Hartnett), the jock (Shawn Hatosy), and, of course, the new girl (Laura Harris). Throw them in with a bunch of aliens and you've got one fun film.The students of Herrington High have always suspected their teachers were from another planet...what high school students don't? Coach Willis has been unusually calm lately, and seems to have a strong taste for water...not to mention how weird the rest of The Faculty has been acting lately. After Delilah & Casey (Wood & Brewster) unwittingly witness a murder, they realize they are right...that The Faculty has been transformed into aliens, and is intent on taking over the students of Herrington High, not to mention the town, the entire world......and it's up to an unlikely group of students to stop them before it's too late.The Faculty is the latest installment from screenwriter Kevin Williamson, who penned the Scream films & the hit show Dawson's Creek. The script is smart, though not as brilliant as the Scream films. The cast...no complaints. Terrific performances from everyone, especially Josh Hartnett (who was also in Halloween H20), Clea DuVall, Elijah Wood, Robert Patrick, & Famke Janssen. The soundtrack is ear candy...perfectly compliments the film at the perfect times. Give a listen to Class of '99's remake of Another Brick in The Wall. The special effects are done pretty well...when you finally get a look at the alien, you'll be impressed.The cast of students is, as follows Josh Hartnett as Zeke (the genius/drug dealer), Elijah Wood as Casey (the geek), Clea Duvall as Stokely (the outcast), Jordana Brewster as Delilah (the popular girl), Shawn Hatosy as Stan (the jock), Laura Harris as Marybeth (the new girl)...and as The Faculty Robert Patrick as Coach Willis, Salma Hayek as Nurse Harper, Famke Janssen as Miss Burke, Piper Laurie as Mrs. Olsen, Bebe Neuwirth as Principal Drake, Jon Stewart as Mr. Furlong, & Daniel von Bargen as Mr. Tate.The Faculty may not be as brilliant as Scream, but it doesn't fail to deliver with scares, thrills, a few laughs, cool aliens, and creepiness. It is much better than some of the average teen thrillers out there (such as I Know What You Did Last Summer & Disturbing Behavior). Definitely worth seeing...and more than once. "},{"Title":"A real jumper","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Credit Kevin Williamson once again. The Faculty ranks right up there with Scream, Scream 2 and I Know What You Did Last Summer. The characters are believable, the plot clever and hip. If you miss this one, I'll send you straight to the principal's office.  "},{"Title":"It's not worst...","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scream, I Know what you did last summer, Scream 2... Kevin Williamson wrote cools suspenses. But, now, it's The Faculty. It's cool. It's not the best but it's really funny. It's just another kind. But the humor cuts the suspense a little bit.  "},{"Title":"The Breakfast Club meets Body Snatchers, from the writer of Scream and one director from Four Rooms","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, I know we are all entitled to our own opinions. But even if you liked The Faculty, you have to admit it shamelessly rips off dozens of other movies. The students came straight out of the Breakfast Club (Did no one else notice that? The brain, the athlete, the basket-case, the princess, and the criminal.) and as for the plot, they would have been better off pushing it as another remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, which would have given it more credibility. Watching this movie, you get the feeling some Hollywood exec said, Might as well jump on the alien-movie bandwagon... and while we're at it, let's cash in on this horror-movie comeback! It'll be about aliens, but the Scream guy will write it and hot young actors will star in it! You can't go wrong with a formula like that! The best thing about this movie is the cast -- Piper Laurie from Carrie, Robert Patrick from Terminator 2, not to mention Bebe Neuwirth, Salma Hayek, Christopher McDonald, Jon Stewart, and Elijah Wood. So many good actors, such a bad movie... it's like Four Rooms all over again. Now that I think about it, Robert Rodriguez directed one segment of that, didn't he... "},{"Title":"Aliens try to take over a high school","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever since the release of the very successful and quirky SCREAM in 1996, the late 90's have been hailed as the return of the teen movies.  Teen comedies (the exceptional Can't Hardly Wait- which could have been even better without Jennifer Love Hewitt), and teen horror flicks I KNow What you Did... and their respective sequels. The formula since, like that of many pop culture groups is simple- you get 4 or 5 teens together, they MUST be attractive, there has to be equal numbers (or close too equal)numbers of boys and girls, they should each be a stereotype, and then I guess, you should put in a plot- maybe in the end or something.  The Faculty is no different. The plot is loose and unformed- Aliens? The acting was deplorable, the hype (self- hyped, from months of Tommy Hilfiger ads) was gratuitous, and they are going against everything that these movies preach against. This movie, not only reminding me of Disturbing Behavior is an attempt to give otherwise techno- numb teens a chance to feel that being a Sci- Fi geek is considered cool, just as long as you have 4 teen movie stars to go with it. "},{"Title":"some teenagers have trouble with their teachers being aliens","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i think this movie was great and definitely worth the seven dollars i paid to see it in the movie theater. it was exciting, mostly unpredictable, and had a good cast. i would give this move 8 stars!!  "}{"Title":"Re visible boom mic","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm just writing this to respond to Damien-3, who was criticizing the film for having boom mics visible in some of the shots.  This was was not a result of Robert Rodriguez's carelessness, but a result of the projectionist's carelessness. The projectionist of the movie theater is responsible for framing the film correctly.  All movies contain more area than you are ever meant to see.  If the projectionist has done his job right, the boom mics would not be visible.  "},{"Title":"A predictable and god awful movie","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hated almost every minute of this movie.  It did have its interesting parts though, and I rather enjoyed its latent pro-drug stance.  However the movie was just plain awful in too many respects.  I did not believe any of the characters, especially the star quarterback who's tired of having his ass kissed.  Every single character in this movie was caricaturized and stereotyped to gross and disgusting proportions.  After that, the dialogue was god-awful.  The overall plot of the movie was alright.  The movie is what it is, which is a fairly formulaic sci-fi film that ripped off many, many other films.  However the minutiae of the film was nauseating.  For example, the high school life was grossly exaggerated, probably as a way to pander to disaffected teens.  Its predictability was the worst part of this movie.  It was evident, at least to me, who the queen alien was about halfway through the movie.  I didn't expect a whole lot from this movie, just a little visceral escapism, perhaps some stimulated emotion.  But I got nothing out of this movie except a very sour feeling in my stomach.  The idea of being faced with a world controlled by the aliens from this movie is a less terrifying prospect than thought of seeing it again.  Save yourself the pain, don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"A break in the recent cheese.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Due to recent bad horror movies, I was reluctant to see this piece. Being a horror movie fan, however, I don't think I could resist not seeing it.Some will probably group this horror movie with all of the others into a combobulation of the original frighteners; Halloween for example. But with its writer and director, and the fact that it's not a sequel, I felt it had more potential.The Faculty is a sci-fi thriller/horror movie. So if you haven't seen it, don't expect Scream, or I Know What You Did Last Summer; however, if you enjoyed those movies, I think you will also enjoy this one.Aliens are invading the school, and want the students' participation. In this Body Snatchers pla-yoff, everyone is a possible alien, and almost no one can be trusted.The Faculty offers great directing (although the lighting in the first 25 minutes is very bad). Robert Rodrigez, director of El Meriachi, Desperado, knows what he doing, and some of that award winning style interpretation is evident as you watch the movie. The writing is very key, but doesn't contain some of the more cheesy outtakes, as the story was not conceived by Kevin Williamson, but by two other writers.All in all, The Faculty is a good movie. It was pleasing to see that horror movies of the 90's do have potential and is a movie I will be seeing again, one that I will have in my DVD collection for sure.If you are a horror movie fan, don't miss this one; like you would anyway. If you're reluctant because of previous, bad, horror movies just know that this one strays from the cheesy nest and is actually impressing.  "},{"Title":"Rodriguez does it again","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WOW! The Faculty reminds me why I love movies. It's fun, exciting, and even suspenseful at times.  Although I think Kevin Williamson could have done better on the script, Rodriguez's direction is flawless.  The casting is one of the better jobs I've seen in a long time.  The faces were fresh and the acting was good.  My favorite scene is Jon Stewart's demise. Brilliant!!  My only complaint  Salma Hayek deserved more than just a couple of scenes. Other than that, I thought it was one of the better movie-going experiences I've had.  "},{"Title":"mostly crap","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad acting, bad dialouge, cheesy movie.  Mainly crap.  A few good plot twists but that doesn't make up for the lack of new ideas. 1/2 stars out of 78 million "},{"Title":"overall great movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was overall a fantastic movie, it had a good general feel of excitement throughout the movie, a good-size amount of thrills, and a fine plot.  Director Rodriguez kept his wonderful directing style in this flick, and this may be his best work so far.  This Gen-X/horror/sci-fi movie can be enjoyed by most teenagers, even if this movie isn't their cup of tea.  go see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Although it sounds trite, The Faculty is funny, fresh and very entertaining.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the Faculty sounds trite, it is actually a very original, funny, and surprisingly entertaining Science-Fiction Thriller. The Faculty is good for many reasons. 1) It is not afraid to be dirty, vulgar, or, in some cases, disturbing. Most of the scenes are filled with violence, cursing, and drug abuse, which fit in well with this off-beat story. 2) It's cast, although not the most noticeable cast, is perfect. I didn't see one thing wrong with the cast selections. I'm glad they stuck with Elijah Wood instead of Macaulay Culkin as the nerd. 3) It has an original concept, sort of. Aliens taking over the school by aliens by coming teachers is not a good plot summary, but it comes to some pretty neat and entertaining concepts. Come on, how many of you students thought your gym teacher was crazy, huh? I suggest you see this in the theatre. You will not want to miss this thrilling and surprising film. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I frankly thought it was an enjoyable movie.  Parts of it were incredibly choppy, especially with the fact that the mic was clearly visible at the top of the screen every so often.  Other than that, I thought it was quite an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"A great sci-fi movie!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was expecting a cool slasher movie with aliens.  Instead, I got an excellent, creepy sci-fi story about 6 kids who try to stop aliens invading their school.  It's like The X-Files meets Scream, which isn't surprising considering Kevin Williamson wrote it.  This is one of the best sci-fi movies I have ever seen.  Don't be fooled by the fact that it's gory, about aliens and is teen-oriented. A must-see for any sci-fi fan! "},{"Title":"Best movie. . .","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has got to be the best i've seen in a very long time.  I think it beat the Scream series and the I Know series by a long shot.  However, I think Jennifer love hewitt is a lot hotter than Jordana Brewster, although Jordana is still pretty hot.   "}{"Title":"The quality of this film.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films. It has a great plot. It is a definite R film. The F--- word is used at least 50 times. Nudity consumes the last 10 minutes and of course there is lots of gory violence. Go see this MOVIE. The Faculty is worth the money! "},{"Title":"Maybe it's not Oscar material, but...","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though The Faculty probably isn't Oscar material, you shouldn't even think about hesitating to see it. The combination of suspense and surprisingly realistic high school heirarchy creates a movie that is truly fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Not recommended for college film students, but the rest of you should check it out.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty has its week points.  I have to say that right off the bat because I don't want to be immediately slandered by thousands of film students. This is the type of movie that film students love to ridicule.  It's not original, there aren't any crazy plot twists, the scenes play in order, and it wasn't made for $7,000.  Fortunately for most screenwriters, that does not necessarily make this a bad film.  One of the first rules Lew Hunter tells his UCLA 434 screenwriting class is, `You will never tell yourself or anyone that it's been done.'  It's all been done. It's been said that all conceivable plots had been used by the time of Shakespeare's death.  I don't know if that's true or not, but it's definitely something `wannabe' film critics should keep in mind.  As to its week points,  most of them can be attributed to Kevin Williamson who, in my opinion, hasn't turned out a descent project since he came onto the scene with Scream in 1996.  At times, The Faculty almost seems as if it's trying too hard to be a mainstream action film.  The story dives into the heart of the conflict entirely too quickly.  There's something to be said for slowly building up a story. For one thing, it prevents the anticlimactic endings with which Williamson seems to be in constant battle.  Most of the character development begins to take place only after we have learned that there is definitely something awry at the school.  The characters themselves are another problem.  Once again, we are presented with the same cliché'd characters we have seen since The Breakfast Club (further back?).  Had this movie been cast fifteen years ago, I am sure we would have seen Emilio Estevez as Stan, Ally Sheedy as Stokely, Judd Nelson as Zeke, Anthony Michael Hall as Casey, and Molly Ringwald as Delilah.  Demi Moore would have probably been brought in to play the part of Marybeth.  Although there are times when The Faculty goes a bit beyond paying homage to such classics as Invasion of the Body Snatchers and John Carpenter's; The Thing, Williamson does manage to plant a slightly new twist on the classic `pod people' story.  The high school angle is very intriguing, if you are the type of person who allows your brain to function during a movie.  At one point a newly converted teacher asks students to make a living family history.  What better way to infect an entire nation than through the schools?  Where do you think most cold and flu germs are transmitted? Everyone has at least one friend or relative who either works in or attends an American school.  As usual, the high school scenes are way over done; including two girls fist fighting over a fender bender, a girl beating up her boyfriend in the halls, and football games equipped with fireworks displays that rival the Statue of Liberty on the Fourth of July.  As I am fond of saying about high school films, if high school had been that much fun, I never would have dropped out.  Making the aliens aquatic based creatures is also a nice touch.  Aside from giving the protagonists a way to kill them, it gives us something new to look for, instead of the same old lack of emotions.  I think I could have done without the giant CGI alien at the end of the film (I'm beginning to think I could do without CGI creatures, altogether), but I'm willing to forgive these fellow filmmakers for wanting to play with their new found toys.  Overall, the story and acting are not bad, and the film definately has its dramatic moments.  Most impressively, Robert Rodriguez's brilliant cinematography shines through all of the film's shortcomings.  As with most films, the finished product has its share of moments that could have been better, but hind sight is twenty-twenty.  For the most part, this is a decent movie and definitely worth seeing for any fan of Robert Rodriguez, Kevin Williamson, or the sci-fi/horror genre in general.   "},{"Title":"Another Kevin Williamson movie","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not at all saying Kevin Williamson is boring, but if you don't like Scream, you won't like The Faculty.  Personally, I enjoyed it.  It was slightly predictable and re-tread ground, but it's generally appealing to an audience that hasn't seen the classic Invasion or anything else and exposes it to the viewer (almost like Scream did with Jamie Lee Curtis/slasher films of the 80's). "},{"Title":"A Decent S.F./Horror Flick","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  S.F. and Horror aren't necessarily easy genres to mix and match, but The Faculty does it, and is a better horror movie in some ways than Scream and Scream 2.  The self-referential stuff makes more sense here.  Yeah, it's a take off of Breakfast Club to some degree (and 3 O'Clock High, and The Bodyguard - does Elijah Wood look a lot like Chris Makepeace?).  But there still seemed to be enough unique stuff going on, and enough touching on the isolated nature of this bunch of loners in the high school environs, that is made for good viewing. "},{"Title":"B-Movie thrills propel lightweight Lovecraftian teen-alien flick","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, The Faculty transplants the Breakfast Club high-school social order archetypes (the jock, the brain, the criminal, the princess, and the basket case) into a paranoid Invasion of the Body Snatchers plot about the takeover of an Ohio town.  It is also certain that director Rodriguez plants himself firmly on the wrong side of the hack line.  But for fans of teensploitation, the proceedings are fun regardless.  The blame or praise should rest squarely on Williamson's shoulders, as the movie bursts with all of his hallmark touches, including references to many other movies. Additionally, comic book legend Berni Wrightson did the creature design, which will please (or offend) many fans of H.P. Lovecraft. "},{"Title":"The epitome of a fun movie....","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's derivative as hell, but the Faculty is a movie so incredibly fun that it's cliches are dismissed. There is some originality to the film, but for the most part, it borrows from many sci-fi classics such as Carpenter's version of The Thing and of course, Invasion of the Body Snatchers. However, Rodriguez is a director who knows how to mix style and action with little substance (this is definitely Williamson's most flawed script). The action sequences are all superb (you gotta love Jon Stewart's demise) and the climax actually is climactic, unlike many horror and action films where they tend to fall apart after a decent opening. The cast is wonderful as well. Each of the younger actors pulls off a completely original spin on a contrived type of character. Standouts include Elijah Wood as Casey and Clea Duvall as Stokely. The casting of the faculty could not have been more perfect either (Robert Patrick is as creepy as it gets). All in all, the Faculty is a little movie gem that reminds us why we go to the movies to have a good time. (* * * 1/2) out of (* * * *)       "},{"Title":"Entertaining Alternative","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty will not disappoint if you are a fan of the director.  I loved Dusk Till Dawn and found the same type of in your face directing here...It is a entertaining alternative to the sentimental fare that is out at this time of year.... A good laugh and some suspense to make you jump and scream.  "},{"Title":"An entertaining suspenseful and comic thriller.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was fun.  It wasn't original and that was its downfall. However, the way it was handled was original and that's why I loved it.  The dialogue is a huge factor in it.  Kevin Williamson is one of the best screenwriters in Hollywood now and his self-referential lines are classics. I love when the characters talk about famous people and movies we have all seen.  It makes the characters more realistic and like people we know.  My favorite line was the references of Neve Campbell and Jennifer Love Hewitt.Robert Rodriguez makes another great flick after From Dusk Till Dawn.  His camera angles are amazing and I love how his characters in his movies shoot guns.  The score added to the effect of the action on the screen.  My favorite character in the film was the one played by Clea DuVall.  Her character was smart, brave and tough.  She reminds me of one of my best friends and i love her for those very same characteristics.  Clea DuVall gives the best delivery of a line in the movie No... f***ing... way! Elijah Wood, I think, is one of the best young actors of our generation and has been great since i first saw him in Radio Flyer and The Good Son.One of the creepiest things in the movie was the teacher played by Piper Laurie.  She looks EXACTLY like my drama teacher from high school.  It was so creepy.  My and my best friend went crazy about that for days.  I'm not sure if it was intentional or not, but, what is up with Josh Harnett's hair? It was messed-up in Halloween H20 also.  Is it a fashion statement?  Was his hairdresser just never available for him?Rapper Usher Raymond served no purpose in the film, except to draw in a few little girls and call Elijah Wood an anal probe.  Anyone could have played that part and it would have the same impact.  I'm not saying Usher is a bad actor, he just had an underwritten role and played it so stereotypically. The special effects were awesome, although, they were obviously special effects.  The pool scene at the end was awesome.I had a lot of fun watching this film.  Yes, it is predictable and it isn't entirely original, but it was fun.  And, the overall thing I loved about this film is that it doesn't leave it open for a sequel.  That really ticks me off.  If this film is successful enough to the point where the makers wanna make a sequel, that's fine.  But don't leave the ending open for one. There has been too many bad movies for that lately.  Kevin and Robert, keep up the good work!  You two are the bomb! "},{"Title":"KICK ASS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  pretty awesome considering the plot is mostly just a new version of body snatchers with a few monsters from aliens tossed in.. this is one of the best alien rip-offs made yet.  because it takes a known setting and uses it or maximum tension . the first half was pretty  formulatic but amazingly enough the film unlike any other alien rip-off had me in suspense at the end.the message here is if you are going to stop an alien invasion you must work together with other people.even people who you hate because put it this way would you rather be  enslaved by an alien race or work together with your enemy to save humanity. also  its always the unexpected people who end up saving the world so basically treat everyone nicely because you never know who's going to save the world. of the cast the teachers are pretty funky with robert patrick as the football coach gleefully chewing the scenery and bebe neuwirth (Lilith from cheers) who the cast of Cheers and Frasier was right she is an alien. and daniel von bargain (or as we all know him mr. kruger George's boss on Seinfeld who in one episode was airbrushed out of his own picture and replaced with a cartoon drawing of him) and jon stewart(what the hell is he doing here?) of the hero teens elijah wood is good as the nerdy loner(who ultimately must save everyone with the help of the other tenns). the rest of the teens are good clea duvall and the other people who's names i cannot remember. also but in the intrest of saving time and space i will just say that it is pretty obvious who among them(if any of them)is an intruderTo summerize if you like this kind of thing see it for it is better then the idiotic garbage that most movies like this are.and i did not like the scream movies.  i found them to be pretty stupid well oh right the first one was good but the sequel was incredibly stupid.and easily predictable.  this movie is better then the screams but only because of the subplot about drugs. i found it very ironic that before the previews there was a commercial about staying away from drugs and then this movie came on in which the only way to tell if the heroes are human or not is to sniff drugs. now that's original! and that my friend is what i thought was nice and original. it's not often someone comes up with an oiginal twist to this kind of often used plot device.  name me one other movie in which drugs was actually used in a positive light. they saved the day! it should also be noted that drugs is what kills the aliens therefore they will kill you. BEWARE OF THOSE AROUND YOU and try not to pick on other people so much and try not to be so self-absorbed because you will notice that the hero of the movie was very observant and not so into himself so that he could figure out the alien's master plan. so once it gets going this film kicks ass! giving me suspense i never thought i would get from this often predictable genre.  "}{"Title":"Heathers meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know how early on in Pulp Fiction, when Travolta and Jackson are talking about Big Macs in Paris, you say to yourself Jeez, have seen a thousand movies about hoods like these and, but of course, this is what these characters must actually be like in real life?Well, think of how many movies have tried to depict life in High School. What the experience was like.  We all know it, even those of us who lived it many years ago.  But even the best of the High School movies -- Heathers or Clueless or Ferris Bueler's Day Off, put on that little sheen of glamour that we all know wasn't present in the real experience.Just after the opening, credit sequence in QT sidekick, Robert Rodriquez's new flick, there is a quickly edited scene in front of a midwestern High School. And Bam, there it is, High School as it really and truly is, in a burst of actuality that makes even the marvelous Heathers (a movie The Faculty borrows from rather shamelessly) seem like so much Hollywood fluff.Ah yes, that rare and wonderful feeling; you know you are in competent hands, about to experience a rare and delicious treat.And you are not to be disappointed.  The Faculty has many, many joys.  To witTense and well paced action that keeps you on the edge of your seat, and has even a jaundiced old cynic like myself, rooting for the good guys.Teenagers that seem, well, like real teenagers, with relationships that have the nasty, cruel, sexually charged edge that, as far as this viewer knows, hasn't changed since the dawn of history.Pungent, painfully funny, misanthropic satire.A thorough lack of the usual pandering to the ever absurd Hollywood motivational system.  There is a particularly telling moment.  The little band of unpossessed kids find themselves temporarily safe.  In Hollywood terms, it is now time for them to bond, to put aside their petty little squabbles and face, together, the task of saving the earth against horrific odds.  But, thoroughly terrified, they continue their very real and bitter sharp-shooting at each other, made all the more intense by the horrid situation they find themselves in.Marvelous performances by relatively unknown young actors and actresses. Particularly fine is Laura Harris II as MaryBeth, utterly convincing as the spunky outsider.So The Faculty occasionally gets a bit too enamoured of its own cleverness.  So it steals shamelessly from Heathers, from Terminator II, from Predator and, of course, from Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  The amalgam is uniquely and richly original, funny, nasty, incredibly tense and real.  Real in just that wonderful way that QT sometimes manages. Actuality, in human, motivational terms, inside situations that have no connection whatsoever to the world as we perceive it.Go see it.  Soon.  A movie this good can't last more than a week or two. "},{"Title":"in one word...ATMOSPHERIC","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie!! I would rank this one right up there with Scream as one of my all-time favorites! The cast was superb, the acting totally believable, and the script well thought out. The characters were not your typical high school characters. Sure they had the jock, the beautiful valedictorian, the new girl, the outcast, the geek, and the dropout...but somehow each of these characters were more complex than just that... By far the best sci-fi/horror film that I have seen in a while. Although looking at all of the Tommy Hilfiger labels was getting a little bit irritating...  "},{"Title":"9 stars!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson's first foray into science fiction was truly awesome! This was a paranoid tale, of The Breakfast Club mixed with Invasion Of The Body Snatchers. Besides the sci-fi part, it still had that Scream element, that left you wondering who was really the alien queen. The only complaint I would have is that there were too many character to get to know and care for in two hours. 9 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Just plain entertaining","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The kooks are at the theaters this year.  I have noticed in the notes, and in eavesdroppings, that people who see this movie are actually expecting a GOOD (by critics standards) SOMEWHAT-SERIOUS INTELLECTUAL-TYPE movie!!!   I think that any movie that has as copied and fake a plot as this movie should be considered cult by most standards.  The movie has a throw-away plot with mediocre acting and nothing new or intelligent to say. I enjoyed this movie! I thought that it was funny and creative with its methods, although not totally original, which seems to be the buzzword of the reviews.  Why do movies have to be original as long as it is not a complete cop-out remake like Psycho, which was awful.  The movie was fun and a little campy.  I think if you enjoy watching movies that are fun, not realistic, and do not pretend to be serious, realistic, or anything that would make it critically acclaimed, then see this movie.  If you are an uptight person, or if people say that you are too serious, do not see this movie, and go watch something you might enjoy, like Elizabeth.  If you are a fan of the slasher genres you will probably enjoy this, if you like a bit of humor splashed in.  Not to everyone's likings, but a good movie for those who are trying to escape reality, which is what movies are about, right?   "},{"Title":"unoriginal, predictable, entertaining","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had no originality. I, fortunately, got a free pass to see the preview so I didn't pay for it. Me and my friends were joking about what the movie was about before it started, one of them even said he hoped there would be a giant worm that shoots out little worms, big surprise there was! I knew right from the beginning what was going on, who was the alien and so on.When I saw the ads I thought this movie looked terrible, and I thought that it has the possibility of being good, because i liked Scream and Robert Rodriguez's movies...but it seems that Kevin Williamson put everything he had into Scream, and the only was he seems to know how to write movies is to leech ideas from other movies..in this one it was Body snatchers/puppet masters & the breakfast club.It was better than I thought it would be, and that's all I'll give it.. except for the fact that Robert Rodriguez does miracles with a terrible script. "},{"Title":"Is The Faculty just a rip-off, or good fun?","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone who's seen John Carpenter's Thing and The Breakfast Club won't be able to watch The Faculty without feeling like they've seen this all before. But for being one-half Thing, one-quarter Club and a dash of Scream, The Faculty is its own unique blend.  I thought the editing was tight, although not stylish, and the sense of menace was kept at a high level forcing me to decide which is the greater evil, the alien or the fellow students... The Faculty is good nervous, occasionally scary fun, with a nice cast of fresh faces. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!!!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow...what a great movie with suspense... I think it's one of the better movie I've ever seen.. It has all that a movie does have cool, beautiful and good actors, an incredible soundtrack that match very well with the movie and a very cool storyline.. 10 on 10 for The Faculty. Frank "},{"Title":"Scary, a chiller you all must see..","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very scary, but also a little too much like Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Still it is very good. "},{"Title":"Pure Fun","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a movie where if you just want to have fun, you should see it. The special effects are really beautiful, especially in the last two scenes with the swimming pool and the locker room. The alien swimming is quite a sight. A most people know, this movie is about these students who believes that their teacher are aliens. One by one, the teachers affect the whole town except for them. It's like the movie Alien, the few good guys get alienized one by one. There's one scene that I really like where the 6 students left and they begin to suspect each other.The script has it so that YOU begin to suspect the characters one by one. It's a really cool scene. Overall, I liked it a lot, though the previews are completely retarded because they were trying so hard not to give anything away. I understand that because it has lots of surprises, including an absolutely fantastic cast. Better than Scream (so I thought). "},{"Title":"Pure Escapism At Its Best","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of reviewers have been taking this film a bit too seriously.  If you've seen the previews, you know what to expect.  A bloody good time with a just a need for escapist entertainment.  Is it a great film?  No.  It's just like Kevin Williamson (writer of Scream), got out his blender and threw in a bizarre potpourri of THE THING, INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, THE BREAKFAST CLUB, and INVADERS FROM MARS.  The audience I saw it with ate it up and walked out with smiles on their faces.  This film is creepy, silly, off-the-wall and most of all- fun.  It throws in some odd parables about conformity, which kinda disrupts the pace.  Just don't walk in expecting a masterpiece, and you're 7 bucks will be justified. "}{"Title":"Good B Movie","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though it's a modern rip off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers or Puppet Masters, I fully enjoyed it.  Nothing but pure fun! "},{"Title":"Kevin W.'s amazing talent combined with an extremely talented cast makes for a movie that's worth seeing at least once!!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found The Faculty to be quite entertaining.I'll admit that its plot's not very original but it's still enjoyable.Some people might think that the plot's too similar to that of the Body Snatchers but in fact I got the impression that this was intended.This is after all a script by Kevin W.(writter of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer),a man well known for using pop culture to write his movies.I feel that the acting in this movie was also very good.Finally I'd like to say that The Faculty is after all a science fiction type film.So if you don't enjoy these types of movies you probably shouldn't see it. Kevin W. does a marvellous job on the script with my only complant being that it's somewhat predictable.All in all I say it's a worthwhile movie and you should at least see it once and form your own opinion. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to see this movie because of Elijah Wood and Kevin Williamson. It was a lot better than I expected. I really liked it.  It was well written, acted and directed. The only thing I didn't like about this movie was that it was promoted with Tommy Hilfiger. It was hip, it definitely rocked.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Horror Fare...","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson writes this one with all the wit and suspense of Scream, but without the latter's tenseness and grim mood. The Faculty is not just about aliens taking over people's bodies, but the alienation we all go through in some form or another during the high school experience. Robert Rodriguez seems to have lost his independent film edge and directs by the book (it's still effective, though it would be interesting to see otherwise), and Elijah Wood retains the childhood likability that made him so enjoyable in the past. It's interesting to note that the acting debut of Usher Raymond (the singer) is really no more than an extended cameo. It's almost as though he were cast in the film as a favor for either him or his agent, as what many directors do with relatives or friends they may owe. An enjoyable flick and a good time at the theater. "},{"Title":"The Faculty","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This,to me, was a very good movie. It might not be The Next Titanic but it kept my interest. I am NOT a sci-fi fan. But this movie has sci-fi, comedy,suspense,and action in it. I would  suggest this movie to mostly everybody. It might not be a family movie, but it is a very good teenage movie.  "},{"Title":"Super Cheesy and Super Fun","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well done cheese if you please.  The Faculty was a great movie to see with good friends who are fans of MST3K.  The cheese factor is high, but the movie is well paced and has plenty of entertainingly bad dialogue.  Plus it has lots of neat monsters and crushed caffeine pill snorting.  I'll never look at pens the same way again. "},{"Title":"Minor Disappointment","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was kind of hopeful at the beginning--I knew I was in for a dumb campfire story, and I've enjoyed all of Robert Rodriguez's films to date.  He has a strong visual sense, and his previous films have had real kinetic energy. They had a kick and made you smile.  Unfortunately, Kevin Williamson (like so many Hollywood script construction workers) has a tin ear for the way teenagers talk, but that seemed a minor drawback.And so it went, the old rule, you can't make a good movie out of a bad script.  The story seemed to have been invented as the shooting went on, coming up with silly excuses and explanations to serve the moment, rather than to make a tightly wound, logical story.  The visual effects are adequate, but the Alien lookalike villains are growing tiresome.All in all, a disappointment from medium-range expectations (hey, I wasn't going to see a Cannes prizewinner).  I'll still see a film with the Rodriguez name, but I'll know better when I see Kevin Williamson's name on the coming attractions. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the ending was a little cheesy, and the characters were cliched, I enjoyed the film a lot!  "},{"Title":"One of the best Horror movies to come out in a long, long time","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had almost given up on there ever being another great Horror movie until I saw The Faculty this past weekend. I was absorbed in the movie from start to finish. Very well directed. Very suspenseful. Great special effects. "},{"Title":"It's fun, just don't think about it or it falls apart","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The good - Great acting, some nice fright scenes, cute 'feel-good' ending. More emotion and subtext than you expect in a horror movie. Harry Knowles is in it for a mercifully short time.The bad - Plot holes you could drive a truck through - it basically turns into Scream except for 'who's the killer?' it's 'who's the alien'? And just like Scream 2, when the alien is revealed, it's surprising, but not satisfying. Also, it's too much of a rip-off of Body Snatchers and The Thing. Sure, Kevin Williamson can throw in his 'references' to the movies and then say, 'I'm not ripping it off, I'm paying homage!' But the whole movie suffers from the lack of originality.The Ugly - lame, predictable soundtrack. how can a soundtrack be predictable? Not only does this feature the THIRD Tom Morello 70s remake this year (here he does 'Another Brick in the Wall', after Godzilla's 'Kashmir' remix and Small Soldiers' 'War' remix), but it also features the THIRD David Bowie remake by a 'hip' band (after the Wallflowers' lame 'Heroes' from Godzilla and Marilyn Manson's 'Golden Years' from Dead Man on Campus. Here, it's Shawn Mullins' 'Changes'.) At least the closing song was an Oasis B-Side called 'Stay Young', which was a pleasant surprise. And when the final alien is revealed, you have to wonder - why wasn't he/she chugging water the whole time?All in all, a fun time at the movies, but just don't think about it - at all - or it starts to fall apart. "}{"Title":"Not too Shabby","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the movie was fairly good, but it wasn't the greatest. Like others have commented, it is a combo of the breakfast club and the body snatchers. I have to say though, it was refreshing to find a dimension film without a phsychotic guy running around killing everyone with a sharp object. It had the over exaggerated cheerleader captain, the nerd, the slacker, the dark anti-social, jock wanting to be more than just a jock, and the new girl. Overall it wasn't terrible, but I think the age of scream films are over, for at least a while.  But hey, the flagpole thing was something I never saw before. And one more thing.... The film had those Tommy Hilfiger adds with a lot of Usher in them, and then to find he only had a tiny part, sorry Usher fans. "},{"Title":"Not enough Death","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie overall was Okay.  There was suspense and confusion and destruction the makings of a horror movie. Stokely, Cassie, and Zeke could have been the survivors for the next movie but everyone lived instead of killing them some of them to add to the suspense.  When I was sitting in the movie I was like 'no-one is going to get killed so I don't have a reason to sit on the edge of my seat.  The Atlanta girl as the alien mother was awesome.  This movie had an endingunlike most horror movies. (Or did it) "},{"Title":"Witty, flashy horror pic for the Breakfast Club crowd","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Captures something of the style and humor of Buffy the Vampire Slayer TV series.  Rodriguez keeps things fast, funny, and a bit outrageous.  The teacher casting is clever--Famke Janssen, Bebe Neuwirth, Jon Stewart, Salma Hayek, and (a nod to Carrie?) Piper Laurie.  Robert Patrick does his T2 run in the beginning.  The script is as self-referential as Scream, though this time with a sixties sci-fi slant and eighties teen pic social structure. "},{"Title":"Williamson churns out another hit!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson is without a doubt the biggest figure in the horror genre at this moment. He pulled out the wonderful SCREAM and SCREAM 2 (which doesn't count as being better because it was part of a triology from the beginning.) Also I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, while not being a horror masterpiece, definitely helped re-define a new era of horror movies.Now, Williamson has tried a sci-fi flick in the FACULTY. This movie has some scary moments (it doesn't match the suspense of SCREAM as we know the killers from the original) but you always want to know who the aliens are. The ending is surprising.Elijah Wood, IMO, gives a bang up job as do the rest of the cast (Josh Hartnett and Robert Patrick also give performances well worth mention.)If you enjoyed SCREAM, SCREAM 2, and I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER even a tiny bit, you will love this. I cannot wait for KILLING MS. TINGLE. "},{"Title":"A fun monster movie!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was really lots of fun. It isn't a horror movie as the previews make it out to be, but is a sci-fi monster movie. It is in the same genre as Invasion of the Body Snatchers.The cast really shines in this film, and make the best of Kevin W.'s Scripts (Scream, Dawson's Creek, etc...). The film is edited in Robert Rodriguez style and is simular to From Dusk Till Dawn.After the Movie, stick around for one last joke during the credits from Jon Stewart. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The most enjoyable film i've seen since the original Scream","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went on opening night, and was glad I did.  The Faculty was one of the best films I have seen in a while!  The entire cast is amazing, kevin williamson's script is great, robert rodriguez's direction is non-stop action, and the F/X are super cool!  It is basically the breakfast club meets invasion of the body snatchers, but those are two great films, so when you squish them together of course you get another amazing film. Among the cast standouts are Elijah Wood as the school nerd, Josh Hartnet as Zeke, the drug dealer who's a genius in disguise, and Clea DuVall as the outcast Stokely.  The entire cast who plays the faculty are amazing from Jon Stewart, Robert Patrick, Bebe Neuwirth, Famke Janssen, and Salma Hayek, to film veteran Piper Laurie.  There wasn't one person in the film I didn't like.  The story goes that an alien being has taken over the faculty, and students, so it's up to six kids to save the town and the world.  This film had TONS of great action, some cool special effects, lots of comedy, and some great serious moments. I've seen the film twice and will most likely see it again.  The most enjoyable film i've seen since the original Scream.  I just can't say enough great things about this movie!!!  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Interesting, but ultimately disappointing.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps the most interesting thing about The Faculty is its exploration of compulsory conformity.  Sure, this is something we have seen before and in different contexts--these are referenced in the film (Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Heinlein's The Puppet Masters) but I found the premise much more interesting here because it takes place in high school, a place where we are, for better or for worse, shaped by those around us.  Think about the influence that teachers have on us, how sometimes years after we have left their classes, their words echo in our heads.  Better yet, think about the influence that other students have on us; even after we lose contact with them, their past behavior can still affect us.  The notion of some outside force corrupting this process (as if it were not already corrupted, right?) is intriguing, to say the least, in an age in which access to all kind of information and influence has become de rigueur. Unfortunately both Rodriguez and Williamson blow it, and in the end of the film serves only to make the so-called losers so-called winners while maintaining the status quo.  Nothing changes really, except Elijah Wood gets laid. "},{"Title":"A fun and well-executed parody. 1950's meets 1980's.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected a fun, cheesy flick along the lines of Scream, but this was definitely better. The tributes to old sci-fi were welcome and well-placed; some were even subtle. Definitely better script-writing this time around. (My inclination is to say that those who disagree probably didn't get all the inside jokes.)Robert Patrick's performance was fantastic, as were those of most of the main characters. Elijah Wood was good as usual, though I'd like to see him play someone besides That Guy.The only thing that annoyed me was the theme of female sexuality as being one's downfall... but I can't really complain, since it's straight out of the Cold War era movies it's drawing from. I didn't find it homophobic at all.Overall, yes, it's the Breakfast Club meets the Body Snatchers. But they've done a great job of it. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Breakfast Club Snatchers","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson needs to find a new line of work, or at least a new genre. His unctuous self-referential horror flicks and pop culture references are getting awfully tiresome.  In this movie, he has moved beyond satire into blatant mimicry.  He simply took the five characters from The Breakfast Club, added a sixth high school stereotype (the new girl, a caste of students that John Hughes failed to explore) and stuck them in a lame rip-off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing.  The fact that the characters have seen those movies does nothing to alleviate the feeling that we've seen this all before.  He also ripped off The Breakfast Club down to the smallest detail, including a scene where all the students get high. Even the ending is straight from that film.  And Robert Rodriguez, I just don't know what to say about him.  If he had taken Williamson's material and done something with his usual flair, it might have worked, but there's nothing new or inventive about it. "},{"Title":"definately cool","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely a cool movie. It is funny, suspenseful, and scary. It represents the teenage life rather well. It has a good story/plot and there wasn't anything about the movie I didn't like. I recommend this movie very much. By the way, it has an awesome '70 GTO in it. "}{"Title":"really entertaining","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't expect to like this movie. After watching the previews, I was prepared for a really really awful knock-off of those My Teacher Is An Alien books that we used to read when we were little kids. I was very pleasantly surprised to find a delightfully campy comedy that was still really scary. Very good movie. Not life-affirming, not anything that I'd nominate for an academy award... but really entertaining. "},{"Title":"A good science fiction film for a change.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is one of the science fiction films that have been coming out during the sci-fi hype that would be expected in the last year before the first of the new Star Wars films is to be released (Episode one The Phantom Menace (May, 1999)).  Others in the last year or so have included Starship Troopers and Godzilla, neither of which seemed to set very high standards for themselves.  This is the first one I've seen of these films that seemed to actually be going for something that might be remembered, instead of just a monster/alien film that people would see just to hold them over until May.  Now, writer Kevin Williamson (Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer) is fast becoming a current favorite of mine as far as movies targeted towards people such as myself (teenage, suspense fan.)  He recognizes the things that would make the type of film he's doing a bad one, then finds ways around all of them.  In The Faculty a small band of teenagers begin to suspect something I'm sure many people (myself included) have during high school the teachers are alien beings.  It sounds sort of lame when the plot is actually put into words, but the film manages to avoid that feeling for the most part.  It includes brief references to many science fiction stories, such as The Puppet Masters and Independence Day.  This is a technique, also used in Scream of getting around the possibility of some people accusing it of not being original.  In addition to making it different enough to be considered original enough by some people, the similarities to other stories are pointed out in the film so it doesn't seem to any people as if they are being deliberately hidden.  The film avoids the predictable idea of having the hero figure it all out before seeing enough to really suspect anything really out there.  You do, of course, see what's happening basically from the beginning of the events on Earth, so even if you haven't seen the promos, you still know basically what's going on.  If the film were done the way many lame alien films were, someone would see something strange for the first time, and immediately single out the idea of aliens as the only actual explanation, and be really surprised when nobody believed them.  Something like this happens, but it isn't really extreme and is not noticeable enough to detract from the story. The film also avoids the standard scene where the first one to know what happens tells someone else, and based on just that, they BELIEVE him. Nobody in the film believes what's happening until they see it for themselves, and it takes really conclusive proof to convince them that this stuff is actually happening.  As has been the case with most sci-fi films about an infestation of some kind, the entire problem, it is discovered, can be solved with one single, though very difficult step.  This is the one thing about the film that I did not find very believable.  Not only would this be highly unlikely in real life, but this fact is not really discovered so much as it is just guessed by someone who believes it's true because it's always the case in science fiction books.  At the end, of course, it turns out to work, but I guess the alternative would be for the characters to try to kill everyone in the faculty, which would be impossible before it spreads further (although it might go over really well among the high school audience).  Oh well, this minor flaw doesn't make too much of a big deal overall in the movie.  It was definitely worth seeing, although I wonder if it will be remembered very much since it is in the shadow of the Star Wars prequels.  I hope it is remembered, because this film definitely has something to offer for anyone who would be interested enough to see it in the first place.  It even had some surprises that caught me off guard, and I am usually on the lookout for such surprises while watching a film like this one.  I was also pleased to see that they didn't do what so many people are doing nowadays, which is to tack on something at the end which made it clear that the doorway was open for a possible sequel.  This film being the first good science fiction film I've seen since Independence Day, (I liked Contact, but didn't think it was really GOOD) is a much welcomed change of pace, and I hope to see more films as carefully planned as this one, and no more of the quickly made, good-special-effects-and-that's-it films.  Science fiction fans, see this one! "},{"Title":"School's out forever!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was a good, teen horror movie.  Being a teenager myself, I really appreciated it.  It had a compelling plot, some hot actors, frightening and action packed scenes, and some gore, which makes the film all that better.  It definitely should be the bet for the holiday season. "},{"Title":"funny, reflection on school life","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really liked this new flick. I know some of you Trekie obsessed fans like to shoot this movie down because it may copy some other concepts. But I sat back and enjoyed the movie, and I didn't ruin my experience by going deep into I think some of you would enjoy it if you just tried to enjoy yourself, instead of expecting a disaster. The breakfast club idea with the different social classes ( geek, prep, stoner, jocks, outsider, salon-bunny popular girl) was cute. It really did reflect a lot of high-scool life that I see. It wasn't that scary, but it was cool to see how different socialities accept each other and mesh together. I liked the stokely-stan thing too. All in all, an enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"THE COOLEST HORROR MOVIE IN 1998 !!!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only does it have a very coool cast and idealistic setting but it is well focused with great plot and dialogue . Well enough with the pro stuff . I think it is the coolest movie in 1998 the horror movie is great and well the it is really into youth today . If you are a 10-20 you will love this movie (if you are into horror movies ) ! "},{"Title":"An entertaining flick, brain candy really.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The aliens have landed,.,.,again, and a bunch of high school kids are the only ones who can stop them. The Faculty follows a formula and is not afraid to show it. Kept me entertained throughout the movie. Pretty people everywhere, Even the ugly people are pretty. A nice break from reality, but if you're looking for Shakespeare, go elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth your time and money","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great.  Perhaps not the most original film ever created, but it was still entertaining.  While not particularly scary, it has its moments, and the writing is good.  If for no other reason, see this film for the star power -- it seems like every minor character is a celebrity, from Salma Hayek as the school nurse to Famke Janssen as the shy English teacher. And it's funny, too.  I strongly recommend this for anyone who's ever been to high school. "},{"Title":"Highly derivative, but equally entertaining","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Borrowing heavily from George Romero's _Invasion of the Body Snatchers_ and John Carpenter's _The Thing_, Robert Rodriguez directs an attractive, competent cast of relative unknowns in a film that blends the canonical thematic elements of 50's paranoia and teenage alientation in a Troma-esque high school setting to provide an exciting romp for Saturday-night moviegoers. This movie is best seen in a crowded auditorium with a charged-up, youthful crowd.The actors who play the high schoolers are especially appealing, and I predict that some will go on to greater things (as did Sissy Spacek, John Travolta, and Amy Irving, who were seen early as teens in another apparent source of Rodriguez'inspiration, Brian de Palma's classic, _Carrie_.  "},{"Title":"The Decline of The New Horror Genre","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recently attended a late afternoon showing of the new Robert Rodriguez directed and Kevin Williamson scripted sci-fi horror fest film, The Faculty. I can say that this film has it moments  of thrills and chills for the common theatre watcher but for me it is just another nail in the coffin of a somewhat promising revival of the horror genre which started two years ago with another Kevin Williamson scripted film, Scream.  The Faculty is somewhat a cross between science fiction writer, Jack Finney's Invasion of the Body Snatchers and any John Hughes film that can be remembered from the mid to late eighties.  In this film we have every stereotype that has come from the days of high school life (the doubtful jock, the basket case who likes the jock, the new girl who can't fit into the high school scene, the nerd who likes the beautiful girl in school). The list goes on and on.  I was excited when I learned that Kevin Willaimson and Robert Rodriguez were teaming up to make a sci-fi horror flick together but I have to say this was a major disappointment for me because of the basic stereotypes but I guess how can you make a movie about a group of high school kids without throwing in the traditional stereotypes we have seen or see in everyday high school life. I will say that I liked the camera work in this film and the editing was incredible coming from the expertise of director, Robert Rodriguez.  There is somewhat of nice homage to John Carpenter's The Thing that I liked quite a bit but I won't give it away.  That is one thing that I admire most about screenwriter, Kevin Williamson is the small quips he puts in his movie ideas to films that influenced him from his own cinema history.  Overall though the acting is good by somewhat of an unknown young cast of actors particularly Elijah Wood and the of course a meancing performance from Terminator 2 alumnus, Robert Patrick as the high school football coach. oh, and I cannot forget Piper Laurie also as another baddie amongst the faculty members.  Those eyes of hers still get me after twenty years since I had first seen, Carrie. Lastly and finally, I will state that The Faculty has its moments of fright but for me it just didn't deliver what I thought would have been an excellent collaboration between two very gitfted talents in the filmmaking business.    "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but still worth seeing onscreen","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just watched The Faculty this evening with some friends, and while I admit that the concept of aliens taking over the earth by taking-over human bodies/form is not new, I was overall pleased by this Robert Rodriguez effort.  It is a good step forward from his Dusk til Dawn production.  When we left the movie we made the simple comparison of The Breakfast Club meets The Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and I can just imagine that somewhere in Los Angeles a year-or-so ago that someone in movie-industry management was surfing through cable-TV and simply merged the two.  While it does bother me that the merging of concepts was simpler than coming-up with a risky new concept in a science-ficton movie, The Faculty was good application of the known concepts.Although I will still always biased by having that eerie feeling that Elijah Wood's eyes are too big for his face, I respect his abilities.  I do feel however that Josh Hartnett's excellent performance really made him the true headliner.Note  See this movie and let me know if you saw the famous tentacle finger growing on the mug scene from the preview, I must have missed it.  "}{"Title":"analysis of movie","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You start with an amazing writer, add to that a great director, mix in an all star cast, and how can you go wrong??  This is a modern retelling of Invasion of the Body Snatchers with a twist...using Williamson's pop culture references, this movie knows what it is and tells you.  such references like the Shooter McGavin gun shot w/finger from Happy Gilmore done by the coach to Casey's father, aka Shooter McGavin from the movie.  and as for the directing, i still can't forget the scene by the pool when Stokley's being chased...the slowmo shot was awesome.  all in all this movie was well done and very entertaining.  this just proves that when you combine great writing with great directing and fresh new rising stars, u get a great movie...a must see if for no other reason than to enjoy yourself... "},{"Title":"The last great film of 1998","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As we reach New Year's Day 1999, I'd have to say the Faculty was the last greatest film of 1998. It was scary, the acting was well done, the direction and writing is great as the gore and nudity is. The other movies that opened that weekend don't look that good enough as Faculty. "},{"Title":"All you ever wanted in a High School Horror Film...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had most of the elements of a pretty good horror film.  All the characters were interesting, if cliche, and like any well done 'group of heroes' film you had your favorites and your friend had his. You get a lot of different points of view that way. Some will say the movie stole 'concepts' from other films, but what it was doing was presenting an homage to the great horror films and stories. (Example - see what Kevin Williamson did with Scream, very similar). It had elements from Heinlein's PuppetMasters, The Thing, They Live and a half dozen others. Throughout the film references are made proving this fact.This movie is the High School, saving the human race, fantasy, and it has most of the elements that your imagination would conceive if you were in the same situation.  See it for what it is.  It's a fun Horror/Sci-Fi High School adventure. It also has some decent special effects, and a wondering on who will come out the hero of our group of friends, kind of like Sigourney in 'Alien'.See ya, LW "},{"Title":"Williamson does it again","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson has made yet another masterpiece with The Faculty.  In the first fifteen minutes, he generates a level of cold sweat and tension to rival the infamous opener to Scream.  The excitement never stops from there out.  There are scenes where I held my breath in excitement and fear (the exodus to the parking lot, for example), and there are scenes where I could not stop laughing, like when the parents search Elijah Wood's room.  Each character is believable and multi-faceted, and the plot twists surprise and impress.  Combine this level of writing with an all-star cast and brilliant direction and editing (every single scene was key), and this movie becomes the best sci-fi flick I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fun film with talented actors. It had cool effects, Great characters, and a good story with a happy ending!  "},{"Title":"Social standards prove bad content for The Faculty","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The possible reason for the rise of new horror films not living up to expectations may be the suprising lowness of standards which just proves the ignorance of today's teenage youth. Sure this is how teens act, but it's just not working in Hollywood. This film just showed that homosexuals and Lesbians have no place in today's normal society. This was all shown on numerous occasions where an outsider was  deemed a lesbian because she had no friends(Breakfast Club element added here).Despite the lack of standards withheld, this in my opinion was done very well with great directing by Robert Rodriguez and some solid acting proformances from Robert Patrick and rising star Josh Hartnett. Another thing I found interesting was that Jon Stewart showed that he could play a serious role. If you're the kind of person that wants too see a suspenseful sci-fi action with an interesting plot, this film is for you. But don't expect a hugh box office breakthrough from this corprate sell-out. "},{"Title":"The Faculty - Teenage Review","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was just another one of those decent horror movies which will probably do better on video than in the theaters.  Will it live long in our memories like Nightmare on Elm St?  Or even spawn several sequels?  Probably not. When the theater lights went dark and the credits began to roll, judging by the opening scenes, I could tell I was watching a movie which had potential; Rodriquez's direction was on target and Williamson had written another dark tale of suspense.  But as the film progressed, I realized that like many other horror films this year such as I Still Know, Urban Legend, etc. it was only a reminder to us all that there aren't much original ideas floating around in Hollywood anymore. If you have seen such classics as Invasion of the... and the PuppetMasters, then trust me, Faculty is simply a '90s version to those classics. In IMDB I was debating whether or not to give the film a 7 or 8.  In the end I gave it an 8.  Here's why;  Out of all the crappy horror movies which have been released this year, this one comes out on top.  The characters were believable and the special effects were pretty damn good. Rodriquez keeps the film at a pace where the viewer should never feel bored, especially in the fight scenes where everything from heads to fingers are decapitated with lots of blood. So if you are looking for a movie to see with your friends on the weekend, look no further, the Faculty is sure to please.  Just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Gory fun...","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After Scream 2 and I Know What You Did Last Summer, I was worried that slasher/horror films where going down-hill once again.  Don't get me wrong, I liked both films; I just feel they aren't even remotely comparable with Scream.  And, after seeing The Faculty advertised, I figured my intuition was correct.  I'm tired of the Disturbing Behavior, Urban Legend smart-ass college/high school kids who save the day.  Maybe the teenage set get their kicks from watching this sort of thing, but I certainly don't.  I remember the old Michael Meyers (excluding the boring, trite H20 which had no murders after the opening scene until the climax), Freddy, Jason days where the kids got killed, and the adults saved the day.  I long for them again...but wait. I'm beginning to see a light at the end of this dark tunnel...because The Faculty actually entertained me! Maybe it was the entertainingly goofy script; but I believe I enjoyed this so much because it spoofs what Scream intended to startle us with.  As long as high school kids are going to save the day, adults should be the vilain.  Granted, there are exceptions, like I Know What You Did Last Summer; but even I Know Part 2 had a teenager behind the murders.  (Sorry if it seems like I'm giving away part of it's twist, so if you haven't seen it, don't worry; it stinks!)  Anyway, getting back to my point, I've always enjoyed films where kids outsmart the authority figure, Ferris Bueler, even the first Home Alone, and this one is no exception. Adults will like this because it's a reworking of Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Puppet Masters (the latter being the more inferior film of the 3, remember there are 2 Invasion's).  The kids will enjoy its rich sense of humor and gore quotient; which isn't extreme, but enough to satisfy. Overall, the film contains Kevin Williamson's usual plot twists and maintains his sardonic sense of humor, (remember the ending of Scream? Are you going to tell my mom?) but also includes a less grim version of the goins on.  It may not be as clever or original, but its more satisfying. It's 140 minute running time helps as well, it's almost 25 minutes shorter and never drags.  The acting is adequate. Surprisingly, I liked Elijah Wood...but I hate that Josh (Harnett, or something like that) from H20; he's a boring mess of an actor.  Robert Patrick adds some fine supporting work as a football coach, he's worth the price of a ticket.  The Faculty delievers good time slasher fun. It should give this now dying genre a jump start. Just a word to the screen writers and studio execs., no more witty films with kids the star.  I'd like to see some adults in these things again. Blade and Vampires are good examples.  Both were succesful (Vampires, despite a $21 million gross opened at number one, and only cost $12 million) and I think the public would like to see more of these...except, of course, Scream 3.  I can't wait to see Neve finally get it!.Overall, The Faculty proves to be more fun than Scream, but with a more ludicrous script.  It's highly entertaining and I recommend seeing it...I know I will again. "},{"Title":"Best way to describe The Faculty, fun and not to be taken seriously","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best way to describe The Faculty in one word, fun.  This is definitely not the movie to take seriously, it's just like From Dusk Till Dawn in the sense that it was just made to be fun.  However, like From Dusk Till Dawn, about half way through it feels like you are watching a completely different movie.The first hour of it is very much like anything Kevin Williamson has written before.  A lot of one liners, humor, and of course you have to guess who's behind everything that's going on.  Some of the dialogue and characters in it (especially Zeke) are definitely the best Williamson has ever written. Just like the original Scream you do care for some of the characters and another good aspect it shares with Scream is when you find out who the person(s) behind everything at the end are you aren't disappointed like you were in I Know What You Did Last Summer or especially Urban Legand.  Overall in the first hour it is very unpredictable (most of the shots you saw in the trailer are shown in the first 20 minutes of the film leaving you guessing what could happen next).The next 40 minutes or so are kind of disappointing.  In From Dusk Till Dawn the first half was like a real intense Pulp Fiction and then it turned into a hardcore vampire slayer movie.  In The Faculty, when the first hour feels similar to a science fiction version of Scream, the rest of it feels like The Relic only in a school and not a museum.  This dosen't mean it wasn't that entertaining, but some of the special effects went way to far (example Famke Jansen head crawling around).  So some of it feels a little chessy and some may feel it ruins the movie but some of the parts that happen in the last 40 minutes I loved (examples running to the car to get the drugs and the alien in the swimming pool).  In the last few parts of the movie some people in the theater were cheering and screaming while some others wanted to leave.The Faculty is not for everyone, but if you are a fan of Robert Rodreguez or Kevin Williamson there are things you will like about it.  The two best things about it were the soundtrack and the character Zeke (Robert Patrick was fun too).  But just keep in mind this is not a film you should be taking seriously, Kevin Williamson fans may not realize that but anyone who has seen Robert Rodreguez films knows that they are just fun, plain and simple.  "},{"Title":"SMART THRILLER, BETTER THAN MOST OF THEM OF THE PAST COUPLE YEARS..","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. It was smart, entertaining, original and unexpectedly funny. Better than most of the thrillers this year. Best since Scream 1 and 2. Good effects, too. Give this one a chance if you want to see a horror movie, it is not a blood and gore fest. Good soundtrack too. "}{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So I'm as sick of these hyper-articulate teen movies as everybody else (even though I did really like Scream), but this movie really underplayed the whole hyper-aware talking thing and worked it into the characters and the plot. Instead, you get a really fun theater movie, i.e. the kind you really connect with the rest of the audience at. I don't scare very easily, but the movie made the Body Snatchers/Puppet Masters stuff feel fresh again. And, as opposed to Robert Rodriguez last film, From Dusk Till Dawn, this actually played down the gore (okay, there's still a lot, but it's more tasteful, if that's possible). The ads don't do this movie justice at ALL. In fact, for the first time in a long time, the trailers don't give away even 5% of the movie. Go see it now! "},{"Title":"weird, in a cool way.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Take a little pod people, a little 'Puppet Masters' (the book, not the movie), a little Carpenter's The Thing, a few Lovecraftian squid things, a healthy dose of gore, some dead on dialogue, and more familiar faces and pop references than you can shake a stick at, frappe and what you get it this paranoid little treat called 'The Faculty'. Just paranoid enough to make you feel weird, just accurate enough to make you watch, and just possible enough to make you squirm. Did I mention that the action is non-stop and the humor is hilarious? If you are a fan of the sci-horror genre at all, this is a must see movie. Or, hey, same thing if you ever wanted to see a paper slicer become a make-shift machete...  "},{"Title":"Not very original. But it's still good fun.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not very original. But it's still good fun. "},{"Title":"I admit, I liked the movie!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was almost positive going in to see this movie that it was going to be this winter's Disturbing Behavior. Instead, within the first few minutes, I was screaming at the screen. I think this is one of Kevin Williamson's best (much better than I Know What You Did Last Summer or even Scream 2), kind of like Scream with a monster instead of a guy in a mask. I had fun at this movie, with all the twists and turns in the plot, even if it was a little on the gory side. It is senseless fun, like a horror movie should be. This is me loving this movie!  "},{"Title":"An excellent hybrid of genres","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie.  Seeing the movie, you can recognize a lot of different inspirations that, in and of themselves, aren't terribly original.  It's the way the film decides to piece together bits of other movies that makes it completely original and refreshing.One of the inspirations is the Breakfast Club .  Its influence lies in the make-up of the kids (a jock, a nerd, an outsider, a princess, etc.) who bond together over unusual circumstances.Other influences include Body Snatchers and Puppet Masters.  Their influence lies in the basic plot of the movie- people are being replaced (or influenced) by creatures from another planet.Additional influences include just about every horror movie ever made, with elements of sci-fi thrown in.All the above elements are mixed together in an entertaining, original mix that kept me interested throughout the entire movie.The special effects are quite good.  I was actually taken quite by surprise because the commercials and previews don't really give you any indication that there will be any significant special effects.The casting is also quite good.  Although the majority of the cast was unfamiliar to me, I enjoyed all of their performances.  There is a high quotient of attractive young females in this movie that appealed to me as a male moviegoer.All in all, I enjoyed this movie, and I intend to see it again.My score  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"unpredictable and suspenseful","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought it was good up until the end.  It lacked a really suspenseful climax and eliminated any thought of a sequel, but the rest of the movie made up for it.  Can't be ruined with a pathetic sequel, like most other movies of its type.  Good date movie even though mine had to call home during the best part....ha! no kidding "},{"Title":"if you liked scream.........","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  you will LOVE the Faculty  it is way better than the average slasher flick we have been viewing the last 2 years since the recent pinnacle SCREAM but now we can marvel at how well written and directed this new movie is, sans WES craven!!.  I am sorry to say but Kevin Williamson's talent is showcases much better under the direction of rodriguez than craven.  this movie is on the same plane as scream, but tactually has more wit and is also Sci-fi in a way, i would love to recommend this movie to people who liked scream but also like sci-fi, but this movie also appeals to the non sci-fi population of the world so it is enjoyable to all people (high School mostly)  go see this , it is a resurgence in the fading slasher/horror genre!!11 I give it a 14 out of 15 stars "},{"Title":"Pure Adventure/Sci-fi for any action fan","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked Desperado and From Dusk Til Dawn, then this one is a gotta see. Desperado was a pure action/adventure, while From Dusk Til Dawn was an action/adventure mixed with fantasy.  The Faculty is pure blown sci-fi action that is very enjoyable, if you know what you are getting into.  These movies aren't for everybody, but if you liked Robert Rodriguez's previous movies, this one will definitely satisfy that violence bug in you.  "},{"Title":"A well balanced movie","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So it wasn't the best movie in the world. But if you just let yourself go, you will enjoy this movie. The acting was above par, and the writing of the movie was good. It took a little while to get into the action, but when it did, The Faculty delivers big, the last thirty min. are a non stop roller coaster ride that will blow you away. Go see this movie. You might just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Williamson has redeemed himself","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After spewing out garbage from I Know What You Did Last Summer, Kevin Williamson has redeemed himself with The Faculty First off like Scream and Scream 2 it is not necessarily scary but it was very entertaining.  The plot is good but it transposes the typical Breakfast Club high school strata(the jock, the nerd, the druggie, the loner, ms. popular)typical 80's characterizations. But none the less a good plot.  The actual action scenes were cool and the plot was fluidly flowing and the cast was excellent. A DEFINITE MUST SEE IF YOU LIKE PREVIOUS WILLIAMSON FLICKS.  "}{"Title":"Acting","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, I feel the movie was great. The plot was perfect and the acting was wonderful. All in all this movie was worth my money. I strongly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a great movie. This is much better then I thought it would be. This is a must see for any horror/sci-fi fan. I would give this movie ten stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"One hell of an enjoyable movie","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed Scream. Although it doesn't even compare with some horror flicks, it was definitely one of the best main stream horror flick of the past few years. Unfortunately, since then a few lame flicks have tried to duplicate that success (only H20 and Scream 2 were half as good). Now, finally, we have a winner. The Faculty is about as entertaining as it gets. Robert is one of the best directors out there and he does a great job with a pretty good script by Williamson. Over all, this is a great flick. (Next to Vampires, the best horror movie of the year) "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie.  I didn't mind that it stole the idea of Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  In fact, I thought that helped the storyline a little. I'm not one to look too deeply into a movie.  If I come out of the theatre telling myself that I liked the movie, then I don't need to put the film under the microscope and nitpick about how this film is bringing the horror genre down, or what it is saying about homosexuality.  It's one of those movies you go to see to enjoy, not to over-analyze. "},{"Title":"I Would Pay to see Faculty 2 without Nudity though","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Zeke's character really made the movie. I like the part where his woman teacher gets mad at him for selling drugs and when she leaves he says she must have gotten some bad stuff (but he used the s word instead) The other kid who came out of the movie Lord of the Rings played good in this movie, too. I would have given this movie 10 stars but since it had nudity towards the end, I had to knock off two stars. I liked the dark-dressed high school girl student that falls for the football player. Faculty is a fun movie to see, with primary teenagers trying to stay human without changing into a non-human. Lots of running and thrilling scenes. I would pay to see Faculty 2 without the nudity though... I refuse to put temptation in front of my husband. You know what I mean? "},{"Title":"When did you become Sigourney Weaver?.....","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Teachers at a high become infected by an alien parasite and soon target the local town.Only a rag tag team of students know what is going on, the adults don't believe them because it's so absurd, and no one mentioned that Invasion of the Bodysnatchers was just on the other day....1999 was a really strange year for film. The most anticipated film of the year was a huge disappointment, The Matrix was a real Phantom Menace, and little surprises like this came out of nowhere and really made going to the movies worth while.Because of the posters, you instantly think that this will be another Scream, and the beginning really does hark of Casey and Ghostface, but this is so much more.Its the most 'un-Rodriguez' Rodriguez movie there is, really the only trait of his here is Salma Hayek, who gets infected, and you never see her again.The film feels fresh still as it did back then, and although some of the effects are a little dodgy now (just what was that flying out of Zekes car), the cast look they are having a lot of fun with their respective roles.Of the teachers, Patrick is the one having the most fun, and you know toward the end of the film Janssen will turn into an extraordinary beauty.The college kids differ slightly, watching it now, you think of a few of them ( i wonder where they are now?) but they are all great, especially Hartnett and Duvall.The film never takes itself seriously, and despite the many references to The Thing, it's original enough for you to forgive the over the top ending.Well worth seeing for B movie fun. "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The faculty is seriously one of the best of its genre. But what really makes it amazing is the actors, Josh Hartnett gives an unforgettable performance even though that it is his third role. With amazing performances from other actors such as Robert Patrick from the classic Terminator 2 whom plays one of the best villains i have ever seen.This film is an instant classic that brings a story unlike the rest of the film written from Kevin Williamson, he makes us believe that he can actually make a film that is similar only by the way the characters are written and not based on a insane slasher killer like his other film which are still incredible by the way. Robert Rodriguez brings what the film actually needs; action, suspense and evil teachers. It has an excellent soundtrack that actually fits in the film and creates the high school universe. Kevin Williamson also emphasizes on how much teachers can suck and that all teachers could be aliens.You will not find a teenage sci-fi, horror, action, thriller, high school movie like this one in the 21st century. They don't make films like the faculty these days. No actors these days apart from a very small group of actors could ever be even close to the performances in this film. So bravo Kevin Williamson, Robert Rodriguez, Josh Hartnett, Shawn Hatosy, Clea Duvall, Robert Patrick and Elijah Wood On making an unforgettable classic film. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it safe to go back to school","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was watching this last night for 20th time, The Faculty is a fun little sci-fi horror flick that I really like, it's was really entertaining.At Herrington High School what seem normal hight school but soon thing turn very dark, when the teacher start to act very strange.The number of people we got know really fast and new girl has just joined the group, while Casey is coming from class he notice the teenager are acting really strange, later on football filed his found this bug on fall he then show to the teacher who put in water.This bug turn to be a parasitic organism that is alien that goes into the ear of the victim, which takes over the brain and make different person.Soon Casey goes looking for that thing is found, when goes back class room the thing as gone, then friend don't believe until the teacher come in and turn out they are Aliens after all.These teenager are the only one who can stop these Aliens before whole town is affected The Faculty is definitely a favourite of mine because of all the homages it has to other movies, such as the snorting scene (the blood test scene from The Thing) and the idea of aliens being within people with their same memories (Body Snatchers)and the twist was really good, I did not seen it coming.I do think movie is little underrated and acting from the whole cast was superb "},{"Title":"Favorite movie back in the day!","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Favorite movie back in the day when it came out, and it still is. Being young and such when it came out, not being used to the language and gore stuff, this movie was a big thing for me.Now i'm like, hey I still love this movie even though it's like a 90's classic horror movie. It's corny now, but you still love it because almost all of the actors in it are so big now, and it's just inexplainably entertaining.Elijah Wood (playing a nerdy teen) notices the faculty of their slow and dark school are acting different. Eventually, he convinces some buddies (including Josh Hartnett, Clea DuVall and Shawn Hatosy- which so happen to all be from different cliques) that the teachers are aliens. So they try to end it. Fun, fun stuff.9.5-10 "},{"Title":"A fun but just not solid movie.","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's funny how Robert Rodriguez his more 'light' movies are also his 'worst' ones (Spy Kids-trilogy, The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl 3-D) but yet he continues making movies like this. But who can really blame him for making them, they seem like fun movies to make.Problem is that it is unclear what the movie is trying to be. A fun spoof of high-school movies, a tense science-fiction thriller. But whatever is the case, The Faculty is obviously not a movie that is brought seriously. The movie mixes so many different styles (think The Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers.) that the movie its style is incoherent and the movie lacks a real identity of its own. The one moment you don't know if you should be entertained or scared by what's happening on the screen.The story is way too simple and simply uses all of the high-school clichés, also in all of its characters. It works in a spoofing kind of way and therefor in a way also adds to the fun but it's just not solid and surprising enough to fill a 104 minutes movie with. Because it's so cliché filled, nothing in this movie ever comes as a real surprise. It also is the reason why this movie just never becomes tense or mysterious to watch.The good news is that the movie itself luckily also doesn't take itself seriously. It's what saves the movie and what makes it a good and fun one to watch. The characters are so deliciously over-the-top that they become very entertaining, which is also really thanks to the 'big-name' actors playing them, some in some small bit parts such as Jon Stewart, Salma Hayek and Christopher McDonald. Everybody clearly had fun playing in this movie. Some other parts are there for some fine actors such as Famke Janssen and Robert Patrick. They also deliberately cast some irritating teenagers in the main leads. Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Shawn Hatosy were all still some fairly unknown actors at the time. Surpising to see how much I enjoyed Josh Hartnett in his role. He was so much fine. I also was surprised by Usher Raymond, who I also enjoyed in his (small) role. So really nothing wrong with the casting here.The editing was really off at times. It even seemed as if the movie was incomplete at the time of its editing process and some in between shots were simply missing. Seemed like Robert Rodriguez still had a lot to learn with his 'shooting and chopping'. The special effects and its typical genre movie gory effects also weren't much good but somehow I have the feeling that they deliberately made the effects look fake to add to the movie its fun and light atmosphere.A good movie to watch but it still left me with the feeling that it had more potential.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A Modern Invasion Of The Body Snacthers but better!","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot = The teachers at a local high school have been over taken by aliens hell bent on taking over the bodies of all the students and then the world, so it's up to six very different students to try and stop them.The Faculty in my opinion is awesome, came out during the late nineties horror craze and it's definitely on of the best. It mixes horror and science fiction elements very well, featuring solid performances from each and every one of the cast and a scattered set of special effects brilliantly, one thing this movie is and that it's never boring, it has excitement all the way through that kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time.U must admit though when I first saw it I had pretty low expectations because I thought it was gonna be boring because of the storyline but boy was I wrong, the script was fantastic and the directing was slick and done well. There was also great scenes in this movie delivered by slick dialogue and this movie certainly stands out from all the other horror movies that came out during this time, and different although it's not original this type of storyline has been done before Invasion Of The Body Snatchers springs to mind but this one's a million times better, I also loved the science fiction elements tossed into this film especially towards the end.It's the characters and acting is what really makes this movie work, Eliah Wood before hitting A-list stardom with the lord of the rings trilogy was great in this movie, he played the geeky sci-fi nut Casey with depth and courage, he was really likable. Jordan Brewster played the head cheerleader and object of Casey's affections Delilah really well and was also nice to look at, definitely the sexiest babe in this movie the only problem is we don't see enough of her, Clea Duvall played the outsider Stokley brilliantly, she really looked the part at first she's bitchy and mean but her character develops more and more as the film progress, Josh Hartnett fresh faced at the time and this was one of the 2 horror movies he did that year, truly showing that this is his breakout performance and went onto bigger things, here he's playing Zeke the drug dealer/under achiever/main trouble maker, really well and his character really develops throughout the film. Shawn Hatosy plays the jock character Stan really looks the part and acts the part and shows that there's more to him that just being a jock and lastly out of the six students Laura Harris who plays the new girl Marybeth Louise Hutchinson who's really sweet in her role and while starting her first day at school, it gets overtake by body snatching aliens. We also get a lot of cameo type roles from some of the bigger names in the movie like Robert Patrick famous for playing the bad guy in Terimator 2, has fun playing the psycho gym teacher, Famke Janssen playing femme fatle Miss Burke and even R&B singer Usher Raymond and Salma Hayek in small and pointless roles.All in all I recommend this movie to anyone, if you like movies like Invasion Of The Body Snatchers and The Thing, well the Faculty is just like a modern day telling of the those movies only much better, it's fast paced and will have you on the edge of your seat the entire time. "},{"Title":"excellent movie, great acting, very entertaining.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie focuses on 6 main characters, who are typical high school students, only their school is being taken over by water dwelling aliens who take peoples bodies. Who will survive? Who is behind all of this? Will the aliens win, or will the humans? Only one way to find out, watch the movie, you may be pleasantly surprised, I know I was. This is my favorite movie of all time. It is actually very funny, and keeps you at the edge of your seat. Elijah Wood does a great acting job, along with the josh hartnett, Clea duvall, Shawn hatosy, Jordana brewster, but not so much laura harris, although she does play the part well. There are many twists, and they are usually so obvious that we do not expect them. I highly recommend this movie. A+++++. This movie is great, especially since it was made in 1998. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful first half, action-packed second half.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is a lot better than you would think.**SPOILERS**The small town of Hamilton is having a problem. There is very little money for anything, but all the teachers complain about is the way the football team is getting their every wish granted. The students don't seem to care, and they continue on, not knowing of what's going on with the staff. It doesn't help the fact that no of them really get along outside of their social cliques. Casey Conner, (Elijah Wood) discovers a strange specimen on the football at lunch one day, and the science teacher, Prof. Furlong (Jon Stewart) is convinced that it is a new species, especially after it splits in two and attacks him. Searching for answers in the faculty lounge, Casey and Delilah, (Jordana Brewster) the head of the school paper, watch Coach Willis (Robert Patrick) and Mrs. Olson (Piper Laurie) attack and kill Nurse Harper (Selma Hayek). When they tell the authorities, no one believes them, as the stories have been carefully altered so they seem like crazy people. As more strange events happen in the school, the number of students still alive is dwindled so that only a select group is unaffected Delilah, Casey, Stokely, (Clea Duvall) Stan, (Shawn Hatosy) Marybeth, (Laura Harris) and Zeke (Josh Hartnett). As they discover more about the strange events, it becomes evident that aliens are taking over the town, and that they have to stop them.The Good News I think it's weird that not too many people like this movie. I guess because this isn't a typical slasher film that many people automatically write it off. That is a shame, as this is a good suspense movie. This isn't suspense in the traditional there's a man who wants to kill you with a large object kind of suspense, but a Steven King kind where there's just something a little off that gradually becomes apparent over the course of time and it just keeps building up until it all fits together in the perfect jigsaw puzzle. That is just as effective as the first type, and for this film, it works perfectly. It gives the film a small bit of realism, as the characters say that the best way for an alien invasion to succeed would be to slowly infiltrate society instead of just blasting through. This also sets up a great flow for the film a slow first half setting up the story and characters, then an action-packed second half. The film really does pick up in the second part of the movie, as now we know that there's something wrong and they have to do something, and the suspense comes from how to deal with the invasion. The alien(s) themselves, in their brief amount of time on-screen, were incredibly real looking and impressive. They did look truly alien, like nothing else on Earth and yet believable enough that they could exist. The fact that they rarely use CGI makes them look scarier. The small amount of gore is also very well done and is completely realistic. The meltdowns look cool, and the mix of white and red is a clever way to get more gore in past the censors, but keep in mind that there is a large amount cut out.The Bad News About the only thing I don't like about this film is the small amount of gore. This film should be way bloodier. There is some good gore in here, but what they do to the aliens was just screaming out for gore, and only occasionally did it deliver. What is there looks good and it's fine as it is, but it was screaming for more.The Final Verdict If it had a bit more gore, this would be a more well-known film, but it is still a creepy film with lots of surprises and cool scenes. It is well worth a look for those interested in late 90's horror films, as well as those that like a bit more thought-out horror films. All horror fans should at least check it out.Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence, drug use and slang, and ample Nudity. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Film","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Decided to watch this film and had no idea what I was going to experience. The film started off inside a high school and all of a sudden horror breaks out with a teacher and all kinds of blood starts bursting every where. As the film progresses, the football coach starts acting real strange and some very hot sexy teachers and students seem to be all spaced out sniffing caffeine and other chemicals. A male student finds a rather odd object on the football field and brings it to the lab teacher who discovers some very strange behavior from a so called living Cell. Finally, some students, male and female put their heads together and really discover they have a real problem on their hands at their high school. The kids parents wonder why their teenagers do not want to go to school and actually have to bring them by the hair of their heads. All the actors did a fantastic job of acting, which in many ways was not an easy task. The entire film was very exciting, especially in the gym with the fold up seats. Don't miss this film, it is great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi, thriller","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw The Faculty in the cinema with my sister. I was really excited to go see it, because it looked promising, and it really was. The only actor I knew of in the movie was Robert Patrick.The cast is pretty good and if you're a fan of John Hughes, which I am, you will realize that these 5 main characters have certain similarities to the cast of The Breakfast Club. We've got the jock, the goth, the popular girl, the geek and the criminal.This movie has a lot of great soundtracks which are performed by Offspring, Creed, Class of '99 and more.The Faculty is nothing extraordinary, however it is highly enjoyable and it would be great to show to your friends if you're having a party.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"This movie rox--an awesome mix- movie","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is purely an awesome movie--it totally rocks, and should from any viewer's opinion. The Faculty is certainly a great 'mix-'movie--a movie in which contains more than one 'genres' this one includes nearly ALL of them comedy, action/adventure, drama, horror/thriller, sci-fi;...and no-matter-what, The Faculty will shock you. Stars like Elijah Wood Casey and Josh Hartnett Zeke aid this movie to great success--and the hot actress who plays 'Stokely' Clea DuVall does a great job and has a helpful and quite interesting character. The plot and storyline is magnificent--and when everything falls into place--the horrific thrills get you...certainly they do..Though the excessive use of the f*-word is quite plentiful--the High School activity is pretty dang real---and I know. So, overall, The Faculty is truly an awesome movie, and any Invasion of the Body Snatchers-/sci-fi fans should see it.  "},{"Title":"What the hell is going on here?","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, there are GAPING plot holes in this garbage quality film, and second  of all, what a waste of good acting. Yes, it is well-acted, I will give it that -- Elijah  Wood, Salma Hayek... But as for the plot. Plot? Yes, there is apparently a plot. It  does borrow from the Body Snatchers but gives it credit within the film. It's  almost like a tribute to the story. The fact that what is possessing the teachers is  something alien is not well depicted. It's just sort of assumed, because nobody  knows what these creatures are. It isn't really an alien movie at all -- there is no  proof that these things are aliens. They're just weird monsters. And the ending is  so cheesy. How the hell does killing the queen kill the rest of the monsters?  They had all proved to be independently spreading themselves to new victims,so why would killing their leader make them all magically just die. Also, how  much coke did the main characters do throughout this film just to keep proving  to each other that they weren't aliens? PS overdose? They'd be dead by the end  of it after doing that much cocaine. This movie makes no sense. It's slightly  enjoyable if you watch it just for pure fun and ridiculousness. Oh yea, the special  effects are a little cheesy but it was an interesting effort....Elijah Wood's character is just so damn adorable as well. Watch it, at the very  least, for him. "},{"Title":"This movie was good, for a TV viewing.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, so I have always wanted to view this movie.  Afterall, it has a great cast.  I always chickened out when I'd see it over at the movie rental place.  This time it was on the USA network so decided what the heck.  This movie delivers for the most part.  Frodo (Elija Wood) is the main character who is a highschool nerd.  He figures out that the staff there are really aliens.  I know, it sounds like a b movie.  IT'S NOT!  The movie has more special effects than ALIENS!  The effects are really good.  Josh Harnett plays a rebellious drug dealer.  BEBE Newirth (from Fraiser) plays a HS Principal.  The movie is just plain fun.  It's never revealed exactly WHY the aliens are doing things the way they are.  The appearance by JOHN STEWART was rather interesting.  I didn't know that guy could act that well.  My suggestion is DO NOT RENT IT, but watch it on TV.  I liked it. "},{"Title":"Over rated Teen Garbage","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the stupidest movies I have seen.  First of all, the acting is so terrible that you think that there was no director.  Imagine all these teens who suddenly save the world from some strange alien that is invading their high school.  It follows the mold of current movies that are brainless, put in a few supposedly scary moments with loud music and they call it a horror film.  It's pure junk and I don't see how anyone can say otherwise unless they were born after 1980. "},{"Title":"this gets no love","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie gets no love from me I just dont get it when a scary movie comes out and it just suck I love scary movies most of them came out of the 80s I dont asked for much in movies but this one gave me nothing but I seen this on cable so I still didnt see it for free because I pay a cable bill but good I didnt see this at the movies. "}{"Title":"Charmless and irritating.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Witless schlock, relying on the youthful appeal of its cast but falling woefully short in terms of plot and humour. It's difficult to say what's worse, the tiresome &#145;Breakfast Club' angst or the blatant rip-off of &#145;Body Snatchers'. That the film references the films and books it pays &#145;homage' to only make things more irritating.It's a shame, because after the visceral high of From Dusk Till Dawn, I'd assumed something better from Rodriguez, who presumably know how to mix comedy and horror effectively. Without a decent script (Williamson's ironic horror well having already run dry), this is nothing more than a collection of poorly conceived encounters leading up to a predictable ending, which on a plus note is at least reasonably entertaining provided you've disengaged Mr. Brain.Scrabbling for something nice to say, some of the characters (particularly the teachers) are over-the-top enough to raise a smirk, and the effects are effective enough, although hardly groundbreaking. And, of course, it's always nice to see Salma Hayek!  "},{"Title":" Eminently rentable.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any movie where Jon Stewart is stabbed in the eye with a vial containing hallucinogens -- and then subsequently melts into a puddle of white goo -- has got something going for it. The Faculty happens to have this and more, with the more including a sharp young cast, a semi-clever script by Kevin Williamson, and an array of well-deployed special effects. Thankfully,the film understands that it is a pastiche of earlier, better movies like Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing, so it spends its time  wisely, moving the narrative along quickly and referencing its predecessors whenever possible. The camp value of the supporting cast (Salma Hayek, Robert Patrick, and the great Piper Laure) is considerable, and there are some great deadpan moments, as when the identity of the evil alien leader is finally revealed.  Robert Rodriguez is a good and intelligent filmmaker, and while it's likely that the audience for this film won't appreciate some of the nuances, it's silly and insubstantial enough that most anyone will like it. Not scary by any means, but useful as a jumping-off point for younger horror fans and probably the last decent script Kevin Williamson will pen post-Scream. I don't usually do number ratings, but I'm thinking 7.5. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is nothing more than a cheap rip-off of the invasion of the body snatchers. Even the characters in this movie discuss the invasion of the body snatchers in one scene, which I thought was pathetic. The Faculty is not an enjoyable film, it is predictable, boring, and is not original in any way. If you like pathetic movies, then this is the movie for you. My rating 1/10.1/10 "},{"Title":"John Carpenter Won't Be Happy...Robert","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The overall film was entertaining although the actors and actresses in the film made too may references to other films to make the film more realistic...in my opinion that was a wrong move.As for the film, well I think Robert Rodriguez may have got some of the ideas from John Carpenter's The Thing and if I was John, I would not be too happy about that.All in all, apart from the rip-off John Carpenter scenes, I would recommend this movie to a young teenage couple staying in to watch a movie at night on Halloween "},{"Title":"This goes beyond being true to your school.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stupendous. Scary. Awesome. Based on the classic 'body snatchers' theme; the students of Herrington High suspect that their teachers have become alien entities. Getting 'high' at this school is more than a common thing to do. It can help save your life.The special effects and creatures are top of the line. The suspense and terrific action scenes are glued together with a solid soundtrack. Some of the artists providing musical talent are Soul Asylum, Garbage, Sheryl Crowe and Oasis.The cast, that is diverse as it interesting, includes Bebe Neuwirth, Robert Patrick, Elijah Wood, Jon Stewart, Jordana Brewster, Piper Laurie and Laura Harris.Broad daylight or a rainy night; this movie will cause your anxious heart to beat like a rabid rat in a cage.  "},{"Title":"Ill-Conceived Concept was Doomed from the Beginning","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was not entirerly Robert Rodriguez's fault. The story is ludicrous and its attempts to poke fun at the '50's alien flicks fail miserably. I knew this was going to be a real bad movie, and knew which audience this was aimed at when I saw the comercials for it on TV, which said;  Dimension Films presents The Faculy Starring Tommy Hilfiger Jeans. I couldn't believe Rodriguez went from 'Dusk Till Dawn to this crap. The opening scene was pretty cool, but everything else from the script to the acting was bad. (Particularly by Josh Hartnet as Zeke) Kevin Williamson should be banished from writing movies (Stick to Dawson's Creek pal,and tough luck with Teaching Mrs. Tingle) ), and Rodriguez should never have been reduced to this. Better luck next time, Bobby "},{"Title":"What A Dumb Movie.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie was real dumb. I have to admit, I'm not really a fan of the new teenie boppers that Hollywood is trying to force us to accept. Lets face it, they just don't have the same appeal of the 80's teenie actors like Molly Ringwald, Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Judd Nelson, etc. etc.These new kids that are popping up in Hollywoods Teen Movie frenzie have little appeal, and are just plain annoying.The Faculty ? C'mon, what is that. It definitely wasn't scary or creepy in the least. It was just plain dumb. The only people I think that actually liked this movie were the younger kids (15-21) that weren't around in the good old days when there was Hellraiser, Excorcist, Salems Lot, etc. So you can't really blame them for liking this film. They have no choice. All the movies Hollywoods been producing lately just plain suck.The truth is, Hollywood is in the midst of a slow era with its younger actors. And if your young, better head to Hollywood, cuz right now it looks like they're taking whatever they can get.As for the movie, I'm just glad I didn't shell out $9 bucks to watch it in theatres. I am dissappointed that I payed the $3.50 rental to watch it. I should of gave my $3.50 to the panhandler outside the 7-11 "},{"Title":"Teen remake of 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers'","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The faculty is one of those hip, cool teen remakes of old, classic horror movies from writer Kevin Williamson (Scream 1&2). The movie is basically about a high school clique who all think their teachers are aliens, and they turn out to be right.  This movie is nearly a blatant rip-off of 'Body Snatchers' and even admits it in one scene.  That does not, by any means say it has no entertainment value, however, because the movie is quite entertaining.  The action is wild, the suspense chilling at times (there is one scene right out of The Thing from 1982 where all of the men, in this case the kids, have to take a painful/gruelling test to prove they are human.) And the overall cool mood is fun to get involved in.  Josh Hartnett is the super-smart, yet un-motivated drug dealer that is the coolest of the whole group.  Newcomer Jordana Brewster plays the pretty, but shallow cheerleader who happens to be currently dating star quarterback Shawn Hatosy (surprise, surprise), who decides his fate lies in academic achievement. Elijah Wood is the nerdy photographer who has a crush on cute Jordana, and Laura Harris plays the new girl.  All of these kids make the movie very appealing to the eye, and director Rodriguez always is worthy of watching, but still this movie just didn't click as well as it could have simply because I've already seen what it's got.  6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Invasion of the Body Snatchers","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that this movie was worth the 3.75 I paid to rent it.  It was it was enjoyable even though it reminded me of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Aliens decend on and take over a small town with the exception of a few people who see through it.  I found it to be interesting and thrilling. The high schoolers for whom this movie was targeted would enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was OK as a standalone film but much more was expected from the From Dusk Til Dawn and Desperado director, Rodriguez. A mediocre film, a good rental but not a keeper. "}{"Title":"Watchable...but still pants","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had high hopes...by the team that made Scream, they said. I liked Robert Patrick's performance...but otherwise, i was disappointed. Scream was clever, funny, and stylish. This was shamelessly derivative, and didn't even make a very good joke about that (though they tried very hard to do so). I won't mention the plot...it's too predictable to bother. So, let's talk about where they nicked stuff from. The creatures in it have a tendency to do a lot of things which 'The Thing' did...like shoot out weird red tendrils etc...in fact, there is a bit where a head crawls about on little legs....hmmm, where did that come from?!?!. Oh, and also, they reproduce in water....and the ending was in a swimming pool! 'Gremlins' anybody?Well, I gave it a 5/10.   It was distinctly average. If you must watch (to pass the time, or whatever) wait for the video!  "},{"Title":"unoriginal to say the least....","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  gee...how original this movie ISN'T. first, you've got a stereotypical teen bunch straight out of the breakfast club. second, the plot is a direct rip-off of every sci fi paranoia flick from invasion of the body snatchers to the stepford wives. (there's a scene lifted right from john carpenter's version of the thing.) finally, the story plays out like dawson's creek meets the twilight zone, replete with no talent acting and alt rock soundtrack. just one question, what's tobey maguire doing in this piece of garbage? it's sure a long way from the ice storm. "},{"Title":"Silly and disappointing","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh what a shame! With such a promising cast and a plot with possibilities there should have been scope for such a great film.To begin with it seemed good. A bit of intrigue and slight tension. But oh how quickly it fell to Earth with a bang!! Mass hysteria all round, both on and in front of the screen, with typically daft screams etc.I'm afraid this film dropped in my estimation as soon as the effects started to get (over) used. A shame.   "},{"Title":"Theft is still a crime right?","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a horrible movie.  Bad.....perhaps, but not horrible.  Basically its just Kevin Williamson doing what he does best, taking parts from great movies and smashing them together to form a decent rip-off.  Sure, Scream was good and it revitalized the horror genre, but look at all the crap that it spawned I Still Know..., Urban Legend, even the often-mentioned Scream 2 was just a substandard rip-off of the original.I'd just like to take a stand right here and say that if I see one more movie where the big nasty at the end just happens to look like the xenomorph from Alien's twin brother, I'm going to demand my money back. The original design by H.R.Geiger was inspired, too bad nobody else seems to be.Besides the the alien design, my biggest problem with the movie has nothing to do with the cut-and-paste plot, but rather with the shotty camera work. If the theatre playing the movie aims it a little low on the screen you'll see that half the shots in the movie have the microphone clearly dipping into them.  The fact that nobody bothered to re-shoot the shots or digitally erase the microphones indicates to me that even the people making the film weren't very interested in it.I'm not going to go into detail about the obvious plot gaps and rip-offs in the film because they've pretty much been covered in other user comments, I'm just going to says that they are every bit as bad as the other commentors say they are.In the end, however, you're not likely to go to a movie like The Faculty expecting to see art in motion, you're going to go to see things blow up and to have some fun.  To this end The Faculty does its job, From Dusk 'till Dawn did it better, but The Faculty will still satisfy the anarchist lurking in all of us. "},{"Title":"Disney is scraping the bottom of the barrel...","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And once again, Dimension Films (a Disney company) has hit us again with its limited creativity.  If not the hippest teenagers in the world are being stalked by psycho-slashers, then they are being hunted down by aliens disguised as their school teachers.While the concept of the film sounds original, and the trailer for it gives that impression, the idea is only a new finish on the same old story.  The fact that the alien creatures live such simple lives (drink water, feed off of other organisms--and their goals are to continue doing just this and only this) is irrelevant to the methods used to victimize their prey.  A simplistic and barbaric creature suddenly has the capability to overtake a human being's body and mimic (wasn't that another similar film by Dimension) and memorize all his or her thoughts and behave just like them to entice the person's still human friends to infect them as well.  And the whole purpose is to conquer the world so everyone can swim and be free together. In short, the thing the alien creatures despise (human beings) are the only things that make them halfway intelligent--on their own, they're the same slimy tentacle flesh eating aliens we've been seeing popping up on the big screen a little more often than need be.  I'm hoping this will be the last this type of film for awhile (and I'm a huge sci-fi fan myself). ID4 can only be milked for so long.If you want to see a good, horrific alien film, rent Alien or Aliens.  Much more realistic and frightening. "},{"Title":"The Faculty - A waste of talent","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew long before I went to see The Faculty, that it probably would not be a classic.  But I thought, between Dusk til Dawn & Desperado director Robert Rodriguez and Scream/Dawson Creek writer Kevin Williamson, I could count on at least getting my 6 bucks worth.  I was wrong.  Everyone seems to be trying and the performances rank from acceptable to very good, but the material just isn't there.  Williamson has not written another Scream by any means.  I would be fine with that myself.  This movie felt rushed.  Despite its obvious flaws, it could have been so much better.  The entire first hour is almost pure set-up, and the pay off is terribly contrived and lame.  It almost felt like Williamson resents the audience of his films and this was some cruel joke on all of us.  And what of Robert Rodriguez?  His technical flair seems to have diminished.  Or perhaps the material was so lame, it gives him little to do.  I tend to want to believe the latter, because I expect much more from Rodriguez.  Perhaps its worse crime is the complete waste of acting talent.  We have some great actors from numerous generations represented.  Why waste Jon Stewart and Salma Hayek in such throw away rolls?  Robert Patrick repeats his T2 roll effectively and Bebe Neuwirth is pretty good when she gets a little screen time.  Piper Laurie I would have preferred to see in a sympathetic adult role instead of being reduced to roaming around the halls like a zombie.There are a few good points.  There are a few good jokes sprinkled through out, mostly provided by teens snorting some homemade crank-like powder and acting like morons.  The special effects are not painfully digital looking (most of the time).  And a few moments of suspense are to be found. Unfortunately it's just not worth other 90 minutes of complete and utter boredom.  If you must see this, wait til it goes to the bargain theater or video.  I would warn you also not to take a date to this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Faculty is badly paced and poorly researched.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever since Kevin Williamson somehow managed to create a fairly entertaining script (for Scream), he has been ripping himself off and doing the same thing again and again.  Unfortunately, he seems to do a worse job with each successive rewrite.  This film, a tribute/parody of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, seems to support this descending quality trend; it fails in almost every area.  First of all, the pacing is awful; what was tense the first time this plot was done is simply boring now.  Secondly, the clever references to the novels of Robert Heinlein and Jack Finney suggest very strongly that Williamson has never read the books...or even the Cliff's notes!  In fact, the only really redeeming feature of the film is a fairly nifty monster at the end.  Wait till this comes out on video, then use your fast forward button liberally.  "},{"Title":"I seriously cheered for the aliens in this movie!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't have much sympathy for the humans in this story at all.  In most Body Snatcher stories, when the humans get taken over, they're said to lose their humanity, their personality, their dreams, their artistic qualities, perhaps their emotions, etc.  But in this movie, the aliens seem to enhance the characters personality, not detract from it.  They liven up, start enjoying themselves and having fun.  They even become experts at delivering little one-liners (almost like a sitcom character).  What exactly is supposed to be the down side here?!  Within ten minutes of this movie I was seriously wishing the aliens would just hurry up and put everyone out of their misery.  I surrender!And one other thing-the line I only run when I'm being chased would have to rank as one of the most corniest plot-giveaway lines I have ever heard; especially as it's doesn't seem to make much sense on any level than as a plot-giveaway line! "},{"Title":"Dire and Tripe","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After directing two such masterpieces as Mariachi and Desperado, we see that Robert Rodriguez has to let his standards slip with choice of script. I know that one has to do something to earn a crust, but this is ridiculous. Not that I would say that there was anything wrong with the directing, but the plot was absolutely terrible. I'm not sure about what emotion one was supposed to feel for the main characters in this film but I, for one would quite liked to have seen most or (preferably) all of them dead. The idea of introducing characters into any film is surely to provoke an emotion from the viewer. We are supposed to connect with them. To feel for them. Especially if they are the supposed heroes in the film. In this effort the only emotion that I felt was of dislike. I didn't particularly want any of them to survive, so I felt betrayed. Humbug.The film that comes closest in concept to the Faculty is probably The Thing. A masterpiece. Excellent dialogue complete with compelling performances and a wonderful ending make this the definitive alien invasion film of choice. It was sad, therefore, to have to trawl through this muck in a vague effort to find something positively noteworthy. It seems that Hollywood will buy any old rope these days.Lets hope that the current trend for these teenage-based horror flicks is short lived and that the movie going public rescinds it's support. The Faculty aka Scream, aka I Know What You Did Last Summer, etcetera.. "},{"Title":"Nothing New","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to like Robert Rodriguez' movies. I liked Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn and especially his contribution to Four Rooms. But what Robert delivered with The Faculty is really a shame. Take the characters from The Breakfast Club, add the plot of The Body Snatchers, add some elements from The Thing, The Hidden and similar movies and what you get is a boring mixture of stuff you have seen many many times before. You know, when I read all the positive reviews I feel I'm getting old. It seems to me that all the positive reviews were written by persons who are that young that they don't know all the movie classics. Of course, a movie containing (stolen) ideas from several good films must seem brillant to them. It's just like listening to the radio - nothing new, just samples of former hits. A young boy told me how much he liked the song Once upon a time because of the nice theme. He didn't know that it had been sampled (stolen!) from the soundtrack of Once Upon A Time In The West. Well, to sum up all I can say is that if you are a film buff and have seen several hundreds of movies including all the classics, you really CAN afford to miss The Faculty and wait for a film that has something new to offer. "}{"Title":"An awful movie.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Terrible example for young high school students. Portrays violent and rude conduct by both genders as normal and cool. The source and intentions of the Aliens is never addressed, and so called special effects seem created only for their cheap shock value.  An entirely worthless film without a single redeeming quality.  "},{"Title":"Hypocrisy Most Brutal","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie?  Bah.  Nothing special, or even decent.  I enjoyed a few of the bit parts, but they didn't support the heavy, second rate thriller tactics. However, the scariness of the film is this  It's a watered down take on modern conformity put on by the clothing brand of the year, Tommy Hilfigger. It's a ninety-minute commercial for the clothing that has taken the nation by an artificial storm.  By presenting teens with a watered-down vision of being independent while wearing the same brand name, Tommy has hit upon a marketing strategy so brilliant and evil that it makes this reviewer look at third world countries with longing. "},{"Title":"Good idea!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked this movie because it's original in a way. I don't mean that the aliens taking over the world story is new, but the way they are trying to do it is very good. This movie has its horror parts but also it has some funny parts. I think that it's the first time crack can be used in a way which doesn't bother anyone. Some actors who play in this movie are, now really known all over the place, for example Elija Wood or even Usher, who doesn't have such a huge contribution but who gives the movie a sweeter look. You should watch it, preferably, at night just to try and keep the atmosphere spookier even if the movie doesn't provide the necessary chills of a horror film. "},{"Title":"Dire and Tripe","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After directing two such masterpieces as Mariachi and Desperado, we see that Robert Rodriguez has to let his standards slip with choice of script. I know that one has to do something to earn a crust, but this is ridiculous. Not that I would say that there was anything wrong with the directing, but the plot was absolutely terrible. I'm not sure about what emotion one was supposed to feel for the main characters in this film but I, for one would quite liked to have seen most or (preferably) all of them dead. The idea of introducing characters into any film is surely to provoke an emotion from the viewer. We are supposed to connect with them. To feel for them. Especially if they are the supposed heroes in the film. In this effort the only emotion that I felt was of dislike. I didn't particularly want any of them to survive, so I felt betrayed. Humbug.The film that comes closest in concept to the Faculty is probably The Thing. A masterpiece. Excellent dialogue complete with compelling performances and a wonderful ending make this the definitive alien invasion film of choice. It was sad, therefore, to have to trawl through this muck in a vague effort to find something positively noteworthy. It seems that Hollywood will buy any old rope these days.Lets hope that the current trend for these teenage-based horror flicks is short lived and that the movie going public rescinds it's support. The Faculty a.k.a. Scream, a.k.a. I Know What You Did Last Summer etcetera.. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Abominable","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I won't waste much of my time to tell you that this movie is the worst I have ever seen and couldn't wait to get out of the theatre. I also sent a letter of complaint to the theatre telling them of my disgust. No wonder our kids become screwed up with movies like this. I tell everyone I see not to view this movie. The language is foul and totally out of place. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Invasion of the Body Snatchers in a high school setting. It wears its references on its sleeve, and there's a lot of discussion of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and even a couple of huge references to The Thing. The cast is quite good (amongst others, Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Robert Patrick, Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth, Famke Janssen, Salma Hayek and Jon Stewart, who would start hosting The Daily Show within a few days of this movie's debut), though the stereotypical teenage characters are sometimes bland (of course, the movie plays so much with the concept of stereotypes that I don't think anything is done unironically). It also has a really cool monster. Definitely a fun flick. "},{"Title":"Prejudiced","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must warn ahead that I love Jon Stewart. To see him in this film was a surprise. I was just channel flipping and all of a sudden I heard that voice.This movie probably is pretty lame, but just the fact that Jon was in it makes me give it 8 stars. I watched the parts with Jon in it and that is about it. I don't know why he thinks he is a lousy actor. He's funny as all get out.I did warn that this is prejudiced.Elijah Wood is pretty creepy in everything he does, so, no points there. Selma Hayak!? Wow, what a surprise! I am convinced that the people who are in this movie chose to do so because when they were in high school themselves, they were convinced that their teachers were aliens. That has to be it.But....Jon...with a goatee, no less. Nice. "},{"Title":"Names galore in this under the radar horror","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just as was alluded to in the movie itself, this was Invasion of the Body Snatchers/Puppetmaster revisited. The key in remaking/revisiting a movie that has been done already is to shake it up a bit. This movie had all of the cliché teen roles with a bit of misdirection for the conclusion. But I must say that one of the things that shocked me most was the sheer amount of known faces in the movie. Frodo (Elijah Woods), Jean Gray (Famke Jannsen), T2 (Robert Patrick), Slevin (Josh Hartnett), Lillith from Cheers (Bebe Neuwirth), Shooter McGavern (Christopher McDonald), Jon Stewart, Frida Kahlo (Salma Hayak), Usher. I had no idea all of these names starred in the same movie. I liked the movie, how it went, and how it ended. Very cool. "},{"Title":"'The Faculty'... More Like 'The Facade'","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Science Fiction films are truly unique in regards to their unbridled potential to comment on, and question the world in which we live. Due to their other worldly elements, truly powerful and subversive ideas can be embedded in a well-executed Science Fiction film. 1998's The Faculty is not one of those films. In fact this Sceam-If you Know What I did Last Varsity Blues of a movie not only does not question authority, as it's trailer would have you believe it does, but rather it plays an active role in reinforcing the dominant ideology. On the surface level this film seems to be advocating against conformity. The outsiders, in this case very thirsty slug/squid/alien/parasites take over the minds and bodies of their human hosts. Starting with the high school's teaching staff, the aliens begin turning everyone into fairly emotionless drones, all acting in unison with the common goal of infecting everyone in the school, then the town, then the world? It's then up to our out-cast heroes, who for one reason or another figured out that something just wasn't right to save the world. So this seems like some pretty counter culture stuff right? Clearly the authoritative conformists are presented as the enemy, and the free-thinkers are the ones we're meant to root for. Unfortunately this is not as a result of the film maker's illicit intentions. In fact the only subversion that seeps into this film comes from the fact that it is more or less a watered down version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers, a film that actually was saying something at the time it was made. The fact of the matter is that this film in many ways is endorsing conformity. One example arises when we learn that Clea DuVall's character 'Stokely' has lead the school to believe that she is a lesbian, so that people would leave her to herself. Many of the main characters, including those whom we're meant to identify with, treat this subject with toxicity. Their treatment of this guise is homophobic at best, and when we learn that she is not in fact a lesbian, and actually really likes the star quarterback, we're presented with a cinematic sigh of relief that this character wasn't actually that far from the status quo. Further dominant socialization steps in when we examine the ending of this film. Our pretend lesbian Stokely, who in the beginning of the film dressed in dark makeup and black clothing, now is dressed up in her Tommy Hilfiger clothing and is dating the quarterback. Little Elisha Wood has stopped looking like the nerd he was at the beginning of the film and is now looking like everyone else, cool also wearing his Tommy Hilfiger clothing. But wait&#133; now that you mention it they all seem to be wearing Tommy Hilfiger clothing. Everyone&#133; the same&#133; "},{"Title":"Best Studio Sell Out Ever! EVER!!","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robert Rodriguez, best known for the startling dichotomy of the Mariachi trilogy to the Spykids trilogy, makes studio teen horror cool here. With a cast that can't be beat, including my favorite actress of all time Famke Janssen, and a script that holds together despite its far-out premise, this movie has all the makings of a repeat viewing attraction. Most of the young cast, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea Duvall, have gone on to great careers, and it kind of started here. Add in veterans like Robert Patrick, Bebe Neuwerth, Salma Hayek, and my all time favorite actress Famke Janssen, and it all clicks. The movie has enough thrills and chills to keep most horror fans engaged, and enough of a sci-fi premise to have the nerds drooling. Plus some partial nudity and a lot of sex talk adds a lot. I always enjoy this flick, seeing as its on television every few months. It never gets old, kind of like The One and Drop Dead Gorgeous. As for it being a sell-out, it was Rodriguez's first major studio flick, and had the master of sell-out Kevin Williamson writing it. But it still rocks. "}{"Title":"Excellent! Mighty! Superb!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh, what a great, fresh and not banal work! And, what a brilliant cast - Patrick, Hartnett, Wood, Hayek, many others. I remember watching this film for the first time and it deeply thrilled me, marveled and enchanted. I remember I really wanted to know who that terrible monster was, the one that infected everybody else with those sleamy worms. What is good, this film is not a cliché, banal or beaten one. Nay, you watch it with a constant interest and suspense. The plot is impeccable - a typical American school, with its Lovelace, outcasts (the one played admirably well by young Elijah Wood), Gothic girls, bullies and sportsmen; and this school is infected with atrocious worms that control the brain and then the whole staff and the students start to behave well and drink water in terrible quantities. The main hero, played by Wood, with the group of unlikely pals, starts a struggle against them all. Their adventures are blood-chilling - we see the fight with the Biology teacher, and the excellent banters with other teachers and students. Finally, the climatic ending comes to us like a powerful steamroller - the main monster is a lovely blond girl who was with Wood all the time and who was beyond the suspicion. She turns to a sleamy huge monster and it takes many efforts and some deaths to stop her in the end. Wow, this is a real winner, as well as the majestic OSD. Great film, all in all. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The creature effects are cool, the story works. The cast works. The characters were likable for the most part, even though there are some character issues in this. It's very funny at points and very scary at points. This movie delivers on both, it's exciting, it's cool, it's just plan great. I don't know what the critics say, but I think the director did a great job. I couldn't wait until they got to the queen monster, in my opinion one cool monster. Plus there is a bit of a mystery, who is the queen monster. A must see if you like alien invasion movies and if you like INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS, then you'll love THE FACULTY. I give it...9 STARS "},{"Title":"How many times have you wondered if your teachers were aliens?","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every kid thinks that one of their teachers is an alien. Well, in The Faculty, the kids discover that they are right! Casey (Elijah Wood), Zeke (Josh Hartnett), Delilah (Jordana Brewster), Stokely (Clea Duvall), Stan (Sean Hatosy), and Marybeth (Laura Harris) learn that their teachers have been taken over by aliens who dwell in water and take over the teachers bodies! Now it's up to the six of them to keep the world safe from alien domination! This movie is fun and cool. The students are played by some of today's hottest and coolest actors. They make up the unlikely collection of nerds, jocks, goths, cheerleaders, and the new kid. They play their parts well. The teachers are great too, played by Famke Janssen,Robert Patric, Bebe Neuwirth, and Piper Laurie. They play the aliens with a seductive, almost sexy way, especially Famke Janssen. A great movie to put in and watch. See it, it's awesome!! "},{"Title":"The Alien Generation - guaranteed to jack you up","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's just begin by saying that the classic concept of body-snatching aliens is something that either works like a charm or fails miserably to ignite your fire. Fortunately for the Faculty, the setting (a rather shabby high school somewhere in Ohio *I think*) and the story (aliens slowly taking over the world, starting with the faculty, then on to the students... a good idea, if you think about it, pretty believable I mean) give this film some credibility and the amusement factor is high. And I say, high. An excellent cast - this goes for the young blood playing the crazy cocktail of highschool stereotypes as well as the veteran actors who portray their teachers - and cleverly used special effects make this movie a must-see. My favourite teachers were Robert Patrick's menacing, creepy coach Willis and two thumbs up for Famke Janssen's awesome transformation as Ms Burke. As for the youngsters; Elijah Wood and Josh Hartnett as well as Clea DuVall did a great job.I felt especially sorry for Casey at the beginning of the movie. That pole-bashing thing - ouch! Anyway, you won't regret watching it so hurry to the videostore. Now! "},{"Title":"SCREAM with aliens!","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off I would just like to say THE FACULTY is just pure fun! Every time I see this movie, it just gets better & better! The film is just pure fun from beginning to end, heck even the back ground scenes which normally wouldn't be of interest in any other film, actually manages to being just as entertaining as what is going on between the main characters! Admittedly the film really is just a direct to video B movie plot, given a theatrical treatment. In fact, the film is very similar to the less satisfying teen thriller DISTURBING BEHAVIOR, with a group of teens combating a deadly take over at their high school. Heck there's even a similar scene where the nerd has the porno magazines, which are stashed under his mattress, taken by his parents who thinks he is losing his mind once he confronts them with his theory that the staff & students at his school are turning into aliens. THE FACULTY has been best described as being THE BREAKFAST CLUB meets INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS & I feel that description is pretty much accurate, we have Dan the football jock, the new kid in Mary Beth, the southern pretty girl next door, Delilah the stuck up school cheerleader, Skeet the drug dealer, Casey the nerd, the school outcast Stokley, while this might have come off as being stale in terms of the characterizations, the fact is the characters in many ways while embracing these stereotypes, actually making them work far beyond that. The script by KEVIN WILLIAMSON is really smart, hip, edgy, funny, sexy & scary & boasts his usual trademarks, most notably in the characters referencing other films in the genre (which I will get into) having a character named Casey & even acknowledges some character names from his previous films, Mr. Tate the high school history teacher is a knowing nod to Kari Tate, the name Jamie Lee Curtis character went under in HALLOWEEN H20. The direction is really good here, while ROBERT RODRIGUEZ usual hype & stylish directorial flourishes are somewhat limited here, he manages to keep the film going at a fairly decent pace & makes sure there is always something going on behind camera to keep the audiences attention. He also manages to build suspense, tension & atmosphere beautifully, as well as delivering several gross out creepy scenes. The acting is strong here, with each actor managing to make the character they are playing all the more interesting. The score by MARCO BELTRAMI is pretty decent, however it sounds just to much like SCREAM.The film acknowledges many others, one of the kids is reading ORPHANS IN THE SKY & the film makes mention of the films INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS by Jack Finney & the lesser known THE PUPPET MASTERS by Robert A. Heinlein (from which one character cleverly mentions how Invasion actually swiped the plot from Heinlein's novel) however noticeably it forgets to mention INVADERS FROM MARS & NOT OF THIS EARTH, both films of which bared similar plots to Invasion & Puppet Masters. Another film that is paid loving tribute to is THE THING (1982), in fact there are two scenes that were pulled from that film & inserted into this films plot, the first being the sequence towards the end of the movie, wherein the small group who are aware of the invasion, force each other to snort a home made drug in order to prove they are not aliens, after they learn that this particular drug will kill the aliens, which pays tribute to the scene when Kurt Russell forced his team to take a blood test to detect amongst them who is an alien & who is not & the second which sees one of the faculty members teachers lose her head after a failed attack on a student, only to have her head sprout tentacles & move across the ground. The special effects are really good, with a mix of practical & CGI effects, check out the queen alien in monster form! The gore is good, which includes a pencil in the hand & a vicious stabbing with a pair of scissors, a needle to the eye, a gun shot to the head, & a badly decomposing teachers scalp is torn from her skull, plus lots of alien guck is shot around. Best of all, the film has some really clever plot twists & turns which abound throughout the film & one really cares for the characters & their fates, which is not something one can say about most genre films. ROBERT PATRICK is especially fun as the hard headed high school gym coach who winds up being taken over by the tentacled beastie & JOSH HARTNETT really shines in his role of the local drug dealer who sells everything from videos of Neve Campbell (SCREAM) & Jennifer Love Hewitt (I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER) in the nude, from drugs, fake ID's & even flavoured condoms! All in all, while the film did nowhere near the business that SCREAM did & while the film is pretty much been forgotten about amongst horror fans, lost in the endless batch of 1990's teen horror films, I feel that THE FACULTY deserves so much better than what it has gotten, the film is in my humble opinion one of the top ten best horror films ever released in the 90's. An absolute must see if you want to catch a really fun horror flick, Highly recommended! **** stars "},{"Title":"Looks very dumb by preview but...","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" *the following DOES contain spoilers* When you see the trailer for this movie and you 14-18(like me) you will most likely think it is one of the dumbest movie that will ever come out, well, you'd be wrong. The Faculty is a very fun film and at some points does get kinda scary. The car scene where Zeke hurls Ms. Burke or whateverhernameis out the window and her head get torn of, and she PUTS IT BACK ON...that's just plain creepy. This movie is also very questioning at points and a bit surprising. You think you know everything about whats happening and BOOM!, you get hit with something new. With good acting, good special effects, and above all just plain fun, this movie is definitely worth seeing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I hate to say it, but I loved this movie.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is a bad movie, but it's campy, and when a movie is campy enough there's just no way not to like it. Rodriguez knows full well how campy it is and runs with it, resulting in a funny, fast-paced movie with a real 80's feel to it (thank God). He's also fortunate to have a very talented bunch of actors who understand what type of movie they're in and play their parts to perfection.The opening scene is at once hilarious and bizarre, letting you know right off the bat what you're in for. The subsequent transformation of the teachers and students into aliens is done in a very Shaun of the Dead type way, and the climactic scene where the kids have to protect themselves by doing drugs is so... well, I don't know what the hell it is, but it's funny. There's also some great suspense scenes and an ending twist that I didn't see coming at all.If I had one real complaint about this movie, it's that it doesn't live up to its potential. The faculty are mighty underdeveloped for having the movie named after them, and I think it would have been a lot funnier (and scarier) if the movie focused on them more, both before and after they become aliens. There's also a VERY cool idea that science fiction in general was invented by aliens to accustom humans to the idea of being invaded, but it's just briefly mentioned and never brought up again. But these are petty complaints. The movie is fine just the way it is, and makes for an enjoyable two hours. I give it 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining... one must say.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recently I have grown more skeptical about these films and last night I watched this only because I had nothing else to do. But it turned out quite fun in the end. Rodriguez's unique style that I admire so much is in full bloom. And another thing I must mention is its sticking onto a straight line. It doesn't include useless sequences or side-stories. It showed what it's supposed to show and that should satisfy the target audience.Well, there is not much gore to speak of, yet Rodriguez presents us a few terrifying scenes. There are interesting plot twists, especially the crucial one in the end. The film features a bunch of good yet not-so-famous actors who did their parts nicely. To mention some of them, I include Robert Patrick, Famke Janssen among the teachers and Jordana Brewster and Josh Hartnett among the students.The soundtrack is quite cool and includes Creed's cover of I'm eighteen, Kid's aren't alright by The Offspring and a brilliant cover of Another brick in the wall by the act 'Class of 99' which includes Tom Morello etc. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining teen-sci-fi B-Movie.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Writer Kevin Williamson (Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer) and director Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, Spy Kids) make excellent collaborators with this highly entertaining high-school-set thriller. The plot concerns alien beings invading the staff, with a band of teenagers as the heroes. The teens are, of course, mismatched to represent all of the different social cliques, and we get all of the usual Breakfast-Club characters, but the cast is actually very watchable. Josh Hartnett first made waves in his role as the Burnout, Elijah Wood is excellent as the geek, and Jordanna Brewster is totally sexy as the Miss Popular. Both Williamson and Rodriguez were hot young properties in Hollywood when THE FACULTY was released (and both have since lost some steam); the result is great stuff for sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good teen flick.","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Spoilers*Okay, so Elijah Wood's just finished being Frodo and Josh Hartnett has made a bunch of movies with Harrison Ford. Ever wondered how these teens all got started? Let me tell you about The Faculty...A bunch of aliens come to a high school, and start to lure the teachers, then move onto the the students. Elijah Wood and Jordana Brewster witness a teacher being transformed/changed, but nobody will believe them when they tell them. Cue sci-fi reader Clea DuVall, who poses as a lesbian (I don't know why, she just does), a random kid who's good at sports, Josh Hartnett the drug dealer and this sweet (seemingly innocent) new girl. It's just them against the school, what do you expect?The Faculty is a surprisingly good film from Robert Rodriguez. Packed with an all-star cast including those people I mentioned, as well as Salma Hayek, Piper Laurie, Bebe Neuwirth, Christopher McDonald, Usher, and, get this, Summer Phoenix, this film was a lot better than I was expecting. The acting talent, directing, and all that weren't amazing, but they'll do, the film's entertaining.Just a shame that I was never really scared...My rating 9/10 "}{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For me this was an interesting retrospective look at some of the actors in it, as some reappear in the Lord of the Rings, the Fast and The Furious, and O, Pearl Harbor. So it was interesting for me to see the film that was of these actors before they were stars of which they are now. I liked this film very much, though I was short. It was an interesting look at the theory many kids have when they are young that teachers are aliens. This film had some really good acting, and I thought the use of the drugs in this movie was intelligent to show them as not a horrible thing but a thing that does good. The mode in this film is something I really like, considering most of the horror films I have seen in the past have made me laugh instead of making me wet my pants. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those films(unlike I Know What You Did Last Summer)that ages well. Watching it again,you realize that the film really knew what it's specific audience wants. The films of the teen slasher genre at the time started to liven up thanks to great witty dialogue,rather good acting,and keen observations on how teens felt and spoke. This film has all of those essential ingredients and succeeds. First,the direction is exciting,well paced,and fresh. Second,the actors(such as Josh Hartnett,Clea Duvall,and Elijah Wood)are all at their best bringing a little extra to what could've been simple stereotypes. But,the dialogue and observations of our teen 90's breakfast club is what is winning when it comes to this film. The visual effects are excellent,but the style is what makes the film pop. So kudos to Robert Rodriguez for the directing,Kevin Williamson for the scripting,and the cast who brought the film to life. ****/***** "},{"Title":"This is a Brilliant film","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is brilliant i love it from start to finish , it has plenty of cute lads in it too like elijah wood and josh hartnet, but i prefer elijah wood he is brilliant in it. And im glad he's the one to save the day. if you want a exciting film from start to finish rent or buy this you wont be disapointed.I'm glad i watched it. "},{"Title":"This is the best teenage horror flick ever!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie contains everything that a teenager is looking for in a horror film.  The movie has new actors that add to the affect on the watcher. Such as, Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood who somewhat began their acting careers with this movie.  This film is a great one to watch if you liked movies like The Rage Carrie 2 because of the scary affects and pop-out horror sequences.  Overall this movie is a great one to view and I give it 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"something every human being must see","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was one of the best teen horror movies I have seen. It had everything the classy, witty lines, the music that makes you jump, the suspence, the action, the drama, the cleverness, the actors (especially Elijah Wood and Laura Harris), the laughs, even a bit of romance. This is what all movies should be like, and it was worth the viewing. Definantly a must see for anyone who isn't mentally retarded or has a phobia of aliens or cussing. "},{"Title":"its just your fate, your that geeky stephen king kid, theres one of you in every school.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  one of the hottest missed teen horrors of the 90's.It should be up there with scream and is far better than i know what you did last summer.This is cool, clever and unitentionaly funny.The quirky quotes,  sarcasum and one liners made me laugh to myself.with a great teen cast who play a team of outcasts, misfits and trouble makers.elijah wood as geeky casey.josh hartnett as mysterious, smalltime drug dealer zeke.jordana brewster as bitchy cheerleader, delia.laura harris as sweet newgirl mary-beth.clea duvall as gay,outcast stokes.shawn hatowsy as troubled jock, stan.the alieans are taking over our school thing isnt the same as in other films.It doesnt have a sickley ending either.it also has a great adult cast, including piper laurie (carries mom).this is a must see film for teens and fun loving adults and it is just scary enough for horror lovers too!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films!","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the greatest teen horror film! The cast are brilliant, especially Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Clea DuVall and Laura HarrisIt's funny, exciting, scary and shocking. A beautiful collection of people making a film which isn't demanding or overwhelming, but still worth the 10+ times I've seen it!  "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin Williamson reinvented the teen-slasher films in mid-nineties. Scream was original, entertaining and funny. But then came movies like Urban Legend and I Know What You Did Last Summer (not to mention the sequels!) and the genre started to repeat itself. In my opinion, there has been only two original outings since Scream The Faculty and Final Destination. The Faculty borrows material from the body snatcher-films, but it only does so with the parasite thing. By moving that idea to this genre (teen slasher that is, not horror in general) and getting people like Rodriguez and Williamson to work on it, I think they've created a fun and extremely entertaining thrill ride. The excellent cast and brilliant photography stand out. It was very fresh to see something else for a change on a genre that was dominated by masked stalkers. I recommend.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"exciting movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason I rented this movie is because Danny Masterson was in it. In the end I wasnt even interested in seeing him because the film was so interesting. This film was a suspense film, it had its very scary moments. I recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable,but nothing really groundbreaking.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is nothing more than another Hollywood's teen horror which borrows unshamedly some elements from Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Thing.The film lacks suspense and wit,there's almost no gore-fortunately the cast is clearly having fun with the subject matter.The special effects are generally okay,but some of them look goofy.The acting is pretty good,the script written by vastly overrated Kevin Williamson(Scream)isn't original and all the characters are shallow.Still the film is enjoyable to watch and better than many Hollywood's horror movies of the 90's!7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The Faculty, or Invasion of the Teacher Snatchers, is a fitfully entertaining sci-fi/horror film that confirms every student's belief kids are from Earth, teachers from Mars.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It gets off to a rousing start as we meet the students and teachers of Herrington High School. Drug deals are going down in the parking lot, fights are breaking out all over, teachers are sneaking nips from flasks and the school nurse seems to be tripping on something. Everyone at Herrington has a foul mouth and/or an encyclopedic knowledge of the history of movies. Is it possible that Hollywood rising star Kevin Williamson has done it again? Has he written another Scream? No such luck. The Faculty is better than I Know What You Did Last Summer, but isn't as sharp as the screamer that started it all. Aliens have landed in Herrington, Ohio and are infiltrating the populace. The principal, Ms. Drake (a funny Bebe Neuwirth), is converted by the football coach (Robert Patrick), who is in cahoots with the drama teacher, Mrs. Olson (Piper Laurie). The body snatching is accomplished by some creepy-crawly organisms that enter the host organism through the ear. No cumbersome pods to worry about. Our hero turns out to be the nerdy Casey (Elijah Wood), pure bully-bait, who is brutalized by just about everyone on campus except the sickly sweet Marybeth. She's a transfer student from down south with a mint julep accent. Casey's eventual allies are punky Stokely, campus queen/cheerleader/school-paper editor Delilah, star quarterback Stan and flunky drug dealer Zeke, who just happens to be a closet rocket scientist. In the beginning, it's kids vs. adults, but then the aliens start looking for younger blood. It's disappointing that The Faculty degenerates into a routine game of alien hide-and-seek, with a familiar special effects display as back up. The fertile themes of peer pressure and teen alienation are swept away with the appearance of drooling monsters, Sigourney Weaver-rejects. Director Robert Rodriquez, who burst upon the Hollywood scene with the energetic El Mariachi, provides some pep, as does the likable cast. Maybe Williamson, the screenwriter du jour, should spend a little more time on his homework.   "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A high school and eventually the citizens of a small football town seem to not be themselves lately. It appears they have been token over by an alien and the few remaining outcasts have to find a way to stop it before it takes over the world. Tightly edited, hip, happening horror / sci.-fi flick with style to burn, memorable dialogue, and a great cast.Rated R; Violence & Profanity.  "},{"Title":"Best Thriller Of The 90's","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm quite an 80's music & movies buff, but The Faculty has to be the best thriller yet, it has a highly detailed screenplay, along with that *true* thriller feeling, combined with suspense (the first time you watched Freddy Kruger as a child). The storyline is competent & scientific, which makes it appealing to people of all ages. "},{"Title":"I didn't expect to be impressed.......","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been waiting for a while to be able to see this movie.I finally got to watch it.Now, when the movie first came out, it looked REALLY good!Then, I started watching commercials for it on T.V. and it looked really disgusting and INCREDIBLY stupid!But, I decided to watch it anyway since I had been wanting to see it!I was impressed!Although, the script was not very good, the special effects and acting made up for it!It is all around good movie!And, thanks goes to the casting director for putting Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood in this movie(they rule)!I give The Faculty a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Whats all the fuss?","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sheesh reading the comments here you'd think this was nominated for an academy award...Say it with me people MOVIES ARE ENTERTAINMENT.  Yes we are all aware that this is a blatant ripoff of 'bodysnatchers' just as we all know that the end to ID4 was a pretty poor ripoff of the end of Return of the Jedi....DO WE CARE? NO!!!! I was still entertained. It's hollywood fluff...to all the people who express dissapointment with Rodriguez....sorry but 'Dusk til Dawn' wasn't exactly an inductee to the hall of fame either.NOW, to the point, we all know what its about we all know whos in it (I personally had Hartnett pegged as a rising star after H20 but thats another story). This movie is more hollywood fluff agreed, but it's bringing that fluff to a new audience, my 15 year old cousin has never seen 'The Breakfast Club' and probably never will. She isn't interested in seeing 'old' movies. If you had visions of renting out the cinematic version of War and Peace then give yourself an uppercut.IF, however you just want to watch a decent rainy Sunday afternoon, popcorn in the mouth, couple of beers, no brainer that'll give you a decent watch, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"I COMPLETLY ADORE THIS FILM!!!!!!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie. To me it's the only of the new wave of teen horrors to match if not surpass Scream. Since its more of a teen sci fi horror it's also slightly more original than stuff like Urban Legend. The performances are good, the direction is wonderful, the script if you're a Williamson fan is good if you're not still pretty good and the score is great. Now I know this review probably comes across as one of those gushy teen movie fan reviews but believe me this movie is great. Trust. Rent it and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"OK Film","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Replicating parasites, hot chick big boobs, this movie has it all, NOT!  I rated this film at a 6, it has a halfway decent plot and some cool effects here and there.  It also has a cool soundtrack, that weighed heavily on the 6 rating, not a 5.  See what you think, and email me your vote... "},{"Title":"Teen Version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not awful nod to the Invasion of the Body Snatchers has high school boy beleiving that the students and faculty of his school have been possesed by aliens and that he and his misfit friends must stop them before they take over the world.  While not bad, the movie goes on too long and remains shaky in some places where the dialogue and acting are weak. "},{"Title":"Or, 10 Things I Hate about Body Snatchers","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was perfect for Saturday morning viewing.  Don't want to exert yourself at that time and this mindless B-horror movie is a perfect alternative to cartoons or wrestling. Also you are in no danger of losing too many brain cells.  That's a rave, as far as I am concerned.  The fact that none of the young actors are outwardly annoying and all seem to have a modicum of talent, at least, says a lot in my book.  Normally I am rooting for them to be devoured.  The veterans in the cast seem to be having fun as well.  This would make a good double-bill with Stranger Invaders, if anyone know what a double-bill is anymore.  "},{"Title":"good could have been great","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With a tighter script, this could have been a classic - Rodriguez's flights of fancy are repeatedly, if I may say so under IMDb guidelines, beaten down by extended scenes of static exposition, implausible plot mechanics, and the dictates of genre.  But THE FACULTY is still terrific - a proper horror with proper scares and restrained, justified self-referentiality; an excellent teen-pic centring on recurrent fears about conformity, independence, authority figures and sexual awakening.Just because you keep referencing INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS (love the switch to 'books', Kev!), doesn't mean you're not INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS.  For better or worse, society and cinema has become less political, so instead of panic about reds or McCarthy, we have more general fears (task-force modernisation etc.).  But these are still valid.  The thing about this conformity is that in a way it is collective, erasing class, racial and generational boundaries; it sees itself as a force for good, a way of making the alienated, the abused, the geeky fit in with the nice people.  The film's whole conflict centres on a verbal pun, aliens versus the alienated.  The conformity is only quelled when the disparate outsiders form a group, a sort of conformity in itself (it's no surprise that an ultra-conformist is the first to be revealed as bogus).The film gives an alarming picture of life in American high schools, which doesn't seem that far-fetched to me now, having seem some documenataries exposing this metonymic environment.  As you would expect, there is the usual, horribly violent, bullying of the clever; the cruel taunting of the different; the apotheosis and corruption-enabling of the football team. Even within this latter unit, there is rupture and doubt, as one star-player sees the system's fraud for what it is, sees how it makes a mockery of his own self-worth.But the students aren't the only dissatisfied ones.  The teachers are so disillusioned by the favouritism of the football gods at the expense of their own subjects, that they turn to drink, 'medication', arid sarcasm, and general indifference.  This is perhaps an indictment of a system that fails its hypersmart kids, but we rarely get to see the teachers' side.  So when the alien horrors begin, it's not just an allegory, like BODY SNATCHERS, for a cruel conformity that already exists, but shows up the failure of a certain kind of current conformity.One could say that the film is just a catch-all expression of a certain, rather smug, alienated adolescent mindset; that the whole world is out to get you, from your peers, the girls you fancy, to teachers, parents, police. The profusion of narcotics strengthens this interpretation, the idea that all events are one big bad trip (there is a delightfully subversive subtext here which seems to contradict Richard Ashcroft).  This would explain the lumping of every enemy figure together.  The fundamental misogyny would be typical of teenage boys still at the episcopal-bashing stage.  There are some excellent rites revealing tensions within the group, where the individualism of mistrust threatens to explode the resistance.  But resistance to what?  What is the coda bitterly suggesting?What is most enjoyable about FACULTY is its rejection of current accepted horror practice, based on the slashers of the 80s, where the emphasis is very much on editing.  There are, of course, some jolting cuts here (Rodriguez is, after all, the best editor in the business), but the best scenes are a result of careful compositon, striking, haunting images and an intelligent use of space (the almost army-camp restriction to campus reminds one of Ferrera's BODY SNATCHERS), which owes more to the Universal horrors of the 1930s, the B-movies of the 1950s and Romero's allegories - the LIVING DEAD-like scenes of faceless mob attack are truly frightening yet very funny. "}{"Title":"Great film. Not scary, but endlessly entertaining.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now this I like! Sure, it's not scary, but it's so entertaining that it doesn't matter! The performances are perfectly suited, the homage seen to the test in The Thing is hilarious, and the film never takes itself seriously for one minute. This helps the film, and keeps me in a very good mood throughout. I remember how pleased I was when I exited the theatre after viewing it, and having rewatched it numerous times on VCR, my opinion stays the same. And then there is the cast! Robert Patrick is great as ha gets to poke fun at his T-1000 images, Famke Janssen, Salma Hayek and the rest are really good too. The only thing I dislike is the musical score by Marco Brambilla, who also scored Scream. Why would they keep hiring him when his scores are such CRAP?! I can make a better score with my guitar and synthesizer alone! But other than that, the film gets highest recommendation from yours truly, see it, again and again, you'll find something new to like about it every time. At least I do. "},{"Title":"Hollywood strikes again...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is another commercial,suspenseless production made in Hollywood.The script by so-called master Kevin Williamson is mediocre-the first forty minutes or so were captivating and interesting enough to keep my attention.The rest of the film was stupid-it was basically a blatant copy of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers.The acting is so-so,there are some nice performances by Elijah Wood,Famke Janssen,Robert Patrick etc.It's a pity that most of the characters in this movie are one-dimensional(I liked only the characters of Casey,Mary Beth or even Delilah-sometimes!).All in all,this is an average movie slightly better than overrated Scream or ridiculous Urban Legend.Nothing spectacular.Nowadays horror movies rely more on expensive special effects than suspense or gore-this is bad and Kevin Williamson should have known this. "},{"Title":"Robert Rodriguez Is Fading Fast...","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the stellar El Mariachi, Rodriguez has virtually fallen off the map of serious film artists.This final step in his downfall I'm writing this before the debut of his soon~to~be~released~and~forgotten Spy Kids is a blatant rip~off of Heinlein's The Puppet Masters and Jack Finney's The Body Snatchers.Sure, it features gorgeous high school babes and some cool adult actors Bebe Neuwirth, Jon Stewart, Piper Laurie, Salma Hayek, Robert Patrick, et al, but in the end I wanted to scour the basement for my copy of Siegel's classic.Ho hum. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good, just okay","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this to be a very, very light take on the old Puppet Masters/Bodysnatchers idea. First of all, there's nothing new in it at all really, the idea is exactly the same as it's illustrious forebears and the whole 'setting it in a high school for the teen audience' thing is getting a little hackneyed but it was pretty enjoyable all the same. The ever watchable Elijah Wood puts in a decent performance amongst a huge cast of well-known faces, some of which have pathetically little to do. There's Salma Hayek, who really should tell Robert Rodriguez not to bother casting her any more, who has approximately 3 scenes, Famke Janssen, (about 4), Christopher MacDonald (2 minutes), Usher Raymond (less than a music video) and so on and so on. Bebe Neuwirth and Robert Patrick have a bit more to do but the rest is left to the 6 teen leads who basically wander around doing very little except looking at people suspiciously in slow motion. The fact that the faculty itself is nailed in the first couple of scenes and their cover blown just as quickly leads the film into it's climactic showdown a little too early. I would have preferred a slower, less intense takeover by the aliens which would have allowed more room for minor characters and a bit of are they/aren't they thought from the good guys. Instead they're convinced in a couple of minutes of what they see as an invasion and there's no going back from there. One nice surprise was the ending itself though which combined a funny (If violent) football game, some great special effects (So THATS where the budget went) and the revelation of who the 'mother creature' really is which, due to some clever finger pointing throughout the film, comes as something of a surprise (To me anyway). The requisite love stories and final romantic pairings are so pathetically unlikely though that I can only assume that they are a joke in the film. Not only have the couples been less than couply, some of them seemed to be the complete opposites at the start of the film! Anyway, I'd recommend it as a nice way to spend 90 minutes but let someone else pay the rental cost as you may feel a little ripped off by the end otherwise. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but very entertaining","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some of the things I mention might be considered SPOILERS.Yet another horror film from the pen of Kevin Williamson. It is certainly not as good as Scream, but so much better than I Know What You Did Last Summer. The Faculty is a very entertaining film with surprisingly interesting characters. But, like so many horror films, this movie is not scary. That is of course a huge flaw when you expect to see a scary film. And the ending where we get to see the queen parasite in all her glory is just a bit too much&#133; Why couldn't they have left it to the viewer's imagination? It's just so silly, and it would have been a better film if they had just let us see the queen as a human being, which is more scary too me. It's like that slimey skeleton smoking a cigarette in Hellraiser -- it just makes you laugh. I honestly think that only a few films, the Alien-series for example, can actually pull the monster thing off, in other films it turns out to destroy the experience of the movie.However, The Faculty is non-stop entertainment according to me, many flaws, of course, but I still think it's worth to watch. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Kevin rules!","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is great, i'm so sorry i didn't see it at the cinema. As always in Williamson's great scripts, there are many references to other movies, in this case alien movies. The story is very suspenceful and realistic in a way, because the characters make sense. It was kind of creepy how, at a certain point, no one could be trusted and they had to take SKAT pills to prove it, everyone was a suspect. The beginning is the most scary part of the film, it's a bit gory. This movie is a must-see if you liked Scream. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse, but I've also seen better.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've never seen the movie upon which 'The Faculty' was apparently a remake of, but I didn't think this movie sucked, like many others do.  I can't say I'd watch it again in the near future, but it didn't suck.I found it rather suspenseful, a bit too gory, but all in all it did keep me occupied for approximately an hour and a half.  I wouldn't go so far as to say this movie was spooky, because there's really no what if...? feeling after you finish watching it, like you get from really spooky movies.The soundtrack is pretty good, and I have no complaints about the acting.  In closing, if you're bored, watch it. "},{"Title":"This Movie Deserves More Than That Critic Mumbo-Jumbo!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of Kevin Williamson, I would like to say that his script, as always, was excellent.  Although the cursing did go a little over the top, Mr. Williamson knows what really goes on in the lives of teenagers.  The stars shine, especially the young Clea DuVall  who should be recognized by more people.  The only reason I even liked She's All That was for her and Rachael Leigh Cook, who is a good budding young actress herself.  Let's hope Clea is recognized more when The Astronaut's Wife comes out!  Over all, this movie deserves my recommendation!  Kudos to Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Laura Harris, and Shawn Hatosy for a blessed script and good acting abilities!  A definite B+! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've ever seen!!!","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was the best movie! It makes you just out of your seat with surprise and excitement! Some things you will never expect will happen! Some people trade on you, others are still the same people! Would not recommend it for children under 11 (depending on how strict the parent is). Has some nudity, drug use, a lot of cussing...and more. Otherwise, it was the best movie I think I've ever seen!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing film! Elijah is a hottie!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hey all-I thought The Faculty was an amazing film! It was pretty cool. Nice graphics. Good story line. But it doesn't really make it to the big 1-0. Because something else was missing in it. Don't ask me, but I think it could've been better. I really enjoyed this film. I didn't rent it because I liked Elijah Wood. I actually used to always make fun of my friend for having a crush on him, but now looks like I got the hots for him too! SH! Don't tell her! I think he is amazingly F-I-N-E!!! Anyways, you'll be sure to enjoy this movie! I give it an 8. "}{"Title":"Wlll the real Robert Rodriguez please stand up?","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a very run of the mill horror film. The only thing original here, well let me think, there is nothing original here. I expected a lot of energy from the direction of Robert Rodriguez and it was totally flat. The special effects were pretty cool, but the story was lame. The main heavy in the film is identifiable almost the minute you see them. I'm in amazement that Robert Rodriguez even decided to make this film, it's totally below the standards I've come to expect from him. Check out the Body Snatcher flicks, they're better. The movie did have a cool soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Wlll the real Robert Rodriguez please stand up?","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a very run of the mill horror film. The only thing original here, well let me think, there is nothing original here. I expected a lot of energy from the direction of Robert Rodriguez and it was totally flat. The special effects were pretty cool, but the story was lame. The main heavy in the film is identifiable almost the minute you see them. I'm in amazement that Robert Rodriguez even decided to make this film, it's totally below the standards I've come to expect from him. Check out the Body Snatcher flicks, they're better. The movie did have a cool soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Contains some scary material, just not enough of it. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A perverse coach, mysterious teachers, a meek principle, bizarre happenings, a high school with dark and creepy hallways, dozens of pointless corridors and rooms, and full of jocks, druggies, eggheads, nerds, new girls, so-called lesbians and loners.Those are the key ingredients to make movies like The Faculty. Movies where nothing anyone does makes any sense. Movies where the plot is so ridiculous on paper that you walk in the theater to see it cold-hearted. Movies where the audience groans in agony when they see the formulas thrown at them. The Faculty, does contain all of that and more, but to my pleasant surprise, this film was a whole lot better than I expected it to be. This is a slightly above average horror thriller.Like I said, the plot is so ridiculous written on paper that it may throw you off right from the beginning. It's about seven high school students of an enormous variety of genres, who begin to suspect that their teachers may be possessed by aliens. That's right, aliens, straight from mars, who need lots of water, can be chopped up and shot, ripped apart and come flying back together again. They use the human body as hosts, and want to take over the world, as in the film's characters words, Entering from the back door.The aliens appear to make zombies out of their victims. They open their mouths and shoot little creatures into the victim's ear. They start out only capturing teachers who roam around in the faculty lounge, and then start with the students. What I don't understand is why the aliens  kill some people and occupy others. Take the opening credits for instance; a group of teachers working late at night pack up and leave the building, one forgets her keys, goes back into the school, is chased by Coach Willis,(who is an alien) and eventually stabbed to death by a fellow and unexpected colleague (who is an alien as well). Now, why didn't she turn on the lights when she walked in the school, or why didn't the possessed teachers capture her, instead of slashing her body into little pieces? I'll tell you why, because it's scarier running though dark hallways compared to bright. And they killed the woman to scare the audience, not to further evolve the story.There is some very frightening material in this film, however. Near the end, there was nail biting, edge of your seat suspense. I was defiantly involved in what was happening. The Boss monster was really a terrifying creature, an a mystery until the end, unlike some monster movies. So, the movie is certainly not with out tension. It just didn't have enough of it.The stars portrayed their characters well. Its just to bad that they were so very aggressive with their attitude. Writer Kevin Williamson wrote them with vigor, making very sure that the audience knew who was the teachers pet, who were the suspects, who was the slut and so on. Its like he was holding a gun on us to believe in the characters, and he fails completely.Don't get me wrong, The Faculty didn't fail to give me a shiver, and it was entertaining.at times. Its not a bad movie, not necessarily a good one ether, though. I liked it in theory, but when it comes to giving it thumbs up or thumbs down, it's a close miss, but a marginal thumbs down. Its not a complete waste of time, however. If you desire to see it, I wouldn't  hold you back. "},{"Title":"One of the coolest films I saw last year!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do not see what the fuss is about, this movie kicked a**! There were only two things. They kept on showing the damn microphone and the ending was a little cheesy. That's all. Besides that this movie was awesome! "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable bad movies of recent memory","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Out of all the recent teen horror pics, The Faculty certainly stands amongst the most amusing.  Most of this can be attributed to the portrayals of the malevolent teachers, which are rich and witty.  My favorite was Piper Laurie as the drama teacher, but Jon Stewart, Robert Patrick, and Bebe Neuwirth are tremendously funny in their deadpan performances.  Secondly, the unabashed un-PC storyline was a treat... after all, the kids end up fighting the aliens with drugs.  It seems deliberately against the Just Say No hype, and this delicious bit of irony really tops off this greatly amusing film. "},{"Title":"pretty good, considering","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First allow me to make a distinction between a movie and a filmA movie is primarily an entertainment. It makes no claims to seriousness or art or enlightenment; it's there just please and help you enjoy a couple of hours.A film, on the other hand, makes claims to all of the above, and if it entertains you too, so much the better.That said, The Faculty is a pretty entertaining movie, providing you don't worry too much about stupid plot tricks. Part send-up, part tribute to Invasion of the Body Snatchers (the original, not the awful remake), it shares a lot with director Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk till Dawn and El Mariachi, at least insofar as action caroms without transition from slightly wacky calm to mindless, bloody violence.There's humor, some cliched high-school satire, and some decent special effects. Good for a rainy Saturday afternoon, but definitely not a date movie unless the date is turned on by alien parasites with really big teeth. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sci-Fi Horror Flick","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie; I thought it was much better than Urban Legends and I Know What You Did Last Summer, but not as good as Scream.Actually, The Faculty isn't really in the same genre; it's science fiction, not slasher.   The film was surprisingly gory at times, and there were some very well-done special effects.  The camera work was above average (especially for this genre).  One really good scene involved the students sniffing a powdered caffeine concentrate; Rodriguez handled the camera in such a way that I got a very strong sense of how tweaked the kids were feeling.Also, there were a good number of suspenseful moments that made me jump.  I also liked that I couldn't tell how it was going to end.The acting was fairly good; Robert Patrick was great.  I've always liked Elijah Wood and he didn't disappoint me here.  But I have to be honest and say Josh Hartnett is c*o*o*l.  I hope to see him again soon in something else. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but could have been so much better","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty fits in squarely with the multitude of teen horror movies released during the late 1990's following the success of Scream, although it adds science fiction to the mix, and not entirely without effect. The plot is basically a rip off of everything from Invasion of the Body Snatchers to The Thing, only relocated to an American high school in 1998 you almost expect someone from Dawson's Creek to suddenly walk onto the set. As such, there is nothing here that most haven't seen before.The strength of the film lies with the cast, and it is particularly the casting of the teachers that I find excellent; I am tempted to say that had it not been for the compelling supporting performances of people such as Bebe Neuwirth, Piper Laurie and Robert Patrick, the film would have been dismal. The teen leads are good as well, though the characters are entirely formulaic, and I cannot help but feel that most of these young actors and actresses could have been replaced by any number of their peers with little noticeable difference. What kills the film is that it is so predictable, with absolutely no attempt to bring anything new to the genre The script is surely one of Kevin Williamson's weakest efforts, and the direction is uniformly uninspired. The opening sequence is bland and pointless, and by the time we reach the final showdown at the end, I didn't really care.With a stronger script and a more accomplished effort from the director, maybe this film could have been really good. As it is, The Faculty is only really worth watching for the supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Everything was good, except for additional scenes and the ending","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked the first half of the movie, original and complex at the same time. Yet once it reached to the scene when they are in the gym, everything went wrong. The film's plot revolves around kids trying to find out if their teachers are aliens so they can kill them and save the earth from learning, every child's fantasy. Clea Duvall is a dark woman, in person and in cinema-her character was a very positive role to me, so beautiful she was with her style, her knowledge, and yet how some aspects of her left me seeing that Kevin Williamson only wrote that part in the ending to anger Goths like myself off. I would have to say that there is a scene with Laura Harris explaining how she's tired of being 'something she's not.' The camera focuses on Stokely, and I just cannot f****** believe how they depicted us. In such a mainstream society, they should be more LIBERAL and understanding of how alternative lifestyles work. We should be treated with respect and not horrible like they did in this film (though for the first half, she is given a positive appearance to the culture as she is clever, smart and witty) which leaves me still in mourning. However, everything else was fine. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of the worst of all time","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've already posted a comment on this movie but I feel that perhaps I did not  make my point as clearly as I should have. This movie is garbage. I cannotbelieve that films like this actually get budgeted. It was obvious, and predictable,  and relentlessly ridiculous. The special effects were awful and the plot did not  exist. This movie is one of the worst films ever, ever made in the history of  mankind. I hope that every known copy of it is destroyed.  "}{"Title":"awful teen horror","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  of the many things i hate in the world, conformist unoriginal mediocrity is one of the highest on the list. the faculty is not a film it is a product obviously aimed an naive teenagers who have far too much time on their hands. i dont know where to start my criticism (/public health warning) of this film. so i will summarise the plot, with no exagerration (***** WARNING .....I DONT KNOW IF THIS BIT IS SUPPOSED TO BE A SPOILER ??!! BUT DONT READ IT IF YOU ACTUAL INTEND TO SUBJECT YOURSELF TO SUCH A VACUUM) some teachers at some high school turn out to actually be slugs, but not the sort that you find at the bottom of your garden.....oh no, that just wouldnt be scary enough. these are big fat sluggy things that are supposed to be 'aliens' (ok, so you can allow for a bit of 'artistic licence'). so it takes a group of shallow and uninspiring kids about half the film to realise that nature didnt intend that to be normal, and then they get 'chased' by these slugs, except for they lock themselves in the school sports hall or something so that minimal amounts of money had to be spent on set design and they have these completely empty conversations. eventually, after no climax or emotional build up, the director/producer decides that its about time to stop the film (after all, theyve already received the ticket sales income) so one of the emotionless actors has a miraculous epiphany, and realises that the only way to kill these slugs is not with slug repelent....but to take a biro(pen)take the ink funnel out, fill the tube with salt(i think) and stab it in the slugs eye (because these slugs have eyes btw). so you get this hilarious 'dramatic seen' of kids running round stabbing slugs with pens and after some stereotypical, melodramatic dialogue the torture ends. this film left me seriously disillusioned with life!!!! dont let it affect you sorry that my review was so amateurishly written, but i didnt want to waste to much time on this vacuum. hopefully you will see the funny side of the 'film' in that it is just so bad..... so i will conclude with one of the deep paradoxical taglinesThink your teachers are aliens? You could be right.wow, the decisiveness and thought that went into that one.  "},{"Title":"Scifi Clunker","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Attempted to do with the science fiction genre what Scream did with the horror film.  The Faculty(1998) fails to come up with an interesting take on the Science Fiction movie.  Written by the same person who wrote the first two Scream films.  This film is just as lousy as those so called horror features.  Tries to poke fun at films like The Thing(1952, 1982), Invasion of the Body Snatcher(1954) and fails horribly.I was surprised that the movie did not make a reference to Horror Express(1972) as that film was in the same vein as the films mentioned above.  A much better and superior film school flick is the film, Class of 1984(1982).  Some of the film rips off the similarly themed feature, Class of 1999.  Famke Janssen is very good in her role of the shy school liberian.  Robert Patrick steals the show as the alien possessed, Coach Willis.The rest of the acting is below par.  The Faculty(1998) was another dud for filmmaker, Robert Rodriguez who hasn't done anything good since his debut in 1992 with El Mariachi.  The Faculty(1998) proves to me that Hollywood has given up on making daring and creative horror films that will be remembered for a lifetime.  The story is about aliens who try to take over the earth by using teachers and some students as hosts.  Salma Hayek is one of the few and rare reasons to watch this terrible motion picture.  "},{"Title":"Teachers turn to mutant things, blah blah blah","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love horror movies and cult classics, but this just sucked. The only reason I gave it a three was because it had three good songs in the movie. I urge you not to waste you're time with this movie.  I don't think that there was actually a real plot to this movie. "},{"Title":"Skip this school lesson!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a retread of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers; or to be more specific, it's a combination of The Breakfast Club and The Thing (1982). To its only credit, at least it explicitly acknowledges this. Hollywood's stupidity never ceases to amaze me; the whole reason horror movies died out in the first place was because of exploitative, unimaginative, money-grabbing movies like this one.Here is its fundamental problem. Invasion of the Bodysnatchers' central idea is the sanctity of the individual over repression and conformity (written and made in the '50's, read American democracy over Soviet totalitarianism). Freedom beats central planning and control. Good idea. Except by 1998, this idea is hardly fresh. It needs to be tweaked. So The Faculty should have gone one of two ways - either satire, or ultra-serious, into tragedy. Instead, it plays like a straightforward action movie, with all the requisite cliches. Not only is this boring, its directed in a pedestrian way by Robert Rodriguez, who has done nothing of worth since El Mariachi. Kevin Williamson should also be ashamed, maybe Dawson's Creek is taking up too much of his time. Avoid this stinker. "},{"Title":"Seen it done before and always better...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The cut of the film I experienced was horrible with a microphone visible in almost all the scenes that had dialogue, which, given the poor quality of the dialogue... gave me something to focus on... I like many of the actors involved in this effort, it is unfortunate that The Faculty will be in the resumes.. "},{"Title":"Skip The Faculty and enjoy your recess.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, a poor concept film.  Think, Breakfast Club meets Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  Like The Breakfast Club, it has all the stock characters of the school's mythologized hierarchy (the jock, the outsider, the brain, the popular one...).  And, like the film it verbally associates itself with, Invasion... or Heinlein's The Puppet Masters; run-of-the-mill Ohio (middle America) is the site of an insidious plan to re-populate the Earth with Alien parasites.  The concept and narrative thrust of the film is re-tread material at best.  There's absolutely nothing new or interesting in this film.  Robert Rodriguez's direction is woefully uninspired and Kevin Williamson's script is his worst yet.It appears that with the release of this film, coupled with the recent and terribly executed remake of Psycho, John Carpenter's Vampires, and I Still Know What You Did Last Summer - that the fairly recent and much talked about re-birth of the horror genre has come to an abrupt (and welcome) end. Consequently, the wait for a new horror film to come along and breathe new life into this once again tired genre has begun. "},{"Title":"Run, don't walk, AS FAR FROM THIS MOVIE AS YOU CAN","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie makes the Relic look like Citizen Kane.  Its terrible. Terrible. Terrible.  Numerous stars make cameo appearances. But why? WHY? Such a random, nonsensical, derivitive, contrived, pile of malarky.  From the appearance of Harry Knowles you might assume its a comedy.  But I didn't hear anyone laughing. No siree.To paraphrase Dan QuayleWhat a waste it is to watch this movie. Or not to have not watched the Faculty is being very wasteful.How true that is. "},{"Title":"cheesey self-parodying bilge","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The acting stinks, the plot is stolen from Invasion of the Body Snatchers and you sit there wishing it would end. It is predictable in the extreme and the jokes are the work of an infant. Why do film companies commission this dreck? Because you people flock in to watch it. Don't. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was okay, it should have been better. Some scenes were pretty lame and stupid. And some are a bit spooky. This movie wasn't as good as other horror movies like The Blair Witch Project, Scream 2, Halloween , and The Haunting which is much better in my opinion. It wasn't good or bad. It a pretty average horror movie.** "},{"Title":"Is this the worst film this year?","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Too many inconsistencies. Stale cliched plot. no acting. cliched aliens. The worst film that Pamela Anderson wasn't in.....ever!  "}{"Title":"repression","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty was a well-paced, fun, senselessly entertaining film on the surface until the subtext within the plot reared its ugly head. The film quite blatantly made references to such classics as The Thing and Invasion of the Body Snatchers which can be fun (although one of my favorite homages of the year has to go to the several allusions to The Conversation in Enemy of the State, but that is another story). Many sci-fi or disaster films of the 1950s symbolized the threat of the Red Scare and the containment and destruction of communism. In The Faculty lesbianism (and homosexuality in general) is the threat to social normality that has to be contained and destroyed-- violently destroyed. What on the surface of The Faculty appears to be liberal is actually embedded with extreme conservatism. For young republicans and homophobes in society this should be very refreshing. However,as an example of enforcing surplus repression it is highly disturbing. Here we are approaching the new millennia and people are still as up tight as ever about social norms. I do not want to be totally unfair. This is the first time ever that Elijah Wood did not irritate me. Overall, the acting was good from the students and the faculty. Robert Patrick and Piper Laurie were very refreshing and we were spared from too much Usher as he did not have much screen time. The sound was particulary good and some good cinematography as one should expect from Rodriguez. But shame on you Robert for ruining my experience by throwing in an agressive, mean-spirited homophobic subtext. Well, hell, if you don't want to think and just passively watch the images flash across the screen, then most likely you will have a good time. "},{"Title":"One word terrible!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Faculty is a no-brainer piece of trash that is neither funny, entertaining, or original in any way.The story is basically Invasion of the Body Snatchers meets The Breakfast Club. Aliens slowly take over the bodies of the teachers, and a group of outcast high school students are the only ones who know it. It takes a while for all of them to understand what is happening, but by then it is too late. Now it is them against the entire faculty. How's that for a lame story line. I can only guess that this movie is aimed at teenagers, but I don't know many teens who liked it.The script by Kevin Williamson offers nothing new, it simply tries to repeat the success of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. There is the lame dialogue from the heroes, the one-liners that don't work, and the usual masturbation and sex jokes (No more flogging the Bishop, son).Simply put, I have seen movies like this done a thousand times before, and a thousand times better. You'd be better off renting Scream.  "},{"Title":"Save your money, let The Faculty quietly die in agony.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My movie standards aren't too high, but even I agreed that Faculty blowed. It's an evil cross between Alien and a high school movie.  The plot basically revolves around the fact that aliens invade a school somewhere in Ohio.  These aliens have the ability to turn every human they come across into one of them.  A bunch of teenagers discover this and try to kill them off before they take over the world.  A whole bunch of high school movie stigmas and stereotypes are in this picture, ie an academically successful head cheerleader who dates the star quarterback, a nerdy kind of guy who by the end of the movie gets the cheerleader (This is VERY believable.  You practically see it happen every day).  There is also the freaky girl that everyone think is a lesbian, but who in fact has a crush on the quarterback. If you guessed that she hooks up with him at the end, you were right.  And there is the dude who is a genius who uses his brains for the wrong cause -- selling drugs and porn on the campus.  So they all team up to beat the aliens, and in the process find out more about themselves, I guess.  This isn't the most thought through part of the movie, in case you can't tell.  I gave this movie a rating of 1 (awful) in the IMDb survey, because the characters are not trustworthy, the plot is overused and unpopular, and the stereotypes were used hundreds of times before.  My advice -- don't bother to see or rent. "},{"Title":"Three Young Monsters","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even though this has been widely reviled, I sought it out because it features three people whose careers I track. These aren't on the A list, but I have a rather short B list.Rodriguez is the most interesting film editor working today. He is an absolute master of the software (Apple's Final Cut) and writes, directs and often even shoots and scores around the craft of editing. Even his earliest and dumbest stuff is crisp in this respect. Here, he does nothing but direct and edit and the result is disappointing. Since he had no control over the blocking and scene definition, all he can do is show up.Clea is one of the most interesting young actresses around. She blew me away in the extremely ambitious Thirteen Conversations and later in two similarly folded projects, 21 Grams and Identity. She showed that she understood what they were about. Rare in an actress. Here, a much younger woman misses a chance to play someone who has an inner self. Her blond hair is darkened to emphasize the purity of another girl who turns out to be evil.Kevin is an interesting writer of folded stuff. His folding is explicit and unsophisticated he has characters talk about their circumstances as if they were in a movie. But it is fun nonetheless. In this case, he shows that everyone knows there are only a few stories in life all you have to do is know which one you are in to know what to do next.He's cleverly set this in a Breakfast Club setting. That genre relies on the well-perceived truth that in high school, there really are only a few (probably seven) stories or character roles. You pick one, and that tells you who you are and what to do next. Life as movie, I love it. But not enough to recommend this fumbled project.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"I'm not a bitter person... per say...","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw the Faculty a while ago, and let me tell you, I felt sick after walking out of the movie theatre.  I don't get sick often... but this movie did it for me.  Now, don't get me wrong, I love a good bad movie, but this flick was E-V-I-L what does it spell?  EVIL PURE AND UNADULTERATED EVIL AGGGGHHHHHH!!!!Kill me.Anyway, the concept was a bad re-hash of invasion of the body snatchers, (as I'm sure everybody else already pointed out), the acting was alright... in that bad kinda way, the special effects were good, the storyline made me cry and cry like a little girl for hours and hours.This is basically a trendy new teeny-bopper horror flick which, instead of featuring a knife  wielding psycho in a mask (ala scream), it features a giant alien... that dehydrates easily... I guess it's sweaty. It's like watching Dawson's Creek... with an alien!  I hate UPNIn summation, this is just a bad piece of trash that has a teen angle, and a sci fi angle, it accomplishes the former in that kind of bastardized way that makes you angry, and doesn't accomplish the latter at all... plot holes... OH GOD THE PLOT HOLES!  As a teen, it offends me that the movie studios are trying to pass this junk off to us as hip and scary, I guess I'm not that hip, the faculty shoulda stayed in the lounge (stupid pun, I know)0/5 "},{"Title":"disturbing","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was disturbed by how teenage drug use was glorified in this movie. Teenagers using drugs to kill aliens and snorting chemicals (mix of caffeine pills and household products) to prove they aren't converted yet. I am waiting for the news to tell us of kids dying from snorting diet pills and ajax from pen tubes. You don't think teenagers are that dumb? Remember the movie The Program? They are dumb. Something is wrong when a movie is made that censors bare breasts with shadows to protect our virgin eyes, yet promotes chemical drug use to teenagers. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems entirely appropriate that this teen horror film has a cameo appearance by Piper Laurie. Piper appeared in Carrie, the film that started the trend of slasher films with fake endings that presumably unsettled the audience just as they were preparing to leave the cinema. Those fake endings were de rigeuer throughout the eighties and nineties, becoming so thoroughly predictable that there was absolutely no shock, thrill or horror value in, oh, a good 90% of the genre. And now here is The Faculty, with Piper as a possessed school teacher trying to impart her slimy space slugs on her students. Guess what? Screenwriter Kevin Williamson has abandoned the 'fake' ending in favour of a good old-fashioned happy ever after wrap up. And it works. The Faculty hardly breaks new ground thematically--from Invasion to the Body Snatchers to Night of the Demons, you've seen it all before--but it's reasonably talented young cast and well written screenplay lift this one head and shoulders above Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer, or any of the Friday the 13th movies.  "},{"Title":"Terminus Station- End of the tracks-where you are going","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do you remember the jazz age? We had such high ideals then. We were going to push through things with music, push through social ills push through corrupt prohibition laws, with music we were going to push through the very surface of reality to new truth. How far have we fallen? The days of swing and hop-head trumpet solos are long long gone. It's not The Faculty's fault, not at all, this chump change sh*t ball movie is merely a symptom of our great decline. If you are a fan of this movie, my review is not your fault, don't take it personally, you don't need to defend this movie nor your favoring of this movie. A body just get's tired is all, see, after a while, just can't go on anymore. "},{"Title":"I'm going to shove my foot so far up your a*s you'll be sucking my toes till graduation. Brilliant Sci-Fi Horror, a personal favourite.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is set in Herrington High in Ohio. Herrington High is populated by the usual assortment of misfits, oddballs & stereotypes & appears to be a just another normal American high school. However strange things start to happen at Herrington High, for instance when the best footballer in school Stan (Shaun Hatosy) is taking a shower one of the teachers Miss Brummel (Susan Willis) stumbles in with a bizarre skin disorder & begs for help. Casey Connor (Elijah Wood) is a photographer for the school paper, while hunting around for a story in the faculty lounge with Delilah Profitt (Jordana Brewster) the sexiest journalist & head cheerleader I've ever seen they both witness two teachers Coach Willis (Robert Patrick) & Mrs. Olsen (Piper Laurie) appearing to attack the schools nurse, Rosa Harper (Selma Hayek), they also discover Miss Brummel's dead body in a closet. After telling the schools principal, Miss Drake (Bebe Neuwirth) who doesn't believe a word of it they decide their on their own. While talking to social outcast Stokely (Clea DuVall) Casey becomes convinced that aliens are trying to take over Herrington High, he rounds a few unaffected students up, a drug dealer named Zeke (Josh Hartnett), new girl Marybeth (Laura Harris) plus Delilah & her boyfriend Stan. Casey has a hard time convincing everyone but after they are attacked by the science teacher an alien controlled Mr. Furlong (Jon Stewart) it's up to these six mismatched teens to save the world from these mind robbing parasitic aliens...Edited & directed by Robert Rodriguez I happen to think The Factulty is a fantastic film. The script by Kevin Williamson obviously rips off Invasion of the Body Snatchers by Jack Finney & Robert A. Heinlein's The Puppet Masters which are also about parasitic aliens trying to take over the world by similar methods, both of which were also turned into films & both of which are name-checked by Williamson. Williamson's interpretation on the premise is to take the themes & ideas & insert them into a modern horror teenage high school setting that was proving so popular at the time with the likes of Scream (1996) which Williamson also wrote. I really liked all of the characters in The Faculty which is a rarity with an almost all teen cast full of clichés & stereotypes, Williamson gives everyone just enough personality to shine. The Sci-Fi horror elements aren't ignored or forgotten about either as The Faculty moves along at a great pace, it never became dull & I was never bored. There is a nice mystery element as well with who is the Mother alien that started it all plus the ongoing question of trust & who has been taken over by the aliens? My only real complaint is that the film ends too conveniently when by killing the Mother alien all the other smaller parasitic aliens die & everyone simply returns to normal. Director Rodriguez uses the mistrust & paranoia well to create some good tension. Rodriguez gives the film a nice polished look throughout & at $15,000,000 it seemed bigger budget, there are also some nice touches here & there like the alien being in human form as it walks down a darkly lit locker-room but giving off the shadow of a multi tentacled monster that engulfs the whole floor. The monster alien at the end looked good & the special effects which switch between animatronic & CGI work well together for a change. There is also a fun effect scene that pays homage to John Carpenter's The Thing (1982). There isn't much blood or gore in The Faculty, just some chopped off fingers, a stabbing with scissors & a bullet in someones head. But there is some drug use & a fair amount of bad language though. The acting is very good by a young & attractive cast, from a pre Lord of the Rings (2001 - 2003) Elijah Wood to a very sexy Famke Janssen. Mega star rapper Usher Raymond makes an appearance as well, better known these days simply as Usher. I love The Faculty, I love the characters, I love it's sense of humour & fun, I love it's story, I love it's modernness, & I love it's ability to entertain me & make me feel better that all great films should be able to do to some extent. Highly recommended so watch it as soon as you can, & if you've seen it already watch it again sometime soon & remind yourself how brilliant it is... "},{"Title":"The Faculty!","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Faculty is a great Sci-Fi Horror film that has a great all-star cast which includes Robert Patrick, Famke Janssen, Elijah Wood, Salma Hayek, Jon Stewart, Daniel von Bargen, Christopher McDonald, Piper Laurie, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, Summer Phoenix, Usher Raymond, and Shawn Hatosy! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Robert Patrick is really excellent in this film. I thought that his performance was simply amazing! Arguably his best role! Jon Stewart also has a very good part. Daniel von Bargen, and Christopher McDonald also have very good performances. I really liked Clea DuVall in this picture! As for the other stuff, the suspense is incredible. You never know what is going to happen next! The special effects are great. The movie is filmed great. The music is good by Marco Beltrami. The film is very interesting and exciting and the movie really keeps you entertained! If you like Robert Patrick, Famke Janssen, Elijah Wood, Salma Hayek, Jon Stewart, Josh Hartnett, Jordana Brewster, Clea DuVall, and the rest of the cast in the film, Horror, Sci-Fi, Thrillers, and interesting films then I strongly recommend that you see this film today!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, Horror Express, The UFO Incident, Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978), E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Krull, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, John Carpenter's Starman, John Carpenter's They Live, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, Alien Seed, Total Recall, The Abyss, Communion, Suburban Commando, Fire in the Sky, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Men in Black I & 2, Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Battlefield Earth A Saga for the year 3000, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Independence Day, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Mission to Mars, Evolution, Signs, Silent Warnings, Alien Hunter, Spaceballs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator & Predator 2, AVP Alien Vs. Predator, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi (Original and Special Editions!), The Phantom Menace, & Attack of the Clones), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT "}{"Title":"Drugs are the answer...","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Behold The most outstanding screenplay that ever came out of Kevin Williamson's pen! The scriptwriter of meaningless, new age horror nonsense like `Scream' and `I know what you did last Summer' pleasantly surprises here with a clever and lively sci-fi plot, filled with homage to the all-time genre classics. The Faculty unites a group of typical high-school outcasts in their battle against&#133;aliens. Extraterrestrial Intelligence invaded the modest Ohio lifestyle and takes over, starting with the Herrington High teaching staff. The unfriendly ET's are like the pod-people in `Invasion of the Body Snatchers' and can only be killed by drugs, which dehydrates their water-filled bodies. The film is a terrific spitfire of typical high-school jokes and situations, and it's very funny because of the `Breakfast Club'-like characters. They're all there! The geek (Wood in his pre-Hobbit era), the head cheerleader (Brewster), the jock (Hatosy), the scum with intellect-potential (great role by Hartnett), the anti-social goth (DuVall) and the new kid in town (Laura Harris). Other than the young stars, the cast is filled with brilliant B-actors who all clearly had fun playing their roles. Christopher MacDonald, Piper Laurie, Robert Patrick&#133;too many to name! A lot of the film's quality certainly depends on the class-direction of Rodriguez. He creates a light-hearted surrounding and slowly builds up tension without the viewer really realizes it. Without a doubt, on of 1998 most modest, but entertaining films.  "},{"Title":"A motion picture disgrace...","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  first things first-the cover tells us the teachers are from another planet,but they are only possessed by something from another planet-there is a difference!The teachers spend the whole movie boring us, and i am left thinking my last chemistry exam was scarier than these teachers. No thrills, and i believe my teachers are scarier than these pathetic excuses for aliens! A more appropriate title for this 'horror' would be 'The F@#$clty'! Avoid at all costs... "},{"Title":"lame","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A bunch of seemingly one-dimensional characters played by B-class actors (the brain, the jock, the basketcase, the princess, the criminal - basically a poor man's Breakfast Club)  turn out (surprise) to be marginally deeper than their stereotypes would suggest. There's no one to root for in this movie because they're all so hopelessly self-involved you find it hard to care if they die or not. The obligatory maybe you're the alien scene was overly long and predictable. A few special effects spark up the movie now and then but the ending was too lame to be believed. Please, Hollywood, I beg you - no more Elijah Wood vehicles!!! How could a movie with Salma Hayek and Famke Janssen suck so bad?? "},{"Title":"warnings and recommendations","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You want to waste 2 hours of your life and 3 Pounds? Go and see 'The Faculty'! Sorry, but I must say it is the worst film I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Such Trash, it amused me","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  do they really feel the need to make movies like this? what compels people? i've seen better film on teeth. i'm sick of this teeny-bopper trash.  "},{"Title":"What a complete ripoff!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Seriously this is a film is a complete ripoff from Star Trek TNG. Where there is an episode where parasites take control of some star fleet officers who get super strength and act weird and in the end they have to kill of one guy who is the mother of these things which kills all the parasites and in the end everyone is set free. Sound familiar its exactly like this film. What a complete and utter waste of my time this film was, don't watch it people. Another things i want to add is that this film was utterly PREDICTABLE, like who wouldn't have guessed that one of the friends was the main alien, like come on its like that in all Hollywood films these days. "},{"Title":"This one's got no spirit","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If this is what 21st century horror's gonna be about then we're flat out of luck. If you want to see the typical tasteless 90's movie (i.e., most), this one's also for you.  You get nothing out of it. 4 lines. "},{"Title":"A film for teenagers...or morons","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe if I was 17 instead of 33 I would enjoy this film...I kinda doubt it though. I remember liking movies like Westworld and Alien when I was a teen and compared to The Faculty those films were pure genius. And unlike The Faculty those films still stand up and will still stand up 20 years from now. Unlike another reviewer's comments, The Faculty doesn't have an original bone it's decayed body. This hideous hybrid of Aliens and Invasion of the Body Snatchers mixed with Scream (and even the more obscure Class of 1999) is so dumbed down it makes something like Beverly Hills 90210 seem like high art in comparison. Rodriquez has made only two films worth seeing, the ultra low budget, El Mariachi and the made for HBO, The Roadracers. Everything else he's done is a bloated mess... this film hits a new low.  "},{"Title":"Like John Hughes and John Carpenter having an ugly kid together.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, Robert Rodriguez tries to make a sci-fi/high school flick, you take the plot from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, add The Breakfast Club and mix it with some John Carpenter imagery that Rodriguez stole...err, i mean, paid homage. The result? A mess, every character is a walking cliché written in a napkin the nerd, the hottie, the bad boy, goth girl, you name them. If you already watched any version of Body Snatchers you just know what is going to happen. Rodriguez never manages to make a single moment tense whatsoever, and again, with such lame characters, who cares? Yeah dood but you don't get it, the movie is suppose to be a parody/satire/spoof! Err, no, it isn't, it's trying to be a honest attempt at being a sci-fi horror flick. It's 100% serious about what is doing, and it fails miserable. Those two scenes straight out of the The Thing are embarrassing. Sometimes the best way to pay homage to something is by not doing anything at all.But oh well, the natural movie balance gives movies like this their proper place. Discount bins and re-runs on TV at times where nobody watches the damn thing. Mark yet another genre that Rodriguez can't do right. Hopefully the list doesn't grow bigger with time. "},{"Title":"You Can Lose Your Faculties With This...Worst Ever 0*","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" Truly dreadful film where the faculty at an Ohio High School seems to have been taken over by aliens. They're acting mysteriously and the dead from among them are waking up.6 teenagers try to stop this rampage and impending doom. However, the problem is that among them, one is an alien who is creating all the mayhem and resulting damage.Despite an impressive cast, the film is awful since the writing just plain stinks.Our teens are reduced to taking drugs from one of them, a drug dealer. This will invariably prove who among them is an alien. This is absolutely ridiculous, inane and an insult to watch. "}{"Title":"The Faculty","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Sci-Fi","Review":" From writer Kevin Williamson (Dawson's Creek, Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer) and director Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn, Spy Kids, Sin City), I may have seen this film once before, but I guess I didn't pay full attention, as I didn't recognise any of it, so I'm glad I watched properly. Basically at small town Herrington High School in Ohio strange things are happening to the faculty teaching staff, one or two of them have become almost emotionless in attitude and demeanour. Casey Connor (Elijah Wood) in his science class one day finds a new strange insect like creature, and the teacher says it is a new form of life, this comes into play later. It is after he and his friend Delilah Profitt (The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Beginning's Jordana Brewster) hiding witness two of the teachers who have been acting strangely murder Nurse Rosa Harper (Salma Hayek) by strangulation that they know something is going on, especially when she comes back to life. Casey works out that it is not just the teachers, but also many of the students that are part of this thing going on, and eventually they realise that it is to do with the weird creature they found, it is multiplying and taking over the minds of those who come near it. So now Casey, Stokely 'Stokes' Mitchell (Clea DuVall), Zeke Tyler (Josh Hartnett), Marybeth Louise Hutchinson (Severance's Laura Harris) and Stan Rosado (The Cooler's Shawn Hatosy) are trying to find a way to fight and eliminate the alien infection. The teachers infected by the phenomenon include Principal Valerie Drake (Jumanji's Bebe Neuwirth), Coach Joe Willis (Robert Patrick), Miss Elizabeth Burke (GoldenEye's Famke Janssen) and Mrs. Karen Olson (Carrie's Piper Laurie), and they are all aware the teenagers are suspicious. The way to stop it is to kill the queen, and using a mixture they created that the alien parasites resist the search begins to find the queen, it turns out to be the last person you would expect, but the aliens are stopped in the end. Also starring Usher Raymond as Gabe Santora, Jon Stewart as Prof. Edward Furlong and Daniel Von Bargen as Mr. John Tate. The cast of both young rising teenage stars and older established stars do pretty well, the script is witty and amusing, and the alien invasion concept is interesting with creatures doing mind control, I agree the special effects are dodgy, but it doesn't matter, it is a fun science-fiction horror thriller. Worth watching! "}]