[{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"64 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time tonight and I must admit, I wasn't expecting much but it left me almost crying in the end, and recommending it to all of my family and friends. I don't claim to know what the 80s punk scene was like, especially in Utah, but regardless of whether punk life was portrayed correctly or not in this movie (I think most of you who bitch about that aspect wouldn't know anyway), it was written extremely well and the acting was just incredible.  "},{"Title":"MUCH better than the box says","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"56 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you pick this up at the video store, you'll probably expect the wrong thing kind of a goofy, teen-oriented, mock angst trip by a couple of overdone punks through Salt Lake City's holy land. That's not even close to the heart of this film, which is smarter and more vital than most.Essentially a monologue by the main character, Steve or Steve-o, SLC Punk starts, ends, and runs with energy and insight, all without the ponderous pronouncements you'll find in most films focused on one character. The central character and his interesting entourage are not the caricatures you see on the box, they're the genuine, multi-dimensional people you went to school with if you were lucky.The visuals are savvy and professional, opening up what could be a stage show to the wider world. A classic experimental 3-D pan shot done with over a hundred one-shot cameras would be hailed as groundbreaking, had this film not been released concurrently with The Matrix.Film hounds will catch the theme and scene parallels with Easy Rider, particularly a drug trip much richer than the exaggerated freak out in that film.Funny, smart, immediately engaging, dangerous, and often more textured and subtle than it appears at first glance, you will understand why SLC Punk (released by Sony Pictures Classics) has such a loyal following.This is the film I wish Kevin Smith had made instead of Clerks. Yes, that's a compliment for Smith, who admits he has grown a lot as a filmmaker, and a mild slam on Clerks, which was what it was -- interesting characters wrapped in a poorly done film. "},{"Title":"This movie will change your life!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"55 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's unfortunate that more people have not seen this movie.  Well at least people in the 15-28 age range, that is.  If you have ANY interest in punk rock and the attitude that comes along with it, you have to see this movie. If you have ever wanted to just tell the world to F*** off, then this is a movie you should see.  Granted, it's not for everyone, there are those who may not be able to look past the language and violence, but that's what being punk is all about.  I was very impressed by Matthew Lillard in this movie, his performance in the ending of this movie shows just how good a dramatic actor he can be, too bad he's typecast in all those teen movies, not that he isn't great in them. "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard's best role","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is about anarchy and the whole 1980's punk rock scene with references to many early punk bands such as Sex Pistols and The Ramones.  If you're expecting this to be another Matthew Lillard teen flick, you are greatly mistaken.  Sure it has its funny parts, but mainly this film survives on great acting by Lillard and Michael Goorjian.  Lillard and Goorjian's characters believe that they are the only true punk rockers in Salt Lake City, Utah and go about their lives liberating against conformity.  Their characters, like every punk, need to be different and their main focus in life really is anarchy.  Film would have suffered if not for the casting of Lillard and his narration throughout the film was another plus.  I recommend seeing it because it is something far different than anything Matthew Lillard has ever done. "},{"Title":"Outstanding fictional take on punk rock","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone who has spent time in the American punk underground will find many points of reference in SLC Punk. The film is an amazingly realistic portrayal of the suburban punk subculture.  All the issues are here poseurs, sell outs, authenticity, straight edge, rebellion, boredom...and of course the perennial problem of whether mods and punks can get along! I can't recommend this gem strongly enough.  "},{"Title":"Excellent quirky slice o life","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did not expect much from this movie and was pleasantly surprised, and having been to Salt Lake City a few times, I was particularly amused. I was there in 1980, at the outset of the decade in which the movie takes place. That visit turned out to be the one and only time I set foot in a disco club. It is a good thing I didn't run into Stevo and Bob, the twin protagonists of SLC Punk! They would have kicked my butt because they hate mods, hippies and rednecks. Whether or not to pound on a disco-goer wouldn't even be a question. At one point, Bob asks a British punk band's lead singer why he would never come back to SLC. Too bleeding violent, says the bruised singer. Thank you! says Bob.Stevo and Bob are anarchists. Not philosophical anarchists like Kropotkin, Goodman and Goldman (Peter, Paul and Emma), but more like Leon Czolgosz, the guy who assassinated President William McKinley. Except Czolgosz had more direction in his life. Aside from throwing darts at pictures of President Ronald Reagan, Stevo and Bob just get drunk and high. Correction, only Stevo smokes grass while Heroin Bob is ironically nicknamed because he is afraid of needles and anything stronger than booze.The story is picaresque in both senses of the term it is about a couple of semi-likeable rogues, and it is less a story than a series of vignettes. I thought that each vignette more or less stood on its own, but there is something of an overarching theme, too. These young men grow up physically if not emotionally. Though angry and feeling not a little betrayed by society, they can't be Salt Lake City punks for the rest of their lives, or can they? The narrator, Stevo, is haunted by the fear that he or Bob or both of them might be the worst thing there is a poser, a phony punk.This movie also features one of my favorite under-rated actresses, Annabeth Gish, as Trish who runs a head shop. Bob sells himself to her for thirty-six dollars. As decadent as that might seem, there turns out to be something sweet about it, much to Stevo's disgust!Like wearing a blue-green mohawk, SLC Punk! might not be for everyone, but I mainly enjoyed it. My favorite scene is the one in which Stevo's parents sit him down and try to get him to go to Harvard. What a scathing satire on my self-righteous and self-satisfied boomer generation! "},{"Title":"deep, moving, fun","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Matthew Lillard - what a surprise! I have always found him to be annoying, but in this film he was likeable and quite clever. Stevo is the blue-haired punk son of silly, over-hippified parents who went from mohawk to a more low-key look after graduation. He is obviously not stupid. He uses his audience-addressing monologues to amuse us and let us know exactly what's up, instead of merely whining at us or grinning and nudging us with his elbow. The kid is downright charming. And I appreciate the fact that he actually gets along with his parents, even while fighting against what they want. It's refreshing. I am in his age group (in the movie - 80's teenager) but I am not familiar with punk lifestyle, and now I feel like I have been exposed to something I've always found interesting, but never delved into before. Stevo goes through a bunch of changes and realizations, and by the end decides that you can F--k stuff up more from within the system that outside it. And that being rebellious comes from inside, and not from your haircolor (even though blue hair is still cool). Great message, neat movie. Recommended. "},{"Title":"In my face","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It was a joy to watch this film and see myself and my wife. There we were watching the movie on one of our countless movie channels on our huge cable account while we ate popcorn in bed and she knitted. We were both hard core alternative kids in our youth and somehow ended up living in a high rent condo in Seattle with corporate jobs. The movie pretty much tells the story of every true intelligent punk. Why do you ask? Well, because those of us that were so hard core, were also into CHANGE. And the only way to change the world, is to live IN it. Be a part of it. We laughed at the end when we realized we were both just like the lead character. Anarchy is great for your youth. But anarchy for life is not going to lead you anywhere if you still want to LIVE. Rather, you need to get INSIDE the world to turn it inside out.Bravo. Wonderful little film. High marks.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good snapshot of some parts of the 80's post-punk scene","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" OK first the disclaimer Punk rock died the day it was blessed with its moniker, I think somewhere around 1979/1980. I think part of the reason it died was because everyone was trying to strictly define what Punk meant, kinda defeating the purpose. The idea of anyone claiming to be punk now or at any point during the 90s or even the 80s is patently ridiculous. It's death, however, did serve to allow many people in different places to cadge together their own ideas about what punk was and reshape their own local counter-culture scene into something somewhat resembling that. Let's face it, the entire idea behind Anarchy is that of Iconoclasm; the destruction of images and false constructs, for example pop culture trends such as PUNK. End disclaimer.I came in as part of the punk revival (2nd wave) in the mid-80s, growing up in a mid-sized Midwestern city. The punk scene was very alive there and I immediately identified with it, but stuck with the non-conformist nature of it rather than filing off into a splinter group and wearing a uniform. This movie recalled a lot of my own experiences, ideas and feelings from that time. Uncomfortably so. Of course there was a lot of BS too, but the BS was part and parcel of the scene since everyone was co-opting punk into their own little social circles.I didn't learn anything from this movie, which to my mind illustrates its accuracy as a decent, digestible snapshot of what was going on within that world where each of us knew a Heroin Bob, a crazy Belgian Mark, an intense nerdy Mike who just might go off the deep end and start a fight with the cops, a slutty Sandie, and armchair philosophers galore. And of course drugs, booze, filth and bad music. A previous reviewer scolded this film for not following the true punk philosophy and went on to talk about how the Midwest doesn't have a punk scene. Wrong. Buddy, reading books or watching videos about the history of that movement won't tell you anything. It was not deep, profound, or incredibly thoughtful. Don't read too much into it. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Which, in this case is a good thing.  I've seen the title before, found it vaguely interesting.  However, without having heard anything about it, I wasn't going to chunk any money on it.  Then it came on cable, so I decided to give it a chance. I've seen Matthew Lillard in about four movies, and so far he has been a single-note actor, always playing the ragingly obnoxious punk.  Still, on that one-note he is amazingly convincing and impossible not to watch.  Much like Jimmy Stewart or early Arnold Schwarzenegger, building fame on familiarity.  Christopher MacDonald gave the best performance I've seen him do as Steveo's dad.  Very solid, sympathetic, and even likeable. The movie itself mesmerized far more than I expected.  I was transfixed from the beginning to end.    Acting and clothes were excellent, not a sour note in the entire lot.  Plotting and scripting were very well developed. The movie kept me involved, interested, and ready to buy.  Thank you for a great movie.    "}{"Title":"if you're a punk fan before watching this movie, you will hate it!","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Sure the film is marginally entertaining but if you were into punk rock music before seeing it and are familiar at all with the culture of punks in general, then you really will feel this movie is more like a stupid hipster version of punk culture than a good comedy/drama depicting it.If you want a strong account of punk from the 80s, then watch a movie from the 80s like 'Suburbia.' This is more like a Mathew Lillard vehicle which allows him to make a bunch of smug remarks and observations. And where the movie could fly as a hilarious punk satire (because punks DO take themselves to seriously as this damn movie proves) instead becomes phony punk 101 for a bunch of 90s hipsters.The only redeeming factors are a few funny moments and some good songs in the soundtrack. Like any outsider looking in, the subject is completely generalized. If you want to see a marginally entertaining movie that becomes overly sincere and melodramatic about halfway through, fine, see it. Otherwise just read 'Please Kill Me' or 'American Hardcore' or see the MULTITUDES of punk films. They are WAY better! "},{"Title":"Superb - But this movie is not about punk or anarchy","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I just viewed and enjoyed this movie a lot. Not everything was great all the time, but in general it is a great work. The talk at the Mall near the beginning about the origin of punk etc is hilarious!!!I liked especially because -I am from the late 70's punk era -Many of the philosophical arguments are quite real and relevant -Some of the music was great -The way things develop and how the story ends is just great--and realistic too-But the main theme is NOT punk, nor anarchy --------------------------------------- From a mature viewpoint, and being totally familiar with the punk culture since its inception, for me the main theme of this movie is not about punk, nor anarchy. No, the main thing is how certain attitudes that one holds during youth sooner or later cannot be maintained, because things like love and your own instincts eventually force you to change. In other words, many of those attitudes and ideas one thinks are the best and unmovable during youth, there comes a point change and other things become important. Actually, this is a process one goes through during our whole life, not only in the transition between the young years and becoming older.(Actually the attitudes maintained by these guys would be impossible without having their daddys and mommys paying for their rent. It's easy to defend anarchy if you have all their needs covered!)Acting was FANTASTIC. The main actor is really out of this world. In the funny, rebellious, but also the dramatic scenes, he was superb "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise, Poor Execution/Writing","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this movie after hearing very positive things about it and with generally good expectations. And those expectations would seem to be the same if I looked at the IMDb reviews.However, soon enough into the movie I remembered that not all indie movies with quirky premises are works of genius. The whole film felt like the writer/director saw Trainspotting and took the wrong things from it.One element in particular that gave this feeling is the use of narration. With movies like Goodfellas, Fight Club, City of God, and of course, Trainspotting among my favorites, I am certainly not opposed to movies told in the first person. But James Merendino seems to think narration is a valid substitute for characterization and plot development. Most of the narration says things about the characters and events that either would be more interesting shown in the film rather than simply told, or has already been shown in the film, and is thus being redundant. Very rarely does the narration actually do something to add to the story. I don't know about the other reviewers, but I found it pretty clear from the beginning that being an anarchist in Salt Lake isn't easy, before Stevo told us several times, and by the time he tells us flat-out that Mike is hardcore despite his outwardly preppy appearance, Mike has already *well* established that in a certain fight scene.I also felt the film squandered a lot of potential. In one of the first shots, where the camera zooms in on targets made from Reagan portraits, I became excited about a thought-provoking and unique critique on such an oppressively conservative atmosphere as Reagan-era America against the backdrop of already religious and conservative Salt Lake City. Instead, the characters' rants seem to go little beyond yelling the F-word and telling the audience what anarchy means(not what it means to them, just the dictionary definition of anarchy) for the umpteenth time. The closest the movie comes to an actually intelligent argument for punk/anarchy is Stevo's rant at his parents, and even then it rambles and becomes little more than saying things very eloquently. In fact, all the script ever seems to do to try to depict punks as anything beyond the stereotype is embellish their dialog with the same kind of faux-eloquence that Bill and Ted enjoyed using so much. I was disappointed how despite how much there is to argue against the system, especially in Reagan-era *anywhere*, no one really discusses why they choose anarchy or what's wrong with the government/system. Everyone seems to be content with a blind, almost dogmatic belief in anarchy.This isn't to say that I completely hated the movie, however. There were certainly parts that I thought were funny and well-done. I loved the scenes with Sean, the character of Mark and the scene that highlighted him, and the trip to the liquor store, among other scenes. When the movie hit the mark in scenes like these, it was hilarious and original.I thought it was overall decent film-making, as far as camera and editing technique goes. However, I thought it sometimes tried to pass style off as substance; a prime example being the overtly complicated digression about The Fight, that despite using an interesting, if not inventive, montage of images and clips in conjunction with a mock-lecture from the narrator, ultimately says and means nothing, and is not only content with that, but fully aware of it.Overall, I was pretty disappointed with SLC Punk!. I thought there was decent film-making throughout and some good parts here and there, but this was ruined whenever the the narration came in or Stevo broke the fourth wall. The characters were rarely more than ideas or stereotypes, and never seemed to stand for anything more than F**k the system, without figuring out or explaining why. Why this seems to be a must-see for punks everywhere is beyond me; if anything it simply dumbs them down and dissolves any real purpose behind being a punk, and is fully aware of this. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not the quintessential 80's punk movie it sets out to be","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" On initially watching this movie I wanted to give it a higher rating, because all in all it was fast-paced and entertaining. The dialog was good enough and there was plenty of humor and action. One stylistic criticism is that Stevo's voice-over was poorly utilized. In movies where the method works, such as Fight Club and A Clockwork Orange, the voice-over was used moderately so as to represent the narrator's perspective through comments where it would otherwise be unclear rather than summarize things that could have been shown instead of told or were already happening on screen. Overall, it seemed to be a low-budget attempt to emulate Trainspotting's style.On further reflection, however, it's clear that this movie is geared towards 90's hipsters who don't know anything about punk rock and only recognize it for its fashionistas and punk bands that were slow and poppy enough to make it to the mainstream. Disappointingly, there seemed to be more classical music in its soundtrack than genuine 80's hardcore songs. Despite Stevo's railings against 'posers,' he and his friends seemed to be trying too hard with their image to take any of his 'anarchist' rhetoric seriously. Nor is anarchism even close to being the only ideology which identifies with punk. Contrary to this movie's attempt to portray punks as being to the 80's what hippies were to the 60's, the genre is far too diverse and divergent to make the point stick. Along with druggies there were straight edgers, along with anarchists there were fascists, and along with all of them there were people who just didn't care one way or the other. SLC Punk attempted to use broad generalizations to display a small subsection within punk rock as being wholly representative for its target audience of outsiders. Within 80's hardcore, a shaved head, plain tee, and boots were far more common than a blue mohawk with tight leather pants. SLC Punk never truly felt as though it was about the music or even the broader social scene so much as it was about a specific character, his specific problems, and his specific viewpoint. The amorphous plot had been satisfactory until its ending, which had conclusions which were too black-and-white and didn't translate smoothly enough from the protagonist to his broader social situation. This could have been forgiven however, if not for the display of some of the most horrible and clichéd acting I've seen within memory from the two kids playing the flashback versions of Stevo and Bob. The amateurishness and total lack of quality in this scene speaks for itself. I would only recommend this movie to someone with nothing else to do and who can take its portrayal of punk with more than a grain of salt. "},{"Title":"Good but flawed film","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I need to warn you right up front that I will be discussing the ending of this film in these comments, but I will insert another warning right before I do so.SLC Punk is a surprisingly good film. It's manic pacing and overloaded visual style may annoy some viewers, but these techniques were quite intentional. The feeling of confrontation they create is completely appropriate to the subject matter and the story, set in the 80's Salt Lake City punk scene.Speaking of which, many of the comments on this site have harped on the fact that you have to be a punk to enjoy this film. This couldn't be further from the truth. Any fan of art, which by its nature tests the limits of society's rules, could enjoy this film. I would even hazard a guess that some true punks would enjoy it less than the average film buff, as turning a critical eye to the soundtrack or the exact depiction of affairs in the punk world could lessen the films overall effect, which is quite strong.This film deals in a meaningful way with the feeling of the Outsider. In that respect, it is perhaps a closer relative of On the Waterfront or Easy Rider than Pulp Fiction, the film to which it has most often been compared(largely because this is the inevitable comparison of 90's film.) What makes this film different from either Waterfront or Rider, as well as Sid and Nancy, is its often lighthearted tone. It is impressive that in this humor, we still can see most clearly the anger of the characters. It is a humor born of overwhelming tension and displacement rather than one of light-hearted frivolity and, as such, is completely believable.***Spoiler Alert***All this said, after viewing the movie, I was rather vexed by the ending. It was not so much the fact of the Lillard character's selling out that bothered me, but rather the ease with which he could accomplish the feat. To my mind, the film ignored its own wisdom, which lies in the fact that the true outsider feels too distanced from his society to be able to rejoin it, even as an establishment rebel, in one fell swoop. This movie is too good to end this quickly and wrap things up so tightly. A more realistic picture may have involved a somewhat tortured process for the Lillard character, which may have been difficult given the film's pace but which would have been much more believable. "},{"Title":"whatever","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" this movie is mediocre at best. I really don't know why, and am constantly annoyed by people who love this movie. they love love love it. when I first saw this movie I would most likely have given it a 7 or maybe 8, but now that I am more into punk rock I'm almost offended by this movie and how pretentious the attitude is. This is Jenny, Jenny forgot to take her pills, blah blah. When Lillard talks to the camera in this movie its like hes a poser punk version or Malcolm in the middle. in very few ways is his performance believable. Like when that girl he meets in the end of the movie completely degrades his lifestyle, he seems to have no problem with it because hes in love, but any normal punk (a word which has never been more overused than in this movie) would have told her off. This any many more stupid characteristics make this movie very hard for me to watch. "},{"Title":"Not trying to be punk by any means, and a great movie.","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SPOILERS. The bad reviews I'm reading on the website say that the movie appeals to Hot Topic kids and Avril fans, but I'd disagree.  Mind you, I did first see the movie when I was a Hot Topic kid Avril wasn't around yet, and I loved it. Things are different now, and I STILL love it.  This movie is not trying to define punk, nor is it trying to make its characters the most punk they can be.  Notice the quote from the end In the end, we're all posers.  Stevo reforms his life after Heroin Bob dies and he sees how f***ed up things are and how pointless all of what he's doing is.  It talks about how working the system from the inside does a lot more damage, which is an incredibly good perspective that isn't seen too often in movies involving punks.  Most kids walking around with a store-bought anarchy t-shirt would yell about how they want to stay outside the system, and unfortunately they fail to see the ending and ruin the credibility for other fans of this movie. "},{"Title":"Punks and posers","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk! is the charming story of Steveo and his pal Heroin Bob (who does not actually due heroin), two hardcore anarchist punks in the unlikely setting of Salt Lake City, Utah. To anyone who's grown up different outside of the hip big cities, I think this movie will strike a chord, even if your scene wasn't punk rock. The setting definitely works to this movie's advantage. The punks are at constant war with the rednecks (which includes the police) and rivals of the Mods. The beer run to Wyoming and soul-searching trips to the salt flats are some of the real highlights of the movie and elements that take advantage of the setting in Utah.The movie is shot in a stylish, fourth-wall breaking style. I found it to be extremely reminiscent of Trainspotting, which came out a few years earlier. It doesn't do so well in comparison with that particular movie, which has funnier laughs, much more dramatic lows, a crisper plot, more dynamic use of music... and so on.This is hardly to say SLC Punk! is a bad movie, it is completely worth a watch, especially if you have any affinity for punk rock or being a social outsider. "},{"Title":"Anarchy in Salt Lake City.","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Two punks in the eighties, decide they want to change things in their life and along the way cause a little anarchy in some places, and good Karma in others.Forget the fact that the cover says Sid and Nancy meets John Hughes, that couldn't be further from the truth.If you mix a little Boogie Nights, with Prick up your Ears, you get what in turn is this, a mildly diverting drama with excellent characters and Lillard breaking the fourth wall in what is arguably his greatest performance.They are basically slackers, who argue with peers and superiors and cause a little bit of trouble. Some of the characters are interesting, Schweiger and Segel are standouts, others, random people doing random acts are not, become a little boring and a little too ironic, because after all, the late nineties was a time for ironic movies and left-field characters.The ending is mighty predictable too, one dying, and then the other pursuing his Fathers dreams for him.Watchable, but you'll get a screaming sense of Deja Vu "},{"Title":"It's tough to be a poser.","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a very interesting movie. It's part documentary, part narrative, and part confusing. (I really, really feel like the 2002 Scooby-Doo movie takes place during one of Matthew Lillard's bad trips.) The two protagonists, Heroin Bob and Stevo, are a great pair. I loved watching their story arcs rise and fall. I don't really know how accurate the movie is about growing up punk, but I was also raised a little bit on punk (and ska). I liked the music in the movie, even all the hating on British bands. It was also funny as hell to see Jason Segel play a dweeby guy. While I can't say for sure whether or not I liked the ending, it did make me tear up a bit, which rarely happens. Overall a good film. (And I love love love the song Beat My Guest so thanks for including it. "}{"Title":"People talk so much crap about this film.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Someone says that this movie attacks the entire punk ideology and lifestyle and tries to prove how worthless the political ideology of anarchy is. Someone says that this movie provides an inaccurate image of the punk ideology and lifestyle and thus, represents it wrongly. And critique it on that note.In my opinion those are completely flawed and unreasonable conclusions to make about this movie. This movie is about ONE simple thing. It's about an angry teenager who is trying to find his way in life between everything he THINKS matters, and what actually DOES matter.Stevo is a poser. Posers are the type of people who will judge people because of what they look and look down on them because of what clique they are in. Essentially, they are nothing better then the groups that they hate. But he doesn't realize this when he is an angry teenager who is upset with everything that is wrong with the world, everything that is mediocre, fascism and buttoned-down-normal.There isn't anything in this movie that complains about the entire punk ideology. In the end, Brandy makes the ultimate statement when she talks about how Rebellion happens in the mind, it's not about the clothes you wear and that's the whole point with the movie. Punk is about personality. It's about values, it's about your mentality. It doesn't have anything to do with how you dress or living like a bum. It's about individuality, freedom, open-mindedness and not doing things just because other people want you to.In the end, Stevo stops being a poser because he realizes what is important. It's what you think and do to change the world, not how you dress. You can do a lot more damage inside of the system then outside of it. He simply changes his perspective, he doesn't stop being anti-authority and he doesn't stop being a punk.This movie is about the STEREOTYPES and COMMON MISCONCEPTIONS in not only punk but alternative subcultures in general. That is what makes it the ultimate punk movie for me, because I have grown up with people (myself included) who dress in alternative fashion and judge other people for looking normal as much as normal people judge them back. And it's a very flawed and immature mentality to have, which you don't realize until you get to know people and see that appearance is just appearance. What's important is the mind. "},{"Title":"Don't know if this spoils it but...","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As one of those SLC Punks I want to say that I liked the film and Stevo even gave approval. Though the accuracy is not there and there is no mention of the SLC music which included 'The Massacre Guys' which was one of the bands Stevo was in, The film is of interest. I didn't know Bob well so I wont speak of him or how he obtained that moniker though the movie does tell of the myth. Stevo (Now known as Stephan Egerton) did not become a lawyer. In fact, after his good friend and Massacre Guy Karl Alverez. he joined the band 'All' and later they reverted back to the original 'Decedents' after Milo returned. Sean (Fightmaster)(You can find him on line) Did not become a bum as I knew him since he was 14. The acid in the sprinklers portion is up for debate though Sean at times of lucidity claimed that it never happened. Sean died of a heroin overdose two years ago and is greatly missed. Just a note from someone that was there...Though it's fuzzy now! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Created.","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" During the Winter of 1999, I had my first opportunity to watch SLC Punk. I was a punk myself--a sophomore in high school with purple hair, and the normal punk gear, who marched to the beat of my own drummer. I was--and still am--an avid movie critic, filtering movies with inconsistencies and discarding them without emotion; but the first time I watched this movie, I actually felt a connection between Steve-o, Herion Bob, and myself. I felt how they felt, and them likewise.I recommend this movie to anyone(not only punks) who feels they are misunderstood by the general public, ripped off by the White Anglo Saxon Protestants (WASPs), and feel that they can make a change in the world. You know what else? The ironic thing is that I'm Mormon.After having viewed this movie, I became not only my high school Senior Class President, but also the Southern Virginia University Student Body President, because I wanted to make a difference in the way things were run. This movie motivated me to stand up for what I believe in.One of the best quotes in the movie was by Bob when he said, It's a crazy, f---ed up world and we're all just barely floatin' along, waiting for someone who can walk on water. I agree with this statement, but why wait? What if we are those 'people' that others are waiting for? That is why this gave me the motivation and dedication to recognize things that needed reform and to change them. If there isn't anything you take out of the movie, please that the desire to get a 4.0 in damage.This movie, to me, ranks up with the best created. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is a great movie with good acting and an excellent story. The whole thing on it doesn't represent punk is stupid. All punk kids try and do their own thing and never truly represent anarchy. Trying to represent anarchy is like trying to follow all the teachings of the bible, impossible. Plus all punk kids look at other punk kids and think they are posers, thats the life style, and thats the way it will always be.I think this is a good movie about a couple of guys having a good time and finding out who they are. This is my favorite movie and will always be. Stevos internal struggle is the best part cause i can realte to the fact that what happens you still have to grow up "},{"Title":"A moving story of a punk's fight against growing up.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Matthew Lillard gives a stunning performance as Steve-O, a punk and college graduate battling between society's pull to make something of himself and his punk/anarchist persona.  With parents pulling him in one direction, and parties, music, and the quest for personal freedom pulling him in the other, Lillard, along with a well-picked cast, face everyday life's ups and downs.  Genuinely amusing, with some amazing writing, SLC Punk! is more of a philosophical and heartfelt look at a choice everyone, as a punk, Mod, redneck, poser, or whatever, has to make eventually. "},{"Title":"More of a Poser Movie...","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It was an OK movie... if you're not into the punk scene and have no idea what it's about. This movie did a poor job explaining punk or anarchy. And personally, i don't like movies that try to explain something like punk anyways, so i guess this movie was more of an anger starter than an enjoyable experience.It saddens me that some punk kids are going to watch this movie and start sharing the views of Heroin Bob and Steve-o. So... I guess this isn't a great movie to watch if you're into the punk scene. Either it will annoy you, or you will become someone who will go to Hot Topic and search for this movie. Either way.. it's up to you. But personally, this movie got a big thumbs down from me. "},{"Title":"Punks with perfect skin the exploited culture of SLC Punk","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a huge fan of punxploitation films, and usually I can get something out of them, even if they are basically bad movies. SLC Punk is one of the most unenjoyable films of ANY kind I have ever seen.  It offends me as a punk, as a film lover, and as a human being for having wasted my time watching it.  At many points just plain boring, SLC Punk is always irritating, and seems to be targeted to appeal to those with the pseudo-rebellious mentality of a spoiled 12 year old.A more accurate title for this film would have been slc Poser, since the real issue at the heart of it (and this isn't just my analysis- like everything about this movie it is explicit in the script) is that Matthew lillard's character Steve-O never really was a punk at heart, just a poser with more big words to sling in his vapid attempt at anti-authoritarian philosophy.  In this sense, maybe this is a film about why punk rock fails for so many kids.  If you're just a rich kid for whom anarchy is an excuse to act like a frat boy and punk only means dressing in certain clothes, it should be no surprise that these things are not permanent.  This is obvious from the first frame of the film, though it seems to take Steve-O forever to figure it out. One the biggest problems with the movie is the MTV-style editing and ultra-slick production value, which are more suited to a Hackers-esque techopop movie than a film about punk, which even in its most superficial form is gritty and unrefined. There are so many jump cuts in this film that I started to wonder if the director was just too lazy to try and match-cut.  Also, the ultra-saturated colors and herky-jerky pace give the whole thing the feel of a saturday morning cartoon show (though one to which f-you is the catch phrase of choice).  This is only worsened by the weak, overly-expressive acting, with Lillard mugging it up and Heroin Bob's dull requiem of dude-isms. Even the soundtrack, which relies on classic tunes from various genres, feels tacked on and jumbled.  Penelope Spheeris can make movies this glossy, but the reason kids love Suburbia (or even Repo Man or Sid and Nancy) is because it made the punk aspects seem organic to the film, and maybe the were. Here there is no question that you are watching outright exploitation of punk rock in the name of a glossy Hollywood flick.  The experience may have elements of truth to it, but the film's attitude is distanced - it's lost touch.  This is the cinematic equivalent of your parents telling you you'll grow out of it. You know they didn't get it right when ever "},{"Title":"great movie/acting, terrible representation of true punk","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really loved this movie. when i first saw it it got me interested in anarchy, after much researching on anarchy and true punk however, i found that slc did a poor representation as to what anarchy and punk meant. anarchy is not chaos as the film said, and anarchists hate neo-fascists for many more reasons than were stated. the hick thing could very well be true as i live in a huge hick town and they all hate me for no other reason than that i dress and believe differently from them. when it comes to entertainment, this movie is top notch, but if your looking for something that truly represents, go to a punk show, hang out with some punks, or, if you're lazy, (or live in a place minus a punk scene, aka mid west) then rent/buy Class of 1984.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Punky movie!","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I know this film was quite rough but honestly, Matthew Lillard was just an amazing actor by playing as a kid in the 1980's. He actually didn't look too bad by having his hair dyed blue, it looked pretty awesome on him. He really put into so much energy for his character, I was very surprised that this film didn't win an Oscar or a Golden Globe! It really does bring you to the time where sex, drugs and punk music were increasingly popular. I hated when Bob died from overdosing drugs while he was trying to get rid of his headache. I felt really upset for poor Stevo, he was his only friend in the world. His face does bring you into tears since you normally don't see Lillard crying in some of his movies especially his notable role as Shaggy.This is honestly the best film I ever saw and it's really much better then Trainspotting! "},{"Title":"whoa whoa whoa !! unbelievably outstanding.","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" what an unexpected & moving surprise. I mean its not even gold, its just kinda diamond. Haven't come across such screenplay & portrayal of the real punk life. closest as it gets. awesome performances by the cast. Matt z good, but have a look at the supporting actor line up and Man ! Did they deliver !!!definitely one of the most underrated movies ever.absolute fresh breeze , must watch ... don't watch till u get a plan to watch it the best way.. I mean ... good display screen , good speakers, snacks, drinks, beer, girlfriend and the most significant of all .... your gang ... )great time guaranteed !! "}{"Title":"One of the best movies i've watched","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is a must for any one who was or still is a punk,when i first saw it it really spoke to me and caught my attention,Matthew Lillard really surprised me with his role as Stevo and makes you wonder why he went on to act in what he has acted in,in my opinion he's a very under looked actor and could have played in so many more great movies. Now any good movie needs a great soundtrack,and slc pulls it off very well with songs like Urban Struggle by The Vandals to Kill The Poor by The Dead Kennedys,the soundtrack definitely adds to the scenes in the movie very well and make the movie even better and memorable,The end of the film was great and ended leaving you feeling great and pleased and wanting to kick some ass and bust some heads,in conclusion to this review it's a wonderful movie,great cast,kickass soundtrack,and is a movie for anyone who wants to tell the world to f*** off "},{"Title":"A truly honest and deep movie","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When I saw SLC punk! for the first time I was surprised, a lot... I saw the trailer and I thought oh cool another movie about punk, drugs and subculture but boy was I wrong. Instead of the shallow movie for just entertainment purposes that I expected I got a true masterpiece that would haunt my thoughts for weeks. The intense scenes, the whole irony behind the characters, the realism of the script together with amazing acting (another surprise, Lillards acting) made this movie for me seriously life changing! After finishing the film tons of question are born inside your head about, you, the world, society. In conclusion a very straight forward film with deep meaning! "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Deep Film","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Being a fan of the punk rock and heavy metal community, I decided to check out SLC Punk. I can honestly admit that the film had a lot more depth than I had imagined it would. The film raises a lot of questions about loyalty and how long one can hold onto their beliefs as time passes.At the start of the film Steveo and Heroin Bob, played by Matthew Lillard and Michael A. Goorjian, are dedicated punks determined to spread their anarchist message in the highly conservative Salt Lake City. Their social circle has grown quite large with devoted followers. Steveo's parents are proud former hippies who have since become wealthy lawyers, an act by which Steveo accuses them of selling out. Over time, SLC's punk ring starts to dissolve with Steveo, Bob, and Trish as some of the few remaining punks, with Steveo beginning to question his own beliefs.Steveo mentions in the film that in order to be a true punk you cannot simply draw on a band's lyrics or how they dress, but you must truly believe in the code of anarchy which he firmly abides by. As the film progresses, though, he starts to see the negative aspects of this lifestyle. A fellow punk has a mishap with LSD and ends up homeless with brain damage. His girlfriend is caught cheating on him causing him to attack the man she was sleeping with. These events make Stevo question his beliefs and make him wonder if he is truly a punk. At a party, he falls in love with another girl and stays with her even after she points out these flaws. After a tragic event happens following the party, Steveo gives up the punk lifestyle and returns to college and thus himself, sells out and describes himself as just another poser.Ultimately I think SLC Punk's message is that, simply, people change. It doesn't matter how devoted to something someone is, they will likely move on in time. To remain frozen in time in an ever-changing society is futile and one must learn to expand their knowledge of society and life in order for their views to stay relevant. In the end I think that this film teaches great lesson on finding yourself and discovering what kind of person you will become. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't think people really understand why I love this movie. It's because not only does it have an all around great cast, story, and soundtrack, but it speaks to me. It made me think about my future, and how I too will change as time goes on. I learn so much about not only the punk fad of the 70's and 80's, but I also see the bonding of two long time friends, what it means to be a punk, and how who you were anywhere from a couple of years ago, to just yesterday, has changed. This is really the first coming of age film I've seen where it tackles how hard it is to be different in a society that just wants you to be normal if there is such a word, and that you will find who you really are comfortable with at any point in your life. That is why I love this film as much as I do. "},{"Title":"phucking poser........ONLY  POSERS  DIE  YOU  THUCKING  IDIAAAHT !!","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" That was the best acting i ever saw when heroine bob lay there pretending to be dead and i couldn't hold back the tears of laughter at mathews lillards terrificly crap acting when bob dope loses all hope .... come on bob, get up - stop posing. Then he exclaims very so so like 'and we put him under the ground' and the official cause of death is one of the drugs in the queens of the stone age song 'feel good hit of the summer'. Now he's going off to hug a tree; so shaun puts all this acid in his pocket; GANDI ! - What can i shay (not a typo - note his funny voice), we weren't much more than a couple of young pukes; hey man you got any nail varnish for my balls? ; bob was like that - a real asshole; (steve-o) i haven't taken a shower with a man before but i kind of like it; yeah hardcore; you grabs his legs i'll grab his balls - yeah hardcore! These are all one of a kind quotes you will find in this great movie, so i say to you watch it cause its hardcore like a kick in the testes "},{"Title":"I don't know","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Well, first I have to say that I feel I'm not qualified to rate this movie. From what I've heard about punks, SLC Punk portrayed their lifestyle faithfully, but something about it didn't entertain me. I mean, if you aren't able to watch an English language movie without subtitles, this movie won't work. The film worked kind of a documentary, and the storyteller talked too much and too fast, so you didn't have time to understand what he says, read the subtitles and analyze the scenes. And although I don't wanna live like a punk group does, I admire them for their authenticity and respect them as I would respect any other group of people. A must see for punk lovers, either to like it or not. "},{"Title":"Good script, good acting, and very entertaining","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" An entertaining tale of two punks in SLC, with a good supporting characters, and a strong performance by Lilliard.Salt Lake City (SLC) is a very conservative place, and the two main characters Stevo (Lilliard) and Bob (Goorjian) are in a very small minority. There isn't much of an overarching story, though there is an underlying message, but rather a collection of events, including flashbacks. These are introduced by Lilliard's narration. The anecdotes themselves are so entertaining, that ride is still very enjoyable. One tale for example, involves the gang getting alcohol from the next state over, and the shopkeeper believing they have been taken over by Satan. There are also serious, dramatic moments, which are effective, as all the characters involved are likable. Lilliard puts on a compelling varied performance, and it is a shame that he wasn't recognized as the great actor he is, and didn't/hasn't become more mainstream. A lesser known film with a great script, great acting, and very entertaining, with some sort of underlying message. "},{"Title":"A great movie but not an accurate depiction of life in the punk scene","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Holy Trinity of punk movies are Sid and Nancy, Suburbia and SLC Punk! and out of the three I think SLC is by far the best.I'll avoid reviewing the movie of its cinematic qualities as there are many people on IMDb who are far more qualified to do that.What I am somewhat qualified to judge is the accuracy of the film's depiction of scene life. Fully admitting that I'm far too young to have experienced punk in the 80s (I'm 23) and that I live in a large East Coast city (so quite distanced from the cultural isolation depicted in Salt Lake) I do think I can make some legitimate comments and criticisms.The film did touch on the high schoolesque social politics aspect of the punk scene somewhat (Steve-Os initial relationship and his reaction to its dissolution) but not nearly enough to convey any real accuracy. This may have been done to make the movie more entertaining, as whether or not kids have a mohawk ultimately does not make their who's-banging-who love triangles any more interesting. However, they're actually a huge part of the scene and reflect some fundamental realities about any kind of underground subculture. That reality being that most kids in the punk scene are basically just trying to create the social systems for themselves that everyone else takes for granted.The DIY ethic that's the very core of punk rock doesn't just apply to producing your own albums, running your own venues and sewing your own clothes. It's also about making your own social scene composed of people that YOU want to be around and that YOU feel comfortable with, rather then the peers and co-workers you've been assigned by school and work.So social cliques in the punk scene aren't merely spikey haired replicas of normal high school cliques. Rather, they're ersatz families created by people who have been drawn together by a common force in their lives, rather then just having grown up in the same neighborhoods or having gone to the same schools as in more typical social development.So ultimately what punk is really about, more then the ideology, style or even music is the relationships formed between kids in the scene. And outside of Steve-O and Heroin Bob's relationship, I didn't see much of that. "},{"Title":"SLC Punk! is not about being Punk or Anarchist","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is not about being punk. It uses the same set-up as most sci-fi films do. You're a rebel in the most conservative town conceivable.What this film really does is talk about how people become caught up in ideology that makes sense but in the end just fails when logic and reality are applied. This can be seen with Stevo's argument with his dad. His dad says, I didn't sell-out, son. I bought in, never forget that. Stevo even assaults his parent's new ideology when he points out that love failed them, religion has failed them, and materialism has failed them. Stevo asserts his greater revelation against that. Later when he evaluates his own anarchist position he realizes the seething contradiction of assembling against the man and fighting. This has to by my favorite scene in the movie--when he goes through the slide show evaluating how he likes to fight, but fighting is not anarchy because it's a system. Basically, all of his relationships to himself and the world are a system against anarchy. He comes to no conclusion at this time.We see the friends begin to break-up and go their separate ways at the end of the film. The ridiculousness of the formerly most hardcore guy going to Save the Trees being just one more useless wasted ideology. It's used well to show they've failed at anarchy, and now they need something new to believe in.You'll also notice a tremendous amount of religious symbolism throughout the film in the mis-en-scene (the surroundings in the scenes). There are a lot of religious t-shirts that flash by for a moment. And, there are often crosses and crucifixes with Jesus on them around--even at the punk show scene. They're not obvious but exist in a tremendous number of the scenes in the film.So the movie is about recognizing that there is no ideal. Ideal is not reality.I think the movie is brilliant in its message. I don't think the form is the most elegant, but it is a very good movie just the same.Anyway, clearly the amount of discussion about anarchy and punk means most people only got the very surface detail of what this movie is about. If you're arguing about that--you missed it. "},{"Title":"answer to the last viewers comments about anarchy","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Dude I grew up in the eighties and Like these 2 characters in the movie I experienced just about everything they showed in this movie. I haven't seen the movie in about 6 years, but when I did see it; it made me feel like I went back in time to some of the great parties I grew up going to when I was in High School myself. I grew up in Southern California and we had just about every click you could think of in my school, from Surfers, Surf Punks, New Ro's, Anarchist Punks,Mod's, and Goth. So along with all of your normal High School clicks these we're some of the new ones that were added to the bunch, and back then if you belonged to any of these you were definitely different and out-casted in some cases. In other words it wasn't as normal or accepted as it is now a days. So when you talk about reading on how it was back then with true punks or any of these other groups don't try to act as if you are well versed on the lifestyles of the eighties. After what I saw what you wrote it was obvious that you had no clue as to how things were back then. I thought this was a great movie in terms of how it was back then and how so many people changed once they got to high school. (back in those times) To me that's what this movie was all about how everybody went there own ways in school back in the 80s and how it was back in the day. This was a good description of how it was, and I have yet to see another movie close to this describing life in the 80s as a teenager.Of course it was a little different for me because of the people I hung out with. Back then I had the opportunities to hang out with some of these Radio Personalities who are now famous and responsible for bringing a lot of what was the beginning of what Alternative,Techno,Punk and every new sound that was coming out back then. Or as we always called it KROQ Music!Anyway point in case. If you didn't live it? Don't comment about something you really don't know about ;-)Jedie "}{"Title":"Amazing movie!!","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" All i can say, is that this is a wonderful movie about some kids trying to figure out life. I would recommend it to anyone especially if your a teen or young adult, because i think that age group will really appreciate it more because it relates to them more directly than it would possibly to someone older.You just have to look past the swearing and the violence because its so much deeper than that. I know that this movie really made me think about my life, and how things can change really fast no matter if you want them to or not, for better or for worse and you have to be prepaid for whatever comes your way. So all in all one of my favorite movies of all time and to anyone who hasn't seen it, go watch it !! "},{"Title":"Life Changing!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was such and eye opener, it really makes you think. Its kind of jumpy from past to present but its such a deep movie that it really makes you think! When i watched this movie i was changed. It so fantastic, the kind of friendship bob has with stevo. Two dedicated punks just trying to change the system, when stevo ends up changing himself. He find out many truths in life, while dealing with hardships of drug, parties, parents, and friends. When in the end it all comes together and makes sense for him. ...1st two punks, last to Punks.. This is the kind of movie like American beauty really makes you think about life... it also give you an inside look into the punk life... "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is beautiful, especially if you're a hard core punk rock fan. You get so caught up in the characters and what they are going through, that you forget you're watching a film and not just watching your friends in their day to day lives. I love Eddie, he's my favorite, though I think he should have gotten a bigger part. Adam Pascal's an amazing actor and he plays his role as the true romantic very, VERY well. The movie is hilarious in a very serious way. What's serious to these characters probably isn't as serious to other people, so we laugh at them. Mattiew Lillard is hilarious in this movie. Every time he curses, I laugh. This movie is FANTASTIC! "},{"Title":"SLC Punk is an instant indie classic.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk starts as an irreverent comedy but the closer it gets to the end of the film it becomes a dramatic piece about maturity and life. Matthew Lillard gives his best performance ever as Steve-O, disciplined to be undisciplined. He's right out of college and his life consists of parties, drinking, and concerts. It's every college guy's dream life. Steve-O's care-free, no-worries life quickly takes a turn for the worst as his friends begin growing up, getting lives, but he wants to stay young forever. This is a great film for anyone who felt like they wasted their youth or feel distant amongst their old friends.With a strong supporting cast and a kick ass soundtrack based on the 1980's punk rock scene, this movie is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Salvan obviously didn't spend too much time as a Punk Rocker in a culturally repressed town in America during the 80's,because if he had, he'd know how true to life this movie really is.The time spent watching this movie (for us old timer punks anyway) is time spent on a road that is (at the very least) nostalgic and maybe just a little embarrassing.I don't think there is one ex-Punk alive who cant recall knowing his own Stevo,Sand, Mark, Heroin Bob, or John the Mod. this movie just brings it all back, however bitter and wasted that time may have been, however jaded and angry you were with the Government or Reagan, this movie will make you smile. "},{"Title":"don't judge someone unless you've gotten to know them","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think this is the best movie. yeah its sad but it teaches everyone about how punks think. I'm growing up in the heart of a punk town. my life was described in that movie and it was so cool. For all you punks out there, punk isn't about the attitude and clothing, its about sharing your beliefs and ideas with other people while at the same time learning more about your beliefs and ideas. you may think punks are smelly ass wanna be rebels or you might think there posers but if you sit down and get to know a punk who dresses like those people in the movie then you will come to realize that they are the sweetest people in the whole entire world. don't let there attitude and clothing fool or scare you. don't judge people if you don't want to be judge. "},{"Title":"SLC punk is a documentary on the life of a true punk in the 80's.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC punk was a great movie.It held so much truth in the life style of a true punk.In fact this movie held so much truth that it is one of the main reasons I became a punk. I thought that it was absolutely brilliant that they had put this movie in a first person point of view,getting all the details. Whether it was the down side of haroin bob dieing, or the up side of stevo getting laid at the concert. SLC punk shows the great life of a punk.The way that the characters are played is awesome. I especially liked the part of Devon sawa. My only suggestion for this movie is that when they met Devon sawa on the streets that day, they should've let him party with them for a while. all I have to say is that SLC punk is one of the greatest punk movies of it's time. thank you for reading, and have a good time.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! is one of my favorite movies. The actors and actresses in this film give some pretty good performances. The editing was a little weird and some parts were a little dragged out. Like in the party scene when Stevo is introducing his friends, Mark's introduction was a little dragged out.A great thing about this movie is the soundtrack. It contains some great punk bands like the Exploited, Minor Threat, the Dead Kennedys, Fear, and the Adolescents.I thought this movie was surprisingly accurate. The lifestyle these people lived was documented perfectly. Punks really act, dress, fight, mosh, and live this way.This movie is perfection.  "},{"Title":"The message continues!!!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie had great acting, a good plot, and made a lot of sense. That is why it's one of my faviorit films. You do get the feeling your getting a personal look into a genuine persons life, with Lillards good acting. the fact that so many reviews include comments like these guys aren't really punk and only posers like this movie, show that the movies message is basically 100% accurate. Rebellion is it's own form of conformity. If you let your spiky haired rebellion turn you into a poser hunting, show how true punk you are person, your a poser... WERE ALL POSERES IN THE END!!!!!!! the iorny... HA  "},{"Title":"A kick-*** experience...","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really was unsure of the film - I love Lillard, but I had no idea what this was going to be, but I wanted to see it for now going on almost 5 years....I *finally* saw it tonight and for a movie I was expecting to be fluff, really turned out to be something.Sure, maybe there were a ton of plot holes. Sure, some of the story didn't make sense... But I've never been so engrossed in characters like I was in Steve-o and Bob. This far outweighs almost every coming of age film, because this actually was something I could relate to. Something that really felt real.There were a few scenes involving Steve that caused me to truly get taken into the movie, it sounds strange, but it was truly an overpowering experience. And Summer Phoenix, even being on the screen for such a short period of time, stole the show. There was just something about her, and about her interaction with Matthew Lillard that you couldn't help but be drawn to her...And the scene, at the end... I won't spoil it, but from what I expected from someone like Lillard, turned out to be one of the best on-screen performances I think I've ever witnessed. And his character - I kept waiting for something like the movie Waking Life - all pretentious and self-proud... but this just was. Nothing that came out of Steve's mouth was fake, he and Matthew Lillard (forgive how cliché this is going to sound) were one. It just worked... So beautifully, I just can't define it.For anyone hesitating to see this movie, just watch it. Even if you don't like it, the admission is worth it to see some very young, and very skilled actors playing some, believe it or not, interesting parts. I think some of the other people that commented on this movie need to sit down and watch it again... the one person who said All these little punk groupies are going to go around with nicknames like Heroin Bob missed the point completely. And, last but not least, if I had to compare this movie to anything... I think the closest approximation would be Trainspotting (which just so happens to be one of my favorite movies). So go back, watch this movie, check out trainspotting, and tell me if you still think it's just fluff.Nick  "}{"Title":"formulaic?  can't agree.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  wow.  didn't think i was going to like this one.  inventive editing, honest and refreshing performances (without being heavy handed or taking themselves too seriously) and unusually intelligent writing.  can't quite put my finger on it, but there's something different about slc punk.  just when you think it might lapse into a teen fight movie, the narrator turns to the camera and tells you what he really thinks.  story of two real punks (not posers) is classic loss of innocence story.  not citizen or lawrence arabia on the surface, the power of this film lies elsewhere.  watch for the details and listen for the subtleties.  it's actually a hallmark production on several levels. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is about Stevo (Matthew Lillard) and Heroin Bob (Micheael A. Goorjian) a couple of anarchists who hate their town and all the rules and rednecks in it. This movie was awesome, its really funny, but I wouldn't label it a comedy, its way more than that.  Everyone stupid kid who thinks their original and thinks their not a poser should go see it! One of my new favorite movies 10/10 .....last "},{"Title":"Carry on...","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thankfully saw this movie a few years ago and thought it was wicked - but unfortunately saw scooby doo the *ahem* movie last week and found an uncomfortable similarity. Matthew Lillard carried both. He is a fantastic actor, which is well portrayed here in SLC. But MYGODMAN ... what are you doing ...!?!? Still, praises for SLC - a solid 7.  "},{"Title":"A Contradiction of Sorts","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really dig this movie, even though I was never a punk. I first saw it with a group of friends, and it quickly became the clique flick. Matthew Lillard was absolutely great in this movie. In his pre- Scream work, he shows his talent, and then some. Michael Goorijan was really the high point of the movie. Bob's cynical attitude and his take on drugs was hysterical. And Annabeth Gish was amazing. I appreciated the movie for being both true and a contradiction. Throughout the movie, you see this pattern, to his conversation with Chris on order and chaos, to Stevo's confession at the end. The movie does get a little dull in areas, particularly when Bob and Stevo are at Mark's, and When Bob, Trish, and Stevo are at the Salt Flats, but over all the film is precise, hilarious, and it really does make you think of the contradiction and vigor of anarchy and anarchists. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Regionally specific social commentary in the film.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Warning May contain spoilers. I'm sure any big fan of SLC punk is also aware that the writer/director was a native to the Salt Lake area. While I enjoyed the film for what it was (original writing, refreshing cinematography ect.), I really appreciated Merendino's overall message regarding the fruitless endevour that is conscious and sensless rebellion as it applies to organized society. Merendino graduated from a private-catholic high school (Judge Memorial CHS) located in the LDS (Mormon) capital of the world, and writing from experience, he set out to expose those youth for what they really were a bunch of over-privaledged self-riteous anarchists who had nothing better to do than try rebel against the ultra-conservative Mormon majority. Not to knock the punk sub-culture of the late 60's and 70's, but to grow up in Salt Lake in the 80's and try to associate yourself with that culture is ridiculous. Of course Merendino points this out with Steve-O's decision to go to law school. The point is, I graduated from the same High School and grew up in the same city (granted 14 years later than Merendino) and the same mentality was ever present. The ability to make a film that is not only original and entertaining, but also socially relavant and applicable, even now, is an acomplishment. I highly recomend this movie 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers ahead,This movie is an excellent movie, a lot of people see it as a definition of punk rock. I have to say that to me the movie represents dissalussionment, everything this guy(steve-o) believes in, sandy, punk rock, anarchy, bob, it all changes, and he doesnt know how to handle it. and its just a movie, its not a code book for living. so dont take it as one. When he sees john the acid burn out he realizes that he has a future that this guy doesnt have and that he should follow it, thats furthered by brandy telling him that she thinks his whole punk rock schtick is silly, then bob dies, and its like what can he believe in? so he realizes that its just not what it used to be for him and he becomes a regular member of society, hes not selling out, hes still believes in alot of things he used to , hes just trying to live a normal life now. cause he cant take the old way of it, cause it just doesnt work for him.  "},{"Title":"really good film","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  as i am not an American punk from the 80s i don't really know how true to life this flick is but i liked it anyway. i liked the whole reason why Bob is called Heroin Bob, mike is a really cool character, the nerd being the most hardcore one of them all. it is a pretty decent film and i will be hoping to see more from James Merendino  "},{"Title":"stereotypical punk!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  not at a bad movie, but way too stereotypical about the whole anarchy thing. but the movie does have a good plot i guess. There were some pretty awesome performances in this movie, but Matthew Lillard just got on my nerves in this movie. the movie is funny in many ways, and also stupid with there dang stereotypes in this. this movie seems to be aimed more at audiences of kids that shop at Hot Topic and think they are cool. it's not a bad movie, it's only alright. nothing to watch over and over again and praise over. i rate it 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The film does feature a strong performance by Matthew Lillard. Michael Goorjian also delivers a strong performance (and he looked just like my best friend too) but then we get to the downfalls of the film.1. The plot itself is really weak and the meaning is, at best, weak, and, at worst, contradictory. The scenes themselves are good but the problem is when they are combined, the sum of the whole is less then the sum of the parts.2. The breaking of the fourth wall in the film (not really a spoiler since it happens in the first ten minutes or so) DOES provide interesting insight about one-third of the time, the rest of the time it is just jarring and actually takes away from the film.3. The environment is not used to its fullest effect. I mean the two guys are punk rockers in Salt Lake City, Utah (like the most conservative place in the country) at the height of the Reagan years (the references to the 1980s are scattered at best). There is like one reference to the Mormon church and only a few about Utah. It could have been used much better.While I do like punk rock music, it was not enough to sell me on very much in the film, a real shame since it really did have potential to be a great film. Overall-- 5/10 "},{"Title":"A striking similarity to Trainspotting.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  ***If any spoilers are present they are for comparative basis only*** ***consider youself forewarned*** is it just me or does this seem like Trainspotting done over with Punk Anarchist in the 1980's instead of Heroin Junkies in modern times. Both feature young adults in part of a subculture which is typically looked down upon by the status quo, both involve drug use some of which might be considered gratuitous. In both the non-druging friend of the protagoinist gets involved with drugs somehow and ends up dying from it. This loss and view of the destructive nature of drugs really pushes for the protagonist to straighten up and stop being part of the rebelious subculture and start being a productive part of society. Don't get me wrong, it was a well done movie, with characters I cared about and a lot of diverse and intresting subplots but overall i think trainspotting as far as this formula for a movie was better done and leaves the audience a little less dissoriented feeling at the end. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this is a great movie. james merendino did a good job directing this movie. the movie is told in flashback, very original, through a lawyer (sorry if i give away the movie), if you listen to the audio & cast commentary on the DVD, merendino describes it as looking at an internet site and looking through different windows and closing windows and such, quite original. good story, great soundtrack, great message, great movie, highly reccomend it, even if you dont like punk. (10 out of 10) "},{"Title":"What is a very good movie that most people didn't see?","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you said SLC Punk, you'd be right.  This is one of the best movies ever concieved.  Why?  Well, it has some of the most beautiful cinematography that I've ever seen and the way that the story is conveyed from Stevo to just anyone watching the movie is very unique and a way of narration, that since it is not used too terribly often, it works well.  Also, Heroin Bob is EXTREMELY well played as a mildly neurotic character.  Heroin Bob is also well played because he talks unlike an actor but more like a regular guy. The deep storyline could take you a very long time to understand in its entirity, but the conflicted life of Stevo(Matthew Lillard) in this film is enough to see it all by itself.  And let's face it, if there's any place that should be spoofed on, it's SLC.  I hope you enjoy this film at least partially as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Quite true to life.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen this movie many times, and it is one of my favorite films. I myself am a punk and find the movie to be quite accurate. The end however was not to my likeing. Like Steve-o said. I'd beat the s*** out of the guy he had become.A great movie. Do yourself a favor and see it. "},{"Title":"Punk The Way We Were","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is a great little film. Like Stevo, I too was a punk in the mid-80's in a conservative college town. What's more, my best friend was a guy named Bob who sported a mohawk, and we were local pariahs. What're the odds? You might think that'd make me a bit biased and you'd be right. However, because I lived this scene, I was that much more critical in watching the film.IMO SLC Punk is a heartfelt and self-reflective coming of age comedy. It has a first person POV narrative style with V.O. commentary similar to comedies like Ferris Beuller and High Fidelity. The film has the look and feel of a small independent which adds to the already accurate portrayal of the punk-hardcore scene of that time (the tail end of the original American wave) the great music, the parties, drugs, alcohol, the whole Anarchy ethos, the lifestyle, the look, punks vs. mods vs. metalheads vs. rednecks etc. It's this accuracy and honesty that makes the film so funny and at turns touching, as well as, the blend of great supporting characters and their interactions.At film's end when Stevo says, so, I sold out, you know it has a different meaning for him now than it did at the start. He understands more, has truly grown and changed. For better or worse is for the viewer to decide. You don't see that in film much these days.Currently, punk is enjoying a revival as a new generation expresses it's angst. This is a great flick for every kid who doesn't know where Green Day and the Hives got their licks from.A twentysomething young punk passed me with his crew on the street the other day at lunchtime. He eyed me with a practiced Sid-like sneer and hissed sellout as they passed by, and I smiled. I remembered the various tattoos and piercings under my suit as I climbed into my car to head back to work, and I thought, so, I'm a sellout, but at least I'm not a mod.Hope you enjoy SLC Punk as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Glad to see others liked this movie...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first heard about this movie while they were filming near my work in downtown SLC.  So I'm always interested to see how the films turn out just for the fact they were filmed here.  I thought I might be a little biased since I went to the University of Utah during the 80's and was involved in a small way in SLC's music scene.  I was glad to see most people that have put their comments in here get this movie!  I'm glad that most people can relate to it whether they are in the punk scene or not, or that have never been to Utah.   Sure I have a few nitpicks, like the Rockers being totally under represented and the Mods overrepresented.  (I think the film might have had the total amount of Mods I ever saw in SLC in the 80's).  One commenter on here can't understand if the characters hated SLC so much, why don't they just leave?!  That's another part of the film I loved. Everyone bitches about how horrible it is here, blah blah blah, but it has way more positives than negatives.  And as the film points out, you are going to be unhappy anywhere until you figure out who you are and what is important to you in your life. I gave this a 9 out of 10 vote. "},{"Title":"Punk 101","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  **SPOILERS**Matthew Lillard is great in the role of Stevo.  Many would discredit him due to his more mainstream roles.  However, this is exactly what's wrong with the punk rock movement.  Any group or artist that is talented is embraced by the punk community.  Sadly, as soon as they become popular, they are seen as posers or sellouts.  However, Stevo is the ultimate punk.  He's smart as hell, but he doesn't care about anything.  This is all well and good until his world is shattered by the death of his best friend.  Then he realizes that a world of total idealism is not a practical way to live.  He becomes a f*cking poser.  And that is the way the world works.  Sometimes your idealism has to be compromised to fit the real world.  And that is, as I see it, the main theme of the film.  Heroin Bob believes in love, Stevo becomes a lawyer, Stevo's girl criticizes the way he dresses...  The punk philosophy, like communism, is a great idea that doesn't work in real life. "},{"Title":"A story about two punks having to grown up in Salt Lake City","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this was an outstanding film.  It is one of my favorites.  It is funny and compelling and sad.  This movie touches all of the emotions one can have.  I love the story line and the soundtrack is great.  Heroin Bob and Stevo are a great team and make for a excellent move.  The history lessons in punk music is great. "},{"Title":"PUNK BY THE BOOK!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a must see for all punk and whatever you clam. This flick is 97 min's of pure punk comedy. Matthew Lillard (SCREAM) is a creative actor that has a good future, being able to go from crazy outrages to depressed and dramatic. Michael A. Goorjian (HARD RAIN) is just one of the best actors. His capability to act mad as he does is just awesome.Plot Stevo (Lillard) and Bob (Goorjian) are two punks in Salt Lake City in 1985. The movie follows Stevo as he goes throw his life but slowly breaks down. As Stevo goes on every day he changes more and more. Join the two punks, stilling cars, party's, fighting and doing what punks do.Also Staring Devon Sawa, Summer Phoenix, James Duval and Annabeth Gish. This film has good story good actors and actresses, good dialog and dramatic ending.I give it **** of ****   "},{"Title":"Greatest movie EVER!!!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is Definitely my new favourite movie! While I'd gotten it because I wanted to see Annabeth Gish I LOVED it despite that she's barely in it at all and has practically no lines. That was Definitely Matthew Lillard at his best. And I LOVED Michael A. Goorjian as Bob! (god why hasn't this guy been in more big movies? He's an AMAZING actor!!!) This movie deals with a lot of issues, including really dark ones such as drug use, and I found it to be a movie I could really relate too. It was also incredibly enjoyable, funny and entertaining. I hated the ending... but other than that, I thought it was amazing. Greatest movie EVER!!!! "},{"Title":"Highly amusing","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found this movie to be very funny. It also had an interesting view on punk culture. Great script, great story, great acting... It's got an interesting ending, too. What else can I say? I definitely recommend that more people watch this. "}{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting from this film. I actually only saw it because I'm completely obsessed with Matthew Lillard (Stevo) but after I saw it I was like, wow. Every guy I know hates this movie and every girl loves it. i think it's because of all the eye candy! I mean you have matthew Lillard (stevo), Michael Goorjian (Heroin Bob), Devon Sawa (Sean), Til Schweiger (Mark), and some girls like me like Adam Pascal who plays Eddie. But this definately is NOT the reason that I love this movie. The acting is incredible! A lot of people say that there is no plot and everything is confusing but what the director was trying to do was make everything seem mixed up and out of order to show Stevo's confusion as he's trying to find his identity. Trust me on this. I've watched the movie about 50 times (litterally) and have even listened to the directors commentary. All the actors are great even if I hate some of the characters (basically every female character except Jennifer and Trish, Stevo's mom is just an insult to women if you realize how passive she is and how she follows whatever his dad says) Anyway, Matthew does an amazing job. He lets out his humorous side while still showing everyone his problems and confusion. You just have to love Michael Goorjian and Devon Sawa who definately play my favorite characters in this movie. Til Schweiger is just awesome! I mean his character is just hilarious even though you do feel kind of bad for him (watch the movie and find out why) Damn! he knows how to hold a gun! Basically this movie is overall just a really cool, funny yet sad, well- acted, fun mind trip. I'll bet though that if you're a guy you probably won't like it but it is two of the girl's I have shown it to's favorite movie now. The third just likes it A LOT! If you still believe it sucks and you're a girl, just see it mainly for the guys. If you're a guy and think it's gonna suck, maybe you'll like Summer Pheonix (yuck!) or Anabeth Gish (she's the prettiest one in the film)Just see the movie and decide for yourself. I can't tell you to like it or not. "},{"Title":"Interesting snap-shot of the 80's Punk scene","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although this wasn't a very compelling movie, it mixed drama and a few laughs in the tale of a lost youth trying to solve the world's problems by employing the tactics of anarchy. Torn by the decision to between the life of a middle-class sheep or one of freedom, angst, and protest, we follow the main character's journey to his epiphany.  It's a standard plot with a chaotic punk twist, capped off by a believable performance by Matthew Lillard in one of his best roles.  Worth a look for those interested in the roots of the punk scene. "},{"Title":"both hilarious and moving, a completely worthwhile film","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was actually what I thought to be one of the best movies that I have ever seen.  I must applaud James Merendino for making a truly thought provoking film, as opposed to a piece of quasi-intellectual, self-serving nonsense that would be insulting to the intelligence of a meal worm. Matthew Lilliard, already one of my favorite actors from his hilarious role in Hackers, is at the top of his game in this story of a young man struggling to find his identity and place in society.  This movie, while hysterical at times, is both honest and provocative as Stevo receives revelation after revelation, bringing his entire existence into question. Due to a daring director, enthralling story, timeless relevance, and top notch acting by all, I give this film 8 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A smartly written and startlingly accurate look at the lives of dedicated punks.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" First of all, I can't believe the review that I just read of SLC Punk. Wow, some people just completely missed the boat on this one. SLC Punk is one of the most accurate and unflinching documentary style films to come along in years. It's a film about the lives of anarchist punks, who most people don't know anything about beyond the freaky way that they dress. Stevo, played perfectly by Matthew Lillard, speaks directly to the camera and to the audience, and with spectacular effect. The film knows very well that it deals with the lives of hardcore punks, a kind of blocked off group because they don't want much to do with other people, and most people want little to do with them, but are fascinated with them nonetheless, whether out of sheer morbid curiosity or genuine interest. This is a film that deals with a difficult group of people but still manages to be so real and so straightforward that it can be enjoyed by younger people because of the sheer entertainment value as well as the accuracy with which they capture the lifestyle of the punks (I've been there), and it can also be enjoyed by adults as a learning experience, if nothing else. SLC Punk is a remarkably versatile film, it knows its subject matter very well and is therefore able to communicate it clearly even to someone who has never had any experience with the kinds of people that it depicts.Some of the scenes are exaggerated, such as the job hunt scene, but this is a documentary style film that not only delivers a strong presentation on the subject matter that it deals with, but also contains some highly skilled cinematography. The scene where Stevo is on acid with his friend, for example, is one of the most effective drug sequences I've ever seen.SLC Punk is such an accurate film and delivers such a gigantic amount of information about the lives of the people that it focuses on that it's obvious that it was written and directed by someone with a lot of personal experience in that sort of lifestyle. In fact, click on James Merendino's name on the IMDb title page for SLC Punk, and you'll see exactly the kind of freaky picture that you would expect to see of someone who comes up with something like this. SLC Punk is an informative and hugely entertaining film, it provides plenty of opportunities for the cast to deliver some excellent comic relief (especially through Stevo, Matthew Lillard's character), and it presents a fun and enjoyable tour through the lives of hardcore punks, specifically those who live in an environment that completely alienates them &#150; the Mormon atmosphere of Salt Lake City.(spoilers) One of the things that makes this film so effective is that it presents the destructive things that these punks do as learning experiences rather than just a complete and reckless waste of life. Stevo, at least, is the one punk who seems to have his head on at least partially straight, growing up to ultimately become exactly what he always hated but knowing all the while that it's a better life than the one he had been living. It seems that the most significant message that's delivered in this film is that it's fun to screw around when you're young, but you can't live your whole life like that. So to Christian Sarnes, who wrote the review that's on the IMDb's title page, if you think that other than a 'very few situational laughs there's not much to speak about,' you have obviously missed quite a bit. "},{"Title":"when is it time to grow up?","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Salt Lake City punk is an excellent movie about two hardcore punks growning up in utah. The story is narrated by matthew lilliard. I thought this movie was awsome the first time i watched it. As i watch it more and more i love it more each time. Whats so great is that throughout the entire movie you see steveo who is a hardcore punk and he shows you his lifestyle and how he lives and what he believes. AS the story goes on steveo is continually confronted by peers and others trying to draw him away from his lifestyle till the end when his world comes crashing down and everything he thought he believed in, and everything everyone was trying to teach him is finally realized but harsh and brutal truth.  "},{"Title":"narrowmindedness and ignorance spoil this movie for most","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen this movie once or twice. I think that in order for anyone to not appreciate the film is to be completely ignorant of the 'real' punk rock lifestyle (not just the fashion and music, but the politics, etc. involved.)The movie is a semi-autobiographical account (with creative liberties taken into account) of director James Merendino's life growing up in ultra conservative Salt Lake City during the mid-1980's.Reagan was in the White House and A Flock of Seagulls was 'cool.'  Two lifelong friends shun the system, the government, and society to explore their own options.  Stevo (Matthew Lillard) comes upon some tumultuous times dealing with just graduating college with a pre-law degree and figuring out he's inadvertently followed in his father's footsteps.  Heroin Bob (Michael A. Goorjian) his roommate, best friend, and partner in crime, is there for Stevo through the ride of his life.With a semi-surprise ending (involving both Bob and Stevo) it makes one reflect upon their own life, questioning the reasons behind all actions that have lead up to that moment in your own life, and makes you realize that maybe everything you do, is all for not.  Or is it?Besides, what is a punk anyway?If you walk into this movie expecting it to suck, you're a pessimist and don't deserve to watch it.  If you walk into this movie expecting it to be the best movie ever made, it's not.   But it is a damned good flick.Great soundtrack too.   "},{"Title":"Hell, I'm a poseur too!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love this movie.  I was a little punk when I was younger and I have to admit, we were all poseurs.  This movie is incredible from it's style, to the dialogue, right now to the message.  Getting it on DVD right now. "},{"Title":"quite interesting!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i found the movie to be quite interesting and entertaining.  i also live by the punk lifestyle, so i knew most of what steve-o was talkin about.  i found it ironic that heroine bob was killed by an asprin like drug(minor/over the counter drug) when he refuses to do any drug at all. the moral of the story was that we all have to grow up someday, and i believe i will change my lifestyle when i grow up.  this movie had a sort of philosophical edge in that respect and a very entertaining rising action. "},{"Title":"This film rocks","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just want to say that anyone that does not like this film is probably just not really meant to see it, if you have lived within the punk culture for any period of your life, you will love SLC Punk.  The views presented in the film are awesome, making a lot of good points on people's views of other people based on how they look.  Mr. I hated this film because it was boring (see the previous user comment) would probably get beat down at any show he were to go to, and more than likely listens to crap anyway, so do yourself a favor and don't listen to anyone who slams this film, see it because it will open your mind a little bit. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie, buy it!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I couldn't have been more surprised with this movie.  Matthew Lillard and the supporting cast were awesome.  There are at least two incredibly memorable scenes in this movie...one made you want to stand up and cheer, the other made you want to cry.  I highly recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"SLC Punk","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An amazing movie.  Watch it, and appreciate it for the simplicity and the 'real-life' feel of it.  No one walks around, constantly slinging one-liners, and having the time of their lives.  The reality of this movie, the stream-of-conscious feel of the evolution of the characters is breath-taking.  The plot is subtle, and the messages are clear.  It's a movie that can be admired for the incredible acting (especially on Matthew Lillard's part) and also for the possibility that this could happen to anyone.  The final realization of Matthew Lillard's character is the most amazing part of the movie.  It's thoroughly enjoyable, recommendable to all! "},{"Title":"A mesmerizing social commentary","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The story revolves around Steve and the ironically named Heroin Bob. The dualities begin with Steve being a well-off son of a hotshot lawyer father and a flowerchild mother. He finds himself suffocated by the rigid blandness of the humble surroundings of Salt Lake City, Utah, and as such he seeks to detach himself from it and everything it represents. The movie continues as he finds himself constantly reassessing everything he has come to understand of the world around him. The characters are quite deep and each has a rather distinct and intriguing personality. The first time I saw this film I was momentarily apprehensive but I quickly became enthralled.  It is beautifully written with amazing insights into social order and the direction is equally enjoyable. I would definitely label this a Must See if you're looking for a thinking-man's movie. "},{"Title":"Coming of age in pain","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! is a wonderful movie about what happens when everything you know and stand for crumbles. A coming of age story told by Steve-O (Matthew Lillard), a college educated punk in 1985; as he takes you through his inner turmoil you see a beautifully painted portrait by Lillard as he comes to realize that he can't be a punk rocker forever.  "},{"Title":"My FAVORITE MOVIE!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is my favorite movie.  I missed it in the theater, but bought it on VHS as soon as it came out and after I made the jump to DVD and had worn out the tape, I picked up the disc.  Matthew Lillard is one of the few actors who can get me to a screen just because he's in something, and  this is his finest work.  I enjoy the fresh dialog, often delivered as asides, (I've always enjoyed asides) and the subtle jokes paying homage to John Hughes, Spinal Tap etc.  The entire film is essentially Stevo(Lillard) building a case, attourney style, for himself to grow up and abandon his old beliefs, which he slowly realizes are no longer his. "},{"Title":"SLC is a great movie about a couple of young punks.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! is the best movie I have ever seen.  Lillard does an excellent job of telling the story of a couple of young punks.  The movie is hilarious and has some emotional aspects as well.  The sound track fits into the movie perfectly.  I LOVE STEVO!!! "},{"Title":"awesome, just... awesome","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this movie is awesome! i loved the whole thing (especially the scene with Steve-o and his parents, man i wish i could do that to my parents...) I'm not punk (but i do love punk music a lot! especially the Buzzcocks, they is good stuff!) but this movie soo awesome, and I have a lot of punk friends and there is actually someone at my school called Sean (real name) and he dresses exactly like Sean in the movie! i thought it was an original look by him, but it was actually Sean! it totally blew me away... awesome movie "},{"Title":"Punk Rawk! It's Punk Rawk!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  if you ever get the chance rent this on DVD and watch the commentary you'll learn so much about the movie... like in the end when Steve-os crying their actually real tears and it's not acting...and I'm a punk and I can relate to this movie soo well and also my friends who have seen it.. I have 2 really close friends who remind me so much oh bob and steve-o... it's a good movie about 2 true punks in Salt Lake City and in the end Steve-o understands that anarchy will never work out... that everyone is a poser in their own way because of how fake they can make themselves up to be... and things always happens for a reason... there were some cast members and part of the movie I hated though... but all in all it's a great movie if your into punk.   "},{"Title":"what punks thought they were and what they really were","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie! It may seem like a shallow story but it can stem into many debates. You see, this movie shows us what punks thought they were and what they TRULY were. This movie definitely has its strange parts! Its interesting how much the punk society contradicts itself in this movie and the basics are explained. The characters are well developed and all unique and some strange. The main character is multi-layered, and his beliefs are very strong and that is important to the story. I don't know what movie other people saw but i loved this movie it was so well written and can teach us all a lesson. "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard is finally given the chance to show the range of his awesome talents!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I always thoroughly enjoyed Matthew Lillard's films.  However, I was always wondering how good an actor he truly was because he would never get to expand upon his wild-child crazy SOB image in the films. When I saw this movie for the first time, all my worries were washed away. His portrayal of a punk in Salt Lake City was hilarious (expected), but in the end, he is really allowed to spread his wings..... Spoilers!!!..... When he wakes up and finds Heroin Bob dead, it is the most real-looking sob scene I have ever seen. I felt for his character very deeply. I never do that. So, with that in mind, know that if you are ever without joy, pick up this film, watch it, and understand why I rate it a 10/10. Normally, I wouldn't rate a movie so highly, but I can not find flaw with this one. "},{"Title":"Pretty good..","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie after having it recommended to me several times by different people. All in all, SLC Punk was a pretty enjoyable movie, with it's incredibly funny parts and deeply depressing moments. Some of it seemed a bit too exaggerated for my liking, though. And the one scene at Mark's house dragged a bit, at least until when he dried to dump the hot car in the great salt lake. I also think it was Matthew Lillard's best movie, giving a charming performance as Stevo. I recommend Trainspotting or a Clockwork Orange, both of which were earlier then this and better. This wasn't powerful and life changing, but a good, funny, yet serious at times, view of the punk movement. Definately enjoyable and recommended.8/10. "}{"Title":"One of the better punksploitation films","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had been reluctant to view this movie for the fact that Matthew Lillard was the lead character..and the last thing I wanted was a hollywood star telling us what was and wasn't punk. However one night I caught it on Cinemax and decided to go ahead and watch it. I actually liked this movie , Steve-O went through everything that punks go through today. The talk about how he became two faced in the end is exactly how punk is. Punks are always questioning their ideas and beliefs..and punk itself is the most militant , cynical , and difficult things to understand because it has taken on so many meanings and altered ideas of it. This movie captures that. Steve-O goes from the stereotypical anarchist hoodlum punk rocker who indulges in drugs and booze , vandalism , fighting , and the outspoken views and ideas that punks speak about whether or not they really know what they're talking about..til towards the end questioning that maybe he really has no idea what he believes anymore because his world is becoming too conflicted and his surroundings are changing.*WARNING-SPOILERS* Steve-O is put to the test when his friends begin to move away , the scene is becoming nothing but fashion posers , his ideas on anarchy are challenged , a girl he likes challenges his fashion sense..and his best friend dies. In the end Steve-O who thought he was the punkest of them all..realized he was just a poser too. And this is exactly what today's youth and especially punks go through..because i've experienced it all .If you're not a punk..you absolutly will not understand this..and this is exactly why so many people didn't either like it or get it..because you haven't been into the music and the lifestyle and the scene..but anyway I did enjoy this..although Suburbia was alot more acurate..this one is still a good pick  "},{"Title":"SHOCK HORROR!!!  Punks laugh riot in SLC!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hey, don't listen to this other guy.  This is one of my favorite movies. Perhaps my opinion is bias being a punk, and having spent a few years in Salt Lake, but I didn't find the character two dimensional at all.  In fact I know people who are exactly like the people in this film.  Maybe the people I know are two dimensional. Perhaps that's what was so amusing about it.  Sure it has it dark moments, but what doesn't?  It's certainly more upbeat than Sid & Nancy!  I found it very creative and most entertaining! And as for the other guy's review . . . Sink You Fool!  SINK!  "},{"Title":"PUNK IS NOT DEAD!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok I just want to say that SLC PUNK is the best movie that I have ever seen! This movie is really funny and I think that u will enjoy it. IF YOU ARE A PUNK LIKE ME YOU SHOULD REALLY FIND THE TIME TO WATCH IT! PUNK IS FOREVER!!!! "},{"Title":"Well studied.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It shows a great understanding for complex of living in SLC as a non-mormon (a punk or not). As a foreigner who happened to live in SLC temporary, the description of the contradiction that the main character struggles truly make sense to me. I can easily imagine that it must have been hard to live that way in SLC in 80s. As the time goes back, the rate of the population of non-mormons decreases. It is unfortunate that some people thought it was pointless, boring movie. But I think they just didn't get it. I might have not got it if I wasn't living in this city (or country). "},{"Title":"I thought this film was absurdly entertaining.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! is a film which I found to be quite entertaining. I think that some people may not understand the humor, but for someone of my generation, the humor was absurdly entertaining. The writing is a special high point, with protagonist Matthew Lillard delivering some amazing monologues. I highly recommend this film to anyone who is interested in a truthful and honest look into the lives of young people today, as nothing is held back. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC is a movie about 2 confused kids that just graduated from college. They thought that they knew everything and that anarchy was the only rule by which to live. However as their first year out of college came to a close, they both seperatly started to realize that they were changing or selling out. The film shows that young people often think that they have all the answers and that they are smarter than anyone else, but that the true knowledge come from knowing that you don't know anywhere near as much as you think that you know. This film did a great job of presenting this idea. "},{"Title":"Punk Rock, Anarchy, and Redneck beatings!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A really great movie for those that are into the punk scene and even those that are not. SLC Punk! Delivers many, many laughs, and even some decent acting. It was written with a true punk perspective to it, and was seemingly well informed on punks. It has memorable characters and lines as well. "},{"Title":"AWESOME FLICK","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen. It is not crowded with special affects (it does have some though but it's cool). It has a very honest straight up plot. The people in this film are not one dimensional. It is awesome and I love it. James Merendino is awesome for making htis flick, along with all the actors, writers, and anyone else involved in this film. It is definately a punk cult classic. I give this film all the props in the world and a 10 "},{"Title":"Its a movie about the lives of 2 punks in slc (salt lake city)","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot, I have a copy. Its not a movie for everybody but I still think that you should see it for yourself and don't take others opinions, you might like it. Its not boring at all, unless your a action lover. Its not a lets explode everything kind of movie, its a movie about punks if your expecting something else then get a different movie. "},{"Title":"I was not really part of the punk scene but I had friends who were, and this film truly reminds me of the attitude my punk friends had.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is not going to reach out to everyone. Any person that was a true punk rocker during the late 70's and early 80s will enjoy this film. The philosophy that Steve shares with the camera is pretty straight forward. His parents are a couple of ex-hippies who probably gave him more freedom than most kids growing up then. So the characters spend most of their time partying and fighting with rednecks and skin heads. But what gets me about this movie is that Steve constantly complains about living in Salt Lake City but never makes any attempt to leave. I recommend this flick be watched by anyone who was a punk rocker or heavy metalist, and is now between the ages of 35-40. Later "}{"Title":"quality movie","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this film.  The camera shots were excellent. I didnt much care for the way Bob talked he sounded like a baby. Matthew lillard was quite good though. The sound-track went along with the movie well. The storyline was excellent and very applicable to the real world. Unexpected events as well as being very realistic helped make this movie. Id recommend it to all viewers who enjoy a quality storyline and can relate to how good the tripping on acid scene is because its a perfect depiction of the real thing. Great movie. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"A pair of punks, fish out of water, in the middle of Mormon territory.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is not your father's movie. It's a tour through Salt Lake City through the eyes of two punks, Stevo and Heroin Bob circa 1985. Stevo makes it clear early that Heroin Bob's name is ironic for the fact that he is petrified of drugs, needles in particular. Stevo narrates the movie in the style of a documentary about punks in the Utah area, and infuses his own bizarre, high energy into the mix. These are not nice, normal kids, as we are told later. The religious prudishness of the region works on the local kids to cause MORE chaos, get into more fights. The entire local teen scene is dissected in a very funny high school film strip quality lecture by Stevo. The scene is shared by Rednecks, Nazis, Mods, Rockers, and New Wavers. Under the surface, there is a thick mix of biblical and apocalyptic imagery. The plot is not remarkably deep, but the emotions feel very real. SLC Punk! is a fun little roller coaster ride. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't listen to what some of the other users have to say, they are very cynical about this movie. The first time I saw this movie I fell in love with it, as soon as I had the money I went out and bought it. It is generally about two aspiring punks in 1985 who have just graduated from college. They have strong views about the world and life is just partying and sex because it helps them to further ignore the truth that is right in front of them. The main character is Stevo with the strongest views of everyone in the movie, he narrates. The co-star (which is Stevo's best friend in the movie) is Heroin Bob, (who hates needles), who is quite mellowed out compared to Stevo. Stevo doesn't change until the end of the movie when he finds love and he loses a friend. I don't want to give too much away, because you have to see it yourself. This movie won't appeal to you unless the following applies you like punk, or you are a punk, you like hearing things forthright, you like vivid imagery in films, and you are open-minded. Like the past user who criticized this movie, he obviously didn't have the taste for it. Also, this movie might not appeal to adults as much as it would to teenagers, unless you are a very, very open-minded adult. (I'm 14) Enjoy, Parissa  "},{"Title":"Not just for Punks","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've read a lot of the other reviews...and to me the movie was not about punks or even the punk scene in the 80's. It was about realizing that people shouldn't label themselves or others. I mean, Stevo figures out in the end that..well...I'll just quote the movie...I guess when all is said and done, I was nothing more than a god damn trendy ass poser.People who call themselves punks aren't rebelling...it's old, it's been done, people know you are so-called punks. So what's the point? I thought the whole idea of the punk ideals was to be rebellious...if you dress like a stereo typical punk... what's the point? Be who you are and don't try to fit in to a specific group. Be you.Anyway, I'll stop ranting, I'm starting to sound like a guidance counselor i had in 6th grade...I LOVED the movie...it is now one of my faves...i think everyone should see it and think about the meaning. "},{"Title":"Awesome, one of the best I've ever seen.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok.  This movie was great.  Anyone who says otherwise obviously did NOT get the point.  No, I'm not going to ramble on about it.  I'm simply going to say that you MUST see this movie.  Really think about it.  It's worth it. It's one of those movies you can't describe, it just is what it is and has to be out there, it HAS to be seen. "},{"Title":"Blue hair isn't punk.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If one more person tells me this movie is the best punk movie ever, I'm going to shoot them. It's like they turn it off halfway through. Probably one of the better movies about social status and how you view yourself or lead others to view you as. "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas i've seen.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow. This is truley a GREAT movie. this movie is a great representation of the whole punk scene and is an incredible story about one punk's (stevo) change. the performance by matthew lillard is amazing and heartwrenching... you really feel for the characters, for stevo, and how he is confused about where his life is going, what he stands for, and who his friends are. i LOVE this movie and i highly reccommend it to anybody looking for a GOOD drama.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but too stereotype","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed lots of things in this movie except for the whole anarchy part of the movie...that was too stereotype... and matthew lilard's charecter was a bit stupid...I liked the other charecters like Heroin Bob and Mike...But Steveo was just that charecter that i didn't really like...the whole movie had a good plot though... the director should direct more movies often though...he is quite good. "},{"Title":"showing the world punk is pain and fun as hell","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm browsing through the video store, lookin for a movie, when stevos hair caught my eye...heh...this had to be one of the best movies I have ever seen...it was funny, it was sad, all in all it was a bit too truthful...but anyways...if you haven't seen it, please do, you won't regret it...ps, I LOVE BOB!!!! "},{"Title":"Punk Rock Favorite","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time favs.  Matthew Lillard plays a punk in 1985 in Salt Lake City.  His dad is a corporate attorney who is trying to get Stevo (Matthew Lillard) to go to harvard law where he has been accepted. Stevo is way to concerned with partying and bringing down the system.  It explains the structure of the people in SLC (ie, the nazis, the rednecks etc) and centers around his friends and their parties.  This movie is entertaining, funny and is a must see for anyone who is into the music. The ending is quite sad but it gets the point across and lets you see the extend of Matthew Lillard's acting abilities.  I love this flick!!!!! "}{"Title":"True to life punks...","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There are two kind of people that don't like this movie.  They are either people that aren't punk and don't understand what punk is about or they are punk and still don't get what punk is about.  Being a punk myself, I would have to rate this movie as excellent.  It's funny.  It's candid.  And it also has a great cast.  The actors interact well with each other and the movie draws you into truly believing these characters are real and that they are long time friends.  Granted, some of the gags in this film are juvenile, but that's what the movie is about.  It's about being juvenile until you realize you have to grow up.  Some people just don't understand this movie. And like the punks in the movie and in real life, we are glad you don't get it.  We don't want you to. "},{"Title":"Yet another brillant film by James Merendino","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  my first thought of the movie was another sterotypical movie about how punks are and how society see's them. but to my surporise its one of the most brillant films ever made. it gets to the point of how being a young punk kid is and how all punks are diffrent not the same. James Merendino is brillant and the cast of slc punk is amazing i couldnt think of a better one. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw this film over the summer on tv and went out and purchased it right away.  The film is incredibly entertaining.  One of those kinds of films that grows on you and you can watch over and over.  The narration given by Matthew Lillard's character Stevo gives the film a nice direct to the audience feel and it gives nice glimpse into the punk scene.  A great performance on Matthew Lillard's part.  Especially towards the end of the film.  I don't want to reveal what happens but he gives out real emotion in this scene that requires real talent.  Very impressive! "},{"Title":"a great social commentary","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This a great movie that anyone who thought differently while growing up should be able to appreciate. the movie makes intelligent points on rebellion (espescially the punk rock rebellion of the 80s) and it really makes you think. it's witty and well spoken but always on a level that is very easy for anyone to understand. the acting is simply great, the characters totally come to life, and the story, while a little cliche, is a good one. i personally don't know a single person who didn't love this move, and most of my friends have seen it. highly reccomended. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A story of friendship in the midst of a rebellion that never took place","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen this movie countless times and each time I laugh.  The story of friendship between two punks living in Salt Lake City in the mid 1980's contains some of the funniest dialogues I have ever seen in a movie.  The metaphors surrounding the story are mind blowing and it is with out a doubt a movie for people who are ready to think to understand the story and the inner turmoil that takes place inside the mind of the main character, Stevo.The story telling is unconventional through its narration by the main characters older self and it plays out as though an average person was telling the story to you, the viewer.  It makes the story more personal to the audience and pulls you into the drama that unfolds and helps you feel the emotions.An absolute favorite of mine and many friends.  "},{"Title":"great show, everyone should see it!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I grew up in Salt Lake City as a Mormon, so when my friend told me I  would like this show I didn't believe her, how could I like anything that was just shouting for me to hate it? I watched the movie, and I was wrong. This movie was very good. The things that were said were (mostly) true, and I have to confess that the way they portrayed the Mormon drinking laws was very accurate, which made them seem all the more ludicrous. The ending of the movie was (I thought) very good, and made the whole show well worth the watching. The moral of the story? See this show if you want to see an accurate picture of punks in SLC, or if your friend tells you that you will "},{"Title":"An awesome snapshot of 80s punk in the US west","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  People seem to have two reactions to this film.  Either it is stupid and boring or it is brilliant.I believe it to be brilliant.  Of course, I am biased since it seems that writer/director Merendino based Heroin Bob's character on one of the original 80s punks in SLC who escaped to San Francisco later in the 80s. His love of older, smart women, his paranoia and rants, are perfect. Goorjian's characterization is dead-on and nearly scary.This film is a great picture of the pecking order, day-to-day experiences and emotional range of the mid-80s punk scene in the US outside of places like New York, LA and San Francisco.Stevo DOES speak to the camera, and I think to awesome effect.  He is narrating what it would be difficult to portray on screen otherwise, like the story of how Bob became Heroin Bob, his discussion of the punk poseurs of the time (They did it for fashion), and insight into how each of the other characters fits into the tribe (their group of friends) or doesn't. It would otherwise take far too long to set up the relationships for those who didn't experience this era from this point of view.  Stevo's narrative seems to bug a lot of people, but is totally necessary.Overall, the story unfolds in vignettes including flashbacks to round out how Stevo and Bob came to where they are and introducing their friends. While it can make it seem a little disjointed, it is worth watching at least a second time to make better sense of the chronology and put it all in perspective.The scene that flashes back to 4 years where Stevo's parents try to get him to go to Harvard after high school is brilliant.  His mother tells him to be free and do everything he does with love.  His father mostly agrees, but still tries to convince him that Harvard Law is the way to go.  Stevo says Harvard out.  University of Utah in.  I'm going to major in damage. He skewers their Woodstock-attending, eastern-religion clinging, sell out to corporate law lifestyle on his middle-finger.The characters, while sometimes nearly caricatures, are so right that the sadness and near predictability of the end are far more palatable.  The settings are perfect as are the costumes and hair.  The music is positively awesome, including a track or two he must have had difficulty getting permission to use.It is the best portrait of western American 80s punk I have yet seen and is definitely worth checking out.  I did read a comment from Merendino that the only movie that may have influenced it was Alex Cox's Repo Man.   While it miles from Repo Man, it does accurately capture American 80s punks in the same way. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies -- ever","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone who says that this movie is dumb has no idea what they're talking about.  I live the life that Stevo and Heroin Bob did, and this movie portrays that life superbly.  The combination of comedic and dramatic elements is really outstanding; just the perfect blend of each.  This movie truly cements Matthew Lillard as a great American actor, at least in roles that he's suited to.Maybe I just like this movie so much because I can relate to it so well, but don't be discouraged by the morons that see the movie and don't even try to understand it.  Don't be like them. "},{"Title":"this was funny despite what others think","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious being the fact that I live in this oh so not wonderful state that spends the least amount of money on education and has problems with people seeing R rated films. It's strange that I see this film and see so many punk kids coming back. I don't know if it has to do with today's style or the influence of films such as this but being a punk in utah is a very hard and somewhat tedious job. There's no point in trying to prove who you are in this place you'll always be over run by the mormons. But over all on the film I thought it was a good laugh to see and experience. Although this film may not portray utah correctly it has its good points like about purchasing beer, taking drugs and figuring out life. i would recommend this film especially to people who live in utah. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday for the first time, it is the best movie i have ever seen...It is a SMART punk movie.  I think everybody interested in the Punk lifestyle should see it.  If you have half a brain, you will think it's -at the least- a great movie. "}{"Title":"OK movie, but why do movies make such blatant errors?","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was OK - I have no first-hand knowledge of the punk scene, but I have been to SLC. I rode my motorcycle from VA to CA and I went through SLC. Going to Wyoming involves driving over I-80 on a winding mountain road (which is a beautiful drive). It was the view from this mountain pass that inspired Brigham Young to say This is the place!, when the Mormons went to Utah. The moment you leave SLC going west, the road is dead flat for 110 miles of desert salt flats to the state line. Except for a few gas stops (with outrageously priced gasoline!), the next town of any size is Elko, 100 miles past the state line in Nevada. I'm sure enough people have made this trip to see the error (it is in Goofs). Also, Anarchy does not in itself mean chaos or fighting. The dictionary defines it as a state of society without government or law and a theory that regards the absence of all direct or coercive government as a political ideal and that proposes the cooperative and voluntary association of individuals and groups as the principal mode of organized society. Anarchy may lead to chaos and fighting, but that isn't the definition of it. (I am neither an Anarchist or a Mormon, BTW) "},{"Title":"Hey Hey Hey, dont listen when they tell you what you dont want to hear!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie as a rental, then purchased it. I think that this movie is a very well writtin and acted movie, although they should have had someone else play stevo. Matthew Lillard doesnt sell it all very well.Its a pretty good movie and you should check it out. "},{"Title":"PUNK RAWKS","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you are a fan of punk rock, then this is a movie you must see. As I have been a great fan of this type of music for a long time now, it was fun for me to watch a movie about kids in the earlier days of punk. It might be hard to relate the movie if you're not into this lifestyle or do not understand it. If, contrarily, you do like punk, then this movie can help you to understand the early days of punk. I am not saying everything in this movie is accurate in detail, as I know many who disagree with this movie, but I also know an equal, if not greater, number of people who appreciate this movie for what one can get out of it. Check this movie out and you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"this movie rox!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i saw this movie  a couple of weeks ago. its about punks in SLC.  Matthew Lillard is in this and he has blue hair! he's so cute. well Matthew plays Stevo thats a punk and Michael A. Goorjian plays Stevo's friend bob. they talk about punks in the 80's, drugs, and some other stuff. you wouldnt believe what happens in the end. if ur a prep you wont like but every1 that like alternative, punk, rock or any type of rock or punk music will like it and I'm buying the dvd and u should 2. "},{"Title":"harsh","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a classic... it's not just about the boring lives of two punks. it has to do with the stage we all go through or at least should all go through about questioning the world around us and getting fed up and bitter towards life... it's a rite of passage movie almost, or a testament that we as humans will always be changing. it's filled with symbolism and if you're smart enough to read into the concepts presented it will touch you if you are anywhere near to living life and experiencing its pains. one of the only three movies that has ever made me cry... i took a liking to bob heroin. "},{"Title":"this movie rocks","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot -- so much so that I'm going to buy it once I get enough money.  It was probably the funniest movie I've seen in a while, and I can relate to some parts of the movie.  I thought the movie brought up some things that I agree with (the whole poser mall scene where Steve-O rants about Anarchy in the UK) but at the same time it totally ignored other aspects of punk.  It kind of led on the stereotype that punks are all about destruction and don't care.  It was basically all about the anarchy movement...although I wish it would have delved into the different aspects of punk, it was still a really good movie.  If you're into punk, you'll want to see this movie.   "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Ever!!!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is one of the greatest movies ever made.  Few people have seen it, and they are missing an awesome movie.  A lot of people who have seen it though believe that it's a terrible movie.  How wrong and ignorant they are! People seem to overlook the political and social issues that the movie addresses and the differing opinions.  People are too caught up in the superficial aspects of the movie.  They see some guys partying, fighting, and doing drugs and don't notice that they have the guts to do what is necessary to help their cause.  The ending is tragic, but Steve-o still has the same convictions.  He's just going to fight for them in a different way. I recommend that if you haven't seen it, then go rent it right now.  And if you have seen it and didn't like it, then go see it again with a more open mind and look for the nuggets of wisdom sewn into the plot.  And if you did like it, see it again anyway just because it's such a cool movie. "},{"Title":"the best!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This a great punk movie and is the original!!!!!!! Matthew Lillard is amazing and if you are a punk or just a normal person you will enjoy this film. Buy it and you won't regret it! Salt lake City is the place to be! Don't be a poser!!!! "},{"Title":"Best movie I've ever Seen!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was by far the best movie in my opinion of all time it was very well scripted and well played and the actors did a great job of portraying the emotions of drug addicts while doing it truthfully.....i think that this movie deserves SERIOUS recognition. "},{"Title":"I was amazed","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first saw SLC Punk, I was flipping through the channels and happened to see a snippet of it on Starz.  After watching it for a few minutes, I was completely hooked.I normally don't like Matthew Lillard (playing Steve-o).  I find that he plays the same character in nearly every movie he does.  But I was truly impressed with his acting ability in SLC Punk!.  He pulled off the punk attitude of the early to mid eighties perfectly.  He was playing a character, rather than a archetype.  In the climax of the movie, his acting is truly beautiful.Lillard also had a brilliant supporting cast backing him up.  Christopher McDonald was great as his father, and Michael Gorrjian was excellent as Heroin Bob.I'd recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a good and well made film.  "}{"Title":"Kick Ass movie for any Punk","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Most people who give this movie negative criticism aren't of the punk lifestyle. To them it's a boring movie and that is because they don't understand it. This movie impacted my life immensely, though, and I felt that as long as your not an up-tight individual, you could enjoy this movie. I rented it four times and bought it and it got 5 out of 5 stars in my book. I encourage everyone to see this great movie. ROCK ON "},{"Title":"one of the best movies around","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this movie is actually very good if you have any bit of intellect. it addresses serious issues while still remaining extremely funny. i thought that matthew lillard was simply brilliant in this film, as well as the other actors. it portrays the real world inside of salt lake city. every kid deals with a phase of anarchy at some point in their life, this kid came to the conclusion that the world is just one big cycle. That theme of hope is what brings the film to its final realization, with Stevo's acceptance of the fact that he lives in a world where hope is, in fact, possible. As Merendino explains, Stevo realizes that there is a future and that his movement is the same as all other movements, that it is a cycle. He now can be who he is and bring that into his adult life. By Looking for flaws and inconsistencies in the system, he can create a new status quo. Ultimately, a new youth rebellion will come and question those changes into a better society. "},{"Title":"One-sided look.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I must say that it is at least an entertaining movie, and when I finished watching it I felt it was worth the rental price. The acting was decent but the number of characters that had any sense of development were few and far between, but this seemed to fit well with the pace of the movie. I mean, how many of the faces at post-teen punk parties do you still remember and/or communicate with? A series of acquaintances with only parties in common lack depth, much as the characters do.As a rule I usually don't care for movies in which the actors address the camera, I take exception for this one because the way in which it's done makes you feel like you are actually there being introduced to these people and circumstances. For the most part it is not done with that feel of the actor becoming invisible when he addresses the audience. You feel like you're being introduced to these people and hanging out with Steve-O.The story itself is a bit more of a series of anecdotes and ramblings rather than a plot. With that said, for those that grew up with punk music in conservative towns, there is a strange air of familiarity to certain situations of the movie, which makes it that much more likeable.The biggest problem with this movie (and I mean HUGE) is it's one-sided approach to the punk scene. Straight Edge (sXe), hardcore, emo punk, and all the other sub genres are brushed aside to present this sort of anarchy laden punk rock scene obsessed with destruction. Having only been around the west coast punk scene, I'm not sure how accurate of a representation of the punk scene is at that time and location. Most of the punks I knew and associated with were peaceful if not pacifist, with a hatred for rednecks and jocks and a penchant for vandalism, but we were far from the point of going out and beating people up for kicks because that was the exact macho jock mentality that we rejected in the first place.It's an entertaining movie with a one-sided stereotypical view of punk rock music and punks in general, ignoring the passion and creativity that rebellion can inspire (it also completely ignores the punk rock skate scene so big in the 80's). I recommend it because it is entertaining and genuinely funny in parts, but if you want a punk rock experience, buy a ticket to a local hardcore show that costs about as much a the rental price and go live it. "},{"Title":"Wild fun with a bit of nostalgia.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Of course, anyone who never was a part of the rebellious Punk movement of the 80's is NOT going to like or understand this movie.It's about the course of two young punks' lives in religiously-oppressed Salt Lake City.  They party, fight, fall in love and sneak over the Wyoming border to get real booze.  All in all, it's a d*mn entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to say... this movie was much better than I expected. Of course, it's not for everyone, and some people (like my grandmother.. hehe) would think that it's pointless and has no plot. But for those of you who are or who used to be punks, or are interested in the aspects of it, I strongly suggest you check this movie out. This one's on my top 10!***SPOILERS SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS SPOILERS*** The ending made me cry. Every time I watch that movie.. the ending makes me cry. I thought, hey.. why did one of the only right in the head people have to go and die? Of course, Matthew Lillard's performance was stunning in that scene, and you could almost feel the emotion spilling from him. Very believable. ***END OF SPOILERS***SO GO AND RENT IT! Or buy it, like I did! "},{"Title":"Quality filmmaking","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Slc Punk Is skillfully directed and acted. After each viewing I learn to appreciate this film even more, what has been accomplished here is brilliant filmmaking. I recommend picking up the dvd for a very engaging cast/crew commentary. "},{"Title":"Punks are people too","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a good film.  Even if you're not into punk, you'll probably enjoy it, IF you can get over the fact that it's about punks.  They're punks, but they're people, too.  That's the real point of this movie.  It shows how they are real people, too, and they have real lives and real problems. Some of these problems stem from their devotion to the punk rock lifestyle, some of them stem from family problems, some of them stem from growing up. Aside from the first one, these are things we can ALL relate to.  I highly recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"Americana meets safety pins","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie myself only yesterday, my friends had raved about it for a while now~ I was hoping it would live up to their hype, and that it did. This movie is a perfect documentation of our young lives here in America, with or without the oppression of religions, most of us are lost young freaks trying desperately to define ourselves and find some collective to belong to. I found the movie clever, structured, and thoughtful.  It was not boring, it was very amusing, the characters are interesting, almost ghosts of your past or present friends, not flat.  See for yourself. I thought it was great. "},{"Title":"great coming of age punk dramedy","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I looked for this one in vane for two years and suddenly it was on my tv one night. Jennifer Lien and Matthew Lillard together in a punk movie, what more can I ask for. I had high hopes for this one and it was every bit as good as I wanted it to be. I'm just a sucker for to-the-camera narrative. I just love that stuff. Lillard is the perfect punk, wiry and aggressive. Lien was her gorgeous self. I'll gladly watch this one a few times in a row. "},{"Title":"it made me think","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i just finished watching this movie, and i liked it.   it's not really a comedy, just about the life of two guys. the dialogue had some philosophical ideas that made me think.  i myself, am a rebel, though i maybe dont appear to be, and i identified with this movie. definitely worth seeing. "}{"Title":"This movie rocked!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I dont know whats wrong with the people who didn't like this film. This movie was brutally honest when dealing with subjects like poverty, judgment on looks, results of drug use and many other things that were common in the lives of 80's punks. If you didn't like this movie, you'll never appreciate good movies. "},{"Title":"Love this movie! (Potential spoiler?)","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot.  It was a very pleasant surprise.  I saw it out of curiosity but didn't expect much of it.  I now own it.  It is a great Comedy - and Matthew Lillard is wonderful.  Unlike a lot of movies about the punk genre, this one doesn't cross lines that shouldn't be crossed (and doesn't leave you sickened or hating anyone)  Keep in mind this movie also has it's moment of sadness/regret.  However, the moment isn't random.  It's well done. "},{"Title":"Wearing uniforms...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  -Kinda a Spoiler- It seems to me that a lot of the people reviewing this movie are leaving out a big part of it.  This movie is says a lot about the masks we wear as people. I haven't even taken any psych classes yet and for crying out loud it's stated at the end. In the end it wasn't that the groups were different our not, it was the fact that people were in these packs. I recommend this movie to anyone that thinks their a punk. Especially if you're going out and buy clothes to look like a punk. As a matter of fact i'm going to make it a mission to recommend this movie to everyone i ever meet. "},{"Title":"Punkkomania!!<","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A speeding super-in-your-face, forcefully hyperstyled document of the life of SLC Punk. It's edited sort of like an action-packed, forceful, ranting, manic, colorful, partying, angry montaged portrait of a wasteland, a punk wasteland. Fast, manic, quick-cutting, freezing, switching, electrifyingly in-your-face painting of real punk, the philosophy and lifestyle of punk, criticizing poseurs, and angry punk attitudes in Salt Lake City, and the fed-up wasteland it is for true punks. Hilarious too, but in a wierd way. Great!!! I love Matthew Lilly here too. "},{"Title":"SLC punk! an essay","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this movie is hilarious! and the boys are way hot! its just stevo telling the story of their day to day lives. my fav character is mark, the foreign guy. hes really weird, n not a punk, hes nothing. i love it when hes explainning to stevo about the water bed *but this one doesnt have waves* and when sean tries to get a job. stevo makes a lot of good points. and hes a likeable character, even tho hes an @$$. the music is good, the movie is great! i could (and have) watched this movie s2wice in a row. and i normally hate that. so there! "},{"Title":"It's not very often","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's not very often that a film comes along and grabs you and takes you through that emotional roller coaster, and when your done...you look around and say hey fighting against the system is just as superficial as being passe about the life you live.  Lillard and Company nail the angle of the young teens in great angst and struggling to live the lives they want despite what others have planed for them.  The director (who says that the inspiration for the movie comes from past stories) also besides approaching issues that allow the characters to have their own opinions he also allows them to grow-up as the film develops.  It ends in my opinion as a much finer coming-of-age movie than the top dollar movies like good will hunting.  I don't feel that everyone will enjoy this movie as much as I did, but at the least you should laugh and cry with the characters. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, though for the discreet few.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has more a feel of a documentary about the ways of the 80s punk so to speak then an actual movie with a strong plot. Or, perhaps, it is a documentary of the troubles of adolescence with the punk as a median. With countless rants and little examples of events to illustrate ideas Stevo takes you thought his philosophies and troubles as he tries to come to turns with life. If you are one of those who, while sitting though a movie, keep wandering what the plot is, well then it is not for you. However, fans of movies such as Right Club or Clockwork Orange may appreciate this somewhat satirical, somewhat sad drama. All in all, you'll either hate it or love it.  "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I absolutely loved this film.  The performances by Matthew Lillard and Michael Goorjian were amazing.  Unlike other people who have commented, I loved it when Stevo talked to the camera.  When I found out that this was even a true story I thought even more highly of it.  All in all, it was a perfect film. "},{"Title":"The consequences of moving a city-kid to Nowheresville, USA","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is what happens when you isolate an otherwise normal teenager.  I consider this movie to be a sincere depiction of Teen Angst, even resentment towards one's parents.  SLC Punk shows how a person can adapt to their environment vs. how they can refuse to adapt. Watching Stevo yelling at the people he loves, watching him analyze his own social disintegration, and witnessing that character evolve from codependent to independent, was all a rich experience in Character Development. While the plot doesn't *seem* to go anywhere, it shows the creativity and inspiration that sometimes blossoms from nothingness, and that The Human Spirit can never be crushed, no matter how hopeless things may become.  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful punk, yet still hilarious.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is not about Blink 182, or New Found Glory, or any other wannabe offending teeny punk group today.  It's about the hey-day of the era, 1985. And, to quote the movie, Yeah, it was a year where we did nothing...but not a good nothing...a nothing, like the vast nothing of the salt flats. SLC stands for Salt Lake City, where the movie takes place.  It is a year of parties, drugs, fights, and overall identity.  It's a character movie, it's life, it's a lot of things.  It tells it like it is, and it explores ideals, and it's fun. It's fast, it's hard, and it's hilarious.  It's also extremely serious and very meaningful.  It's like taking a punk song and throwing it on VHS. And damn, is it good. "}{"Title":"My all time favorite movie.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is my favorite movie of all the movies I've seen in my lifetime. It is hilarious. There are so many witty lines and clever ideas. The best example of this is the scene where they go to Wyoming. Also it has an idea behind it and a plot. Finally, it has emotion. Most of the emotion can be found at the end of the movie and it is very well done. Basically the reason this movie is my favorite is because it has all these things and they're all done well. Most movies aren't like that. This is one awesome movie. "},{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was trying to say something, to send a message, if you will. I got a message, if not THE message. If you really watch the movie and listen to it, you'll get the message too. It's spelled right out for you, almost literally. It gets you thinking about your own lifestyle, your friends, your character. At least, that's what I thought about after seeing it. See what you'll think about, if anything. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie of punk kids in the 80's.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a funny story of trying to find oneself anarchist self in a conservative world.  Stevo and Bob are just living life, but slowly finding out they need to change with the times and their maturity.  Killer soundtrack of old school punk rock, and a hilarious 'talk-to-the-camera' style of explanations by Stevo(Matthew Lillard).All in all a great counter culture comedy. "},{"Title":"Great for Teens","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a teen, i found this movie quite enjoyable.  Its one of those movies you either totally love or completely hate.  I liked the wit and could actually relate to the main character, with many of my friends being much like his own.  I reccomend this movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie for us old punks....","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For all you old punks, who remember the 80's and remember when Hardcore ruled the scene, this movie's for you.  A glimpse into the everyday lives of a bunch of punks in the bible belt, makes for some great laughs and delivers.  If you don't like the story, sit back and enjoy the music....Soundtracks like this don't come along every day Ramones, Dead Kennedys, etc... need I say more??? "},{"Title":"Funny and realistic","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I actually thought this movie was funny and truly depicting of punk youth in America. The ending (though I'm not giving it away) is so true I thought this movie was about myself. Maybe if you can't relate to punk, alternative, whatever you want to call it, culture..you won't get it, maybe you will. Either way, it's entertaining and and, in my opinion, well worth seeing (while using an open mind).  "},{"Title":"I'm In LOVE With This Movie!!!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! has got to be one of the best films I've ever seen! It has inspired a cult following among alot of people that I've run across and while may people have't seen it, when I tell them about it, I know they want to. The story follows Steve-O a blue-haired punk in Salt Lake City, Utah in 1985 and his best friend Heroin Bob (who never used drugs and was afraid of needles). The soundtrack is phenomenal, and so are the costumes, and the cast is exceptional. The over-all attitude of the film is swtiches between light-hearted and heartening. It has plenty of funny moments and fantastic soliquies delievered by Matthew Lillard. The script is witty, and clever and does a good job of representing how alot of punks/anarchists/freaks feel.. I would recommened this movie to anyone... I don't want to tell to much about it because it's a movie to be experienced, but you HAVE to see it. "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie that details the much-needed anarchy in the US.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Stevo and Bob have been best friends forever, and as they approach college together, they have one goal in mind Destroy the system! But to their surprise, they do well! Out of college, on their own, and broke, what is there to do now? Find out in S.L.C. Punk, as you follow Stevo and Bob, and they're random punker friends, as they are put through hardships, bad parenting, relationships, and of course quarantine!  "},{"Title":"a movie about finding yourself the hard way.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is an entertaining and fun movie to watch.  It's got so many good points, and you don't have to be punk to understand where it's coming from. It's real funny, and everybody does an excellent acting job (especially Matthew Lillard).  I recommend it to anyone looking for something a little different and thought-provoking.   "},{"Title":"Antidisestablishmentarianism at its best!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not really a punk rocker, if I'm anything, I'm a poser, but I absolutely adore this movie!  Some friends of mine (who aren't really punk rockers either)recommended it to me.  This movie is hilarious and the only thing I sorta-kinda find wrong with it is that it kinda lacks an actual plot, but to me it's not really a flaw.  It makes it stand out more.  I can kinda relate to Stevo's plight, since I live in a small hick town in Oklahoma and like punk rock, anime, and other stuff that's weird.  But I'm not an anarchist or anything like that. . .anyway.  The scenes with Mark are great.  Sink, you fool! Heroin Bob is great! Get that f*&^ing needle away from me, man!!! This movie has provided for lots of laughs with my friends.  ^_^ But it also holds a lot of relevance as far as being a disenfranchised youth.  It kinda seems to me like this is gonna be one of those late night cult flicks.  Heck, it's already a cult flick around here me and my very small circle of friends take turns renting it all the time.  We're the only ones.  (I think the video store left it in the new release section just to make more money off it!)  Thank you for your time, I will stop rambling now.*~*Annette "}{"Title":"SLC....actors!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Yeah this movie was funny,but what I dont get is how people take this movie to heart when its just actors portraying punks,or I hear wow they had a great punk scene!....Its a movie.... and this also misguides people who are getting in to the punk scene that they must be an anarchist to be a punk.... This movie was funny but steriotypical,like the opening scene yeah lets go beat up people that are rednecks even though we know NOTHING about them.....if you want a good movie about punk rock.....check out....oops there ISNT one. "},{"Title":"Hardcore Punks in salt lake city!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie and I think it is great.  There are many reasons the first is the fact that it not only shows the lives of the Punks but it also shows their feelings and what they do.  I enjoyed this movie alot and I suggest renting it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"Interesting at times, could've been better","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Interesting study of young punks in 1980s Salt Lake City, Utah. Matthew Lillard is perfectly cast as Stevo, the blue-haired punk/law student who believes in anarchy. Supported by Michael Goorjian (as his pal, Heroin Bob), Annabeth Gish (as Bob's bohemian girlfriend, Trish), and German actor Til Schweiger (the funny, drug-dealing sadist, Mark), Stevo attempts to live a listless life whenever possible. Writer-director James Merendino shows some promise in several scenes, especially in Stevo's slideshow on the various groups inhabiting Salt Lake City, in the acid-dropping scene in the park (with the beautiful Jennifer Lien as the very gothic Sandy), and in Stevo's narrative. The story itself, though, could've been better, but the visuals of Salt Lake City actually make the city look beautiful, in contrast to Stevo's wasteful existence. And Stevo's emotional breakdown near the end shows what great acting Matthew Lillard is capable of. "},{"Title":"overall not a bad movie","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i just saw this movie last night and i thought it was interesting . it had it's rocky moments but most of it was pretty cool.  great sound track!!I thought it was also fairly realistic like the person that was telling the story actually lived through it.  "},{"Title":"A godly fictional movie about two great pioneering punks in SLC.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie may seem dull for some, but everyone I know who has seen it thinks it is THE movie. I agree. SLC Punk! is filled with comedy, tragedy, evil vs. good.. Basically it's all genres in one. Yes, it is based around the lives of two punks and the crazy things they do, so people leaning towards the later years of life probably won't enjoy this as much as we did. I honestly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys the punk scene and a semi-youth orientated movie. "},{"Title":"I didn't sell out, I bought in!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilarious movie about a punk's last stand! Stevo (Matthew Lillard) is anyone who ever rebelled against authority, and the music and scenery are interchangeable to suit whoever you were when you were living in the 80's. James Merendino draws on his own experience to write and direct the film about selling out youthful ideals for adult realism. It will strike anyone of any age who ever had a rebellious inkling as funny, but it will especially hit hard on those of us that grew up in the 80's, and even more so if you listened to punk music.  "},{"Title":"Pretty much summarizes the life of a punker in the 80's and the reality of growing up.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a punkrawker myself I know where the movie's coming from. It's not just a stupid little comedy movie...some parts of it as a matter of fact aren't even that funny. Like one scene with Bob. It goes through the life of a punker an at the same time shows how hard it is to grow up...how confused you might get. But it also demonstrates that no matter how lost you may get or how confused you may be you should always have your friends, and keep trying. Anarchy, Drugs, Sex, Friends..Religion. Everything that growing up brings you through. In my personal opinion this was an excellent movie that anyone would enjoy. Sean (Devon Sawa) was absolutely hilariously fried in one scene, Stevo is obviously confused in, well, plenty of scenes and it shows what tons of other things, that were unexpected but made me think hey thats just like one time when...I guess when all is said and done... I was nothing more then a God Damn Trendy Ass Poser!  ----- Think about that! "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Entertaining, intelligent, and funny (at least the majority of it). Thisis one of the best 'dis-enchanted youths' movies I've ever seen.Despite it's gratuitous profanity, which was supported by themovie, it was a well acted movie.  The format was good, thenarration basis was effective, and it's ending was provoking.I recommend seeing this movie. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Smart and funny!","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Smart and funny are not two words you commonly hear in the same sentence when describing a movie these days.  This movie was clever and moving and hillarious all at once.  Its humor will be lost on all the pop culture kids who won't be able to pick up on the witty humor, but for everyone who know where these characters are coming from, its a funny and deeply personal movie. "},{"Title":"Well-done, if slightly over-acted movie.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I rather liked this movie, actually.  It's a rather low-rent character study of the punk scene in an out of the ordinary place for punks, and I think it comes across rather nicely, if nicely is the appropriate word.  The leads do an effective, mildly over-acted job, but it works well for the movie, the watcher seems to be drawn into the watching Stevo, Matthew Lilliard, in a sense play a part.  I'm not sure that that was the intended effect, but we are reminded of how by being into the whole scene, he was being a poser by the way he was so into the scene.A good movie, very enjoyable, touching ending... I gave it a nine, it would have been closer to getting a ten if the flashback to high school scene at the end had been cut from the movie... it ruins the momentum.Thanks! "}{"Title":"An entertaining, angry movie with a good moral lesson.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot.  I had never really heard of it but I knew that one of the guys from Freaks & Geeks was in it, so I decided to check it out. Matthew Lillard with blue hair on the cover made it look more interesting. The movie is pretty much a tale of two guys, Stevo & Heroin Bob (whose name come from his fear of needles), who are punks living in Salt Lake City and have just graduated from college.  The movie pretty much shows their lifestyle and who they like and who they dislike and why they feel the way they feel and do the things they do.  It's an interesting look at a culture that I was not very familiar with (except for the music).  There was a lot of cussing in the movie which made it a good angry movie, but the lesson in the end (no one is a true individual; everyone is trying to be like someone else) really sums up what Stevo learns.  I recommend this movie to anyone who needs to vent or is just interested in the punk lifestyle.  "},{"Title":"Selling Out, Death, and Anarchy","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What else do you need in a movie? This movie delves into the pits of the punk life to explicate what the anarchist stands for in the eyes of others. An 80's view of how anarchists care only for drugs, punk rock, sex, and staying true to the cause. The main character, Stevo, shows us all that everyone sells out in some way, whether we want to or not, and that perhaps, nihilistic anarchy isn't the way to change the world. The hierarchy of classes is explained including rednecks, mods, punks, et al. From Heroin Bob, to Sean , to John the Mod, we learn how difficult is what to establish a niche in the central southwest, and we see the roots of the modern day rude boys, and other punk/mod conglomerates. We also see that like Mark, we can be young in our hearts, rather than young in years.If you dig punk, you'll dig this movie (whether or not  the end suits you or not). "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, more intelligent with some humour...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  It had some laughs and seemed to stay true to life. What I liked most was the film's satirizing of society.  It found flaws in the system (You can do more damage from inside the system than from outside) and also people, in knowing who we are.  The film looks at the way in which people view themselves as compared to others, how enlightenment can change these views and outlooks in general.  This was no Pulp Fiction as, for some reason, it was compared to but has its moments and a very smart hidden layer. "},{"Title":"This movie is GREAT and it ROCKS","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Okay this movie SLC punk wasn't meant to be a big time movie it was just to tell of the everyday life of a punk who lives in a small city and to show that no matter where your from and how you live can't stop you from being a punk. I love this movie it is one of my favorite movies that have came out in the past couple of years. Then you get people who are little posers or are just dumb kids who can't fully realize what this movie portrayed they want it to be a big blockbuster hit with trillions of dollars tied up into it and when they get a really good film and they don't see all of those special effects they get turned off by it. Okay enough of the angry kid act. Mathew Lillard is one of the best young actors out there today he is a very diverse kid like his character in scream or his role in Hackers and this wonderfully made masterpiece SLC punk this is close to one of his best performances yet. SO don't bash this movie if you are a poser just be kewl with this movie and shut the heck up  "},{"Title":"well hang on just a minute","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First, perspective you might note that the other person who commented on how boring this movie was was located in England. Which means that he's a) British, b) an Anglophile or c) both. Big red flag if you've seen the movie, which is anything but flattering to England.Secondly, about the plot. Yes, there was gee, couldn't see that one coming moment at the end there with Bob (won't ruin it for you) but honestly, folks. The movie is not about the actual events in the movie itself; it's about the philosophical epiphany of the main character (played by Lillard). Anyone who was expecting to watch a movie that didn't ask them to think about the nature of the systems we allow to govern their lives had no business renting a movie that had Punk in the title.I wouldn't go so far as to say that it was better than Cats. But watch it twice and ask yourself the same questions that Stevo did.  "},{"Title":"It isn't so bad...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Now, I'm not saying that SLC PUNK is a great movie. All I'm saying is that it's a good Punk movie. You know, as in a movie about punks. True, it sucked, but it made a few good points along the way. Furthermore, I would like to point out to anyone it matters to, in the scene where Matthew Lillard is talking to his dad he has a big blue mohawk. From my experience, one of that size takes a lot of glue and whatnot. So it would NOT sway to and fro as it did. It was quite humerous to me and my friends. "},{"Title":"Very cool movie","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've been listening to punk rock and hardcore for years and this movie comes the closest to epitimizing what the scene is and how it works.  Listen to Stevo's comments on life with an open ear and you will learn that he has a lot to say, about life, love, death and just about everything else. There's great music all throughout the film, which I also enjoyed.  "},{"Title":"Hey I *liked* this movie... Interesting characters & etc.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Engaging story, with a soundtrack (Fear, Exploited, Ramones, Stooges, Specials, DK, Adolescents, Blondie..) that is better than most mainstream movie soundtracks, and great casting.  It's mostly a drama, but there are funny parts.  It's just about a kid in high school, and his relationship with his friends, his parents, and society.   He's trying to figure out what to do with his future, if anything.  His friends and his parents want to decide for him.  The dialogue and plot hint at philosophical dilemmas. The storyline is lighthearted but when it's not, it takes you off-guard.  "},{"Title":"Great flick, realistic.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was great. I thought it was true to life because I've been in a lot of the same situations.  Only see it if you're a punk (or think like one).  Otherwise it might bore you.  There are a few slow parts but overall its good.  Rent it tonight, I think I will. "},{"Title":"Anarchy, Drugs, and a hell of an essay","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In this great movie about the hard to live punk life in Salt Lake City Matthew Lillard proves what a great actor he truely is. The movie Tells the story of Stevo (Lillard) and the drug phobic Heroin Bob (Michael Gorgin). The two punks live in an oppressive Salt Lake City circa 1985. Stevo, the protagonist and narator explains how living in SLC is even more dificult to be a punk in than anywhere else. He also talks about how most kids are just punks for fashion, with no political beliefs making them posers. He also talks about how rednecks are the punk's sworn enemy.Two severed thumbs up!  "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen the film two times and finally I think is very good. It is fun and tells a story but the best thing it is also a document on punks and their minds. The main character, Stevo, often come out from the scene to analize it and explain what was going on. If you don't like punks and think that the eighties had been a dark period probably you will not like this film but anyway I say that you have to see it. Actors are good but I think if you like this film you have to say thank you to James Merendino. "},{"Title":"Amusing","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I completely disagree with the other comment about this movie that is on this site.  Although it was not the highest quality production, it kept my attention, and kept me entertained.  It is an enjoyable experience, the characters are original, and Lillard outdoes all of his previous performances. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie next to fight club!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw this movie a week ago, and I liked it so much that I went out and bought the DVD, now not many movies have made me react like this, I can list two others, Fight Club and American History X, SLC Punk is a movie about the small group of punks in concervative Salt Lake City, Steevo is the protagnist of the story and is in a conflict as to what to do with his life, wether he should go to Law School like his dad wants or keep living punk, his friend Heroin bob, who gets his name for the fear of needles, or any drugs for that matter (except for smoking and alcohol) is another punk who worries about everything and nothing all at once, always getting mad at everyone. I liked this movie because It shows a great message to society about the meaning of punk, and it shows punks that everyone sells out, no matter how strong the beliefs. I also like this movie because although it's a funny movie, it's not a comedy, and it makes you think about all the prejudice in the world, and that sometimes you've got to fight for your beliefs. as a famous punk once said, I'm not sure what his name is =P, he said a poser is someone who is not willing to die for his beliefs, but who is willing to dye his hair. and thats why I really liked this movie. "},{"Title":"It's 1985 all over again.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Amazingly accurate rendering (for a film) of 1980's punk life.  The casting and acting are superb, the writing is fantastic, and the plot was well thought out.  On one level, this film is for anyone who ran in the punk-alterno-freak scene of the 1980s and has been hankering for a class reunion.  On another level, the film takes a specific (and small) fashion genre and manages to make its message about chaos & order relevant to the greater teen masses.  In all my only real complaint is the tunes.  For years, punk-influenced films like Return of the Living Dead and Repo Man have tossed us bones such as songs by Iggy Pop or 45 Grave.  Yet they've never bothered to feature more hardcore punk bands in their soundtracks.  True, SLC Punk! gave us tidbits from DK and Minor Threat, a milestone, to be sure; but I think a modern film, with the resources to get so many other details right, could have thrown some Circle Jerks or 7 Seconds in along with those Vandals and Specials tracks.  In the end, SLC Punk! truly is a good movie, though it touches on a lot of emotional and intellectual perspectives that may spoil adolescence for teenagers.A quote from a film clip that was used in a Lagwagon song If you're not a rebel at the age of 20, you've got no heart.  But if you haven't turned Establishment by 30, you've got no brains. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.  The best movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie.  I wasn't expecting much from it at all, but it turned out to be something that affected me deeply.  It is what Clockwork Orange was meant to say, if the publishers hadn't cut out the last chapter of the book before releasing in the US (and to Stanley Kubrick).  It is very true to the feelings and course of rebellion, and the emotions in it, and the relationships, were all very real.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone.  I mean, the whole essay on the contradictions of fighting and anarchy?  Brilliant!  Final end summation?  None. "},{"Title":"Exaggerative but excellent.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is nothing like Pulp Fiction, but more like Sid and Nancy.  It exaggerates the attitude of the locals to make its point, but it's an outstanding movie.  I personally enjoyed the movie very much and I feel it captures the essence of the punk / anarchy life fairly well. "},{"Title":"Amazingly interesting, funny and provocative","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I for one loved this film. I bought the DVD (which has wonderful commentary by the director and Matthew Lillard) and was very pleased with it. I rented it because a friend of mine recommended it to me. I was blown away. Stevo (main character) and his outlook on life are truly his own. Listening to the commentary, I understood it even more. Stevo has just been through four years of pre-law. His best friend Heroin Bob (named so not because he does the drug, but because of his fear of needles) are living in Salt Lake City in 1985. They don't know where their lives are going, and have decided to take this post-college time for one thing nothing. They want nothing other than to goof off and have a good time. But its not what its cracked up to be, as Stevo slowly finds out.The writing is excellent, the characters are funny and interesting. Mike, the nerd-looking punk, the most hardcore of them all. Mark, the german whose family was killed in a plane crash when he was five and now lives off the insurance money. Trish, the Bohemian Moon-Goddess and Bob's love interest. The story moves great with satirical comment and insight from Stevo. In the end, he learns things he never thought he would, things that will forever change him from what he used to be.The acting is superb, especially from Lillard, and the tragedy scene at the end gets me every time (VERY emotional). I can't say enough about it. The acid-taking sequence is one of the most true-to-life portrayals of the drug. I was very impressed. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"I actually enjoyed this film!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the previews, and forgot about it. Then I saw it in the movie store and remembered I wanted to see it. I rented it and went home to watch what I thought would be just another teenage cult punk film... boy was I wrong. Not only did it make me laugh but it made me think about the system and got me to realize that sometimes life is more than what we think.I won't tell anyone to see it.. but I will suggest it. "},{"Title":"S.L.C. Punk! is one of the greatest Independent Films ever made.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  S.L.C. Punk! is one of the greatest Independent Films ever made! Mainly about two punkrockers from Salt Lake City, the films revolves around the concept of rebellion. The two, Stevo and Heroin Bob, live a Punk's life of going to shows and party's. The two, smart, college graduates, go anti-society and feel the need to rebel against everyone not punkrocker. This mainly deals with Rednecks.This is a great flick for any Indi-Film punkrock goer.   "},{"Title":"Down-to-earth, great film","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film felt real.I could easily relate to these characters, even though I have always looked and expressed myself in in a quite different fashion than they did in the film.Right and left thumbs up! "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this was an intelligent, insightful, deep movie. Which was actually somewhat unexpected. I rented this movie, not expecting much, but I was pleasantly surprised. The characters are interesting and believable. Stevo's asides (talking to the camera) add an extra dimension to the film. I think this movie didn't do well because it was promoted as a party-comedy type movie. I think many people missed the larger issues explored by the movie. Although the movie had some hilarious moments (the acid-trippin' guy on the chair anyone?) ultimately, it was rather sad. I don't want to spoil it, if you watch it you'll see what I mean. I highly recommend you watch this movie. Just don't expect a mindless comic barrage. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, I showed friends, and they loved it","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very great movie, even better if you grew up with punks, or you are one yourself. Through the movie, you watch as Steveo(Matthew Lillard) tells about his everyday life, and eventually realizes that he has no real future as he thinks about it more. Throw in his best friend Herion Bob, who doesn't really do heroin at all, and a few more characters that pop up occasionally and you get some hilarious lines and scenes, especially the opening line and scene. Most of the stories that are told are true, such as the kid running through the sprinklers with acid in his pocket, and the kid beating in car windsheilds with a baseball bat. The soundtrack is excellent as well, Punk music before it started to suck. After watching this movie several times through, showing my friends, it makes you think that everyone goes through that rebellious stage, and some actually come out of it. Also, it made me realize that everyone is a poseur, no matter who you are. I give it 8/10, gotta rent it if you're a punk, or you've ever seen some strange looking kids walking around with blue mohawks. "},{"Title":"A hilarious indie film, well worth watching.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First, a disclaimer.  SLC Punk! isn't for everyone.  If you're a redneck, a skinhead, a conservative, or in need of a sense of humour transplant, you'll hate this movie.Done in a style reminiscent of Trainspotting, SLC Punk! follows a small group of punks and their friends in Mormon-run Salt Lake City in 1985. Having graduated college (somewhat to their surprise), Stevo and Heroin Bob are rebelling by wasting their educated minds.  Firm believers in anarchy, they spend their time beating rednecks, partying, drinking, beating neo-nazi skinheads, and destroying other people's property.The movie is simply hilarious - I was almost in pain by the half-way mark from laughing so hard.  It manages to find humour in a lot of situations, both good and bad, that are very familiar to most people who grew up anywhere near the alternative/punk scene.  And yet while keeping you in stitches, it also presents some very interesting philosophical views, and is very honest in portraying the consequences of their misadventures.   The whole cast turn in very good performances, and the writing is pretty good - it's not subtle, but it's not preachy or hit-you-over-the-head-with-a-blunt-object obvious.SLC Punk is a very honest, very entertaining, very funny movie, with a great classic punk soundtrack.  If you are, or were, part of the punk or alternative crowd, or merely exposed to it, buy this movie.  If you own a Backstreet Boys album... go watch Drive Me Crazy. "},{"Title":"What's a guy with blue hair to do?","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An excellent coming-of-age type of movie that is a rare original of the said type. Matthew Lilard is truly convincing as Stevo and Michael Goorjian isnt quite as good but non-the-less, a good contrast to the energetic Lilard as Heroin Bob. The movie is one of the better written movies of 1999 and a great indie that is amateurish at times but the theme, performances, and dialogue more then make up for it. "},{"Title":"I can relate","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I had a real problem with rednecks. Since I live in a town with a lot of them, they thought they could do whatever they wanted (especially spitting. What's so great about that?) WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS But after seeing Stevo, Bob and Mike take a necessary stand against them in SLC Punk, I realized I wasn't alone. This movie also spoke to me in a lot of other ways, like too many people judge you by how you look and sometimes you can't stop fate from turning you into your parents. Jason Segel, Devon Sawa and Til Schweiger gave excellent supporting performances, and I'll be looking forward to James Merendino's next indy masterpiece. Schweiger's line, Ya alway looking for pain! will stay with me forever. "},{"Title":"An excellent narrative following a young punk figuring out life.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is really a great movie.  Matthew Lillard turns out an incredible performance as Stevo, a young punk discovering the truth behind youthful idealism.  Michael Goorjian scores equally well as Stevo's longtime friend Bob.  Actually, everyone, from Til Schweiger as the mildly psychotic, independently wealthy, part-time drug dealer Mark, to Summer Phoenix, in a short but very well played and important end scene, gets to show-off in their respective roles.This movie manages to show people not only having fun doing things they are not supposed to but, rather than glorifying them, demonstrates honesty in the consequences, and manages to do it without preaching for either side.James Merendino writing is intelligent and well-paced and his direction is consistently visually intriguing.If you enjoy movies filled with rich dialogue and fascinating characters, and don't require that a car blows up every ten seconds, you should like this one. "},{"Title":"It is the worst movie about punks ever!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, I don't think there are many movies about punk around the world, but this one is surely bad. Too long, dumb characters, stupid story, no feeling and the end everybody was waiting for from the beginning.The sound track is the only thing valid, with some Stooges, Dead Kennedys, Ramones, Minor Threat, and Vandals (at least it was an independent movie with independent bands!).  "},{"Title":"gets better every time*","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  good music *early punk* quotable dialogue, and some situations people can relate to, although maybe a bit more exaggerated in the movie.  it's chaotic, rebellious and fun.  Matthew Lillard narrates the movie, Wayne's world style, and has frequent flashbacks, to show what has happened before the present time frame in the movie.  the more you watch it, the more you will enjoy.    "},{"Title":"SLC Punk is really for all the punks of the world, good portrayal of 80's punk","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first saw S.L.C. Punk as recommended by a few of my friends.  I find it to be a good portrayal of what it was like to be punk in the 80's....especially in a place like Salt Lake City.  I thought the plot idea was really cool, about how hard it was to be punk in SLC, and the lives of the punks.  Parts of the movie could have used clarification for those who aren't enriched in the ways of the punks, but all in all it's a great movie.  PUNK ROCK! "},{"Title":"true to punk life","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you love the ramones and grew up in the age of punk and are not a poser. Then this movie is maybe about you.  In a group of 11 people we watched this movie.  We laughed and related to it.  It is perfect for us multi-colored haired punks. It covers all from punks to mods.  It makes you remember why sometimes we just don't want to grow up.  "}{"Title":"yes they were poseurs but so what","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If your a punk you may hate it. If your punk before you watch it you have to say they are poseurs but this is entertainmentThis movie is funny at times but can be depressing. This movie starts out with two jocks talking about scoring and then stevo and bob attack the fascists with baseball bats. Through out this film you will see way more fights with rednecks and stupid people. There is acid abuse, pouseurness, death of a punker, moshing, and punk rock.The music on this movie is anuf reason to rent it. It starts out with sex and violence and ends the film with the Dead Kennedys song KILL THE POOR.If you want a really cool movie about punk or want to hear some killer songs rent or buy it. I recomend the dvd it has  music tracks and you can read the comic!!!! "},{"Title":"Not necessarily the best, but well-done at least.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While SLC Punk was not exactly the best film ever made, it was much better than my friend from Germany claims.  First of all, the film/dialogue was/is not supposed to be subtle, it was supposed to be in-your-face and loud.  A Trainspotting in America is about the best way to describe the movie.  Perhaps because we can all relate, in some way, to the characters, we can better understand the pain and the torture of day-to-day life in these United States.  Life is not a bowl of cherries and although we may rebel and fight the system, all mankind must understand that chaos holds within it some deeper meaning and certainly an order.  Realizing this truth is the underlying message of SLC Punk and without keeping an open-minded nature when watching this film, you will miss it, no matter how in-your-face it may be.  I say give it a chance, especially if you liked Trainspotting. "},{"Title":"We'll see...","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In the next few years to come if this one will be remembered.  I think it really should be.  Lillard plays a damn near realistic punk rocker growing up in Salt Lake City.  I really can't imagine if that would be easy.  Great story, great acting, and a believable script make me want to watch this movie again and again.  Devon Sawa is hilarious in this by the way. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!!!!!!!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie, and was offended by some comments I've heard about it.  I'm sure the people making these comments are a collective group of starbucks loving, dave matthews listening trendy @#$%^ that wouldn't know what its like to be isolated in a role, or to live outside of the rules of society for more than 10 minutes. This movie was powerful, fun, and represented the role of the outcast in todays society, in a way most movies I've seen don't.  I identify with the D&D playing kid who finds his own in a music and lifestyle, this movie shows what those things can do for a young person, and it teaches another valuable lesson, we must all evolve and adapt, so to those of you out there who are curious, SEE THIS MOVIE, and take it for what it is, an honest depiction of what we freaks live like. "},{"Title":"like walking on water..","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  a friend referred me to this movie...i personally had no desire to watch it...boy was i wrong..This is one of the best movies i have seen in a long time....about half way through I was saying to myself this movie is dumb and as soon as i said that it changed...the cinema photography went from piss poor to excellent...this is a story of how life throws you a loop...it could happen to anyone it just happens to a bunch of punks.....Yeah its supposed to be funny and it definately is at some points, but it also is very dramatic at some points...Matthew Lillard has it in him to be an excellent actor to bad he has to be in the scream movies....but hey one has to eat...anyway if you want to walk out a movie laughing and thinking at the same time then go rent SLC Punk... "},{"Title":"Definitely worth a look.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Salt Lake City in the 80s. Not what you would imagine as the thriving heart of punk culture. But what James Merendino delivers in this surprising low-budget film is a cut above other so-called coming of age films. In a wry self-deprecating look at an often maligned subculture, Merendino uses comedy and narration to good effect to allow you to connect with the main protagonist - a blue-haired punk named Stevo. Stevo's rich father has plans for him to become a lawyer, but Stevo is an anarchist, and believes only in giving rednecks a good beating. But it this in itself that finally causes Stevo to question his own belief structure. Some great backdrops of Utah salt flats and fascinating surreal peeks into other peoples lives (Til Schweiger gives a remarkable performance as the orphaned drug-dealer that floats through their group) satisfies any desire for something beyond your usual Hollywood formula movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie-not for everyone","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this and own it. I thought it was really thought prevoking and I recommend this movie to people who are confused with life. I saw it last year in a theater that showed it for one weekend only.  I actually had these hard core punks sit with me and tell me about how they were treated last time they saw it(which was 7 times during the weekend) and how happy they were that I didn't judge them.  Now I am not a punk and I'm not a poser either, but I did find this movie had an ability to bring out a little punk in me.  It gives you a look into people's lives and how they try to be different, but sometimes they find that to be different you have to sell-out a little.  The acting(Jason Segal is excellent, check him out in Freaks and Geeks too) and directing was really cool and I want more people to see this so they can understand not only the punk life but people in general.  Put it this way, I learned more from the movie and the people sitting next to me than I have in years.  Rent this movie and watch it! "},{"Title":"Funny as hell movie that also gives you something to think about","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this today and was actually shocked by how much I enjoyed it.  It was funny, deep, well acted, and profound.  I actually found myself learning something, and thinking about what the characters were saying.  That and I have a sudden urge to dye my hair blue... Overall, a splendid movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome, true to life story of a couple of hot punks.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently rented this movie because i absolutely adore Matthew Lillard and punks so i knew that i would like it. The thing that I liked most about this movie is the character portrayal.  Heroin Bob was awesome and the under-laying love story between him and Trish is amazing.  I just really recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great look into 80's punk scene","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! provides an often humorous, insightful, and subsequently challenging view the 80's punk scene in Salt Lake City, Utah. The main characters (Stevo, Heroin Bob) are forced to look at their current lifestyles and their future ambitions and make individual decisions that could eternally alter their lifestyles. Good performance by Matthew Lillard (Scream, The Curve) as the anarchy-laden Stevo. "}{"Title":"interesting punk movie","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i had wanted to see this for a while, but i didn't know if it was in theaters. i rented it a while ago, and i liked it! it was funny in parts, and one part of it was really unexpected. in general, it was good. ) "},{"Title":"Great portrayl of punk rock idealism growing up.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A friend of mine had been recommending this movie to me for quite some time, so I finally went to the video store and rented it today. Upon returning home, my brother said SLC Punk!? That movie sucks! So, with conflicting opinions, I popped it in the VCR. From start to finish, the movie was pretty good. SLC Punk told the story of Steve-O and Heroin Bob, two punks in Salt Lake City in the mid 1980s. They believe in anarchy and chaos and attempt to live the lifestyle. Steve-O fights with his upper class upbringing throughout the entire film, while Heroin Bob seems to rise above his lower class past. Although the movie moved slowly at times, I was ultimately pleased by it, and it made me think about myself a lot, as I drew some parallels between myself and Steve-O. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful movie, good performances","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  After perusing the comment database for SLC Punk, I was actually aggravated enough to create a new account with IMDb and provide my thoughts.It seemed to me, after perusing the majority of the comments for this film, that most of the people with anything to say--even the people who enjoyed the movie--entirely missed the point. This was not simply a peephole into the unintelligent and arbitrary life of a rebellious, anarchist teenager; it was a comment on the ridiculousness of categorization--the senseless classification of individuals by their preferred genre of music, or by the garments with which they adorn themselves.  The entire film was spent with Matthew Lillard's character, Stevo, and the audience watched as he endeavored to find himself, to avoid at all costs being a 'poser'; and then we saw how one catastrophic event (I won't divulge the exact incident, as I'd prefer not to be blacklisted) can reveal the triviality of that sort of lifestyle, and how, regardless of our efforts to operate by our own volition and maneuver around that entity so often referred to as the system, we are all citizens of the world, and, for the most part, want similar things. I read one review in which a user said that he thought the movie had pointless scenes. I whole-heartedly disagree.  To the contrary, in that respect, SLC Punk did really well the scene in which Heroin Bob and Stevo visited Bob's dad was integral to create further empathy for the characters and deepen their personalities and lives. My principal grievances with the movie have to do with the lack of development of some of the underlying concepts that might truly have advanced the plot (the emptiness of Utah, etc.).  The scene in which Stevo and his woman were tripping was a tad overdone--it seemed a little too indie for my taste--but that's all right. A really fine, even admirable, performance from Matthew Lillard, whose previous appearances have strictly provided comic relief to otherwise banal and, to be candid, stupid movies. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was one of those rare movies that I really enjoyed, though I thought I wouldn't.  The ending was odd, but fitting.  This movie was hilarious and quite touching.  It was an odd mixture of Pulp Fiction and The Sex Pistols (who DID NOT invent punk rock, haha  great scene).  Give it a try and you just might enjoy as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly accurate portrayal of the early 80's scene","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw this film on video the other day and, contrary to what I was expecting, I liked it.  I was expecting it to suck for two reasons 1 I've always found Mathew Lillard's acting style gratingly annoying and 2 I grew up in NYC as a hardcore punk in the early 80's and Hollywood always gets it wrong at least 9 times out of 10.  This was a pleasant surprise.  Perhaps the film won't appeal to everyone and maybe today's younger punks will think the movie got it wrong, but it's a pretty accurate portrayal of what the scene was all about back then in the suburbs.  Sorry, but SLC isn't all that urban.  Also I didn't want to smack Mathew Lillard every time I saw him on screen like I usually do in every other movie I see him in.  Good film. "},{"Title":"Truthful depiction of American punk","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a truthful depiction of American punk in the 1980's.  I grew up in the 80's and related to the movie and the characters.  The music was perfect, the ironies and the general atmosphere of the film were very accurate.  I highly recommend it.  If you liked Repo Man, you will like this. "},{"Title":"a rousing, energetic, philosophical and unsettling film!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  you gotta see it--and watch it to the END--before you judge it. it may seem at the beginning that it's just some kids f****** around, but this movie is both fun and deep.  and by the end, i think both punks and anti-punks will be entertained by--and even learn from--the clever dialogue and all-too-true plot of this movie. (It also has a very cool visual style!)  "},{"Title":"a rousing, energetic, philosophical and unsettling film!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  you gotta see it--and watch it to the END--before you judge it. it may seem at the beginning that it's just about some weird kids screwing around, but this movie is both fun and deep.  and by the end, i think both punks and anti-punks will be entertained by--and even learn from--the clever dialogue and all-too-true plot of this movie. (It also has a very cool visual style!)  "},{"Title":"give it a shot","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  told in documentary style, this story follows a punk as he tries to reconcile his lifestlye with life in general. this flick is a fresh alternative to traditional film and narrative styles and a good illustration of what independent film can do. not to be taken too seriously, slc punk is a nice, honest shot of rebellion, and you don't have to be an slc punk to like it, but it helps.  "},{"Title":"Liked it","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think you appreciate punks and what they stand for to like this movie -- I do, so I did. Not a lot of action per se, but a good representation of what it's like to be an anarchist outsider in a city of devout Mormons. Matthew Lillard is playing a variation on character he usually plays, but this time it fits. "}{"Title":"Acid trips and butt-kickin'","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The camera shots while the characters drop acid are fun to watch, though sometimes too jumpy.  The performance by Matthew Lillard was a surprise. The characters are interesting and fun to watch.  Heroine Bob is especially funny in his own psychotic way.  This film was worth every cent I payed and I might actually rent it again.  After you see it, I am sure you will agree!!! "},{"Title":"Flawless and honest","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can think of no way to improve this film.  It is an honest portrayal of the American Punk scene.  Though set in 1985, SLC Punk deals with issues still relevant to the punk subculture today.  It's consistently humorous and touching.  I want MORE!!! "},{"Title":"A very good rental choice.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is anything but boring or uninteresting. This film kept me interested the entire time with good characters, good dialogue, and good directing. As a whole it lacks direction or much of a plot, but the individual scenes are quite entertaining. Matthew Lialiard puts on a good performance and the sound track is really cool. I definately recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A punk must-see","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of those rare great films which is really only meant to be understood by punx or punk sympathizers.  You can talk all you want about plot and characters, but what this movie is about is real life...and real life isn't always exciting with an artsy dramatic plot...I loved this movie. Why?  Because Stevo and Heroin Bob remind me of my friends...they remind me of the guys who are my brothers and my ex's.  To me, that's what matters. They say that art imitates life, and this film is a prime example... "},{"Title":"A movie that never connects with its characters","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a non-Mormon native of Salt Lake City (no longer living there), I was interested to see this movie. I thought it would delve into the complex religious and political environment of Salt Lake, made even more interesting from a punks point of view. The movie was really flat and uninteresting...the characters were all rather lifeless and I didn't feel like I liked or hated any of them - although the last scene redeemed the main character slightly.  The whole point of anarchy was lost on me, since the characters didn't seem like true anarchists. They mostly seemed like 20-somethings who acted like pre-teens, sitting around whining about their current situations when they all had ways out.  When people have the opportunity to do what they want - in real life or on screen - and don't, it's something I don't want to watch.  They should just do what one of the characters did - admit that SLC was his home, admit he wasn't ever going to leave, and deal with it.  "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it, you were scared by it","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Boring is an adjective that can't be used on SLC PUNK! at all. It's fast-paced, with a complex chinese-box structure that keeps you intrested. Plus it's one of the most realistical depictions of the early punk scene I've ever seen - a bunch of young pricks following yet another trend, and, mixed into them, some ones who really tried to make a difference, before being left alone and swallowed back by the system they tried to avoid. It's not about punk. It's about a dream stolen, a way that points to nowhere, it's about hypocrisy in an hypocrytical world. It's about matters that every generation has to overcome. It's a smart movie, well written - snappy dialogue, funny scenes, drama, depth and even some action molded togheter - and with a good cast. Check it out, you migth even learn a thing or two. "},{"Title":"A gem that must have slipped past me...","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC PUNK took me by surprise when I rented it at Blockbuster last week. I didn't expect much from it above a few laughs, but it gave me much more. Although I was only six years-old when the film takes place, I could still feel the pains they felt. The film is packed with tons of screwball humor and a great deal of heart to back it up.To me this is Matthew Lillard's best performance to date as the rebellious post law-school youth. As well as great performances by the rest of the cast. But the writing is what really shines in this film, bleeding with painful truth and perspectives. Although I was not a part of the whole punk-era, the film really made me understand the point behind it. That they were yet another chapter in a lost generation trying to find their way in the world, as painfully as possible.The review on the VHS cover read, John Hughes meets Sid & Nancy, which I could sort of agree with. It does have that Ferris Bueller first person narrative. But the film also contains great elements from other past films such as EASY RIDER, DAZED & CONFUSED, and SUBURBIA. The film ultimately seems to be another work of Richard Linklater, but I guess it was done by someone new. My advice rent DAZED & CONFUSED, SLC PUNK, and SUBURBIA. Watch them in that order and you will find that each movie portrays the struggles of youth in the 70's, 80's, and 90's to a T. "},{"Title":"The best independent film of 1999.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie really shows how great an independent film can be.  Contrary to what some German users say, I thought that the movie was very interesting. Perhaps not as gripping or unique as Pulp Fiction, I never lost interest. The characters were very interesting, and their stories were very funny. You need to see this movie if you are a Punk today, or if you like Indie films.  Or just see it anyway because it kicks a**. "},{"Title":"this movie was great","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i think this movie was really good. It had a lot of intelligent dialogue, and a important messages to say. all in all this was a great movie. i have to give props to matthew lillard for his role he did >a great job and to everyone else in this movie "},{"Title":"I liked it. Here's why.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Apparently there were a few of you out there *cough* the person who wrote the first users comment *cough* who thought that this movie was- and i directly quote- boring and the characters one dimentional. Well skippy- I don't know what movie YOU saw but SLC Punk! is one of my favorites. There are so many people out there who claimed the movie was uninteresting or too violent or whatever- but, you know, this movie just isn't for everybody. If you have no passion for punk music, anarchy, violence, drugs, America hating ect. then don't go see a movie called SLC PUNK. I'm sure if I went to a movie called The Government of The Glorious United States of America- well, I'd probably say it's sh*t; so I don't see those kind of things. But for all of us anarchists out there the movie finally ushered a new breed of punk into the spotlight. The philosophical anarchist is a rariety in todays society. Mathew Lillard portrayed one of these creatures so brilliantly that it turned me anarchist myself. And I don't just love the movie because it shows that punks aren't all sh*t-for-brains lazy losers going absolutly no where. The movie had a great script- which you could see if this site had quotes *hint hint*. The camera angles were the work of a master. They transported you to Salt Lake City and threw you head first into the underground punk scene as the camera fought through the mosh pit and flickered and writhed  as Stevo got high in the park. It gave you the feeling that you were high too. It puts you in the story and that makes for some damn good cinematography. The acting was done beautifully. Mathew Lillards grief and rage in the end is one of the best performances I've ever seen. And for the boring and one dimensional plots- yea- I think someone missed the symbolism. Maybe Bob was a little on the one dimensional side- but that's only because he represented Stevo's Punkness (if that's even a word) See in the begining Bob (and Stevo's punk) were all hard core (punching the mirror- fighting the doctors. . .) twards the middle as Bob gets softer and falles in love with Trish, Stevo begins to question the things that his very beliefs are based on and calls Bob a poseur for falling in love- when really he's calling himself a poseur. Bob dies the night Stevo meets that chick (I forgot her name . . .) because she was the catalyst for the end. Stevo realises that he is just a poseur and so his punkness (theres my made up word again) and Bob die.  You see? Oh yea and BoB punching the mirror is foreshadowing for how Stevo's punk will fester out. Well I'm done now so . . . yea. It was a good movie. I liked it.          "}{"Title":"Great music, great fighting, great anarchy","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a lot of fun.  Some of the best editing that I have ever seen. The music and fighting are fun.  The characters are unique.  It may not be a deep message but I thought a deep message would have made these characters seem fake.  A coming of age tale from an anarchist's perception.  "},{"Title":"Freakin Great","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movies amazing. I've never seen a movie where they break down the fourth wall so effectively. In this movie the main character totally breaks it down the line to give asides  and it just works because the movie way experimental as well as being a  honest portrait of life in the 80's. It's also one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Its looks at a situation and admits all aspects of these peoples lives. It goes over the beliefs and short comings of the punk life style. Simply fabulous  "},{"Title":"Great movie, liked it a lot.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think that this movie was a really good one.  The only flaw i found was that it started humorous then started to drag out a little then got humorous again.  I liked the plot of the film as well.  It reminds me of the original Suburbia only better production and acting.  The movie shows you what the scene was like in Salt Lake City at that time.  Great film. "},{"Title":"Very cool, fun, introspective film.  Best punk film I've seen...","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  At last a punk film with balls.  It's not about how great posers are, it doesn't fill up with empty ideas while screaming anarchy, and it really thinks out its ideas.  It fleshes out different types of punk (including ones that don't have any sort of look; a first!), different aspects of the punk life, and puts the ideas on a balance.  Not pro-punk nor anti-punk. Furthermore, this film is guided with nice style, a lot of energy, many laughs, and powered by a great performance from Lillard.  It was hard to believe it after seeing Wing Commander and Hackers, but this guy can really act, and kicks ass doing so. Overall a fun, interesting film, that leaves you thinking afterwards (and not about how you can get your money back), plus it offers yet another look into the 80s.  Keep an eye on Lillard and the director/scriptwriter... "},{"Title":"SLC Punk! - Should've gotten the best picture Oscar!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You may have noticed that 19 people gave positive reviews and only one gave a negative.  SLC Punk! is really a great film that proves to be rare because punks are usually caught on film very little and not as big as since Sid & Nancy. Now we get to see an actual portrayal of punks and the best thing is they're from Salt Lake City - the bible belt! - mormon land! SLC is a hysterical film that picks on everything from mormons to posers. But don't worry, there's even a moral dilemma - a reason for all this - that even a genius would find a better film than that stupid movie that won for best picture at the Oscars. "},{"Title":"Punks in SLC explain life realistically. Finally.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Realistic look at punk life. Not like other punk movies which are more or less overdone to impress the general crowd. This one seems made to appeal to the punk crowd and from critic response, it seems they were the only ones who like it. Which is good, because most other movies are too frilly or whatever. Good view at punk life. One of those movies that you dont think of much after it ends, but a few days later you really want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Good flick about Punk Counter-Culture.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Some friends brought me to this movie with them, before we got there I hadn't heard anything about it except for what they had told me (which was just that it was about punks, in Salt Lake City).I thought the movie was really good. The characters are dynamic, we get to learn more about them that explained the way they are. You can see the wheels turning as they're analyzing the situations they find themselves in (when appropriate).The story (as the title says) is about 2 punks living in Salt Lake City Utah in the mid 80's. It's about their relationships with each other, other counter-culture types, their parents, and the law. It's about why they are the way they are.This movie is probably not understood by conformists.  "},{"Title":"Great movie to watch when you live in Utah.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The SLC Punk was wonderful. I enjoyed seeing my state and especially SLC depicted from the viewpoint of a Punk in the 80's I myself am not a punk nor was I old enough to really enjoy the 80's time period, but the movie did a great job of portraying both era as well as location.  The characters of Stevo and his cohort Bob really grabbed my attention as they described their views on everything from beer to politics and from fighting to women. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It had quite a lot of good stuff in it.  I loved the strange camera angles and tricks that they added just to make the movie more interesting.  The dialog was interesting,too.  Matthew Lillard was great as Stevo.  He was an excellent choice for the part.  I was totally absorbed in the movie.  Definitely see this movie.  You will be impressed.  "},{"Title":"It rocked!!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went into the movie expecting it to start a whole new following of punk posers, but it started out making fun of them (although none of them will admit to being one).  The movie was great.  I saw a sneak preview from WHTG FM1063, and everyone walked into the theater with their hair spiked and their Nevermind The Bulloks attitudes and walked out with their heads down in deep thought, pondering the direction of their life.  I'm not, typically, one to call a movie art, simply because-most times, people confuse low budget for artistic, like Clerks.  Don't get me wrong, great movie, but it wasn't art.  It wasn't in black and white for artistic value, it was because the movie was paid for on a credit card and color cost a lot more. Anywho, point is, SLC Punk made people really think and most movies don't do that, but at the same time, it made us laugh.  I give this movie a 10 and call it art. "}{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this was an absolutely brill film!! It was so funny that there were times when I was practically crying I was laughing so hard! I thought the 2 main characters, Stevo and Heroin Bob (played by Matthew Lillard and Michael Goorjian) were brilliantly played and well rounded characters. I loved the hand scene - from the passing out in the shop to the quarantine. I give this movie two *very* enthusiastic thumbs up and recommend everyone sees it! "},{"Title":"Sid would have dug it too!","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Yup, I think Sid would have giving this flick the two bloody mid fingers up, way up!. The last time I felt so good after seeing a movie and to relate so much to it was when I saw Trainspotting. SLC Punk! and Trainspotting are movies that totally give me the sense of association about art imitating life. SLC's most definitively not for everyone. It's too simple for regular individuals with complicated minds to get the meaning. How much I wish I could have seen and lived that moment back in the late 70s and early 80s. But, I'll just have to be content enough; when I went through my so called punk and rebellious years, those original hard core and punk songs were around to give us that bit more power and attitude. SLC Punk! plainly states; that people like me, the so called outcast, social misfit and weirdo need to realize if we really want to damage the system, we don't need to wear an outfit. The clothing only gives you a character. That's it. The power is to be mentally an anarchist. If you want to screw the world of the trendy and fake people, the 9 to 5 corporate blood suckers, the owners of 3 dozen major credit cards, etc., unfortunately you need to be part of their world and work it from the inside out. At the sad end, this movie leaves you with realistic thoughts about the system, good morals from a different point of view and with the hope that more movies would be made as simple, funny and real as this one. I can compare SLC Punk! to this other movie called Get Real. Even though these two films are on the opposite side of the spectrum, they have a lot in common; especially when both movies show how hard it is to be yourself and to be accepted by society that still stuck in the dark ages. Go see SLC with a person that went through that period and really knows what a punk and an anarchist were all about. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  S.L.C. Punk is one of the best films I've seen in a long time. The story was good, the music was great (I knew all the words to all the songs and sang along loudly), plus I noticed lots of cool in-jokes that you would only get if you were familiar with old-school punk "},{"Title":"A must for anyone who has grown up influenced by punk!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film goes back to a time before Punk and hardcore was an asset to record companies.  Back when the lifestyle actually meant a little something.  The film is also very reflective of the misconceptions of the genre even from within itself.  Matt Lillard was perfect for the part, along with the other actors.  The soundtrack includes tracks that haven't been heard in years, including the Adolescents.  But, if for some reason you thought Go was a good film, don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie.  Too close to reality.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's the only touching punk film I've seen, though the ending (which I won't give away) makes it plain this is a movie about punk, not a punk movie.  I've ping-ponged between anti-authoritarian attitudes and straight society opportunities, been the outsider freak child, the okay student and worker, and since I'm in one of those in-between situations right now, this movie was just right.  If you've ever asked yourself what the f*** is life about, really, and what do we do about it, you owe it to yourself to see it.  But remember, punk, it's still a movie. "},{"Title":"This is it. Now we wait for Star Wars.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'd say that after seeing S.L.C. Punk, there isn't a whole lot that has my attention until May 16th (the preview of Phantom Menace). After being on the fringes of America's radar, James Merendino will hopefully make an impact with this witty, and surprisingly, touching film. Yes, it's about being punk in Salt Lake City in 1985, but it digs much deeper into the ethos of anarchy and rebellion, providing a true coming of age story for a sub-culture without trivializing its meaning. Filled with wild Crayola color and a hyperkinetic performance from Matthew Lillard (at his personal best), S.L.C. Punk is bound to make you laugh, cry, and hopefully, think.* I'd pay full price to see this film again *  "},{"Title":"great film.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a great film, dark comedy, not everyone will get it. If you are a prude, anti-drug, a redneck or a Nazi you wouldn't be happy with this film. But if you're open minded and remember the 80's you love it. The funniest scene ever takes place in Wyoming look for it. "},{"Title":"a must-see movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  S.L.C. Punk! is definitely a must-see movie. I never belonged to the hardcore scene so I just can imagine what kind of slamming effect it may have on someone who lived during the punk-influenced 80s. But it still is a witty, colorful attempt to unravel those years seen through the eyes of a middle class young man (Lillard) who drops his range life in order to follow the live fast way and witnesses the end of the authentic punk scene, infected by posers. The fact that the story is set in the conservative Salt Lake City milieu makes it easier to sympathize with Lillard and his pals and to share their disappointment when their era fades. Flashbacks add a unique movement and style to the picture. Great performances by all (especially a blasting with energy Lillard, and a never-seen-like-that Goorjian from Party of five) make for a perfect, spicy dish. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent (and accurate) Portrayal!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie at the Sundance Festival in Salt Lake.  I had to wait for three hours to see it.  It was well worth the wait.  Being a native of this weird and twisted place called Zion, I can relate to the plot and representation of Utah society.  It doesn't portray Utah politics or the predominant religious culture in a very good light.  But who can?  The film's release, with it's negative  descriptions of life here, couldn't be more timely (with the latest Olympic scandal). Kudos to Mr. Merendino for telling it how it really is. "},{"Title":"What a perfect Premiere at Sundance","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this film opening night at Sundance and it was a perfect film to premiere there.  The setting is one of the best I have seen in awhile taking place during the mid-80's in Salt Lake City.  It is the story of two punk-rockers who more than anything hate rednecks.  The most impressive aspect of this film was Matthew Lillard's performance.  In a word unbelievable. It was a great film that I would recommend to anyone. "}{"Title":"This Movie Resides Happily In My Heart","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Truly i loved this movie. Everything from the beginning to the end left me with a feeling that the movie had energy, it had shown a lot of heart and the characters we're played amazingly. True, the movie is fictional but if you truly wanted to live the life of a punk wouldn't you go to shows, kick some ass and than expect the same to happen. I mean its not like your nerdy but hardcore friend is gonna beat the living smack out of a bands bouncer but you could pray.Getting back to the movie though, the ending was completely sad I shed a tear or two seeing poor Bob dead. Of course he'd have to die of something completely ironic though...the guy only smokes and drinks and than he ends up taking a thousand little yellow pills and drops dead in the night. All in all i think the movie had shown true punks, even if the people playing them were opposite or just weren't like that they did a darn good job at letting it show as if they were the perfect, anarchist, blue haired, mohawked, mirror punching punks.The only thing that i questioned was, Did bob ever ask Trish to Marry him? I know he told Steve-o he was going to ask her but i can't really remember if he did. >> << "},{"Title":"Punk Integrity Stands Strong","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Okay, so my girlfriend has been trying to get me to see SLC Punk for almost a year now, and I finally saw it tonight with some friends. First of all, the script is great, I love the pacing, the energy, the dialog, everything about this film reminds me of growing up, how it was for me.I grew up in Mountain View California, from ages 17-21 I was on the street, living with my friends, sometimes squatting, sometimes traveling around, to the Santa Cruz area, or San Fran, San Diego...I got in with a small punk crowd in Mountain View, when I became the first kid under 18 to work for Tower Records. My friends, the ones who really looked out for me were pretty hardcore punk, but good punk. Like in SLC, they cared, they were artists, and sure they did some drugs, and had tattooes, and were free to the point of self destruction, because freedom without restraint can be dangerous... and we had fun, we sang, and partied like each night was the end of the world. It was raw and forgiving, and free. I felt all those memories come back to me, the good, the bad, when watching SLC Punk. To see all the different types of people and how they can co exist reminds me so much of how I grew up.SLC Punk is a movie about two of the only punks in Salt Lake City, divested from the conforts of conformity, contrasting against the creatively dead society they find themselves thrust into, we draw out the story. By the rich narrative performed by Matthew Lillard, and follow the twisting but fluid turns of the tale with ease, stopping along the way to point out some serious and timeless issues, about society, humanity, and growing up in the Twentieth Century.Anyways, SLC Punk! is a fun movie, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Pretty much how it was","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw a review that said this movie wasn't realistic then buddy you weren't there. This movie was my life in high school, from nazi asses, to mods, rockers and hicks. All the characters were like people I knew, I guess I'm a poser because I grew out of it just like the main character but if you want to see a movie about American punks in the late 70's early 80's then this is THE movie. Most other movies are documentaries check out decline of western civilzation for this. This movie is very well written with a great soundtrack, I think there were maybe 3 songs I didn't know but all the ones I did really brought me back. I even busted out some of my old albums,,,that's right I still have 'em although not fun at the end but isn't that like life anyway. 8 out of 10 but for what it is,, it's a 10  "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i really enjoyed this movie and the way it looks at all different groups and how they get along ... or don't. stevo leads us all thru a guided tour of his world and the people and groups that move thru it. we get to see cliques and stereotypes, drug addiction, drug dependence, violence and peace, love and hate ... all the sides of the world fit neatly into a movie.open minded types will find many life changing lines and situations in this movie. stevo's reaction to sean makes us consider how we look at people with less than us and how we probably should. the profound but not surprising ending line was perfect ... proved what we all really are. definitely one you need to see at least twice!  "},{"Title":"Movie For Sellouts?","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  With actors like Matthew Lillard (Scooby Doo) and Devon Sawa (Final Destination) playing the role of punks, I thought this movie would suck majorly.  I didn't want to see a bunch of hollywood's A crowd parading around like they were punk rockers.  But I sat down to watch the movie anyway.  I actually found myself enjoying much of the movie.  A lot of the things written in the movie were close to what happened in real life.  The storyline was a little blah, but overall the movie was very appealing to me.  You will like the movie, unless you are like some hardcore punk rocker.  You might not like it then.  You may call this movie a movie for sellouts.  Everyone has their opinions, but I personally liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the greatest films I've ever seen","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk! is the most recent addition to my list of all-time classics. Although it may not mean as much to you if you care nothing about Punk culture or Anarchy, it's still a beautifully-made movie where everything comes together almost perfectly. It's hilarious, moving and thought-provoking.  "},{"Title":"slc punk is a true masterpiece!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i have seen slc punk at least once a week for the past 8 months. it is one of my favorite movies ever, it reaches and explores so much yet at the same time it is entertaining. it has the best collection of talented young actors for the cast i have seen in a very long time who let you really know the character and feel what they are feeling. the film really gives insite in what a normal punk living in a normal suburban town goes through and what they have to deal with. i myself do not catergorize myself as a punk (although i am mistaken for one often) i catergorize myself as me. these kids are like a troop of kids who have to stick together to only endure the pressures of their life and rebellion. this is the best movie out there so i encourage everyone to get a copy or something of it and watch it as soon as possible because it is a great masterpiece and probably one of the best we will see in a long time. "},{"Title":"Reccommended to everybody.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this a few years ago and wasn't really intrigued.  It looked like a run-of-the mill teen flick and I just wasn't a big Matthew Lillard fan.  After one of my friends told me that I reminded him of Mike in this movie, I decided to check it out to see what he was talking about.  Last night, I put this one in and was very suprised.  It starts off with a really funny nartative but it doesn't stay pure-comedy. It reminded me a lot of one of my other favorites (Stand By Me) in that it was a coming-of-age flick with a lot of humorous and very dramatic moments.  It made a very heavy point that is enough reason for many people to see this movie, alone.  I'm not going to spoil anything here, but this movie is not the same one that was shown on the previews.  In my opinion, this is a highly underrated movie that should be seen by any high-school kid or adult, for that matter.  I also have a new-found respect for Matthew Lillard.  He did an amazing job as the lead and I am now a fan.  One more thing  This movie might give you the giggles the next time you see a punk at the mall.   "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well done retro movie for those of us that grew up in this environment in the 80's, rebelled, but eventually became a cog in the wheel. The movie does have some extremely funny parts and deals with issues on a different plane. "},{"Title":"Not JUST for punks","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a huge fan of punk rock, and the punk movement in general. It's hard to e a punk, and this movie shows that aspect very well. Matthew Lillard is my new favorite actor, and he is great in this movie.This isn't just a story for punks by punks, it's more of a story about growing up, and having to face getting older. SLC Punk is, in my opinion, the best film of 1999. If you get no message from the movie (which, you should), then it's at least enjoyable for the fun and funny parts. The violent scenes are great. SLC Punk is a great movie, that's very true-to-life, and has a great message........everyone turns out to be a poser in life, sometimes ideals and beliefs just change. "}{"Title":"Annoying, unrealistic, boring.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't believe this movie got a 7 rating. I couldn't even finish watching it, it was so annoying.Stevo is played by Matthew Lillard, who pretty much plays the same role in every film he's done obnoxious dude. Here, he combines his character from Hackers with his character from Scream and is simply obnoxious and vaguely weird.This movie should have been developed as presenting a bunch of posers, because that's what the punks in this movie are. Frauds. The Mod character is the most ridiculous though There weren't any mods in Salt Lake City in the 1980s! What were they thinking???17 year olds with leather jackets and spiked purple hair will probably love this. That's all well and good, but if you want to see something realistic, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Good Watch","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this film was really good.  It was an awesome movie with awesome points to it.  If you listen to Lillard's character when he is talking straight to you he makes some great points about things he notices around him.  This is an anti drug film and shows acts of rebellion but does this all in a funny way.  I will definitely need to own this film one day.  If you have a chance go out and rent it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great either.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought SLC Punk! was an alright movie, but nothing terribly exciting.  It has a somewhat interesting story and has some pretty good acting.  There were a few times where the filming absolutely drove me insane (for instance near the beginning of the film, when Heroin-Bob is standing up and talking to Stevo while Stevo is laying on the ground looking up at him).  The way it was filmed was just awful, there was way too many film cuts that shouldn't have been there.  I can't figure out what kind of effect the director was trying to get there, but it just angered me.  I don't think it's a good idea if you're paying more attention to the editing than the dialog that's being said.  Anyhow, there wasn't a lot of this kind of filming, so it didn't bother me enough to ruin my movie-watching experience.All in all, it was a pretty good movie.  There was some good comedy in the film as well, and a lot of unexpected things.  I definitely wouldn't say this film is for everyone, it is a very odd movie.  I'm not even sure what kind of person would or wouldn't like this, so I don't know what to tell you if you haven't already seen this.  I guess I'd say give it a chance and see what you think, but don't have too high of expectations.Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Alienated youth in search of their true calling.  Who cares?","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk reminded me of somewhat of Sid & Nancy, and somewhat of The Commitments. But not in a good way.  SLC Punk was simply not all that interesting, despite the premise of young punks in Reagan-era Salt Lake City. Their individual voyages of self-discovery (with one exception) ended where you'd expect, and the trip wasn't that interesting. "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was way to autobiographical for me. There were about 3 funny moments, but the rest of the film was so awful!  A totally pointless story about rebellious punks whom the audience cannot care less about!  A waste of film and a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"A rarity","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am really easy to please. Even if a movie is bad, I always sit through it and at least get a little something out of it. I'm 26 years old and SLC punk has just been my exception to the rule. My boyfriend and I turned it off before it was over.Maybe this was a mistake, and if I had watched the whole thing, I would have appreciated the movie on any degree. I highly doubt it though.As a teenager I loved punk rock and still do. This movie was a disgrace to any idea of the punk scene. The plot was nonexistent, the script unbearable, the editing was contrived and just incredibly annoying, the acting amateurish, scattered and overdone...Not to mention the pile of clichés the cookie cutter acid trip, the 'crazy' friend with the gun, who happens of course to be foreign, which brings me to the lack of authenticity throughout the movie. The hair was always perfectly dyed, the mohawk perfectly placed. The venue for the gig was unbelievable, the apartment was clean and expensive looking, and no amount of hastily done anarchy signs drawn on the wall with the same spray paint can could fix that. The wardrobes were always crisp and clean, Hollywood punk uniforms.In short, I do't know why anyone would like this. And don't get me wrong. I can usually put up with a lack of authenticity in a movie, and plot holes. But SLC punk just didn't offer ANYTHING. It was just annoying and I was embarrassed for it.AND GUESS WHAT When we came back to the video store with it the guy there said that usually they don't give money back or another selection if you bring back a movie you didn't like, but with SLC Punk they make an exception!!!! I rest my case! "},{"Title":"really uninteresting","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   i usually dont get upset when i watch a bad movie,but this movie is really really bad.It tries copy Brittish movies but fails,and the acting is an overkill,to much drama over nothing interesting and silly cliches.You get tired of the main characters monolog after two minutes and the guy never stops wining,ZZZzz. "},{"Title":"HURL!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a freak-fest! It is a waste of film, time and money. The cutting room floor shouldn't even be disgraced with this movie. I had to sanitize my VCR after viewing this pathetic film. My advice start a cookfire with this trash. "},{"Title":"SLC Punk! = No.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I couldn't stand sitting through this movie. It was like knowing everything that happens and waiting for it to happen. It was honestly a severe waste of time. There weren't any surprises, there weren't any uplifting moments, there wasn't even a satisfying ending. It wasn't funny, it wasn't talented, it wasn't clever, it didn't capture a generation, it wasn't anything, except poor. It was like sitting through great potential that was simply thrown out with the bath water. The writer took a fairly simple plot, and theme, then attempted to make it complex, but in doing so, he caused the complexity and the potential to be disemboweled. SLC Punk did nothing, short of rip the still beating heart out of a potentially good movie and squeeze every last drop of potential out of it, leaving only the shriveled corpse of nothingness, which it then held high above its head in a proud manner, while the rest of the film industry watched in horror and disgust at this putrid display of refusal to release one's long since dead past. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone except those who think the word punk means anything more than being anally raped. "},{"Title":"Don't watch this.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is awful. If you want to know anything about punk rock, don't watch this. That's right, you'll actually learn more about punk rock by NOT watching this. It has nothing to do with punk. With phrases like I hate hicks, I'm going to get a 4.0 in damage and I hate posers and Yeah! Punk rock! come on, this is punk? This stuff is total tripe. From the outfits, to the narrating, everything is just awful. It seriously almost seems like a joke.I can't say it's ALL bad, because if you're just watching this to be WATCHING a movie, it's not that bad. But if you're watching for the punk rock in it, Wow, skip it! I can't say enough bad things about it. Watch the original Suburbia instead. or Another State of Mind. I have reviews on the site for both. oh yeah, and... PUNK ROCK!...I guess..? "}{"Title":"Great Movie If You understand It!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SLC Punk is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen. Its a classic favorite of my friends and I. I guess it only makes sense to those that are like Stevo and Bob that want to try and bring down the system. Its a great movie and I HIGHLY recommend it to people that are more of the punk type because to others it may seem a little odd. But overall, SLC Punk is a great movie with an increadible cast and is definetly worth your money.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful little movie","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was made in 1998 and somehow I missed it then because of my other commitments, but when I found it on Netflix last night I immediately put into instant queue and watched it with my wife the same evening.I became a hard core punk rocker around 75 or 76 when I first heard of Iggy Pop and the Stooges and Television. At first I was like Bob, Mohawk and all. I did it for 2 reasons, to fit in with my new found friends but more importantly to tick off my dad. I was only around 16 at the time and rebellious.Couple of years later I became more like Steve, full head of hair but colored different ways whenever the mood struck.We attended many clubs in Chicago to see some great and not so great bands. We also got to see some bands in bigger venues as well as the Sex Pistols in Houston in 78 (well, for about 3-4 songs anyways) as we got chased by the cowboys after a fight broke out between the band and the cowboys. Anyways I know what I'm talking about and this movie showed some strong accuracy.I only give it 8 stars because I thought the soundtrack could have been better and there were some issues with continuity.Other than that I highly recommend this small flick and guarantee you won't be bored. Most actors were great. It pretty much stayed true to what the punk scene was all about back then, just like Hooligans is pretty much true dealing with the football hooliganism in the UK. It made me wish I was that age again and had another chance to relive that period of my life. It was fun and exciting time. "},{"Title":"Good messages, but deliverance is flawed somewhat.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Skeptical was my first impression of this movie. It seemed as though it would just focus on a bunch of punks and how cool their way of life is. That's not wrong, but it's also not right. This is portrayed throughout most of the movie, but later on, Matthew Lillard's character changes and begins to think about who he is. It served as a great character development, but this is just one of the few great parts about the movie. In the ending, it was shown how talented he can be in a dramatic role. It's hard to see why he isn't in more roles like that. The comedy is lacking and that is what it was labeled under, so it was unimpressive in that factor. It had few chuckle moments. The style is also unimpressive. The pans and cuts are sometimes choppy and the story telling was sketchy at times. Most performances were up to par given the material, but there were still a few missing links. It's a nice, independent movie that can be enjoyed if the lacking parts are dismissed. "},{"Title":"Get Punked!","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" My supervisor all-but forced me to watch this punked out movie. He even gave me a lesson in Punk Groups in which I asked him to name some, well, more main stream punk bands to get a feel for his type of music. Well, it turns out, not only his taste in music (or the groups he mentioned,) such as Green Day and The Offspring, happen to be in my top bands of all time, so does his taste in movies.I wouldn't go as far as I would say I loved SLC Punk&#x85;but damn, it was really, really good.The movie was a complete surprise to me, refreshing, original and a great kick-start (that unfortunately, never happened) to Matthew Lillard being a front-runner/lead star. The movie had humor, heart, tension (man, you never know when one of the punks/posers were going to burst out into insane violence) and awesome dialogue, including some wonderful talk-to-the-screen dialogue.It's self-described punk and obvious rebel, Stevo (Lillard) and best mate heroin Bob (Goorjian) against the world and their dysfunctional families during the last summer of their so-called freedom. What makes this movie rise above a typical comedy about out-of-control teens, is Stevo's consistent need for answers to his why, why, why questions on where he fits in the universe, or the dump SLC (or Salt Lake City) he lives in, and if anarchy is the key. He mixes true rebellion, comedy, deep thoughts and actual maturity through his antics. That, my peers, is really hard for any written character or live actor to do. Lillard did it brilliantly. He made us root for him, despite his flaws, insecurities, revolts and violence.I remember being almost (I said ALMOST) the same age as these kids during the time this was set. This took place in 1985, while I didn't start high school until 1988, and that's where the majority of his groups emerged, such as nerds, punks, Goths, posers, etc. They were all present in my school. True, I did try to fit in to one of the many groups, obviously doing my own self-discovery and probably coming out more of a poser than any particular group. Let me clarify that was my Freshman year in high school.Something changed when I returned for my Sophomore year. And I have remained the same since I simply did NOT care anymore. I saw too many people attempting to join this group, hang out with those punks, dress in all black, etc, etc. Something clicked in me that this was all a waste of time, and I needed to be me and to hell with the rest. Needless to say, I was very unpopular with a great majority of my stuck up fellow students. I did NOT care. So be it, as Hard Harry would say.This led me to appreciate a film like this. Like them, I saw people come/go, try to fit in, move on. This was all real life, even though I wasn't one of the punks. (Honestly, I resembled Mike (the enormously hilarious Segel) the most, without the violence, that is.) Sure, the movie can be depressing (and enormously violent) at times, but at very least the writer/director Merendino apparently never asked you to look too deep. As soon as it went that direction, he would pull the rug with either humor or the growth of Stevo.So thanks to my supervisor for the recommendation &#x96; despite you being part of THE MAN or system, you can come up with my highly recommended movies.Side Note No spoiler &#x96; but someone dies in the movie. It's meant as a heart-breaking scene, and it is, somewhat. But&#x85;damn, her/his throat pulses up and down (despite the white/powered face, indicating overdose) and faster than someone on coke, the caffeine kind, that is. (Although&#x85;) They did add some special effects to this movie, such as to the Donner Family scenes, so why not do something with that incredibly obvious flaw. Try and get past that, and I see very, if at all, few flaws with the rest of the brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Anarchy in the UK (just to tick off Steve-O)","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm not even going to begin to talk about whether or not this flick is truly punk. I'll tell you what it is it's a heck of an awesome movie. Sure, you have to be at least a little familiar with the punk scene to thoroughly enjoy it, but hey! Who isn't? Steve-O and Bob are one of the best screen duos ever, and if you've ever been to a public high school than you KNOW these guys. Heck, you might even be these guys, but whatever. The true mastery of this film lies in it's ability to seem preachy but not actually be preachy at all. There's a big be yourself message in here, cleverly disguised (or not) under all the be a punk stuff. And Mathew Lillard proudly provides cinema one of the best crying scenes in all of history. If that scene doesn't at least choke you up a little bit than you have no soul. Punk or not, this film deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining. Very original. A well-made film.","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I came into this movie not quite sure what to expect. I figured it would be less intense then it actually was...*SPOILER ALERT!* ...then I got to the scene in the park with Sandy. When the city behind her turns to flames all of the sudden...took me by surprise.But basically, the thing that stood out to me the most about this film was the dialogue. A lot of memorable lines in this movie, interesting things are said. Matthew Liliard did a fine job playing the main character, a law student who is an anarchist and a punk. You've got a smart kid, a really smart kid, who happens to be of rebellious nature. The film is partly narrative, with Liliard breaking the third wall and posing interesting theories and explanations for the ways of the world, thru his anarchist, punk eyes.The cinematography of the film is also interesting. Quick dissolves and interesting angles make the view and perspective very interesting, intriguing really.I give it a 9, but I could see my mind changing after watching it a few more times, and giving it a perfect 10. This movie is very much worth watching. "},{"Title":"so...","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" By watching the movie,what I don't do often,I found myself...I realized that it's not all about school,than job,and useless death...The good thing is that the Nazi scum was shoved in a bad light!I looked the film at least ten times,and every time I was full so emotions (I don't like emotions but hate and anger in often)..I cried like a baby at the end,as much HC as I am...strong and pretty true movie.. x\ (S L C P u n k ! ! !) I would like to find more movies like this...and I was disappointed when I researched about actors in the movie..BOB IS Jesus!!!I was telling everyone to see this film,even bought it to them as gifts and all...and,yes,I'm from Bosnia,and here are punks to!!! ) "},{"Title":"Amzaing","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I remember very well my sister coming home with an Anarchy sign tattoo on her arm and mom and dad telling her it was her choice. She was the one who told me I should watch SLC Punk. This movie changed my outlook on life. It's characters are so real you can feel their amusment and pain. It shows all the mis-conceptions of the 'PUNK' movement through the words of Steve-O. A guy who is just trying to grow-up without selling out. He tell of his opinions. Also, you will encounter Heroin Bob. Whom doesn't do Heroin and is terrifed of drugs and needles. If you want to see something good and thought provoking, you NEED to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Strangely Beautiful!","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie last night and absolutely loved it. I thought this would be another stupid movie that tries to be punk, but I was wrong in my presumption. This movie shows the heart of punk and the true freedom that it is. The final scene left me teary-eyed with Kiss Me Deadly playing. If you don't like the movie, you have to admire how well the music fits in with scenes. I Love this movie because it shows the true beauty that is punk rock. I also love it because it gets points across that I say everyday about posers and about the music itself. Although many people would call it a comedy, I would say it's a great story of freedom. I strongly recommend this for any real punks. "},{"Title":"probably one of the best portrayals of Utah","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I,being a current resident of Sugar House, Utah and hating it, find this movie to portray how life i Utah can be. There is nothing here and they show that excellently. The Typical Utahn, is very judgmental, though they say they aren't, they read your face and are, as stated, judging you. they show that well in this movie. i openly admit that i can be judgmental and i am not going to say that i try not to be, but i do hate how judgmental that i can be. this being one reason of many, i think that this is probably one of my favorite movies. it has it all, Drama, Comedy,some action, and a smidge bit of romance. Sean is probably my favorite character, besides Stevo and Heroin Bob(usually main characters are not my favorite, usually i find them to be quite lame but i make the exception for Heroin Bob and Stevo),Sean has a brief part, but when his character comes into play, he is hilarious. over all i give this movie 25/10. i think that it was very well made and it portrays how shitty life in Utah can be. "}{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of my absolute favorite movies! I would call this a movie of my generation, it describes youth and punk so well! Why we cling to punk and anarchy. the ups and downs of our lifestyle. This movie is amazing. The acting is impressive to say the least. It has so many people in it if actually look at the actors list. For many this was a launcher in their career. For others it was a smaller movie they did and you don't recognize the people til later. The interaction between Christopher McDonald and Matthew Lillard id so much fun to watch. Christopher has some great one-liners, so as, Son, remember I didn't sell out, I bought in. This movie probes into your mind. You find yourself looking at your own beliefs after the ending. Do you do what you do, believe what you believe, for nothing? For someone else? Are you a poser in how you live your life? You also find yourself quoting it for days. I was deeply touched by the end. It came as a surprise and was actually very heartfelt. I love this movie and I think I always will. "},{"Title":"Clearly that other person DIDN'T understand it...","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Um, so that comment they have up on the profile of this movie that is titled Great Movie If You understand It! clearly has no idea what the movie was about. Yes, the movie is catered to those who are/were interested in the whole punk fad, however you may define it. But it's not for for people who just want to bring down the system as that reviewer said. I mean, I'm sure you will enjoy it if you consider yourself punk. But that's not really what the movie tried to do. The movie isn't trying to just show the entertaining side of the punk lifestyle. It's trying to show how ridiculous it is. (i.e. what happens with Devon Sawa's character) How it is just a fashion statement, a fad, like anything else. This really comes together at the end with Summer Phoenix's character and with Stevo's final thoughts, etc. You know, like everyone now with this new(-ish) pop punk phase thinks that they're really special and that they believe in power upheavals and anarchy, etc. Please, most people don't know what the anarchy movement really is. Being uncool, has just become cool. And that's what the point this movie was trying to make. That Stevo and Bob weren't going to mess up the system, etc. That they're just into a fad like anyone else.With that said, I've always liked this movie. It's really entertaining, has some great quotes. I just hope the kids who see it get something more out of it than just ooo, I like Stevo's blue hair! "},{"Title":"SLC Punk!","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk! Not only one of the best musical life style orientated films, but one of the best films ever made. I still don't understand why this film has had a UK release.A very strong cast who portray there characters beautifully. Absolutely perfect acting, you get taken in to the movie and believe you are there with them. When watching the film you realise even though the cast is very small, every character is vital even if they are only in the film for 10 minutes.What people need to realise is that this film is for everyone and not just punks, the film is aimed at everyone and i think everyone has a bit of Steveo in them.This a film about growing up, adolescence, drugs, love, partying and music. There are two key characters Steveo and his flatmate Herorin Bob (name explained in the film). I don't want to give any spoilers, but the reason why this film is so strong is because you can only pigeon hole it as a film about life. It has everything in it, it is not meant to be comedy, drama,thriller what ever. It is just about honest friendship and life. "},{"Title":"A Movie to Be Loved Forever","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" An unwise person will say this movie is just a stupid teen party movie. WRONG! This movie is all about maturing, changing, and growing up. It tells us the hard fact of life that we can't all stay young, living in the ideologies of our teen lives.This movie has made me think more than almost any movie I've ever seen. It makes me think about where I'm going with my life, about love, political standpoints, friends, drugs, governments, and my future. All this is summarized in the life of the main character, Stevo. He is an college-graduated anarchist, confused as to where his life is going in the direction of constant parties and chaos.Besides being a movie that makes me think about everything the character goes through, and applying it to my life, it is a cinematic standpoint. It is filmed excellently, considering it was done by an unpopular independent filmmaker, with excellent camera work and amusing storytelling. The narration is excellent, both mind-provoking and fun.The acting is flawless. Believe it or not, before Matthew Lillard became Shaggy, he gave absolutely breath-taking performances on this film. His scene at the end brings tears to my eyes. And the other actors participate marvelously.All in all, a movie to be loved forever. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Just Saw This Recently","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Movie shows hard it was to grow up in the late 70's and 80's for people who were all punk ed out. I myself did not grow up in the era and I am not a punk style kid, but I do find this film to be meaningful. I enjoyed watching it for Matthew Lillard's performance, I've loved everything he's done since Scream. I had a friend from work let me borrow this and I put it in and was treated to a great film with some good ideas and music. It shows how if you are dressed a certain way, act a certain way, or believe a certain way that people will treat you in the way they regard the stereotype. I love this film for doing it from the punk perspective. I've seen it from everyone else's view and am frankly tired of seeing the black mans struggle through America, and the Indian, and the Mexican. This offered a new view and opened my mind up, and that is what a good film should do. Watch this for a lesson in openness "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk is a compelling story of how two college bound punks living in Salt Lake City, Utah choose an anarchist position in society rather then being part of the conformist system. Stevo, our main character, is played by Matthew Lillard who really seems to give the character depth in the ways he contradicts even his own rebellious thoughts. Although Stevo in the film is a anarchist and chooses not to give into the system he does well in school and later gets accepted into Harvard Law.This film directed by James Merendino is most likely his most known film to date. All can agree that SLC Punk has many moments where the comedy side of both Merendino and Lillard work together to make a film where a serious topic can still make us laugh. Keeping the serious topic is what lets characters like Stevo and Heroin Bob continue showing us a side of them more then just the drinking and partying.Heroin Bob is played by Michael A. Goorjian, also known for playing himself on the television series Party of Five. Contradictory to what you may think of the time period and a first impression of Bob, he is the only truly dedicated punk who isn't an illegal drug user. Bob is a very important part of showing the true meaning behind the rebellious life of a dedicated punk in 1985. Although Heroin Bob was intelligent enough to not become a drug user, one night at a party, having a bad headache was given narcotics. Bob being unaware because of his drunken state took the pills and died the next morning for his one true friend Stevo to find him laying dead on the floor of their apartment. Following Bobs death, Stevo has many new thoughts about how to live life.He realizes that no one is immortal to the system, just because you choose not to follow the ways of a strict conservative society doesn't mean you can escape the truth behind money, drugs or death. I feel that SLC Punk shows a true comparison between the 1985 punk lifestyle and the conservative ways of Salt Lake City, Utah.The point that is trying to be made by having the punk lifestyle clash with the conservative lifestyle is that neither is considered the correct one to follow but in either you have to accept the fact that you cant escape the system and you have to just learn to accept it. The only way to really beat the system is to first become a part of it. "},{"Title":"This cannot be really punk - superficial and too broad","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Heard quite a bit about this movie, but was expecting something entirely different. It's more of a broad comedy than anything else, I was expecting a slice of life of the punk underground from SLC, but all I got was overly slick production, that rings a little hollow and shallow. I never felt I was watching punks, only actors playing punks, everything is so clean and tidy down to the fake hair, I know punks growing up and they are not like this.But is is funny, and some of the camera work is good, but it should of been much darker and gritty to get the punk attitude across, and not look like a prime time TV movie. But maybe this is what the filmmakers wanted and used only Punk as a vehicle for broad humor, if so the marketing is wrong as I had different expectations.Of all the indie movies floating around, there is much better to choose, depending on your tastes, Sid and Nancy is the one if you want a real punk movie, Clerks if you a funny no budget indie movie with cool characters, Last Exit if want a dark and gritty low life movie etc..just to mention a few. SLC Punk, is worth checking out - but its a goofy broad comedy about kids pretending to be punks. So real Punks beware! "},{"Title":"We all conform sooner or later","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was very well written who cares about the nit-picky stuff. The story was great but it is true we all conform sooner or later. The story is basically a kid who rebels against a system; however, he has not too many clues about what the system is. Basically he wants to rebel against his lawyer father and prudish mother whom the father obviously was unfaithful to. So the kid (STEVO) party's, fights,and drops acid. Moreover he soon realizes the drugs and the partying can't last forever, after he ran into an old high school chum begging for money on the street. Sadly most of the points he was making in the movie, of the ideals of 1985 match my ideas today and when I was a kid.... The person I was then would beat the sh1t out of the person I am now. "},{"Title":"The only Punk film that gets it right","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" alright first off i am a punk that lives in a religiously oppressive community ie. Colorado springs and just about the rest of the film i have lived so when i say this is the only legit punk film i know what I'm talking about. This movie gets the culture, the scene, music, the dialog, dress everything perfect unlike other movies that claimed to deal with punks like Lost Boys and Breakfest Club. I have really no complaints as far as the legitimacy of the film and the way punks are portrayed. the plot is also entertaining and quite intellectually stimulating. its simply a great flick that is really alone in the punk movie genre. "},{"Title":"It was love","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie changed my life. I know how Stevo feels, being one of a very small tribe of punks. That's how it is here. However, despite my complete and utter love of this movie, I have to note the discrepancies in it, just as a personal thing, you know. I don't believe in anarchy. I agree with Chris to a degree, that anarchy makes absolutely no sense, that's it's pretty much an idealistic paradox. And another thing, I don't classify myself as a punk because classification is order and I don't believe in that particular kind of order. See what I mean? This movie was amazing. It made me laugh, cry, get angry, you name it. I wouldn't be able to thank James Merendino enough. I only hope that one day I get to shake the hand of this brilliant man. "}{"Title":"SLC Punk Everybody grows up","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk is a very well done film about two good friends who live by a code they define themselves and establish on their own terms. They are disillusioned when their antics get out of order and it is time to check back into the real way of things.The dynamic way in which the characters change in this movie are really the best aspect of it. There is also occasional strong photography and imagery, such as the desolate shots of the salt flats, or the bleak morning in the apartment.It's definitely worth seeing, and if you enjoy it, probably worth owning. I recommend that my younger friends watch it when they are in middle-school, again in high-school, and then again in college. They tend to experience different appreciations for it at each developmental stage. By showing this to mature audiences, more can be gained from seeing the film.SPOILER WARNING!For those of you who consider this film to be about the joys of punkdom and anarchy, watch the film again and consider what it is trying to say about maturity and growing up. The true point of this movie is that the ideals of Steve and Bob simply don't work in a world of rationality and maturity. Their dedication may be admirable, but the sobering consequences of their lifestyle turn Steve into a college-bound, everyday guy. This film shows that the anarchist ideal is really just a life of chaos, unpredictability, violence and loneliness. It's not about punks, anarchy, or doing whatever one wants; this is a nice film about growing up. "},{"Title":"super","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!!!!! slc punk was a lot different then i thought it would be. it turned out better!when i rented this movie i watched it about 6 times cus it was so good. why is it good? because of everything;the actors, the way it was filmed, the story, and the soundtrack. i gotta warn, its really rated R. some sex but A lot of cuss words. matthew lillard and devon sawa were the only people i really knew in this movie and they were great. sawa's small role played a big part, so even though he came out about 25 min all together in the movie, it was a good 25 minute moment.i recommend it to everyone but most people never even heard of it. so go out and rent it right away. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Film!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk follows the life of 2 punkers, who recently graduated from college, reflecting on the life and times of being a punker during the mid to late 80's, while living in Salt Lake City, Utah.The film's narrative does an incredible job at displaying the social structure and the view points of an intelligent punker who is dealing with his loyalty towards the ideology of anarchy, friends, life in a small town and the looming prospect of attending to Harvard to study law. I was blown away. SLC Punk is the intelligent man's answer to Suburbia (for those of you who recall the 80's, 'life of a punker', film). SLC Punk mixes elements of humor and poignancy perfectly. I can't say enough about this film.The film stars Matthew Lillard. This, by far, is his best work as an actor. Yeah, yeah, I know what some of you are thinking, Didn't he play Shaggy in the Scooby-Doo movie and yes he did, but don't let that put you off.Watch this film! "},{"Title":"Its really really better than you would expect","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Matthew Lillard in this movie is great. The anarchy deal, while somewhat realistic, is not entirely truthful. Still, this movie was very good. Funny, yet dramatic, and very good acting. If you haven't seen it its a must, because you'll remember it. I like how they did enough research to accurately represent punk in the 80s. A lot of movies don't. I also think Stevo's transformation is not bias to someone else's idea, and more of a real story. It's not punks will always lose, the government reigns supreme. If this wasn't a major motion picture it would be easy to pick apart, but being a major production, it's really well done. "},{"Title":"How I would explain this excellent movie....","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" SLC Punk is definitely a movie that requires an acquired taste. First off it's filmed oddly, screen shots are short and choppy, and the story being told jumps around a little bit, but not too bad. This way of filming, and how the story is told just simulates the adrenalin and attention distractions of a typical teenager involved in a trendy lifestyle and a know it all attitude. The movie takes the perspective of a punk (stevo) that hasn't yet realized that our youth as a whole could never be invincible, no matter how much we think we are. SLC Punk excellently portrays how fascinations draw us into trends whether we think they are trendy or not, and as we grow up, we discover that in most cases, our teenage ways seem to make less sense than they did when we knew it all, and we're forced to make decisions. This movie is a great Take you back movie if you've ever been a punk or still are. It follows a true background of the life-style as a punk, and the actors do an excellent job in making the storyline so realistic and familiar that you will want to be at those concerts, remember those conversations, debates, and friends that have come and gone in our lives. It covers all areas of emotion in the ups and downs each characters lifelike situations face. It's a story of a lifestyle involving the more fortunate, less respected, rebellious youth that stood up for what they believed in, and the connection of love in a friendship not expressed so strongly until the end. ~J "},{"Title":"This movie was great.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, yeah Stevo talked to the camera but he made a lot of sense about his views. He explained what anarchy REALLY is and why it will never work. It's not boring...it's really funny, I mean how can you not laugh at people getting high, acting stupid, and at their really weird accentric friends...I don't know, maybe it's a teen punk thing but I could relate to a lot of the movie and recommend it for a night when your hanging with your friends. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!(spoilers)watch SLC","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie so much! It's funny, sad, the kind of movies I like. Matthew Lillard did a great job and he is sooooo hot! (SPOILERS!!!) It was so sad at the end when Stevo(lillard) cried at the end from a lost one, it almost made me teary eyed. Plus, if anyone had a problem with the swearing and thinks that they should've used better vocabulary, WAKE UP! They're punks, pay attention to their background. Punks like that don't say, gosh golly or something!I gave this movie a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Easily one of the best movies I've ever seen. I saw this movie and marveled at the amazing coming of age tale I beheld in the story of these punks.  This movie had perfectly believable acting, and is perfect for almost any modern day intellectual-type.  You probably wouldn't like this movie if you like Ronald Reagan, but if you hate him, like me, this is the movie for you!  In addition to a magnificent plot, the cinematography is great and the music is top-notch... overall an incredible movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie that most punks can relate to.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I first was forced to watch this movie by my Ex Boyfriend. I was I'm into punk music, but not the lifestyle. After I watched this movie, I was very intrigued. The characters were funny and easy to relate to. This will definitely appeal to a teenage audience (especially those who feel left out.) I recommend this movie for a good time. "},{"Title":"A cool film along the Valley Girl type genre.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recently screened this film and I was very happy with it.  Having been around the Punk/New Wave scene during the early and mid 80's in a small town, I was very pleased with it's portrayal of youth.Stevo's character faults and self doubting are very real to a lot of youth that come from similar surroundings.This film left me with a warm feeling.  True, it's got some sad and sobering moments but, they add to the truth and honesty of this film's subject matter.What's a true American punk to do?I have decided to add this film to my Non-AFI must see films of all time.This film is never boring and by far comes off as a great addition to any Americana film fan's DVD/VHS collection.- Two index fingers waaaaaayyyy up! 770-281-4550 o)  "}{"Title":"An overzealous depiction of punk life.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't get me wrong I love the movie, but it is definitely not an accurate depiction of punk life. This is one of Matthew Lillard's better movies. But if you want a taste of real punk life check out Suburbia (akathe wild side) 1984, the old one not the new one which is incredibly stupid. "},{"Title":"Another good punk movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know about the review that knocks SLC Punk! I mean, it explains a lot about where the real punks are coming from--why they are who they are as far as ideals and all of that.Matthew overactive saliva glands Lillard plays Stevo, a punk fresh out of the University of Utah and going nowhere fast. We learn about Stevo's ideals about anarchy and fighting the system. The events slowly turn around and Stevo's gotta do some tweaking on his anarchy ideals. He finds out he just can't be this listless punk in Utah, that the world ain't just gonna change and the system isn't gonna fall. A lot of people don't want a change in the status quo, so Stevo and the punks can't bring the world down. Although, that's a mighty big feat to pull off, anyway.There's Stevo's friend, Heroine Bob who's just as listless as Stevo, but he doesn't stop to realize that his life is going nowhere.There's Mike the nerdy hardcore kid that kicks the s**t out of everybody. He's kind of a nothing character.There's the girlfriends.The best secondary character of all, though, is Shaun the bum played by Devon Sawa.Anyways, it's just a film from one punkers point of view about the punk ideals and all of that--they're a tribe against rednecks, fascists, the religious stronghold, greed, etc. It ain't so bad. It's just a lot of stuff to take in from one viewing.Let me put it this way, if you liked Suburbia (the 1983 movie about the disillusioned punk life) try SLC Punk! Don't get lost in the complexities, just watch it a few times for the fun of it. "},{"Title":"You what ?","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this film, a friend in the USA sent it me. It held my interest all the way through, and was quite enjoyable. However, i felt it was completely untrue to the eighties punk scene. I was a teenager in the early eighties and went to stacks of punk gigs, and mixed with punks for years to come...okay this was in the UK and may differ from the scene in the USA...but i never met any punks who were solely interested in fighting, drinking and all that b***ocks. All the characters were 'caricature' punks who seemed to think punk was about fighting and shouting anarchy...and slagging off 'posers'...what crap...and while i'm ranting...Stevos blue mohawk haircut is obviously fake....you can see the lines on the side of his head !!!!!....having said all that..as a piece of entertainment its definately worth a watch..despite the anti-English sentiment. Nope...i reckon if you want to see a true film about punk/teenage rebellion...you've got to see 'Made in Britain' which stars Tim Roth....now there's a film that really sums up life in the eighties ! "},{"Title":"Describes a lifestyle of a Punk","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie gives an in depth description of what punk is and who is a true punk.The movie deals with some life issues that teens deal with everyday.  It also describes what punks believe in and why they choose to live the way they do.This movie was edited in a very interesting way.  The way they movie is narrated is great and adds to it.  The cinematography, and direction are also good as well as the acting.I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"overall, good","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Besides a few corny scenes, this movie was pretty entertaining. Mathew Lillard is a funny bastard-facial expressions galore. The subculture of punks was quite interesting. Most importantly, the progression of Stevo's beliefs hit close to home with me. For those of you familiar with experiences with shifting ideologies, this movie should be an interesting comparison. In this case, the shift was from naive anarchism to reasonable rebellion; if you're into such topics, you'll like this movie.  "},{"Title":"Little-seen but fun to watch","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A story of a punk in the conservative town of Salt Lake City, Utah, discovering what it really means to rebel is fun and even touching at times. I wish it had been viewed by more people because I definitely think it could have done well with a wide range of viewers. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a surprisingly fun movie driven by funny dialogue and Scorsese-esque narration by Matthew Lillard who tells about being a punk in a very un-punk land.(Salt Lake City, Utah) Being a music buff, it was fun to learn more about the ways of hard core punks and learning the difference between them and poser punks who just like the music and clothing. Good stuff. Don't be scared away by Matthew Lillard. I'll admit if I knew he was in it prior to watching it I definitely wouldn't have viewed it. The Dead Kennedys Rule! 7 "},{"Title":"Punk Rock Filmmaking.  Powerful film.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can see how our international film-watchers might not think much of this film, but as an angry American youth, I can tell you this film is well worth watching, no matter what clique you fell into in high school, college, or any other time in your life.The performances are outstanding.  Even pretty-boy Devon Sawa turns in a fantastic acting job in the few scenes he's in; I didn't even recognize him.Punk rock filmmaking, punk rock film.  It says a lot about the country we live in-- I never felt like an outcast the way these guys did, but I recognize every situation in the film as something close to me.  Some great pseudo-philosophical rants, too.  Made me think, which is what a film should do, really.9/10. "},{"Title":"Wild Pace and Lack of Structure Eventually Tires Viewer","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Has an interesting, frenetic start, but it's free-wheeling, self-reflexive style starts to get tiring after a while. "},{"Title":"Don't be a punk","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was okay.  I can't stand punk music and the punk look,but I saw the movie anyways.  I wasn't all that dissapointed, but Iwasn't all that impressed.  The beginning of the film is a littleconfusing, but then it picks up from the middle.  Stevo is eventuallygetting bored of the punk life and his belief for anarchy.  I think thefilm does a great job at portraying this.  What I really liked aboutthis film was the narration behind it.  It helped me betterunderstand the film and I like the way the main character spoke into the camera.  It was like a documentary with a twist.  If you are apunk, I think that you will like this film.  If you are not,,,I won't besurprised if you don't like it.  All in all, it was okay. "}{"Title":"Boring story of two Punks' lives in Salt Lake City. No Fun !","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday evening as a sneak preview. I expected the worst. It was even worse ! The film portraits two SLC (Salt Lake City) Punks and their all-day life. Except of very few situational laughs there's not much to speak about. The blue-haired Stevo talks to the camera. It's just boring. The characters are flat and the dialogues are not a bit as subtle as in Pulp Fiction. Don't waste your money for this. "},{"Title":"Oh. God. Why?","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why would anyone like his movie? Why? Does the terrible production make a statement? Are the obviously rushed scenes punk? Is the awfulawfulawful mohawk-wig anarchy? Is beating up rednecks any different than being a nazi-skinhead? Is anarchy about having morals that you must have all straightened out in order to enjoy life? The scene at the show - why was there a skylight? They couldn't even have a realistic portrayal of a punk show (or any kind of concert?). This is SOOO absolutely terrible. Every line makes me want to puke. If you want a good punk movie check out Wild Zero...   "},{"Title":"Good movie. Clearly misunderstood.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I like this movie very much. I found the characters incredibly interesting, and had an amount of depth I wasn't prepared to see in a film about punk. The acting really is amazing (I placed Lillard on my Performances You Should Know, But Probably Don't list.) However, it seems that it was largely misunderstood by several of the reviewers on this site. I've seen several comments from people proclaiming themselves as punks saying that the film accurately depicts their lifestyles.So, the question becomes, did you not see the ending? Or did you just choose to ignore it.Because the ending very blatantly says that the punk lifestyle is a pointless and meaningless one, that all people who think they are punks are really just posers, and that, like communism, anarchy is an idea that might work on paper but would never work in reality.And it's not just the ending. It's actually what the whole movie is about. Lillard's character grows up. Through the whole film he's working toward the ending, when he realizes he's been silly and acting like a child.So, are you people saying that it's such a great film because it has people that dress like you and live the way you do, and therefor it is a great representation of punk life? Do you not realize the film is essentially attacking the way you live? "}]